00:00:08.410 - 00:00:44.490, Speaker A: Welcome back to the funding. The commons virtual summit. For those of you just joining us, this event is centered on new models of public goods funding. You can add your speakers questions for the speakers in the ETHGlobal TV chat, and we can continue to discuss these issues and projects in the Telegram Gram Channel, also linked in the chat. We'll be kicking off this session with the talk by Evan Miazono. Evan leads the research team at Protocol Labs, and his additional interests include lock picking and citrus fruits. Today he'll discuss retroactive public goods funding for the broader Protocol Labs network.
00:00:45.470 - 00:00:46.730, Speaker B: Welcome, Evan.
00:01:08.040 - 00:01:09.960, Speaker A: Evan, I believe you're still muted.
00:01:10.540 - 00:02:12.932, Speaker B: All right, I think I'm all set now. Thank you for the introduction, Carlo. And yes, I'm going to be talking about what we've been calling impact evaluated internally and what purpose we hope that they serve, what we'll be doing with them, and hopefully tying together some very interesting threads that have come up over the course of today's conversations. So overall, there's a very real problem that Protocol Labs is trying to solve, and the hope, expectation, et cetera, is that the solution comes in really two parts. And I plan on talking through those two parts and then explaining what you should expect to see coming out of Protocol Labs in the near future and how to engage with us trying to collaboratively build solutions to those problems. In terms of the problem, I would say that it's one of proportional upside. You'll notice some similarities between this talk and the talk that Pooja gave earlier.
00:02:12.932 - 00:03:06.728, Speaker B: We're both kind of approaching the same general problem in two different ways, two different subparts of the same problem. And I would definitely recommend watching that video if you're catching this, if you missed that one. And overall, I would say that this particular problem, the one of proportional offside, is one of two very related ones. And it will start with me coming back with some context of what Protocol Labs is looking at. Specifically, we are working to empower and accelerate teams outside of Protocol Labs, the organization. We think that this is a fantastic opportunity because the dependency graph of crypto projects is very large, but also very dense. Not all projects have revenue streams, but there are some clear dependencies between those that do and some that don't.
00:03:06.728 - 00:03:50.040, Speaker B: The ones that don't being some of these public goods that we've been talking about all day. And we think that there's a really robust opportunity to share wealth where incentives are aligned. I e referencing Harkening back to Juan's talk. We think that paretotopia can robustly be achieved in this kind of a network. And so we've been thinking through a lot of these types of mechanisms and how to connect these types of mechanisms to help people start public good type efforts. We have a few funding mechanisms that will let people derisk initially, starting on these efforts. And also how do we empower them to continue doing these.
00:03:50.040 - 00:04:42.604, Speaker B: This is specifically what Fuja was getting into earlier today. But there's a chance that with grants or Bounties, you might have this feeling that you are barely laying down enough runway to cover your current activities. I've seen for public goods like academic research. This happened where fantastic labs tend to have bad luck because they took on a project that was too risky and they were unable to fund their lab and had to shrink down based on either the whims of grant makers or the capital effectiveness of tech transfer offices, which can end up being fairly capricious. And so I don't think that this problem is solved well at all in academia. It's definitely not solved particularly well for open source. And so I think that there's definitely something more to be done here.
00:04:42.604 - 00:06:01.280, Speaker B: In addition to grants and Bounties, which do serve an important role, I would say that for funding a network, you want these two properties to be satisfied. You want teams to be able to have runway to take on things that have high risk, high reward. When I think about executing on projects in space, it's very easy to see that many people are not able to take the kind of risks to pursue things that they think are valuable because they don't have the privilege or the resources. And so being able to provide that some support network like thing to let people span that gap is very important so that they can take on things that have higher expected outcome. However, it's also very important that teams be incentivized to do those very impactful things because even if you are enabled to, it may not be the rational choice to go and do those. Not that it necessarily needs to be the rational choice, but it never really hurts to have the prospect of high payoff in these situations. And so I would claim that Pooja's talk should have convinced you that the answer to this first question is yes, we can use things like Milestone, Bounties and grants to give teams runway.
00:06:01.280 - 00:06:46.096, Speaker B: The second question, the answer, I think, is a little less clear. You're here, you probably agree that this is possible. Italic highlighted some great ways in which the crypto community is really well suited to public goods funding. And I totally agree. You have things like computational control of value, which is harder for groups outside of the cryptocurrency space to deal with effectively. You have strong belief in the transformative power of technology and you have what has historically been a fairly exponential growth of value, capture and wealth. And harkening back to Juan's talk, I would highlight that Pradotopia looks like a place in which there are so many low hanging fruits, there are so many valuable things that there aren't enough teams to take on all of them.
00:06:46.096 - 00:07:49.604, Speaker B: And you see huge amounts of collaboration in the space as opposed to competition. And I think if you look around in web3, that's really what you see. And so the question becomes how do we go about answering this second question with a strong affirmative and unsurprisingly? The answer that I would give is public goods funding, specifically retroactive funding. My claim is that if you want to empower people to take risks, you need to fund proactively. If you want to reward impact, you need to do it retroactively. If you incentivize impact proactively, then what you're actually doing, I think in practice is incentivizing the appearance of effort, not the appearance of impact, which is an important distinction. And you could imagine that a combination of these funding mechanisms could empower teams to not just take on risky efforts, but also be rewarded proportionally for them.
00:07:49.604 - 00:08:59.080, Speaker B: This plot on the right shows what we would predict. A hypothetical team without a revenue model might be able to gain from some initial grant, some bounties and reward from what we're calling the impact evaluator. And so the first component from the solution of the solution for these impact evaluators that I would say is a variety of retroactive funding mechanisms. These are things that will sound very familiar because most of what has been covered so far today could be characterized as retroactive funding mechanisms. I'm not going to go into depth, I will simply say that if you haven't seen them, you should definitely go and watch Owen's talk from earlier today on Gitcoin grants and quadratic voting. You could use quadratic voting as an impact evaluator, you could use badge holder voting. And in the example of the retroactive public goods funding from the Optimism team, the results oracle is an impact evaluator.
00:08:59.080 - 00:10:15.280, Speaker B: These impact evaluators are just things that are after the fact, evaluating and rewarding impact to teams through various mechanisms. There are definitely more representative slides of retroactive public goods funding, but I definitely had to go for one of Carlos'sides of the Hamsters. Naturally, in terms of S process, I unfortunately had to miss much of Andrew's talk. But you could additionally use things like eliciting marginal utility functions for determining how to allocate rewards retroactively. It does seem to work far more effectively prospectively, but in terms of developing a wide spectrum of these types of mechanisms, it's definitely worth considering. Additionally, we had an interesting experiment Protocol Labs did starting in the fall of 2019. There was a project called Source Cred that we helped bootstrap where data was pulled from GitHub discourse discord into some global graph.
00:10:15.280 - 00:11:57.220, Speaker B: The different contributions were collapsed using some community driven subjective agreement on how the community should quantify different types of contributions, be able to collapse all of this down into a single contribution graph, run a modified page rank algorithm on this, and then assign some reputation score called Cred to individual contributors of the project. And then Grain was this fungible token that was generated and given to contributors in proportion to their credit score, with the idea being that you could computationally allocate value in accordance to the value that people provided to the project. And the experiment that I mentioned about Source Cred is that for about two years protocol labs funded Source Cred through the use of Source Cred. Those of you who are familiar with the retroactive public goods funding will recognize this as very similar to a project token. And I'm very interested in what it would be like to build better and more robust project token. Examples source code very aggressively dog fooded this tool, but they got to the point where they are effectively independent and for quite a period of time, protocolab supported only through the purchasing of the project token. In terms of other impact evaluators that you might expect to see moving forward, protocolabs is experimenting and prototyping a committee quantification impact evaluator where outcomes are listed.
00:11:57.220 - 00:13:50.250, Speaker B: Rather, teams participating in the network opt in to participate in this process and summarize their outcomes. And then on a quarterly cadence, some evaluation team that consists of people within the network will go through and evaluate the amount of impact not too dissimilar from the badge holders and we'll determine how many resources should be allocated. We also expect that there will be other experimental impact evaluators that we generate. Another one could be something that looks more like a block reward analog where instead of minting tokens we create some general pot of assets, define some deadline, some maximum reward, some KPI. And it's important that we have some sort of upward concavity so that as teams compete to maximize the KPI, or as teams try to maximize the KPI, they do so collaboratively rather than competitively because as teams achieve outcomes, the reward is strongly non zero sum. And so we can generate this build in this kind of non zero sum effect into the reward itself and then allocate using something like either direct contribution with KPI, if that's something you could do, you could also apply something like Shapley values in order to generate a more subjective evaluation. And so that's a general set of a bunch of different types of impact evaluators that you could have.
00:13:50.250 - 00:15:46.320, Speaker B: The second part of the solution to allow projects to be incentivized, teams to be incentivized, to pursue very risky things is to acknowledge that not any one of these impact evaluators is likely to be perfect for all possible types of work, all possible types of efforts, all teams. And so the goal will be to take these retroactive funding mechanisms and develop them into a network that leverages the fact that Protocolabs is building around its project a network. And so the first thing worth clarifying is that when one of these impact evaluators quantifies impact, what they're doing is they are choosing some metric for themselves that is likely a subjective metric. In the case of Protocol ads, this is probably likely to be the PL mission generally or it could be something related to a sub aspect of it around increasing the ownership that users have over their own data, for instance. And each of the impact evaluators is going to have to find some way through some people to subjectively quantify the impact that was made against some goal to reduce this to numbers in order to motivate that this is reasonable and plausible. I would highlight that this kind of subjective evaluation happens all of the time in a very centralized and permissioned way in normal companies through things like performance incentives or payments in equity, where the evaluation is actually done later, partially done directly. Immediately through the allocation of equity and then later through the evaluation of the market on that equity.
00:15:46.320 - 00:17:04.552, Speaker B: The other component that's very interesting about mixing these together is that we should expect there will be multiple impact evaluators in any given network and then we should have multiple funders, each with their own mission or goals, participating into and funding some impact evaluator. Each impact evaluator would have its own mechanism and operation and each one would then reward multiple teams. And so you should have much better coverage of all of the different types of work that you would like to incentivize through these. And we're actively working through and trying to develop a mechanism to mix these together. Well, it's worth noting that the goal of this system is to incentivize teams to pursue the most impactful work they can. And as a result, retroactive funding needs to be something that people can expect and count on. And so while trusting that for instance protocol apps would reward a project for retroactive would retroactively reward a project for building something that was important.
00:17:04.552 - 00:18:52.090, Speaker B: I think it's far more valuable if we can together build a culture of retroactive public goods funding so that we can give teams the confidence that if they do something that is very impactful, they don't have to a priority know that the team that they're having an impact on has an impact evaluator or one of the teams they're having an impact on. And so I think that having events like this, bringing people together and developing new solutions and making sure that these solutions are widespread and effective will do wonders for increasing the amount of public goods that are created, not even in the very long term. And so, in terms of how we are going about scaling our solution and ways in which you can observe and participate in our efforts, I'd highlight first that we are setting some very ambitious goals around what we want to accomplish within the next year in terms of impact evaluators. We definitely want to have scale, we want to have allocation of significant amounts of funding, and we want to make sure that people involved in participating on these processes, whether they are funders or recipients, we want them to find these effective quickly. Going through the last few notes, I will say that we have some open roles we are trying to actively build and support more of these research roles will look more like identifying and defining mechanisms. Startup operator will look more about operationalizing and running these mechanisms. We're definitely interested in cross polygoning, so if you're interested in running experiments either cofunding impact evaluators or asking us to CoFund impact evaluators, please let us know.
00:18:52.090 - 00:19:24.550, Speaker B: In terms of trying to improve these, there are clearly gaps. I think there are some very good questions about how these can improve and what we should be doing to make any or all of these impact evaluators together more effective. And I would suggest that you reach out if you have any comments or questions on any of these. Here's my contact information. And I don't know if I have time for questions.
00:19:29.720 - 00:19:50.820, Speaker A: We ran out of time for questions, unfortunately, but we can also ask them retroactively after the event in the Telegram channel. And I'd like to thank Evan for walking us through the Impact Evaluator, which sounds like it should hurt, but is actually a super interesting journey through innovative funding mechanisms. So thanks again to Evan.
