00:00:00.410 - 00:00:53.706, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Yeah, my name is Gustav, and today I'm going to talk a little bit about the kind of like current landscape of DeFi institutions, as well as the work that we have been doing at one inch. So first off, my background is I spent three and a half years at Makerdao. It's like the last year I was working a lot on the institutional onboarding. So some of the big projects we had coming out, for example, the project with societic Andral, who applied to be a collateral and maker, was one of the things that I was working on. And then in December I moved over and joined as a contributor to one inch to help them with their new product, which is called one inch Pro. On the institutional onboarding for DeFi.
00:00:53.706 - 00:01:58.260, Speaker A: And basically the mantra is that we have a lot of institutions who kind of want to use the technology and the promise of the permissionless protocols, the efficiency gains we have using permissionless DeFi, but they want to do it in an environment where they can participate. Today I'll be going over, of course, where we currently stand at one inch. Some of the problems we have for institutional players, the current landscape for institutional DeFi, what this whole movement means and can mean for the space, and then also where are we going from here on out and out. So for those of you who aren't familiar with one inch, it's really, especially in terms of user numbers, grown into probably one of the biggest, if not the biggest, DeFi protocol. We have an insane amount of users. It's live right now on seven different networks. We have a lot of different products.
00:01:58.260 - 00:02:35.466, Speaker A: The one inch product suite kind of like started out with the aggregator, but today it also counts over things. It's like the liquidity protocol. It has its dow out. We have our own wallet as well. We have a limit order protocol, which is also super cool. We have a lot of really exciting things on the pipeline. And I think in general, what one inch is really all about is trying to build products that makes it very easy for the average user to access the best possible scenarios in DeFi.
00:02:35.466 - 00:03:50.982, Speaker A: Right. And that of course, started with the aggregator and then the product that I'm working a lot on, actually, it's my only focus with them, which is the pro product. So how do we use the technology that we have created now to basically access the liquidity that the institutional players are sitting with? Kind of like sitting and waiting on the sideline. So for a lot of the institutional players, right, they kind of are in a situation where they have some regulatory or compliance requirements that makes it very difficult for them to interact with DeFi in a permissionless way. For example, for a lot of them, they would have to basically, if they were participating in a general amm pool, they would have to scan every single participant in the pool, and if it's just one red or yellow flag pops up, they're not able to trade in that pool. And for other players, they really need to know everyone who is participating in the pool, not just from an AML perspective, but from a Kyc perspective. So basically, if we are not building the tech for them to interact with these types of technologies, they basically would never really be able to come in.
00:03:50.982 - 00:04:36.654, Speaker A: Right. And I spent a long time at maker, and I'm of course, like a super big believer in DeFi, but at the same time, we also just have to recognize the opportunity that is kind of like in front of us from us, to basically target very big portions and amounts of liquidity that would just further be able to enhance our market position, especially from the viewpoint of the public. Right. The more big players we get coming in would also be able to unlock more retail accessibility force. Right. It kind of helps increase our stance from the general public. So, yeah, right now, DeFi is just filled with unknown participants in almost every major DeFi protocol.
00:04:36.654 - 00:05:25.974, Speaker A: And this was one of the things that were quite easy for us at maker because we don't take user deposits. But today, the vast majority of projects, they take user deposits. So if you have defi pools that is filled with unknown participants, it just creates a barrier that is quite difficult for them to overcome, if even possible. Right. So a lot of the feedback we also got from the market is based, if you can create this product, where we wouldn't have to scan the pools or even try to avoid the pools at all, then they would happily participate alongside us. And I know there's also a little bit of the philosophical standpoint that DeFi is supposed to be for everybody, and the access is supposed to be permissionless. And I totally agree.
00:05:25.974 - 00:06:33.180, Speaker A: But at the same time, we also just have to recognize that both of these products can kind of coexist alongside each other. And just because we create an access point for institutional players to come in doesn't mean that this is something that would need to be applied on the permissionless side of things. So there'll basically just be like two options available. I think another really good example of a protocol that has been taking probably first really big active steps is the average arc deployment under fireblocks, where anyone can participate in the permissionless ave products, but they just have this deployment which is sitting under a setup that allows the customers of Fireblock to participate in it. Right now it's still quite small in terms of monetary value, but we truly believe that this is something that we can scale up a lot. Right. I think all of us have experienced the benefits of using financial protocols built with smart contracts, and we believe that the next step is then to target this segment with it.
00:06:33.180 - 00:08:20.170, Speaker A: Another kind of pretty big benefit of doing this is that right now, I'm sure that you guys have felt this as well, especially people who have been through several cycles of the market, is that right now, the only way for us to really grow the space is by getting more retail coming in. But to get more retail coming in, that would typically mean that we would need the prices to increase. And being dependent on the market conditions for your product to be striving is never really a situation you want to put yourself in from a business standpoint, right? You want to make sure that you have other alternatives to attract capital from rather than just be dependent on the market fluctuations. Whether we have a couple of months where the prices go up and all of a sudden we onboard a million new users, or the market stagnates and some might be leaving of the ones who came in, we really want to make sure that we have the best terms for succeeding, just from a general standpoint in the entire space. So right now, we basically have this really big portion of capital which is already allocated in digital assets, or who's waiting to potentially be allocated in digital assets. If we give them products that they could use, who is kind of like just sitting and waiting on the sideline for us to basically open the floodgates and create products that enables them to participate in a compliant way with us. So basically, from the one inch side, where we're really looking to go from here, is that we have three main things, two main products that we want to push out to basically facilitate the institutional onboarding.
00:08:20.170 - 00:09:48.658, Speaker A: We have a white label product where we are basically helping certain companies, institutions, trading desks, exchanges to deploy a white labeled AmM product, the liquidity product from one inch under their own setups, for example. It could be under their own chain, it could be under their own custody solution, but basically creating a pool where they're able to completely control the participation in this pool. So there's like the first, which is like the white label product. This is something that we know that there are several of the DeFi protocols working on these types of solutions. So going forward, I believe that we will see a lot of similar type deployments to other arc where different types of entities will deploy their own kind of like their own product defi protocol where they can kind of control what is happening with it. The next one is our one inch pro general suite, and this will then be the aggregator that is able to check, for example, KYC directly in the aggregator and only route you into pools where you would be able to trade. And in this aggregator product, we are currently experimenting with creating zero knowledge proof KYC checks.
00:09:48.658 - 00:11:28.194, Speaker A: So you can basically have nodes that submit to the network whether you are compliant under a certain level of KYC that can, for example, be a certain jurisdiction. Because of course, KYC is still quite regional, but basically that would allow you to come in as a player and basically still get the best price execution that one inch is known and appreciated for. But under regulated pools, under compliant pools. And this is something that, because we also have this, of course, pretty strong idea and also something we saw with averark now is that of course, at least in the beginning, when you limit the participants in the pools, you would also inherently not have the same level of liquidity in there. So until the institutional onboarding is really a bit more advanced, we would also expect that there would be quite a big opportunity for having arbitrage different types of aggregation methods on, basically still allowing people to get the best price, because of course, the less liquidity you have in a pool, the worse the trade potentially would be if you have bigger trades. So that is, of course, one of the things that one inch does quite well, that you could basically have five different pools and execute a trade going through all of them to end up with the best price execution. And in regards to this institutional onboarding that we envision and that we want to have going forward, we also closed a pretty big series B round.
00:11:28.194 - 00:12:21.834, Speaker A: I don't know if any of you guys saw that, but we basically had more than 50 investors, a lot of also very big traditional investors such as Jane street. It was led by Amber. And this is, again, from this standpoint that we really want to be working with these types of institutions. So since we closed that round a couple of months back, we have been sparing a lot with these different types of players and has been getting a lot of feedback on the product. And right now we are basically in the situation where we have the first couple of pilots lined up. So we already have the first players we will be pushing this out with and are also increasingly in talk with a pretty large portion. And it's really a very differentiated interest we have in the product.
00:12:21.834 - 00:12:58.610, Speaker A: It's really a lot of different types of companies, which also kind of further verified our commitment to building this out is that there's a lot of the market demand from a lot of different types of players in it. So, yeah, right now, we are, of course, still very interested in talking with more teams and more players. So if anyone is interested in learning more about this, then, of course, feel free to reach out to us. And, yeah, that was basically it for me today. Thank you, everyone, for coming out and hope you will continue to enjoy Denmark.
