00:00:00.400 - 00:00:22.414, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 19 August 2021. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So I think the biggest news of the last 24 hours was this white hat rescue from Samsung at an company, basically, I think was 05:00 a.m. My time. Around 05:00 a.m. My time.
00:00:22.414 - 00:00:53.844, Speaker A: Samsung, who works at Paradigm as one, as a researcher there, he's very famous for a lot of the critical bugs that he's found. Different smart contracts. I mean, I would probably say he is one of the best, if not the best, smart contract auditors on the planet in terms of, like, independent auditors, of kind of like finding these, these public bugs and things like that. A lot of you will know who Samsung is, works at paradigm, all that stuff, all that cool stuff there. But essentially, at around 05:00 a.m. He put out this tweet that he said just pulled off maybe the biggest white hat rescue ever. Story time soon.
00:00:53.844 - 00:01:52.944, Speaker A: Now, there was obviously a lot of speculation about what kind of project this affected. And basically there was a few people saying, like, different kind of like projects here. But then I think, how long later? I think just an hour later, Samsung posted his blog post that he put together where he said he found a critical vulnerability in Sushiswap's miso platform, which is like their fundraising platform, I believe. Now, the vulnerability itself is described in this kind of blog post. But what's also described is kind of like how it all played out, right, with a timeline and everything like that, and they managed to rescue $250 million worth of user funds. And what it mean, what Samsung means by white hat, basically, in cybersecurity, or I guess, like, in the hacker world, there is a bunch of different classifications, and the three most popular ones are black hat, gray hat, and white hat. Black hat is obviously, if you're a hacker and you're just in it for profit, you don't care about basically, you know, anything else except making them, making the money and exploiting the platform.
00:01:52.944 - 00:02:27.866, Speaker A: So that's, you know, you're a black hat if you do that. You're a white hat. If you basically, if you find a bug and then you kind of, like, report it or you kind of save funds, if that's, you know, within crypto, if that's what you want to do, then that you're a white hat. And that's why Samsung said you know, they pulled off the white hat rescue attempt of $250 million because if he was a black hat, he could have just stolen that and been on his merry way. And then gray hat is kind of like sitting in the middle where it's funny because gray hat's like the. What's. It's like where people kind of debate what was white hat, what was black hat, and if they can't really decide on it, it's considered grey hat.
00:02:27.866 - 00:02:46.114, Speaker A: It's like, you know, morally questionable that they could have done that. They should do that or shouldn't do that. So that's. Those are the kind of like three distinct categories within that world there. But, yeah, I mean, this is the. I think this is the biggest in terms of white hat effort. I think it beats out the Dow back in 2016 during the Dow event.
00:02:46.114 - 00:03:26.554, Speaker A: There was a white hat recovery effort back then as well. But, you know, I think that was for less amount of dollars in terms of dollar terms than this one was with Tusi schwa pia. So. Or maybe it was, I don't know, exact figures, but I believe it was less than what. What it was here. But, yeah, I mean, really, really great that Samsung was able to do this because if someone else came along and was a black hat, they could have stolen $250 million worth of, I think it was 20, 50 million or 350 million or something like that because they mentioned 350 million here and then I saw the $250 million number thrown around. But essentially, yeah, I mean, it was an absolutely huge kind of hack potential here.
00:03:26.554 - 00:04:04.084, Speaker A: Right? Because essentially, as I said, like, if someone else found this kind of bug before Samsung did or whatever, they would have been able to steal these funds. And, you know, it's funny because, like, we saw the biggest kind of, like, black hat or biggest defi hack the other day with the poly network thing where it was like 600, $700 million or whatever it was. But some of that got returned, I think. I think pretty much all of it ended up getting returned. So would that be considered gray hat or whatever? I don't. I don't really believe so. A white hat, you know, that's where it gets kind of, like, funny is like, is this person a gray hat now? Because, yes, they wear a black hat because they stole the, stole the funds, but now they've returned them in, like, a white hat fashion.
00:04:04.084 - 00:04:40.864, Speaker A: So they're sitting in, like, the middle of the two. So it gets, it gets a bit funny when you talk about that there. But, yeah, if you want to read the full details, you can read this blog post here, but I put out a tweet where I said, you know, the irony of paradigm saving sushi swap is why I love this industry. And for those of you who don't know why, it's incredibly ironic that paradigm was the one that saved Sushiswap. Because I believe if this hack had happened and 250 or 350, whatever it was, million dollars was lost, then essentially that might have been the end of Sushiswap. Maybe not the total end, but, like, it would have definitely damaged sushi a lot. A lot of users would have gotten hurt and everything like that.
00:04:40.864 - 00:05:28.492, Speaker A: But the reason the irony exists is because, I mean, it goes back to how Sushiswap came into existence. I'll go through a little bit of history here. So paradigm invested, or was the first investor in Uniswap in early 2019. They invested a million dollars back then and have been really close to the Uniswap team, and that's been, like, their darling for many, many years now. And kind of like, they work with that team now. Obviously, Sushi swap started off as a fork of Uniswap, and there's a bit of bad blood between the two teams because, like, obviously, Uniswap doesn't like the fact that the way Sushi swap was launched was that it was forked and there was a vampire kind of attack on it. And then, you know, there's been a bit of beef on Twitter between Joseph DeLong, who's at sushi, who I, you know, I think I spoke about him the other day, um, and Hayden Adams at uniswap.
00:05:28.492 - 00:05:45.396, Speaker A: And just generally, the sushi and uni community is kind of, like, beefing with each other. So the fact that I guess, like, paradigm, you know, kind of like, coming to the rescue of sushiswap here is. Is incredibly ironic. And it's. And it's pretty funny. But I guess, at the end of the day, the fact of the matter is these people are professionals. They're not.
00:05:45.396 - 00:06:07.254, Speaker A: I mean, yes, there's beef. Yes, there's kind of, like, a little bit of bad blood, but it's not enough to push them to the edge of, like, being a black hat or whatever. And Samsung, I don't think, would ever do that. Like, it's just funny because, like, everything he has done has been white hat. And it just. It's. It's so incredible that he's a white hat and not a black hat because he could make, you know, so much money just going through these exploits and basically exploiting all these protocols or whatever.
00:06:07.254 - 00:06:36.884, Speaker A: But I think that kind of game is reserved for a special kind of personal group. I think Samsung is definitely very different in that regard. But, yeah, that's kind of like the breakdown there of the story and why it's ironic. And I'm just really glad to see that these funds were saved. I mean, none of my funds were in there, but maybe your funds were. But essentially, it's always very scary when, like, something that's considered a top DeFi project has a bug like this in it. And that's why, you know, you see a lot of these DeFi projects, they don't really introduce new features too often, and they move quite slowly when they do.
00:06:36.884 - 00:07:09.804, Speaker A: I mean, RV two took a. Took a little while to come out, but also it had like five separate audits on it that I think they had, like, controlled measures in place for various different things. I think they definitely, you know, took their time there. And it's not just them, it's a bunch of other kind of protocol protocols out there. Now, not to say that the Suzuk swap team didn't take their time and try and get this stuff audited or looked at and things like that, but still, things can fall through the cracks. And you definitely want to have guardrails in place because for that reason, and that's why I've been talking about these L2s that have got. They're going to have guardrails in place as well.
00:07:09.804 - 00:07:26.544, Speaker A: Like arbitraryment, optimism going live. You know, optimism right now with Uniswap V three is limited to 50,000 transactions per day. Right. So they're not obviously, offering up the full scalability there. There's admin keys in place. They're the only ones running a sequencer. Same with arbitrary.
00:07:26.544 - 00:08:03.314, Speaker A: And that's gonna be this kind of, kind of same play there, but it's all done in kind of like the spirit of user security, which I think is very, very important. So, yeah, there's the story of what happened today with sushi swap and paradigm. So I was asked by Matthew Graham in the Daily Gray Discord channel to kind of like, cover a little bit of, I don't know if I'd call it drama, a little bit of changes happening within the index co op community, or at least proposed changes. Now, for those who don't know, I got a. I got to, like, have a disclaimer here. I am an advisor to set. I used to work at set as a product marketing manager, and set is the original team, along with Defi Pulse, that launched the index co op back in September.
00:08:03.314 - 00:08:26.560, Speaker A: I believe I was part of that launch effort because I was still working at set back then. And as I am still an advisor and of course I hold index tokens, I have, you know, conflicts of interest out the wazoo here with this sort of stuff. But I was, I was asked nicely by Matt to, to cover this and try and be an objective as possible. So that's what I'm going to do. And you're going to, you're going to know why in a sec. Why this is kind of like a sensitive topic. So essentially a little bit of background.
00:08:26.560 - 00:09:15.746, Speaker A: The index co op community seems to want more autonomy. And what that means is basically they want to be able to do more as a kind of like separate thing to set. They don't want to have to rely on set, the core team at set to do things like engineering work and all that sort of stuff. They don't want to have to kind of go for them for permission or like sign off on things they want, like full autonomy. And it's funny because this kind of like, reminds me of how certain countries, like, break apart from, I guess, like the people who founded them. So, for example, in Australia, we were kind of like colonized by people coming from the UK, right? But then we eventually broke off from them because we wanted to be our own kind of like sovereign nation. And it's kind of like the same thing that's happening here, right, where the index cop is basically saying, saying, well, yes, we know the set was like the founding fathers, so to speak, of this kind of movement here or this, you know, this kind of protocol.
00:09:15.746 - 00:09:32.682, Speaker A: But we want to kind of like have more autonomy. We want to be our own thing. We have all these community members, all these people, and we don't want to have to rely on set as like our governing body, for example. Right. So that's kind of like what this post goes over. And I'll leave this in the YouTube description. You can kind of go through this and go through the comments and everything like that.
00:09:32.682 - 00:10:23.686, Speaker A: But as like, I guess like a follow on to this, there's been a kind of like a thing here of actually within kind of like this part of the autonomy stuff here was also the idea of, I guess, like fairness and the fairness of the token distribution. And that's what Matt Graham has gone through here where he basically says that, you know, set labs, having 28% of the original index cop or index tokens is, is an issue because of the fact that is that fair, like, is set doing 28% of the work, are they responsible for 28% of the index co ops continued success. Right. Especially if they're going to take a more hands off approach, which I haven't. Like, I'm not, you know, too close and on the metal with this sort of stuff. Like, I'm not like, in, in the kind of index cop community day in, day out. I do follow this as much as I can, but essentially, you know, what.
00:10:23.686 - 00:11:03.878, Speaker A: What the kind of, like, the issue is that set is definitely, you know, or at least what the index co op community is saying is that set is definitely not providing 28% of the kind of, like, value here. Now, I don't know if that's true or not. Like I, as I said, I'm not like, up to. Up speed with the day to days of everything here, but essentially what Matt has said is, like, we should basically renegotiate what setlabs share is of the total index tokens. And I think, you know, he's gotten through a detailed analysis here and detailed description of why he thinks that this kind of, like, new distribution would be fairer and stuff like that. And he's. And he's basically put in this new distribution set labs would get 14% of the tokens instead of 28%.
00:11:03.878 - 00:11:53.376, Speaker A: So basically halving their allocation here, the. And then a bunch of other kind of, like, allocations, as I think the rest of it pretty much stays the same. Like Defi pulse is 2%, like the original kind of thing. But essentially what happens is that the 14% that goes from set labs goes to a community kind of, I guess, like portion, which is 14% and vests for one to three vests over one to three years now, as a poll here for like, soft signaling from the community, it seems that pretty much everyone is. Is in favor of kind of like some kind of, I guess, redistribution here, or at least revisiting the genesis kind of distribution and changing it or making it a priority in Q three and all that sort of stuff there. So on that note, there was a protocol ownership kickoff group that has been formed. There's a bunch of authors here, very active community members in the index co op.
00:11:53.376 - 00:12:32.772, Speaker A: And essentially what they want to do is they want to, I guess, like, bring all of the key stakeholders together and come to an agreement with set, the index cop, the community members, all that sort of stuff on the best path forward here. Now they've got, like, the proposed next steps of what they want to do here. The proposed action is forming this kickoff group, and to form it correctly, they need a bunch of different people from different groups. So they want a lead. So this lead that they want one unbiased third party who is obviously doesn't have conflicts of interest and. Or at least it can be as unbiased as possible with index cop and set. Um, and they also want three community contributor representatives.
00:12:32.772 - 00:13:27.972, Speaker A: Uh, so you know anyone from the index co op community, especially the active members and one set labs, uh, representative as well. So if you know anyone or maybe you yourself think that you could fit in any of these positions, uh, definitely kind of like, get involved here, either on the forum or maybe even reach out to Matthew Graham. He's pretty active in the, in the Delaware discord channel there. Um, but, like, that's what they're kind of looking for. And I just wanted to give a shout out there that, that those kind of positions still need to be filled, especially these lead position, like, of an unbiased third party, someone who doesn't have, I guess, like, skin in the game with either index co op or set, and doesn't have like, a bias to any kind of like, team or project or whatever, and is just coming at this from the angle of, okay, like, how do we make this the most fair for everyone? And, you know, I'm not going to give my opinion on what's fair here, what I think about this, just because I can't be unbiased at all here. I guess I said, I'm an advisor to set. I hold index tokens.
00:13:27.972 - 00:14:07.304, Speaker A: I was part of launching index code top. So I have, like, skin in the game in both kind of arenas here. And through my advisory with set, I obviously have exposure to set the, you know, set the company right and by proxy have exposure to set labs as a share in index co op. So, yeah, I mean, I can't really give my opinions on this in an unbiased way. But what I will say is that I actually think this is just a natural evolution of a daO. Because if you are a Dao that gets launched and you have all these community members that come together and they end up just doing more work, or at least like an outsized portion of the work, and then the original party says, okay, well, you know, we're going to take a step back. We want the community to be a more autonomous.
00:14:07.304 - 00:14:50.548, Speaker A: Well, to do that, you not only have to have, I guess, the social aspect to it, the community aspect to it, the organizational aspect, you also need the monetary aspect, because at the end of the day, if, if a portion of, I guess, like a dow is feeling like they're undervalued or feeling like they're not getting what they're due. Well, they're either going to leave or they're gonna, you know, be angry or grow to resent a certain party or grow to resent, like, another kind of, like, portion of the Dow. And this doesn't just happen within dows, right? This happens everywhere. Like, if you're working a full time job and you find out that your peers who are doing the same, same job as you, right, are earning, say, like, 50% more money than you each year, well, you're gonna be like, well, wait, wait. This is shitty. Like, I'm doing the same amount of work as these people. I should be valued the same as them.
00:14:50.548 - 00:15:10.582, Speaker A: And then this is why people kind of leave companies, or they try to get, like, a pay rise or whatever. Like, I experienced this. Especially in the corporate world. Usually, to move up in the, in the corporate world, you have to keep changing companies. And I may, I mean, might move up with kind of salary because negotiating a pay rise is always really hard. Um, and it's just, like, really disappointing that that happens. But that is the reality of the, of the situation.
00:15:10.582 - 00:16:11.746, Speaker A: And that I, that is, I think what happens with within DAos and what we're going to keep seeing within DAos is that the original team shouldn't be getting, like, a huge portion of it if they're not putting in the work to do so. And it's kind of like a diametrically opposed thing, right? Where the original founding team started the dow, because they wanted it to be a community owned thing. They wanted it to be a global organization with, you know, hundreds, potentially thousands of people participating actively within it to, to grow whatever the project is. But at the same time, you know, they, uh, uh, for that, for that to be achieved, they have to take a step back. They can't be, I guess, like the, the, kind of like, uh, you know, CEO, CFO, CTRL, like the, the leadership, the executive kind of branch of it, they have to be just one kind of part of the dow. And to do that, they need to do that socially. But if they do that socially and with their act kind of, like, with their actions, they also have to do that with their kind of, like, share of the pie because, and, like, not, not in this scenario, but just generally, you know, if you're not doing x percentage of the work, then you don't deserve x percentage of the rewards.
00:16:11.746 - 00:16:31.928, Speaker A: Is kind of like how I view it now. I don't know. You know, as I said, I'm not, like, up too up to date with the day to days of the index copy and even set. Like, I saw an advisor to them, but, like, advisor doesn't mean, like, I pay too much attention, you know, to them every, every single day. You know, I so much to keep up with. I can't. I can barely keep up with kind of stuff for the refill, let alone that.
00:16:31.928 - 00:17:08.840, Speaker A: But generally, I'm. I would say, like, this is the only thing I will say is that I'm. I'm for this kind of discussion. And I'm hoping that it comes to a conclusion that satisfies all, all parties. And, you know, at the, at this point in time, it's definitely looking like, um, you know, 28% maybe is too high, maybe not. Who knows? But if the, you know, if, if set really is kind of like, not doing 28% of the work, well, then, yeah, they don't deserve 28% of the reward. But at the same time, this sort of stuff happens in, in startups all the time as well, where, uh, you know, people either kind of, like, leave or they end up doing less work and the company gets bigger and you need to redo, distribute their rewards, essentially.
00:17:08.840 - 00:17:57.766, Speaker A: Because, as I said, if someone is doing, uh, the outsized portion of the work and they're not getting an outsized portion of the reward, they, they usually leave, or they usually kind of, you know, grow to resent something or essentially become, like, disgruntled. And it's funny because this isn't just, like, unique to the index cop or, like, dows in general. This, this has played out, you know, many, many times throughout, throughout history. Like, not even just within crypto, but just like, speaking from personal experience, it's funny for me because, like, with me, with Ethereum, for example, I got in, like, I mean, not late late, but, like, early 2017. I bought my first ether, $10. I didn't buy much because I didn't have much money back then, but, you know, I kept buying on the way up and things like that. But there are plenty of people who bought, you know, at the ICO, they bought at a dollar, whatever, and they haven't contributed nearly as much as I have to Ethereum.
00:17:57.766 - 00:18:36.290, Speaker A: And yet, if they had held their ETH from there, they would have, like, much more of a share of the pie than I have had. But the thing is, is that it's not just, I guess, like, your ETH holding, it's everything else that comes along with it. Right? But within a dao, like, ethereum is like a big ecosystem. Obviously there's a lot of moving parts to it and there's a lot of other stuff that goes on there. But within like a dow, like the index co op, and if you're directly paying these people to contribute, and it's their actual kind of like full time job, to contribute to the index co op community, they should get a share in it. Like, just like you would get like an equity share in a startup if you were one of the early members there. You should definitely get a share in the, I guess like equity distribution or the token distribution, whatever you want to call it.
00:18:36.290 - 00:19:09.062, Speaker A: So yeah, I'm looking forward to seeing how this pans out and seeing what the kind of like, I guess what everyone lands on here. But again, I just like a shout out that they still looking for a lead, which is an unbiased third party, three community contributor representatives. I'm pretty sure these will be easy to find. There are obviously a lot of really great index cop community members already, and then one set labs representative, I don't know who that's going to be. Maybe it ends up being me, I don't know. But definitely, you know, the Setlabs team is pretty big now, so I'm sure they'll be able to find someone there. But anyway, I'm going to leave it at that for now.
00:19:09.062 - 00:19:55.346, Speaker A: Hopefully I covered that quite well and kind of like explained it from an unbiased view as possible. As I said, I'm involved with like a lot of the moving parts here, but still really, I guess, like, it's still cool to see these things playing out because at the end of the day, other Daos can learn from this. Because I'm sure other Daos are going to run into these kind of issues. I mean, we saw it happen with yearn finance, even where a lot of they ended up printing more Wi Fi tokens. Because essentially what ended up happening was that Andre launched the protocol, but all the tokens were distributed within the first two weeks, and that left none for kind of like paying out early contributors. And what ended up happening is what they had is that they had to rely on fees being generated by the protocol to pay contributors and it wasn't enough. And, you know, they weren't rewarding people what they were owed, and then they just ended up printing more.
00:19:55.346 - 00:20:39.166, Speaker A: Maybe that's what happens with index cop, who knows? But I think that what the proposed here is probably the better course of action. Like read, you know, redistributing the rewards, sharing the love a bit more than just like printing more tokens, but we'll have to see how it shakes out there. So speaking of the index co op, there's now a proposal to list the Defi pulse index as a collateral asset on rv protocol here. So essentially you can go to this AIP or aave improvement proposal and vote if you have, and then there's a link in here to vote. Sorry, the vote is here, not in the governance post. The vote is here, which will be linked in the YouTube description. But essentially you can go vote and kind of make your voice heard that you want the DefI pulse index on are there.
00:20:39.166 - 00:21:15.238, Speaker A: And I mean, you know, as Slanny says here, the pros are potential access to 12,000 dpi DPI holders, essentially unlocking basket liquidity because the DPI is obviously a basket of other assets and collects 20% reserve factor to ave Dow cons, multi Seagon Minta, but restricted by the consent of either index co op and set labs here. And Stein, he says he's voting yes. And you can see here, I mean, pretty much everyone has voted yes. So far, zero tokens have voted no. And this is just a no brainer for me. I think DPI is an amazing collateral asset. It has awesome liquidity on decentralized exchanges.
00:21:15.238 - 00:21:48.000, Speaker A: It is made up of a lot of the top kind of like defi protocol tokens out there. And as Stani mentions here, it does have a wide holder base as well. So yeah, if you hold ivy tokens, go vote here. But it seems like this is going to pass anyway. So a few core dev things to actually get through, or core Ethereum protocol stuff that I wanted to get through. The first is from Nethermind where they've said the wait is over, Warp has arrived and Warp is an EVM to Cairo transpiler. Now, I've been talking about how Starkware's stark net is kind of like running on Cairo, their new smart contracting language.
00:21:48.000 - 00:22:41.010, Speaker A: They didn't just like port straight from solidity to Stocknet. They've gone with creating like their stark OS and their Cairo language because they believe it's better, or it's like, it kind of like does a lot of things better than solidity. And what Nethermind has, has developed is a way to basically transpile your, I guess like solidity ERC 20 contract to Cairo and then deploy that on stocknet, which I think is, I mean, super awesome, right? Like this just makes developers lives a lot easier. It means that they don't have to rewrite their contracts, you know, from solidity to Cairo, they can essentially warp them, I guess, like in a way, by transpiling them using this transpiler. That's, that's called warp from, from Nethermind. Yeah. And for those of you who don't know, Nethermind is, and Ethereum core dev team, they built the Nethermind client, which is a really great ethereum one client, so definitely go check that out.
00:22:41.010 - 00:23:19.658, Speaker A: But there's actually a demo of it now, a demo of transpiling an ESC 20 solidity contract to Cairo and deploying it to Stocknet. It's all on GitHub here. So if you're a developer, you can go check that out. But essentially, I think this is really cool because it shows that while Ethereum layer 1 may be limited in what you can do, because it's got just the EVM there and it's got solidity. I mean, there's other languages like Viper and stuff like that, but generally it's not like super flexible. At L2, you can be as flexible as you want, because these L2s, as long as they're posting proofs to Ethereum layer one, they can get away with doing whatever they want. At L2, if constructed correctly, they can have different virtual machines if they want.
00:23:19.658 - 00:24:04.178, Speaker A: They can have different smart contract contracting languages. They can have different architectures altogether, as long as they can still talk to a theorem, layer one to post that proof. And as long as they can transpile things and be able to read the l one, kind of like balances in state to get users onto L2, then they can essentially do whatever they want, which I think is really exciting because it means that we get essentially what was discussed, which was this was part of the e two roadmap for a little while, but it got, it got kind of like, I think scrapped eventually because we figured it'd be better to this at L2. But it was this, oh man, I can't remember what it was called. There was a specific name for it, which was essentially describing what I'm talking about, but doing them on shards instead of doing it at L2. But essentially you can do the same thing at L2. Oh, that's right.
00:24:04.178 - 00:24:42.524, Speaker A: They were called execution environments, and which is basically this concept of on different shards, you could have a different execution environment on each shard and be able to do all the things I mentioned, like code smart contracts in different languages have a different virtual machine, not just the EVM and all that sort of stuff there. So it's really great to see that this is happening on L2 starkware. I mean, obviously one of the best L2 teams out there. Stocknet's going to be really big, I think. You know, Stocknet is pretty much going to be their generalized, I guess like L2 platform, similar to optimism and Arbitrum, but built on zero knowledge roll ups instead of optimistic roll ups or ZK roll ups. So yeah, really cool to see this. I'll link this in the YouTube description.
00:24:42.524 - 00:25:37.880, Speaker A: You can go check it out and read all about it. So speaking of, I guess like ETH two and kind of like what's happening there and all the kind of like execution stuff. Proto put out a tweet thread today discussing I guess like this is really kind of like technical, low level kind of protocol stuff. But essentially what he's saying here is that I'll read out his tweet. He basically says execution consensus API for just the merge, why not for all Ops two same API, which basically means you can have an EVM compatible roll up plus fork choice block exertion block insertion API plus API caller equals to a greater than a client agnostic roll up. So basically what this means is that you can have a roll up that is agnostic to two different kind of clients on there, whether that be like ETH two clients or whatever. And then he goes on to say multiclient state sync, proper state database transaction propagation, extended client APIs, all for free.
00:25:37.880 - 00:26:40.624, Speaker A: This is very technical stuff. I'm not going to go through it all now. I probably would even be able to do it justice because I'm not that technical, but. And then he goes on to talk about sharding here when he says, and then this gets even better with shard data scale capacity for roll ups ten to 100 times, yet zero new execution requirements, no explorer execution client evm tooling aside from the merge API from plus roll up worker mode node, sorry, not mode here. And then he gives it kind of like an example here where essentially your data transport layer can come from, from optimism or shard node future of ETH two obviously pulls in the transactions or blocks loop over confirmed data and state routes, call execution consensus API to insert blocks, verify resulting state routes and finality, et cetera, supported by API out of the box. So this is basically the life cycle of like a transaction getting verified by the beacon chain, as I'm understanding here. And then roll ups can be so much more useful and sustainable with the native EVM networking client optimizations, updates and infrastructure.
00:26:40.624 - 00:27:15.424, Speaker A: And then this was really cool where he said defi Lego blocks are cool, but have you ever thought about composable protocol Lego blocks? And then he goes on to describe that here. I'm not going to read through all of them, you can definitely go read this. But essentially I think what he's describing is like a standard for roll ups and I guess like the layer one, sorry, layer one and L2 to kind of like communicate with each other and verify each other without having to kind of like reinvent the wheel. Essentially. That's what I think's happening here. Proto, if you're watching this, please correct me in the comments or whatever, or anyone else like who understands this, probably maybe more than I do. Definitely, you know, correct me in the comments if I got any of that wrong there.
00:27:15.424 - 00:28:19.630, Speaker A: So chains a chain safe, sorry. Chainsafe's load star team has released its official light client prototype, which cuts bandwidth and processing load by about 99% and makes Ethereum as light as ever. Now, for those of you who don't know what light clients are, it's kind of like this, I guess this kind of like concept of can we allow users to kind of like verify the chain, but in a really light way? Essentially like instead of running like a full node, they can just run a lite client and still have, you know, I guess like probably not like full trust, fully trustless kind of access to Ethereum, but essentially like up to a point where it's just very easy to kind of verify that everything's running, you know, correctly at the end of the day. And, you know, chainsafe goes on to say, you know, why does ETH two need lite clients? And they describe it here where they say Ethereum consists of thousands of nodes running various clients. Clients differ both in terms of the language they implemented in and their size. Running a full client on ETH two means that you have to download the entire ETH two blockchain. This is prohibitive for many environments and unnecessary for certain use cases.
00:28:19.630 - 00:29:10.206, Speaker A: For example, a full node cannot be run on a mobile devi device hosting a trust minimized wallet. There are also many use cases that simply want to read small piece read some small piece of the chain, for example, fetching a recent validator balance, or hosting a metered vm virtual machine for a blockchain bridge instance such as chainbridge. In these instances, a lite client is sufficient and preferable to a full client. In order to retrieve the latest state, Ethereum full nodes must download the genesis or other beacon state and download and sequentially process every canonical block from start to finish. Using light clients, this bandwidth and processing load can be reduced by 99% here. So essentially, yeah, I mean, this is things for like, mobile devices and making it so that you can have like your own little like, client on there to verify the integrity of kind of like the blockchain without having to go through like a whole full nodes thing. Because obviously on your mobile phone, you're not gonna be running a full node on it.
00:29:10.206 - 00:29:52.542, Speaker A: And being able to run like a lite client and still get that kind of like assurances, or at least similar assurances that you would get from like a full node is very, very important. Now, this is described in detail in this blog post. I'll let you guys go check that out. I'm gonna power through the rest of this as we're running out of time here. Bartek put together a really great thread on l two today where he said, after long discussions, we at l two beat.com ended up with a series of questions that we hope each roll up provider will be able to answer so that users will be able to properly assess the risk of their funds deposited into the roll up. And he goes through a bunch of different things and, you know, these are all the kind of like things that all the roll ups need to be able to either answer or give like, I guess, a stated plan to about how they plan.
00:29:52.542 - 00:30:40.372, Speaker A: Plan to either decentralize these kind of functions over time, or, you know, the functions being like the sequences. Right. Obviously, the block producers, we want more than one, because if there's only one sequencer, that sequencer can sense as many transactions as they want, which is obviously not ideal. And also things like admin keys and all that sort of stuff. Definitely want to be able to kind of like get that out there. But other questions also that Bartek have come up with is like, are you using validity proofs or fraud proofs to secure on l one to secure the state? What are the details? How can users be sure that you're providing what you claim to be proving? Transaction data will be needed for fraud proofs, emergency exits, etcetera? Where is the data stored? What entity is sequencing transactions? As I just mentioned, you know, is it permissioned or permissionless? Blah blah? There's always questions here. It's a great set of questions, and I believe this is, this is awesome.
00:30:40.372 - 00:31:23.874, Speaker A: I'm really glad that the l two beat team is kind of asking these and having listed on their site too, because it's incredibly important that users know what trust assumptions they are making when using these rollouts because as I said, all of them are going to be or at least most of them are going to be trusted environments for a while because it's just new technology. There's going to be guardrails, going to be admin keys. It's not going to be decentralized just yet, but eventually we will get to that state. So knowing which ones are at that state and which ones aren't is going to be incredibly valuable for users, I think. So speaking of L2, Rainbow mobile wallet is now supporting L2 networks, optimism, Polygon and Arbitrum. Polygons, pos chain, I should say not polygons. Pos chain is not a L2, but the L2 is being optimism and arbitram.
00:31:23.874 - 00:31:59.540, Speaker A: And obviously a lot of us use the pos chain anyway. So this update allows you to access a whole new side of Ethereum as it's, as they kind of like put forward here. So if you have rainbow on iOS, the rainbow wallet, go update it. You'll see kind of like support there. And they've got like a little kind of Twitter thread here and a beginner's guide to L2 networks as well, and kind of describing the difference between side chains and L2s, which I really, really like. So yeah, if you're a regular rainbow wallet user, mobile wallet user, you'll definitely get a lot of use out of this for sure. Speaking of Layer twos, again, Alchemy has announced that they are now supporting optimism.
00:31:59.540 - 00:32:39.396, Speaker A: So alchemy is similar to Infuria, where they provide node infrastructure to different projects or different apps on Ethereum and on L2s. And now alchemy developers can get access to optimisms, massive improvements to gas fees and transaction throughput, and then you can start using it by heading here. So if you're a developer, definitely go check this out. And the last thing to talk about, I think I'm going to spend a couple of minutes here, super rare have issued their token called rare. Of course, essentially they airdropped 15% of these tokens to people who had either bought or kind of like sold art on, on super rare, I should say. Sorry. And you can see like kind of the breakdown here of their rare drop method.
00:32:39.396 - 00:33:11.396, Speaker A: And the rare token is going to be used as a curation token. Now, for those who don't know, super rare is basically a curated art marketplace. Only around 1% of the artists get whitelisted to end up on there to sell their art. So it's really, really high quality art. And as the name implies, it is super rare. Right? So essentially what the rare token will kind of be used for is this kind of like space race that they're calling it super, sorry, super rare spaces race or something. And basically very similar to what mirror does with curating kind of riders on their platform.
00:33:11.396 - 00:33:42.564, Speaker A: You can essentially see this, this chart here, I guess this graphic here that shows the space approval process where, you know, space candidates submit proposals, community editors, volunteers review them. The governance council submits edited and proof proposals for vote, token holders vote, and then it's either accepted or denied. So I guess like, you know, curation token is just a fancy way of saying a governance token. But I think there's a bit of innovation here, definitely, and I think it's really cool to see that. So, yeah, I mean, if you had ever used super red, you've got some tokens waiting for you. I already claimed mine and everything. It's pretty cool to see that.
00:33:42.564 - 00:34:28.594, Speaker A: You know, some of the big artists on the platforms got like a fairly sizable airdrop as well. And I, I kind of read a newsletter about this today called Culture Airdrops, where essentially, you know, the people on here, maybe they're not even defi users, the artists that have been kind of, I guess like selling their art on here or collecting the art on there, but they are kind of like NFT users or they're really into digital art. And there's a lot of culture in that. You know, there's obviously defi culture, but it's a bit, it's a bit of a different thing there. So I called this like a culture airdrop where these people were essentially, that they were essentially instrumental in bootstrapping super rare and kind of like buying and selling art and being part of the community. They've basically been airdropped, these tokens as part of like, you know, setting that culture, which I thought was really, really cool there, but I think I'm going to end it there for today. So thank you everyone, for listening and watching.
00:34:28.594 - 00:34:35.314, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
