00:00:00.480 - 00:00:26.662, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the deliberate refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sosano, and today's the 2 September 2021. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So I was thinking about kind of like the crypto ecosystems today. I mean, as I normally do, right, and thinking about the term multi chain. And I put out this tweet where I said the crypto ecosystem has been multi chain since the first economically relevant fork of bitcoin, which was obviously litecoin.
00:00:26.662 - 00:01:24.472, Speaker A: I think litecoin was forked back in 2011. Got value, still has value, still worth billions of dollars to this day. And then I went on to say, so I don't think the question is, will the future be multi chain? Rather, the question is which platforms will have the most market share in a multi chain world. Now, I wrote about this in the Daily Gware newsletter today, but just to quickly summarize it on the refill here, essentially, there's this thing called a power law distribution, which essentially says that in kind of like networks, 80% of the, the activity will be kind of concentrated in a small amount of winners, like a handful of winners, and 20% will be the long, what's called the long tails, like everyone else, essentially. So you could imagine the crypto ecosystem as being 80% of the activity and the relevance. And everything revolves around bitcoin, Ethereum, maybe a few other platforms out there, like maybe some L2s. I mean, I'm talking about in the future, right? Maybe some L2, some other chains, some smart, some non smart contract chains that exist to do things like what RwEB is doing with decentralized storage and all that sort of stuff.
00:01:24.472 - 00:01:51.840, Speaker A: And then you have the long tail of these things that exist, but they don't necessarily have very much activity. They just kind of like, have their own little niches and stuff like that, which I fully expect to happen. I mean, I don't expect Ethereum to be the absolute winner and to actually kind of like, account for everything in this ecosystem. I believe Ethereum will be the biggest platform. I believe it will be the settlement layer for the world. But I don't necessarily believe that it's going to have all the action over the long term. I mean, it hasn't ever had that.
00:01:51.840 - 00:02:16.580, Speaker A: I mean, like, if we, if we include bitcoin in that, I mean, bitcoin dominance has gone down over time, of course, against, against ETH. But in terms of, like, just the way the world works, we're never going to have, like, this monoculture where there's just one platform to rule it all, that's just never going to happen. And I don't think that's an issue. I think that's fine. I think people can use what they want to use, and developers will build on what they want to build on. But at the end of the day, it's. I definitely still think it's going to be a power or distribution.
00:02:16.580 - 00:02:47.870, Speaker A: I don't believe it's going to be a thing where you have 100% of the ecosystem being ethereum or 100% being bitcoin. Uh, it's going to be that kind of, like, long tail with a handful of winners at the top. Now, let's talk about the size of this opportunity. What is the 80, 20% in dollar terms? Well, if you believe the total crypto market cap is going to be, say, $100 trillion, right? Which I think it will be one day. I think it'll be more than that. I think it'd be like a few hundred trillion over the next kind of ten years or something like that. Um, then let's just take the hundred trillion trillion dollar number for that.
00:02:47.870 - 00:03:09.934, Speaker A: So if you're 80%, you know, that's obviously $80 trillion. And in that 80% is going to be. Sorry. In that $80 trillion is going to be, I believe. I mean, even though I don't, like, obviously not very bullish on bitcoin, but, like, I still think bitcoin's going to be in that 80%. Ethereum are definitely some of the Ethereum. Layer two is not all of them, but, like, a lot of them, some other chains as well.
00:03:09.934 - 00:04:01.806, Speaker A: And kind of, like, from there you'll have the long tail, which is the other 20 trillion of, like, all the other stuff that we see today in crypto that already accounts for the long tail. I mean, if you look at the market caps today, it pretty much already is a power law distribution. Um, so I expect that to remain. But people are always speculating on, like, what, how that, how that's going to look in the future, right? Like, what chains are going to be in the 80%, what are going to be in the 20%, and that can change over time. It's not a static thing, but if you think about it in percentage terms, say, 1% of that 100 trillion, um, if you only capture 1%, if your platform only captures 1% of that $100 trillion, well, you still have a trillion dollar market cap. No, crypto, except bitcoin, has gotten to a trillion dollar market cap and bitcoin only got there briefly. So, um, you know, in saying that if you are a platform right now and your market cap is $100 million and it goes to a trillion, that's an absolutely massive opportunity, right? That's a thousand x or more than that.
00:04:01.806 - 00:04:33.982, Speaker A: I think, like, I think it's like a 10,000 x or something like that, if I'm doing my math correctly. Absolutely massive opportunity for just 1% of the ecosystem. So this, when you start thinking in these kind of, like, numbers and percentage terms, you really do see why people are speculating on everything, absolutely everything in this ecosystem, because there's no clear cut winner. Besides, in my eyes, Ethereum and bitcoin in their own categories, I think Ethereum is going to be bigger than bitcoin, obviously. I think Ethereum is not just a smart contract platform, but it's also a money platform. It's also, ETH is also a better asset than bitcoin in my eyes. But I won't go too much into that.
00:04:33.982 - 00:05:09.430, Speaker A: But if you think about it, even if that kind of, like, $80 trillion is split between, like, a handful of platforms and say, like, ETH is like, 430 trillion, BTC is 30 trillion, then you have the other 20 trillion split between, like, the L2s and stuff like that. Absolutely insane massive opportunity, right? It's just, it's just absolutely crazy. So that's why you see people speculating on other chains and everything like that. Even if it doesn't make much sense. I know there's a, there's a bunch of stuff going on in the markets that make absolutely, absolutely no sense. But when people are speculating, they'll, they'll bid things up to valuations that'll make your eyes water at the end of the day. So, yeah, I just wanted to give a bit of extra color there.
00:05:09.430 - 00:05:37.942, Speaker A: And actually, what prompted this for me was listening to Raul Paul on bankless. There was a really great podcast he did with them the other day, and he was talking in these kind of, like, terms as well. He was saying, you know, the global equities market market is $200 trillion. So if crypto captures just the global equities market, then the total crypto market cap should go to 200 trillion at least. And I mean, I agree with him. It should and more than that. But then he also says, like, even if some of these platforms only capture 1% of the value, then that's still a massive opportunity at $200 trillion, let alone 100 trillion.
00:05:37.942 - 00:06:03.064, Speaker A: So I. Sorry. At 100 trillion, let alone 200 trillion, so from that point of view, easy to understand the way the ecosystem is the way it is. But anyway, leave it at that for now. Got plenty more to talk about today, this tweet from Vitalik. So he basically put out a tweet today where he says, doing a random Twitter experiment just on this day, only the 268 people I follow can reply to this tweet. Feel free to ask things, and I'll talk about anything crypto or non crypto related.
00:06:03.064 - 00:06:32.204, Speaker A: Now, I'm one of the people who that Vitalik kind of follows. So I asked my question, which, I don't know, it's in the sea of these questions somewhere. I don't think he's answered it yet, unfortunately. I may have asked it when he went to bed, considering, I mean, I'm in Australia here. But essentially, there's a lot of great questions and a lot of great answers in this. This was just like an impromptu ama for, for Vitalik on Twitter, and it was awesome. I mean, if you haven't seen this yet and haven't read through all the answers, I highly recommend going and doing so, because as I said it, I mean, as he says in, in his tweet, you didn't have to just ask about crypto.
00:06:32.204 - 00:07:03.442, Speaker A: Could be non crypto related as well. And a few people took that opportunity to do that. My, my question was basically asking, what would Vitalik do if he never created Ethereum? Like what? What? I mean, what, what did what? Here's my question. What do you think that you'd be spending most of your time on if you never created a theory? And I hope he answers it. I really want to hear what he'd be doing. I think based on his other interests, he would probably be doing something with public goods or, I mean, he's very interested in, like, anti aging technology, stuff like that. He's still very interested in cryptography, but maybe that's just, like, a byproduct of his interest in Ethereum.
00:07:03.442 - 00:07:40.970, Speaker A: But generally, I think he'd still be doing stuff in the public good space, for sure. But anyway, definitely go give his entire kind of, like, thread here a read and kind of, like, see the questions and answers that were kind of, like, put out here in case you missed it. I'm sure you guys didn't miss it. I'm sure you've all seen it by now. But for those who haven't, definitely recommend giving this, this tweet a read. It'll be linked in the YouTube description, of course. So Arbitrum's growth has been amazing already I mean, it's just like, I mean, you know, l two beat says here that arbitram has experienced hockey stick growth up 2785% over the past seven days, when really, it's just like the past 24 to 48 hours, right.
00:07:40.970 - 00:08:06.500, Speaker A: Since Arbitrum's mainnet went live to the public. And you can see their TVL is already over $20 million. This is just like, really fast. And, you know, some of the metric sites that I'm using to track this are lagging. Like, I think RB scan is lagging. L two beat seems to be lagging as well. But you can actually go to the various bridge contracts on Etherscan and see, because the TVL is basically just measuring the assets deposited into the various bridge contracts, that bridge into arbitrum from Ethereum.
00:08:06.500 - 00:08:29.304, Speaker A: So it's pretty easy to kind of, kind of manually calculate it. But, I mean, over $20 million in 24, 48 hours is amazing. And it's just great to see this. I mean, you know, it's funny cause like I said yesterday that I did my first trade on sushiswap on there, and today I did my kind of, like, second one to test out the liquidity. And the liquidity was much better. Yesterday it was kind of, it was poor. Today it was much, much better than it was yesterday.
00:08:29.304 - 00:08:56.788, Speaker A: And I was able to kind of, like, pretty much do a normal, like, ETH trade that I would on layer one. I think layer one has less kind of slippage and less price impact, but there's still more and more liquidity coming over time. And this is just gonna be kind of like a thing that plays out over the next few months. Right, where we kind of, like, get this parallel ecosystem developing on arbitrum that mirrors kind of what's happening on Ethereum. Layer one, and I guess a few updates about arbitrum. Today, sushiswap announced that they're live. I mean, obviously they're live on arbitrum, but they have sushi rewards as well now.
00:08:56.788 - 00:09:34.184, Speaker A: So these pairs currently have sushi rewards on them, which I think is really, really cool because I think this is needed to bootstrap liquidity on these things. On a new platform like arbitrum, you definitely need some liquidity mining. And I've talked about this before, but I believe that you can do a mild amount of liquidity mining. You don't have to go crazy with it and say, okay, we're going to pay $100 million out for, you know, over this one month. Let's, let's. Let's all go on to kind of like arbitrum? No, I think a very conservative, just some rewards to make up for like a bit of the impermanent loss and stuff like that of, of um, of providing liquidity here is very good. And it's a really easy way just to bootstrap, uh, the kind of like ecosystem for sushiswap.
00:09:34.184 - 00:10:05.938, Speaker A: And I'm sure the other ones will do it as well. Dai is also coming to arbitrum very soon, similar to how they, how maker is kind of like putting dai on optimism. It will be using a custom gateway so that in the future goodies like fast withdrawals and minting Dai directly on l two will be supported. And this kind of like forum post kind of goes over that. So make a Dao's timeline for launching die on arbitram one, you can read this, it'll be linked in the YouTube description. But really, really cool to see that Zappa added their support for arbitrum. And I'm pretty sure they have support for optimism as well.
00:10:05.938 - 00:10:37.924, Speaker A: But they're also going to be supporting different arbitrary integrations as time goes on to here. So I mean, it's all happening, right? This is absolutely crazy how fast this is happening. And really it just speaks to the fact that this is all permissionless and this is all kind of like open and you know, you can integrate no matter who you are. You don't have to kind of go to the arbitrum team and say, hey, can we integrate with your smart contracts or whatever? You can do that. As I mentioned yesterday, people still have to, I mean developers still have to whitelist to deploy their apps and stuff like that. But I think that's totally fine. And it's just great to see like all these support coming in for arbitrary them all at once.
00:10:37.924 - 00:11:31.322, Speaker A: And you know, finally here, seller network announced that their, their seller cBridge has been supporting arbitrum from day one. So you can get into and out of arbitrum in minutes instead of seven days and at a 20 to 50 x lower cost. So this is just one of those bridges that I always talk about on the refuel. The other ones I think are enabled as well, like Connext and hop. But it's also you, you know, depending on the liquidity pairs. You know, it's funny though, because I actually think that these just on the bridge note for a second, I actually think that these bridges only really have to have liquidity for stable coins and ETH really because to go between the chains, because if you have amms on each of the chains, well then if you need to kind of like bridge out, you just kind of like sell into ETH or sell into USDC and kind of like come out. But the, I mean, the only showstopper that I can imagine there is the fact that, like the, the taxable, kind of like events that happen because going from crypto to crypto, at least in Australia, is a taxable event.
00:11:31.322 - 00:12:28.532, Speaker A: So that would be kind of annoying having to do that. But for people that this doesn't affect or maybe the legislation changes in the future, it'd be really cool that we have just really deep liquidity pools that stable coins and ETH between the, for these bridges between the different chains, and then you can just like swap in and out of tokens on, on all of the different Altus and, and side chains and whatnot, instead of having to kind of like boost up the liquidity for the bridges as well. Because that's always going to be the bottleneck here, I believe, and arbitrary isn't the only one getting love. Chainlink is now up and live on optimism, which means near real time price feeds and near instantaneous confirmations plus low gas fees equals crypto nirvana on optimistic Ethereum. Now, this is really cool because it means that more apps can now deploy to optimism that rely. Sorry, rely on Chainlink for their app to work. Something like rV, right, which relies on price feeds to them, make sure that they can track the value of the collateral assets backing the loans on Aave and things like that.
00:12:28.532 - 00:13:04.336, Speaker A: Obviously, there's a bunch of other apps out there that also use kind of like Aave that tap into that, like yearn. And I mean, like when, when curve gets deployed, sorry. Can kind of tap into that and then tap into Aave and stuff like that. So, yeah, I mean, there's always these apps that have the dependencies like Alchemix as well. So having the core infrastructure providers like Chainlink up and live allows for all these extra apps to come on board here, which is really, really cool. And on, I guess I tweeted out about optimism today, saying that uniswap on optimism had a record trading volume day yesterday as well. They had almost $7 million of 24 hours trading volume.
00:13:04.336 - 00:13:39.692, Speaker A: And I just said here, slowly but surely, because it has been a slow kind of progression here. And this is by design. Like, I had some people in the comments kind of say, you know, this just seems like really what the comments say is that life for everyone to use the pools need to move? Or is that in a, in a beta, $6 million is super small volume if Uniswap does over a billion dollars. So this person's talking about Uniswap doing over a billion dollars on layer one. Now you can't compare Uniswap on layer one to uniswap on optimism because optimism has like three other apps live right now. Right? So there's not really anything for, there's not really too much of an ecosystem just yet. There will be.
00:13:39.692 - 00:14:03.550, Speaker A: I mean, and it's also kind of like a brand new thing where people have to bridge into it. It's not like at the fully, kind of like battle tested adopted network effect out, kind of like Ethereum layer one here. And it took a while for optimism to get to a billion dollars on layer one anyway. And there's no liquidity mining for anything on, on L2, sorry, on optimism with regards to Uniswap, so. And they haven't tried to do that. There's transaction limits on Uniswap. There's been no marketing for this.
00:14:03.550 - 00:14:30.704, Speaker A: I mean, I think the most marketing that Uniswap and optimism has gotten is probably from me. If I'm being honest. I haven't really seen anyone else talk about it. I've, I posted about it a few times, I've talked about it on the refuel, but no one's really talking about it. And yet it still has almost $7 million of 24 hours volume, which is kind of, kind of crazy, right, after just about six weeks, which I think is really cool. That's going to ramp up over time, I believe, as more and more apps deploy to optimism here. But yeah, cool to see the kind of like this record being set by Uniswap.
00:14:30.704 - 00:15:03.424, Speaker A: And I guess optimism and arbitrary aren't the only L2s having fun. Starkware has put out an update about Starknet Alpha two. So Starknet is their kind of like generalized L2 platform running on, I believe, ZK roll ups here. So with this alpha two phase, Stockinette now supports composability, the main feature defining stock nets constellation phase. They are releasing a testing framework for stock. Starknet developers can now test their contracts locally and effectively. This release includes several, several notable performance improvements such as support for Merkel, Patricia tries trees.
00:15:03.424 - 00:15:36.976, Speaker A: Sorry. And a built in for bitwise operation. So for you developers out there, you'll probably know what that means more than I do. And on the ecosystem front, they've standardized their contracts and they have an EVM to Cairo compiler, which is the kind of like warp thing that I talked about the other day from. Never mind. I talked about on the refuel. So, I mean, this is really cool because I think what's happening now in the L2 space is that because these things are going live like arbitrum and optimism and some of the other ones out there, there's been a fire lit under, up under everyone's ass, and everyone's basically like, oh, my God, we have to get our stuff out there.
00:15:36.976 - 00:15:55.726, Speaker A: We have to release it. We have to do it now. And they're not rushing to the point where they're making kind of like trade offs or they're kind of like launching when it's not secure to do so. This is why some of the L2s take so long to launch. Like, arbitrum took longer to launch because of that. Same with optimism. You need to make sure that these things are secure and they have guardrails and stuff in place, as I've discussed before.
00:15:55.726 - 00:16:34.722, Speaker A: But essentially, I think that these other platforms and these other competitors, they're all speeding their development timelines up and working really, really hard to, to get this out there because they know that it's a power law distribution. They know that 80% of the activity is just going to be existing in a handful of these L2s. And they want to, you know, they want to be that 80% because as I mentioned at the start, this opportunity is trillions of dollars. And these kind of like platforms want to be worth trillions of dollars. Like, these are companies at the end of the day, and they like their networks, so they have the network effect that makes them valuable. And if you're not first to market, it's very, very hard. Like after something gets adopted, if you, if you wait too long to kind of get those network effects.
00:16:34.722 - 00:16:56.538, Speaker A: And this is something that I don't think a lot of the people that are debating on these other kind of like, platforms understand these other smart contract platforms. They say, oh, it's going to kill Ethereum and all this sort of stuff. And it's like, guys, like, it doesn't matter if you think your technology is better, it doesn't matter if it's faster, doesn't matter if it has more tpS. That has never mattered. What matters is the network effects. It's the same for layer ones as it is for L2s. It's, it's always the same in any technology.
00:16:56.538 - 00:17:25.686, Speaker A: It's always about the network effects. So I think that the L2 teams are very, very aware of this and they are trying their best to get their solutions out there, which just means us as end users get a much better experience, right, which is obviously super exciting there. And then I think this is the last thing about L2. Today, Uri from Starkware also tweeted out that in August, so rare spent 30 ETH on gas. That's 98.5% less than it spent as recently as May. And as he says here, we're nowhere near done yet.
00:17:25.686 - 00:18:07.844, Speaker A: We will continue to slash their gas, um, spending further with sharp and other tools. Now, sharp is their shared prover, which essentially means that people, uh, sorry, the apps that are deployed to stock with Stockx can actually share the load of the fees that they have to pay to layer one in terms of, like, securing themselves. But this is awesome. And as I've discussed before, this is the long term kind of thing for Ethereum. All these layer ones are just going to substantially reduce, sorry, L2s are going to substantially reduce the fees that each of them has to pay to layer one. But in aggregate, they're probably gonna be the same, if not more than what's being paid today, because there's just gonna be so many of them. And I guess I've spoken about how these L2s are like user wrappers at the end of the day, so I'm not gonna rehash that, but I think that is it for L2 stuff.
00:18:07.844 - 00:18:36.892, Speaker A: Yes, that's a lot of L2 updates. So, I mean, if anyone ever tells you that Ethereum L2 is not coming or not here, or kind of like too slow, just show em a refuel, really, at the end of the day. But anyway, moving on. Corby put out this excellent tweet about AIP 1559 today. And this is a narrative that I've been seeing spread on Twitter recently, which I haven't really been bothered fighting people with. I've been talking about on the refill a little bit, but corpus kind of like starts off with the narrative and he says, aip, this is a quote. He's quoting people saying, eip 1559 sucks.
00:18:36.892 - 00:18:57.512, Speaker A: After it was implemented, gas prices skyrocketed, and then Korpi, outside of quote, says, this take is propagated a lot. And I think this is far from true. Correlation is not causation. I suppose gas prices would be much higher now if we didn't have ErP 1559. So how does Erp 1559 save you, Ethan? Now, I'm not going to go through the whole thread. I want to just highlight one part of it. I mean, I suggest reading this.
00:18:57.512 - 00:19:36.278, Speaker A: It's a very great thread, but one part of it is where he basically explains why the gas fees are higher. And this should be obvious to anyone who actually understands how the fee market works, which admittedly is not many people. And I get that it's a, it could be quite a technical thing, but I hope that the daily refuel, refuel viewers and listeners, you guys all understand this, but essentially this is why gas is insane. It's not because of EIP 1559, it is because of NFT mania. It's. And it's just a coincidence that NFT mania happened or basically went into like overdrive when 1559 went live. As I discussed, I think yesterday, or maybe the day before, Opensea did $3.3
00:19:36.278 - 00:20:17.566, Speaker A: billion of volume in August, which was ten times what they did in July. And Opensea, if you go on ultrasound, money is the top gas burner by far. Sorry, top ETH burner by far, which means they're the top gas user by far. So when looking at this, I know it can be hard for people to grasp this because it really is a coincidence, but the reason gas prices are high, and they probably would have been high if not for 1559, is because of NFT mania. And NFT activity is some of the most gas heavy activity on the network, which means it uses more gas in a block than pretty much like most other things. I think the only other heavier thing is some kind of things in Defi, and Defi is already heavy on its own. But nfts, like minting an NFT is one of the most, the heaviest things you can do.
00:20:17.566 - 00:20:56.696, Speaker A: It's one of the most expensive things you can do on the network. So when people are minting, obviously the gas prices are going to shoot up crazy, especially if they're fomoing into it. But 1559 saves people in two ways. One, it's got the refund mechanism, where you basically refunded the excess amount that isn't used because you get to set like the max fee. And two, it's got the self adjusting mechanism of basically compressing all the demands into a few blocks while the mint like, while the kind of like the spiking activity is going on. And then it dissipates after that and returns us back to the baseline, which is the base fee, which can be anywhere from 50 to 100 way these days. So you obviously sometimes see gas prices go up to one 2000 3000.
00:20:56.696 - 00:21:32.024, Speaker A: That is by design, with EIP 1559. But that by design will also come down just as quickly and normalize around the base fee again, which, as I said, is 50 to 100 way so read this thread from Corpier does a great job of explaining this, and he linked my piece here, which I thank him for as well. You'll see here my newsletter piece describing what 1559 is and how it works and all that. So you can read that as well. But yeah, I just wanted to kind of point that out and make clear that 1559 did not increase gas prices, the NFT mania did. Or generally, the thing that really affects gas prices on Ethereum at the end of the day is network activity. That's it.
00:21:32.024 - 00:22:28.114, Speaker A: Like, not even the price of ETH, because the price of ETH can be $10,000. But if the network activity is zero, well, then the fees are zero, right? Or if the network activity is really low, then the fees are lower. It doesn't really correlate to the f. I mean, so this is like a deeper topic. I don't want to get stuck on this, but essentially it does correlate to the ETH price a bit, because obviously when the ETH price is volatile, the defi kind of ecosystem is volatile, the, and then the, you know, more t five activity is happening, which means the chain usage goes up, you know, and all that sort of stuff. But it's not like a one to one correlation where essentially if ETH gets more expensive, so if the ETH price goes up and the network demand goes down, well, then the gas prices are going to go down. But if the ETH price goes up, and I mean, I should say Gwei price, if the ETH price goes up and the gwei price stays the same or increases, then yes, in a pure dollar value it will, the fees will be more expensive, but if the network activity goes down, then the dollar value will go down with it.
00:22:28.114 - 00:22:51.666, Speaker A: So, yeah, I just, I don't want to, I don't want to get stuck on that because I'm going to run out of time if I do that. But yeah, go read this thread from Corpi. It was really, really good. Speaking of gas, block native released a gas estimator browser extension today, which is the best browser extension for gas estimation that I have ever seen. It is currently available for Chrome and for brave. I don't know if you'll be able to see it if I pop it up here. No, I have it installed, but it doesn't show up on the recording for some reason.
00:22:51.666 - 00:23:44.008, Speaker A: But essentially it looks exactly like this. I mean, I don't even have to show you, this was taken from my pc, obviously, the screenshot, but it shows you exactly the base fee here down the bottom, it shows you the max fee, and it shows you the priority fee, and it shows you the percentage probability that you'll get your transaction into the next. Now, for most of your transactions, you won't have to worry about this, but if you know the network's going to be heavy, or if you know that there's going to be like an NFT mint and you're trying to get in, you can use this as a kind of like, barometer, as like a measure to see what you need to kind of like, set your base max fee and priority fee to. So, yeah, this has become definitely my favorite. And I mean, disclosure, I'm an advisor to block native, but that doesn't influence kind of like, what I'm saying here. I mean, I haven't seen an extension that gives me this much information. I mean, I've used all of the gas extensions and, you know, some of them, I mean, pretty much all of them will give you like, an option between, like, the fast or slow or whatever base fee, which is more relevant pre 1559.
00:23:44.008 - 00:24:09.808, Speaker A: But in a post 1559 world, we need more information. If you want to kind of like, I guess, like play the gas market or whatever, you don't have to do this. Like, as I said, Metamask is decent at. I mean, it's not the best, but it's decent at kind of like estimating fees. But if you want to kind of like, have total control over it, this block native extension is what's right for you. And I believe people asked about a Firefox kind of app as well, or extension. I'm sure that's coming.
00:24:09.808 - 00:25:05.910, Speaker A: I don't actually know if it is, but I'm sure it is, considering Firefox is so popular. But right now it's available on Chrome and brave, so definitely go install it if you haven't yet. So an interesting tweet from Ian from ideo here, who said bitcoin introduced money primitives, Ethereum introduced software primitives, Defi introduced finance primitives, cryptopunks introduced culture primitives, and Loot Project, which I spoke about yesterday, has introduced a primitive for story narrative and world building. And I mean, this goes into exactly what I was saying yesterday about loot project and how it's just kind of like a bottoms up approach to nfts, where essentially just these text has been issued as nfts, and people can kind of like build their own story narrative, you know, world and art around it. And I just think that Ian really encapsulated all of this pretty pretty well here. Um, I think, you know, it's. It's funny because people always ask, you know, what's the next big thing? What's the thing that's going to change the game? What's going to be another zero to one moment? And I think all the things he listed here was zero to one moments.
00:25:05.910 - 00:25:58.416, Speaker A: And for those of you who don't know what a zero to one moment is, it's basically, I mean, it's a term coined, I can't remember exactly who it's coined by, but it's actually a book. You can, you can search it, but it's essentially, I guess, like something going from, I guess, how do I explain this? Basically, it's like a revolution in technology. Or essentially. Essentially, it takes like a massive leap in technology that's kind of like what a zero to one moment is there. And, you know, bitcoin introducing money primitives, introducing a decentralized money was obviously an absolutely massive leap from fiat money, right, or from all the monetary systems that we have known. Then Ethereum introduced software primitives on top of this, smart contracts, right? That was a zero to one moment for blockchains and for the world really, in general, to have a trustless, kind of decentralized base layer for executing arbitrary code through smart contracts. Then you have defi introducing finance primitives to all of this in a way that was decentralized, permissionless, trustless global, you know, all that sort of stuff.
00:25:58.416 - 00:26:31.070, Speaker A: That was a zero to one moment for finance. Then you had crypto punks introducing culture primitives on top of all of this. And this was a zero to one moment for culture within, not just within crypto, but outside of it as well. And then loot project. I think what Ian's implying here is like a zero to one moment for kind of like nfts generally, where it's basically taken the NFT concept and turned it on its head, which I think is really, really cool. So, yeah, I just wanted to kind of point out that tweet from Ian and expand it a little bit for you guys there. The Makerdao growth team announced that Matic has been added as a collateral asset on Maker.
00:26:31.070 - 00:27:02.376, Speaker A: So you can now issue Dai through Matic as collateral thanks to the maker community and governance. And Matic is obviously the native token of the Polygon pos chain here. I like this little meme that they did. You know, you guys may have seen some drama around Polygon over the last couple of days, especially involving me. And funny how I've become like, the face of Polygon on Twitter. I get it because I'm an advisor to Polygon, but it's just funny because, you know, people think that I'm responsible for everything that polygon, like, as a, as a kind of like, company does, when in reality I'm like, I'm just like one small cog in the machine. I just like, you know, I kind of.
00:27:02.376 - 00:27:25.728, Speaker A: I'm just. Just an advisor, but maybe I'll do a thread on exactly what an advisor is one day. But anyway, this meme is kind of like this guy crying on the left saying, no, ethereum can't scale and side chains are not safe, and then make it go. And as, like, the chad character goes, wait a minute, friendship ended with the crying, dude, Polygon is now my best friend because they added, like, the Madagascar's collateral here, which is. Which is cool to see. I'm glad they did this. I mean, I'm surprised it didn't happen sooner, to be honest.
00:27:25.728 - 00:27:50.110, Speaker A: But anyway, all the details are in this thread from the maker growth. Makerdao growth account linked in the YouTube description. Okay, I have this up twice for some reason about the block native kind of gas estimator browser extension here. Anyway, this was just like the link to download it. But, you know, I just talked about this, so I'm just skipping over this. Danny Ryan kind of trolled, I guess, like Ethereum, Twitter today. For those of you who don't know, Danny Ryan is like the main coordinator for the ETH two effort.
00:27:50.110 - 00:28:10.586, Speaker A: But essentially what he tweeted today was just like when merge. And then Hudson Jameson took it a step further and trolled us all. And he said, it is happening on March 23, 2022. This is not the merge date. This is a troll. I mean, Hudson isn't even involved with, with kind of like the Ethereum foundation anymore, anything like that. He actually just recently got a job at flashbots.
00:28:10.586 - 00:28:29.826, Speaker A: He's still involved in the ethereum ecosystem with ETH. Cath hurt us and all that. But it's just funny because, like, this is definitely a troll, as much as, you know, I've been saying it's going to happen in Q 120, 22. There's no date yet, and I don't even know if it's going to happen in Q one. It could happen in Q two. But I just wanted to kind of point that out for people who may have seen this and may have thought this was real. No, it's a troll.
00:28:29.826 - 00:28:57.998, Speaker A: Please don't take this as the merge date. All right, finally here I wanted to kind of highlight this meme that ratw created. I mean, I love this. Like, I, you know how I talked about, like, the being an early adopter yesterday and how I wrote my newsletter and how it's become kind of a meme? Well, rat Ral put together this meme with me and it kind of like, as the character here saying, the early adopter, you know, sees a thousand, sees one, whatever that number there is 1 million times growth. Knows it's still early. Ah, so early. Knows nobody's ready for what's coming, including himself, blah, blah.
00:28:57.998 - 00:29:32.776, Speaker A: I just thought this was cool. And you know what? If anyone wants to make another meme with me as the character here, do like a daily grey refuel ore kind of meme and coffee in the Discord channel today was actually saying some really hilarious stuff and that you could kind of put around the image here. But that'd be fun to see because I know there's a lot of things that I say on the refuel that kind of like, you guys here and you're, and you're like, um, what's he saying? Like, and I repeat myself a lot about a lot of things because I do this every day. I think there's someone in the YouTube comments who always has, like, a whatever counter. Like, when I say whatever and kind of counts that I know people always make fun of the way I say the word here. I say it like here. Apparently I don't even hear myself doing that.
00:29:32.776 - 00:29:53.716, Speaker A: Maybe it's my accent, maybe it's just like the way I say this word and a bunch of other things obviously at me at the start singing my name and whatever. Right? So if you're down to create a meme, you know, do it and I'll obviously highlight it on the refuel. But I think on that note, I'm going to end it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:29:53.716 - 00:29:54.204, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone.
