00:00:00.250 - 00:01:10.610, Speaker A: All right, so before we get into the details about how Ethereum's new transaction fee mechanism, the one proposed in EIP 1559, before we talk about how that works, let's talk about, like, why do we even need an alternative to first price auctions? FBAS I mean, they seem to have done pretty well, right? I mean, Bitcoin's been humming along for, you know, 1213 years. You know, Ethereum had been successfully using first price auctions for a long time. You know, why? What's what's so broken about first price auction that we want to do something different? So one of the big issues with first price auctions and this is true not just in a blockchain context, this is true in lots of different application domains. It's just hard to figure out how you should bid in a first price auction. So what makes it difficult to figure out how to bid in a first price auction? Well, it wouldn't be difficult if you had telepathy, if you somehow magically knew what all of your competitors were going to be biding, because then you would bid just high enough to beat out enough of your competitors that you would get included in the block. The issue, of course, is you don't necessarily know what your competitors are going to be bidding, so you have to kind of make educated guesses about what the competition looks like. So you need to somehow come up with educated guesses about what the competing bids look like.
00:01:10.610 - 00:01:48.570, Speaker A: And that's not an easy problem. No matter how smart you are, but also, no matter how smart you are, no matter how good your guesses are, there's a good chance you're going to wind up regretting your bid. In hindsight, one thing that can go wrong is maybe you bid too high. So you wind up getting included in a block, which is great, but maybe in hindsight you realize actually you still would have been included had you only bid half as much and therefore paid half as much. So in that case, you regret not shading your bid more aggressively. But if you do shade your bid too aggressively, then you might regret bidding too low. Because what might happen is it might be that you wind up getting excluded from the block.
00:01:48.570 - 00:02:29.130, Speaker A: And it's not because people were paying such high prices. They're paying a price you would have been willing to pay yourself. It's just in search of a bargain. You wound up bidding too low and the miner excluded you from the block. Now, some of you who may actually submit transactions to various blockchains like Bitcoin and Ethereum, you may or may not have had the experience of actually manually attaching a bid to your transaction. Many of you maybe just sort of use some software wallet like MetaMask would be an example of a popular one for Ethereum. And the wallet may have just set this sort of bid on your behalf.
00:02:29.130 - 00:03:21.754, Speaker A: And so that may make you wonder. It's like, well, maybe this problem is just easily automated, right? So why not just have this sort of wallet that people are using anyways? Maybe you look at sort of the recent bid data from the last few blocks and you use that data to sort of figure out what the bid is supposed to be. Don't forget, in a public blockchain like, say, Bitcoin or Ethereum, this bid data is readily available, right? You just look at the recent blocks and you just see what the transaction fees, what the bids were, and this is a good idea. And in fact, this is exactly what software wallets do. But that doesn't change the fact that it is actually even using recent data can be difficult to figure out what you should bid. And sometimes the wallets get it wrong. Now, a regular user of a blockchain like Ethereum will have inevitably had the experience where they were submitting some transaction their wallet, submitted some transaction fee, suggested what the bid should be.
00:03:21.754 - 00:04:09.370, Speaker A: You say, sure, I accept your advice, I'll make that the bid. And then it turns out that the wallet just kind of wound up lowballing. You it wound up that it underestimated the bid that you should have made if you wanted sort of timely inclusion. And when that happens, it means all of the miners who are mining blocks, they're not going to include your transaction because there's other transactions that have higher bids attached to them. And so your transaction can just wind up hanging even for, say, half an hour or something like that. So that's obviously sort of very frustrating as a user of a blockchain, if you think your transactions has the right fee attached to it and then it winds up being too low and it winds up just hanging for a long time. And that was really one of the main motivations for the switch in Ethereum's transaction fee mechanism to what's become known as the EIP 1559 mechanism.
00:04:09.370 - 00:05:27.972, Speaker A: All right, so what would it look like? What would it mean for bidding to be easy in a mechanism? Well, compare and contrast the experience in a first price auction with, say, I don't know, shopping on Amazon, right? So how does that work? You go to a product page, there's some product, maybe it's a book or whatever, there's some posted price, like $20, and it's a take it or leave it offer, right? Buy the book or don't. It's your choice. Either that book is worth $20 to you, in which case you're obviously going to buy it, or it's not worth $20 to you, in which you're obviously not going to buy it and you're not going to regret it after the fact. And so that's really the goal of this new transaction fee mechanism we're going to start talking about in the next video, EIP 1559. The goal was to make figuring out the transaction fee for transactions in a blockchain to be as close to as easy as shopping on Amazon, as close as possible to a take it or leave it offer as possible. So one final comment before we get into the details of this new transaction fee mechanism. This comment is going to be for those of you that have heard of and are wondering about what's known as second price auctions or also called vicary auctions.
00:05:27.972 - 00:06:26.620, Speaker A: If you've never heard of second price auctions or vicary auctions, I would recommend just stopping the video now because you don't need to know them for anything else that we're going to discuss. But people at this point, often, if they've heard of those types of auctions, they often have a question about them. So let me address that question right here. So if you have heard of second price or Vickery type auctions, you may have sort of been reminded of them when I was talking about sort of making bidding easy because if you remember what those auctions look like, those are bids where by design, bidding is really easy. It's a dominant strategy, meaning it's always in your best interest, no matter what anyone else is doing, it's always in your best interest to bid your maximum willingness to pay. So unlike in a first price auction where you don't want to bid your maximum willingness to pay, you want to shade your bid at least a little bit so that you get some kind of net utility from the transaction. Actually, second price auctions work by just sort of having the auction itself basically shade your bid optimally on your behalf given the bids of all of your competitors.
00:06:26.620 - 00:07:37.620, Speaker A: So maybe that sounds pretty cool and in fact, actually it is pretty cool. Vickery and second price auctions, it's a pretty great idea and they're really the right solution for allocating scarce resources in a number of application domains. Unfortunately, in the context of blockchains like Bitcoin and Ethereum, these fail miserably. They are totally inappropriate for the problem of assigning transaction fees. Specifically, you are trusting the seller or whoever it is who's running the auction that they won't kind of nefariously inject additional bids just to manipulate the price that you're going to wind up paying. So in a blockchain context, if you tried to use one of these second price or vicary type auctions, that would strongly incentivize miners to mess around with the transactions and potentially create new transactions and include them in the block in order to boost the revenue that the miner gets from that second price type auction. So this kind of manipulatability and the fact that miners have dictatorial control over the blocks they produce, that combination is why you pretty much almost never hear about second price type auctions in the context of blockchain transaction fees.
00:07:37.620 - 00:08:19.100, Speaker A: So if you'd like to hear more details on this topic, I've given a couple sort of lectures that are deep dives on EIP 1559. You can find videos of them on YouTube. And in those videos, I go on about this issue at some length. I'm not going to say more about it in this lecture. It's really not necessary for any of the points I want to cover in this lecture. So instead, I want to move on in the next video to a different type of auction design. This one proposed in EIP 1559, which has many of the benefits, traditional benefits of second price type auctions, of biding being easy, certainly easier than in first price auctions, but without the drawbacks that make it inappropriate for blockchain deployment.
00:08:19.100 - 00:08:23.180, Speaker A: So that's coming up in the next video, EIP 1559. I'll see you there. Bye.
