00:00:00.200 - 00:00:35.230, Speaker A: Hello everyone, welcome to another episode of the deli Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host. And there's Asana, and today's the 27 April 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So first off here we have a tweet from uncle rewards who said that new deposits just flipped withdrawals in the staking deposit queue on Ethereum. Now of course, this screenshot comes from the Beacon chain website where you can see here pending validators, 14,100 to enter the queue and 12,500 to exit the queue, which means that there are more validators waiting to enter into Ethereum. Staking then are waiting to exit.
00:00:35.230 - 00:01:26.246, Speaker A: Now, I believe this is definitely due to that great reshuffling that we're seeing of the different staking providers. Obviously I spoke yesterday about how Kraken was forced to withdraw a lot of their eat stake and a lot of users got that ETH over the last few days and now they're restaking it as with other services or solar staking it or going with a decentralized staking service or anything like that. Right? They're coming back into staking and it's kind of shitty that for, for these users, they, they're going to miss out on a bit of rewards because they were basically forced out to exit the active validator set with Kraken and then have to go through the queue again to get in. And as I said yesterday, I believe the queue is like 18 days or something. So they're going to miss out on 18 day plus days of rewards if they want to restake here, which is unfortunate. And really the SEC has protected no one. Gary Gensler has protected no one.
00:01:26.246 - 00:02:03.298, Speaker A: It's just caused unnecessary pain and kind of like annoyance for a lot of ETH stakers. But what it's done is it's distributed stake away from a centralized player and into more decentralized hands. Obviously not all of that ETH has gone into decentralized hands and services and solid staking, but still, it's distributing it out, which is always a good thing to see. Yeah, it's kind of funny that it was the cause of the US government. That's the reason why that happened. Still would have preferred that it didn't happen. I think, uh, just generally we shouldn't be relying on these other entities to decentralize the Ethereum beacon chain.
00:02:03.298 - 00:02:46.992, Speaker A: We should definitely view all these entities as rather hostile, to be honest, all these governments and nation states as, as hostile. And, and you know, work to defend against them, work to defend against not just centralization, but other kind of security risks that fall into that. Now, I did speak yesterday a bit about Ethereum staking, and this is pretty much one of the only things I'm going to be speaking about to it today. So I wanted to, I wanted to speak a bit more about the great reshuffling that I've been talking about for four months now and kind of an analogy that I came up with today. So you can imagine the ETH stake, right, the current set of the ETH staking kind of distribution, or the ETH stake distribution on the network. We all know what it, what it kind of like looks like by now. I showed it yesterday, but just for a refresher, I'll bring up the rated.net
00:02:46.992 - 00:03:35.286, Speaker A: work website here. So you can see here that the top staking providers are Lido, Coinbase, Binance, kraken, rocker pool, and I mean, they're their providers. And then bitcoin, Swez. And then after that there's a lot of other smaller ones. Now, these top providers obviously have a lot of ETH staked and obviously are pretty vulnerable to ETH going to other services, whether it gets withdrawn from Lido next month and goes to like, even if it goes to one of the other kind of centralized services here, maybe it goes to Rockerpool, maybe it goes to solar staking or one of these other smaller services. And they're definitely all vulnerable to this now because of the deposit and withdrawal queue, or I guess in this case the withdrawal queue. The great reshuffling is more like the Titanic trying to turn around than it is a small sailboat trying to turn around.
00:03:35.286 - 00:04:20.328, Speaker A: Right? And what I mean by that is that the Ethereum staking ecosystem is so big and there are so many validators, and it takes so long to get through the withdrawal queue and then to get back into the deposit queue. It takes months to do that at this point. And obviously it's not always going to be like that. But in terms of seeing that reshuffling play out, that's why I keep saying it's taking months and years. It really is like turning a huge ship around like the Titanic, or an even bigger ship than it is a small little sailboat. Right? And I just thought that was an apt analogy for how big of an ecosystem eats taking is, and how hard it is to actually move it. Now, that's not to say that it can't move rather quickly when it wants to, as we've seen with Kraken well, when it wants to, it doesn't want to.
00:04:20.328 - 00:04:44.959, Speaker A: But as we've seen with Kraken, they've lost a 2.8% of the, the market share here, or 2.7%, whatever it was, of the market share, because they were forced to. Now this has only taken, what, two weeks so far for that to go down. But the thing is, that's two weeks to exit now to get back in. It's like almost three weeks, right, for these stakers to get back in. So a total round trip of five weeks here.
00:04:44.959 - 00:05:40.102, Speaker A: So that is a long ass time, right? Whereas if only, like one person, if the execute was, was empty and one person wanted to enter an exit, it would only take like a couple of days to do that, right? Or maybe I don't know the exact numbers off the top of my head, but it might take, you know, two to three days or something like that, rather than five weeks. So you can see the, the order of magnitude difference here depending on those queues. And that's why if we're talking about a great reshuffling, we're not just talking about like, you know, a small reshuffling where, where maybe like a hundred people decide, oh, I'm going to change my validators over from, uh, coinbase to solo staking or something like that. We're talking about tens of thousands of validators being, are swapped around here, which is obviously an order of magnitude higher, couple orders of magnitude higher than, than 100 people. 100 validators, I should say, actually. So, yeah, I just thought that was an apt analogy that you might want to use when explaining these things to people. And another thing I also wanted to just clarify as well.
00:05:40.102 - 00:06:35.168, Speaker A: I've seen a lot of people, not in the ethereum ecosystem, but like outside of it, fighting the deposit and withdrawal queue, saying that it's like artificial, which is just bizarre to me because pretty much like all the other layer ones that are proof of stake also have this kind of like withdrawal. Q I mean, it's not really a queue, it's a, it's a withdrawal period. They call it like an unbonding period where it depends on the chain, but it can vary from like three days to two weeks. It just depends on how the chain set up and how it works on that chain. And essentially what that means is that if you've bonded, or I guess like delegated your stake, because all of these other systems are delegated proof of stake systems. If you've delegated your stake to a validator and you want to basically undelegate or unbond, it can take quite a while, right? So basically once you do that, your funds aren't available until that unbonding period is done. So as I said, it can stretch up to two weeks here.
00:06:35.168 - 00:07:27.804, Speaker A: Where Ethereum differs is that the withdrawal queue is not kind of like an unbonding thing, it's actual validators being withdrawn here. And that queue can actually get quite large depending on how many validators want to withdraw at a time. But it is a completely different system to delegated proof of stake. But the, I just found it funny that people were kind of saying that, oh, look at Ethereum trying to keep people staked by limiting how many people could exit. We all know that's not for security reasons, but it's also ironic because every other layer one or proof of stake layer one that I know of, whether they're deposit or otherwise, has an unbonding period or has some kind of like waiting period from when you want to unstake. They don't have a waiting period, I think, for staking, but that's only because as I said, they delegated proof of stake systems where it's actually, to me it's not real staking. When you delegate your, your stake, you're basically, there's no new validators being spun up or anything like that.
00:07:27.804 - 00:08:16.140, Speaker A: You're basically just delegating your tokens to an existing validator. That's why there's no entry queue there and you can start earning rewards immediately. Obviously with Ethereum proof of stake, you have to spin up a new validator every time. Like so every time a validator goes through the, the deposit cure, 32 eight goes to the deposit queue that's spinning up a new new validator here. Even if, and the funny thing is you, there's like a pseudo delegated portion of a theorem proof of stake right now where essentially if you go and stake with like an LSD, for example, if you buy st ETH or reef or whatever, you get instant access to, to the rewards. But that's because the validators already exist in the chain and then the more is added over time, depending on the mechanism. See how with rocker pool, more mini pools are spun up when there's more demand for our ETH? Obviously if I wreath is trading at a premium, then there is an arbitrage opportunity there.
00:08:16.140 - 00:08:59.160, Speaker A: So people can spin out mini pools and make basically free ETH essentially from that. I did that a few times with spinning up my mini pools. So there are different mechanisms there. But I just felt that was a point worth clarifying, because I've seen a fair few people talking about that since Chappella went live especially. All right, an interesting tweet thread here from Danoferan, who has been involved with Ethereum core development for quite a while now. So this thread is about how kind of eips get included in the different upgrades on Ethereum and this concept of drivers and passengers when it comes to eips. So Dano starts off the thread by saying Thursday is the big all core devs call where we do one of the rituals that helps us define the future of Ethereum.
00:08:59.160 - 00:09:28.348, Speaker A: Starting to pick what ERP is, go into the next fork. It's always been a messy process, but I think we've organically found a process that works and he's calling this process drivers and passengers. So essentially in every network upgrade there is a driver eIp. And what that means is that there's like a really popular big eip. That's kind of the headline of the upgrade. Dannery gives some examples here. With London it was ERP 1559, with Paris it was the merge, and with Shanghai or Chappelle it was withdrawals.
00:09:28.348 - 00:10:17.206, Speaker A: Right? And with Cancun it looks set. It looks to be Erp 48 44 as the driver. But those, there's not only one eip that goes through with most upgrades, there are multiple ones. There's obviously one headline, one a lot of the time, but there are other eips that come along with it a lot of the time. And those things are passengers here. So essentially what Dano is saying here is that the, the driver will, sorry, the passengers are not essential to the driver, but the driver generally goes into the fork and the passengers can either come along for the ride or get dropped, and they can get dropped all the way up to even like a month or so or two before it goes live on, on mainnet for one reason or another. And then Dano says, you know, so what does this mean for Cancun, which is the next Ethereum upgrade? My perspective is we get 4844 squared away and get a reasonable schedule, then we can consider passengers.
00:10:17.206 - 00:10:52.996, Speaker A: Once the passengers list is set, then no new passengers can get on. The passengers can always disembark. That's an important point as well. Uh, it's as we get closer and closer to the main net date of Cancun, it'll be harder and harder and then impossible for new eips to get included in that upgrade. But ERp, these, these passengers, I should say, can always disembark and always get off the ride here. Usually the case that the headline EIp won't get off the ride, uh, in this case it'll be 48 44, uh, because it's the driver, right? All the passengers can get off. The driver can just drive the bus around with no passengers on it, but the, but the driver is still there.
00:10:52.996 - 00:11:21.884, Speaker A: And then Dano says, I think the standby list of percent potential passengers is larger than the capacity that 48 44 work will leave in Cancun. So some really good ideas will be slipping into 2024. So all, a lot of the eips that you're seeing floating around for possible inclusion in Cancun, you know, some of them, if not powerful, most of them may not make it in. It just depends on the kind of work that gets done. It depends if they're able to get these things included in time. But definitely 4844 will be included. That is the headline.
00:11:21.884 - 00:11:59.994, Speaker A: That is the thing driving the Cancun upgrade. And then other things may get pushed to the next upgrades which will go live in 2024. But anyway, you can check out Dano's thread for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Speaking of upgrades coming to Ethereum in the future, Terrence shared that he had the pleasure of presenting the Ethereum foundation robust presenting to the Ethereum foundation robust incentive group on EPBS design spaces. From the client implementers perspective, he focused on areas like Attesta, duties for choice rules, gossip networks and more. And there's a hackmd document here for you to check out.
00:11:59.994 - 00:13:02.468, Speaker A: That's, that's quite, quite brief. Basically it includes just a bunch of questions and things that Taren spoke to as well as links to PBS reading generally, right? You can single slot PBS using a testers as distributed availability Oracle, which is a rather, I mean, not old post, but it was a post from January 2022 from Vitalik and then two slot proposed a builder separation from October of 2021. So if you are interested in reading some of the earlier thinking around PBS and kind of how it's evolved since then, definitely check out both of these articles which are linked in this hackmd document, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But you can also read through the things that Terrence has written down here and get a feel for that. Now, I don't know if he shared his presentation, maybe there'll be a video of it, or maybe there won't be, but there's still some really interesting resources in here for you to check out if you haven't yet. All right, so yesterday I spoke about the new eatstaker staking kind of knowledge base that was put together by a bunch of community members. And I highlighted it on the, on the refill yesterday.
00:13:02.468 - 00:13:22.616, Speaker A: But ETH staker also announced today that they have a brand new website as well. So it's at ethstaker CC. It looks very fancy, very flashy here. You can actually donate it to them. Do they get coin grant round right now? If you would like to. It pops up in the bottom right here. Um, it's got links to everything that you would need to pretty much get started with staking, ask questions about staking.
00:13:22.616 - 00:13:53.196, Speaker A: As usual. I highly recommend joining the Discord channel for eats taker, which I believe will be linked down the bottom. Yep. And following them on Twitter, they are the best and kind of like, I guess, quintessential community when it comes to Ethereum staking. I have never had someone go into that Discord channel that I've kind of, kind of tried to help with staking and come out with their question unanswered. So if you're interested in any doing any staking at all, it doesn't matter if it's solo staking or rocker pool or whatever else. If you're just interested in learning about staking, then eats taker is definitely the place to be.
00:13:53.196 - 00:14:29.986, Speaker A: So you can go check out the website Eatsteka CC, and you can join their Discord channel as well, and. Which is on the website down the bottom in the footer. All right, so Mahalo here from a polygon, has shared that Franklin Templeton, which is a $1.4 trillion traditional finance giant, expands its money market fund on Polygon. So they will be joining the likes of Hamilton Lane and a number of other institutional players that already leverage polygons technology here. Now, I believe this is the polygon Pos chain for now. I'm sure that there are plans to eventually kind of use the polygon ZKVM when that becomes more mature.
00:14:29.986 - 00:15:00.942, Speaker A: And you can see here that the details were shared in this coindesk article. Just another, I guess, sign that the tradfi market or the institutional market is still got a big, big appetite for crypto. I think that if you look outside of the crypto ecosystem right now, the world at large doesn't really like us too much. But I don't think that that really applies to these traditional finance players. I think for them, it's like, okay, well, we know something's here with crypto. We know there's a lot of money here. You know, the crypto total market cap is what? So it's a trillion dollars right now or something like that.
00:15:00.942 - 00:15:40.158, Speaker A: I don't even look at it very often, but it's over. It's over a trillion dollars, like $1.2 trillion right now. So they know there's a lot of money involved here. They know that, um, crypto has traditionally kind of gone through these bull and bear cycles. And they know that there is no reason right now to think that crypto won't continue to grow, won't go through another bull market or anything like that. So for them, it's a question of, okay, do we miss that train? Do we kind of miss the innovation year? Do we, uh, bleed market share to these other solutions? Or do we get involved ourselves and basically embrace this new technology? And that's what I think a lot of these traditional institutional, big tradfi players are trying to do now, of course, they move very slowly, very carefully.
00:15:40.158 - 00:16:03.358, Speaker A: The analogy of the titanic and the sailboat probably works here. A defi protocol is a sailboat. A traditional finance giant like Franklin Templeton here is the Titanic. They're not going to move fast. They're going to be very slow, very methodically. They're going to play it very safely. But over time, that'll compound and you'll start seeing a lot more stuff happening from not just them, but other tradfi institutional players.
00:16:03.358 - 00:16:51.934, Speaker A: And I've always said that I don't think Defi is here to disrupt all of tradfi. I think what, what Defi is going to do is it's going to provide much better rails than what is available to the tradfi players today. Like, when I say Tradfi, I'm talking about the companies and the players within that system. The actual rails themselves are really old, outdated, broken, and need to be updated to the modern day. And I think that's exactly what the defy rails do on Ethereum, on L2s and the trat fire plays are definitely going to be interested in stuff like that, especially the auditability side of it, being able to see transactions as they happen end to end, which is not something that a lot of tradfi players around the world get full visibility over. There's usually a lot of band aid solutions in place. Usually a lot of it is abstracted away and very opaque.
00:16:51.934 - 00:17:49.318, Speaker A: There are long settlement times. So for them, this technology stands the chance of basically improving their systems by like 100 x. Like, I've gone through the example, through the examples before, but the difference between like an international wire transfer and a international I mean, it's not even, it doesn't make sense to call it an international thing, but the difference between an international wire transfer and an on chain Ethereum transaction of just USD, you know, USDC and USD, is literally night and day difference. Like, it is not even worth comparing the two because with a traditional international wire wire transfer, you have basically no visibility over, over that. You basically, and this is a meme, you basically say to the money, Jesus, take the wheel. That's a meme that basically says you're just hoping to God that it's going to get to where you want it to go, right? Because you don't have much visibility there and it takes a lot longer, right. It can take two to three days and even longer, depending where you're sending the money to.
00:17:49.318 - 00:18:42.724, Speaker A: And you don't have auditability yourself. The bank may have some auditability over it, but even they don't have full audit ability and traceability. Whereas with an Ethereum transaction with USDC, you have full audit ability at all times, no matter where you are in the world. And the transaction can confirm if you pay the right fee, which most of the time you will do, thanks to 1559. Confirm within one Ethereum block, which is 12 seconds at most. Right. So you're going from two to three days with basically hardly any auditability or traceability and hoping that the money gets to where it's, where it's going, um, to basically both parties on either end of the transaction, being able to have full audit ability over the transaction, being able to see that it actually was confirmed on chain, and being able to confirm it, uh, trustlessly and being able to do that at many orders of magnitude faster than they would have in the tradfi system.
00:18:42.724 - 00:19:24.804, Speaker A: And I think that alone is such a step up for these systems that even though these players are slow moving, this is going to be something that is going to be very, very appealing to them once they understand the broad implications and once it gets more adoption. Because at the end of the day, it's all well and good for this stuff to be much better, but it needs the adoption of these different entities. Like you need all these banks to use Ethereum as a settlement layer rather than the swift system, for example, for it to actually work. Because at the end of the day, two banks sending money to each other is cool, but it's not going to service the tens of thousands of other banks around the world. So they all need to sign up to this, they all need to integrate with it, and it's not even hard to do that. Right. It's actually very easy because you don't need anyone's permission.
00:19:24.804 - 00:19:41.300, Speaker A: You can just get started straight away and you can just go to one of these other centralized exchange players that already have all the experience and just work with them. Go work with Coinbase. Right. Go work with Kraken. Go work with Circle. You can do that. And you can get started relatively quickly because it's already live and running there for you.
00:19:41.300 - 00:20:07.534, Speaker A: I just. I don't know, whenever I talk about this stuff, it just seems so obvious to me. And as I said before, the. The reason why it's going to take a while for this to be adopted and, and used within the real world or the tradfi world, I guess I should say, is because TR is a titanic, not a sailboat. We, us as individuals are sailboats. You know, we can do things nimbly very quickly. It doesn't really matter, but these big financial institutions are going to take time, but they'll get there eventually.
00:20:07.534 - 00:20:34.378, Speaker A: I strongly believe that. All right, another update from Polygon, which has more to do with the polygon technology itself. So Mahalo shared this and said, polygon has come a long way. It is now one of the industry's leading projects. This introduces the need to redefine how it is governed. Here is an invite to the community to engage in this important conversation and shape a new governance model. And then Mahalo says, the post defines three governance pillars, explains the status quo and how we can think about them moving forward.
00:20:34.378 - 00:21:18.176, Speaker A: And the three pillars are protocol, governance system, smart contracts, governance and public good funding. And there is a post here that you can read. It's not too long and at least the contributors that are helping here, but it is really, really great to see this. I think that there has been an open question among the community for quite a while about how polygon is going to be governed, not just their POS chain, but the ZKVM, and specifically the ZKVM really, because I think that's definitely the, you know, where they want to end up. So that's definitely more important to, to have a decentralized governance process around that. And there is already a token, right, with Matic, so that can play a part in this as well. And there are already a lot of people using the Polygon network and lot of holders of Matic that could get involved with governance.
00:21:18.176 - 00:22:08.146, Speaker A: So it's probably a really great time to be discussing this now, if you have, I guess, like, um, thoughts and you want to kind of read through it and reply, you can, it's, it's linked, y'all. I sorry, we linked in the YouTube description below and you can go check all that out. There's also a framework that was, that was recently introduced called the PiP framework, which is similar to the, you know, AIP process. And this is on GitHub for you to check out. So yeah, this can basically become your new bible for Polygon governance generally. And something that I think a lot of people maybe may be interested in because I've seen people saying before, you know, what's the use of the manic token? Right? What, you know, is it just like a fee token or is it actually going to be used in governance? Is it going to be used for staking on the ZKVM, stuff like that? Well, this is the processes that are happening in the background to make that all a reality. And you guys know, I'm an advisor to Polygon.
00:22:08.146 - 00:22:49.594, Speaker A: I should just disclose that there. I normally don't get involved in discussions around kind of like Matic as a token itself, like its price and, and what drives value to Matic or any of that sort of stuff there. But generally when I look at tokens, I obviously look at governance as a value driver. I don't think it's like a huge value driver, but when you do governance, right, it can actually change the token to have other value drivers to it. So for example, Matic token is a fee token on the PoS chain, but an, a staking token on there. But it can become a staking token on the ZKVM chain. It can do governance, it can, it can do revenue sharing and fee sharing and things like that, right? So there are things that can be done here.
00:22:49.594 - 00:23:38.670, Speaker A: But yeah, if you want to have a say in that, you can all link this in the YouTube description below for you to go check out. All right, so a project called Alt Layer has announced it is the first roll up as a service provider to support arbitram orbit orbit. Users can now soon spin up any l three applications tethered to the arbitrum chain in mins via in minutes via their no code tool. Scalability will be a problem of the past. So this is really cool. You guys may have forgotten about arbitrum orbit, but it's basically Arbitrum's solution to roll ups as a service or essentially kind of like a layer three service that sits on top of, of arbitrum one and I believe possibly arbitram Nova as well. While this project alt layer allows people to spin up a roll up essentially on top of this within five minutes with just a few simple clicks.
00:23:38.670 - 00:23:59.326, Speaker A: Very, very cool. Just another project that's building on this kind of like roll up as a service thing that I have been covering for quite a while. There are a lot of other teams doing this. There's sovereign, there's stacker network alt layer. Obviously there's a bunch of others out there. I'm forgetting the names of all of them. But yeah, this is going to be a big thing going forward.
00:23:59.326 - 00:24:33.900, Speaker A: I mean, obviously optimism has their op stack as well. I think this is going to be a huge theme going forward for the space, for the l two space. As I've said before, I think there's going to be a lot of these things launched and not a lot of them are going to succeed. But that's generally what happens with a new technology, right? You have like a cambrian explosion of all these different things. We have all these experiments running in parallel, and then you have a few big winners. At the end of the day, you're never going to get those big winners unless you have a lot of experiments playing out. So I'm just very happy to see that something like alt layer and stack a network and op stack and sovereignty, I'm very happy to see that these things exist because they're going to push the space forward.
00:24:33.900 - 00:25:03.458, Speaker A: They're going to push innovation forward. And this l three narrative is actually heating up now, which I think you guys should probably get more accustomed with. I have said before that I, I never really liked the terminology because it's, it's very easy to fud the l three terminology because people can be like l three s. I thought l two s were the solution, but at the end of the day, that doesn't really matter. What matters is what can get built and what's providing value to users in a secure and safe way. And I think l three is building on top of l two s, which settle down to ethereum. L1 are fine.
00:25:03.458 - 00:25:35.940, Speaker A: I think they're secure. From what I've seen, there is no kind of, there is no kind of major red flags or negatives with them or anything like that. So yeah, I'm happy to see more of these things go live. Just wish that we had better terminology than we do. Anyway, you can go check this out, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And last up here, we have another l three related announcement from lens protocol. So they've introduced something called bonsai, which is an optimistic l three scaling solution that will process transactions at hyperscale and is designed to support the next generation of web3 social users.
00:25:35.940 - 00:26:21.344, Speaker A: So this was confusing to me today. I tried to find some answers on this. I'm not fully across this generally right now, but basically from what I can tell, this isn't really a real kind of like l three solution because I believe it is on like the polygon pos chain. It's not on the Polygon ZkVM and it's kind of storing its data off chain. It's. It's a weird kind of construction. And I believe DC builder actually called this out and said, you know, what tech stack will this use? L three on what? And then this person, David here from Polygon Labs EkVM said, are we for data availability and proof of stake for execution? And then DC builder says, you know, what do you mean proof of stake for execution? That's not an execution environment.
00:26:21.344 - 00:26:49.268, Speaker A: Author also an l three is a chain that settles on a roll up, an l two. Data availability can be elsewhere, but preferably on the l two in order to call it an l three. Josh, who I believe is building this, said, we call it an optimistic l three because we are using bits of both l three and l two s. And then DC builder says, but this is not an l three whatsoever. It's really bad. Naming. The polygon pos is a commit chain and you need to have data availability on an actual roll up in order to call it an l three.
00:26:49.268 - 00:27:23.730, Speaker A: It's ignoring all the terminology the rest of the scalability users uses, which I hate to be not going to lie. And then Josh said, you know, we're really not hung up or attached to the official name. It's beta and our first step at scaling we care more about the solution. We are happy to take feedback of official naming and adopt it as keep and keep building it. Appreciate the feedback. I'm kind of lukewarm on this discussion generally, and I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. I think that terminology is pretty important, and I know that it's not always the case that everyone is across what each piece of piece of terminology means.
00:27:23.730 - 00:28:06.584, Speaker A: And there is a lot of confusing terminology at times. And this is another reason why I hated that we started using the l three terminology. But I think that generally we shouldn't be. I mean, I don't think what DC builder did, he was wrong. He was asking the right questions. But I don't think we generally should be kind of like putting down or kind of like hurling insults at people for building things, especially if they're taking feedback on board like, like Josh here has, and engaging in an honest discussion. I think you can make fun of people and you can kind of call them out if they're not being honest about it, if they're not being positive about it, if, for example, they're saying, you know, what you're saying is wrong, I'm right, when in reality that you know that you're actually wrong, I think that's when it gets to a point where you're like, okay, well, I'm going to call out this bullshit.
00:28:06.584 - 00:28:47.910, Speaker A: Right? But yeah, I saw all that. I just wanted to point it out because as I said, it's not really an l three scaling solution. As DC builder says, an l three scaling solution would settle onto a roll up an l two and then preferably settle down to, to an l one with all its data, either a theorem l one or another one here. So yeah, I think that the naming is going to change around here, but other than that, it's cool to see that lens protocol is trying to build on more scalable solutions here and not just obviously on the polygon pos chain trying to branch out. So pardon the pun. So I'm happy to see that. But I will revisit this when I think it's more clear exactly what it is and what it's trying to be.
00:28:47.910 - 00:29:04.774, Speaker A: But great to see that they've taken the feedback on board, it seems, and they're going to evolve this as time goes on. But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
