00:00:00.560 - 00:02:12.384, Speaker A: Or the afternoon. Has everyone been able to navigate the exercises that Mister Lau has suggested? Don't forget that you can choose your own exercises or including things that just have come up in class. For instance, the k one k zero of a field is isomorphic to z implies k zero of a field, let's call it plus the, the image of the semi group, the economical semi group that's used to define k zero, okay? It's isomorphic to z plus z plus, okay, okay. And the point of this is that another example of two basic statements, some two basic linear algebra statements that are, that are equivalent. So non trivial statements that are trivially equivalent. And so this of course implies this. This is just enveloping group of that.
00:02:12.384 - 00:03:10.034, Speaker A: If you have the group, you're not quite sure what the semi group is that it comes from. Might be the whole group. This is a good exercise. And from this it follows immediately from the definition that the number of elements in the basis, for instance, for a finitely generated vector space is always the same, same for any basis. This would be a good exercise. And let me repeat a hint that I may have given this semigroup by a trivial linear algebra theorem. You know that every vector space is a direct sum of copies of the field.
00:03:10.034 - 00:04:33.314, Speaker A: That's the same as saying there is a basis without knowing how many elements there are in it. And so, but that means the semigroup is just generated, its finite sums of the single copy of the field. Okay, so it's, the semigroup is singly generated. It's a semigroup generated by a single number, single element, okay, single element. And that can be used, that can be used to show that if the group that it generates is z, then, and this is what it must be. Okay? And, okay, so that's an example of an exercise that you could choose which is not on Mister Laos list. Something that was on his list is something that's fairly tricky, in fact, that now it's all about spectrum or about invertibility.
00:04:33.314 - 00:05:11.884, Speaker A: If you have a, suppose you have two unital algebras, two unital rings, you just have to say algebra. We'll say siesta. Algebra is the rest of the question about the sister algebra case. The trivial statement is that two algebras are isomorphic. And then this map preserves spectrum, preserves invertible elements. That's the same thing. So if you have an element which is invertible in one ring, then its image under the isomorphism will be invertible in the other ring.
00:05:11.884 - 00:06:29.724, Speaker A: Of course, since you can go both directions, that the arrow goes in both directions. For the isomorphism, it's ethnomia. But if you're talking about a map between sea star algebras, in the particular question that came up from that mister low recommended from the book, the two algebras are not arbitrary unital rings, unital algebra. But the algebra map is not an isomorphism, okay? It's assumed to be injective. It's a seaster algebra homomorphism. It preserves the star operation, additional scale modifications and multiplication of two elements, but it's not assumed to be surjective, assumed to be injective and not surjective. And the question was to show that it preserves the spectrum.
00:06:29.724 - 00:07:23.654, Speaker A: And so in other words, an element. If this map from a into b, then an element of map is phi. The element a little a of a is, is invertible. The little a is invertible if only a five of a is invertible inside b. And of course five little a belongs to five big a, okay? And phi of big a is not necessarily equal to b. So we're assuming it's, um, it's an injective map. Okay, so what's the notation for an injective map? Well, let's just say inject.
00:07:23.654 - 00:08:06.304, Speaker A: Okay, well, if it were surjective, then we finished. But not only is it not surjective, we don't even know that the image is closed. We don't know that the image is a sub sea star. We don't know the image is a sea star. Algebra wouldn't be complete, it wouldn't be a sister algebra if it were a siesta algebra. Well, there's a, there's a theorem about sea star algebras. If you have a is the sub c star algebra of B.
00:08:06.304 - 00:08:52.594, Speaker A: Okay, so it's the inclusion map. Inclusion map is the preserves the star operation. It preserves the, well, of course, preserves the norm. It's a sub algorithm, but it's closed. Closed. It's a sub feature algorithm that means that the code, the star is abundant. All right, so, but then, okay, so if it is true, if it is a substitute for algebra, then a belongs to, if a belongs to big a, little a belongs to big a.
00:08:52.594 - 00:10:27.226, Speaker A: Then a is little a is invertible. It's invertible in, in capital a, it's invertible in the algebra a. If and only if it's invertible in the sub, in the big algebra, invertible in the subalgeber a minus one is the commonly used notation for the invertible elements. Instead of invertible elements, which of course is a group. Okay? So if you know this, then you're almost in business, except you don't know it by way it's contained in b, but it, you don't know it's closed. Okay? So what you do is prove that the map is isometric, and then they immediately closed, right? Because it, because, is that clear as an exercise? I mean, I could, I have to work, I have to work up a little energy to say it. Okay, so you, I.
00:10:27.226 - 00:12:00.414, Speaker A: So, and I have a feeling that whenever that happens, that's a, that's a good time to assign, to suggest an exercise. Okay? Of course, I have to be, I have to use my judgment, because I don't want to be suggesting too many wrong statements as secretary. But on the other hand, maybe, okay, well, this is not one, but maybe it doesn't hurt to keep an eye out for picadilles, minor or major or minor or less minor symptoms. Okay, so now let me say what the strategy is to prove that sar, homomorphism, inductive feature algebra homomorphism, is isometric. In one sentence. The clue strategy, effective strategy, is to reduce to the commutative case, okay? Reduce to the case that both a and b are commutative, because then you can apply the Gelfand Nimarch theorem for commutative algebra. It reduces you to just continuous functions on a topological space for a and for b.
00:12:00.414 - 00:13:49.710, Speaker A: Okay, so that's a hint. Okay, so it, so in other words, it's easy in the community using the just working with functions and the fact that, well, if you know that a and b are just continuous functions on two topological spaces, two compact spaces, and the map map from a to b, then it's equivalent to a map from the space for b to the space for a. Okay, continuous map. And just have to prove that if the map forwards is injected, that's always true, whether the map forward is injective or not, then you just prove that the map forwards being injected is the same as the map backwards. Between what are called spectra, the algebra, the spaces we have c, of y, of x. Okay, so you have maps going forwards, unit maps going forward are the same as maps going backwards, which from the y to the x continuous map, and the map going forward is injected if and only if the map going backwards is okay. And a good question might be not pertinent, but the good question might be, what about the map going forward being surjected? Is that equivalent to the map going backwards being injected? And doesn't this look a bit, doesn't this sound a bit like what I was saying about finite dimensional vector spaces.
00:13:49.710 - 00:14:45.054, Speaker A: But if you want to prove that the two statements in linear algebra for finitely generated vector spaces, if the injectivity of a map applies, surjectivity, that's one statement. The other statement is surjectivity implies inductivity. Okay? Those are trivially equivalent. And the trick is you go to the dual linear functional. By the way, these can be expressed as certain linear functional, the green points of the unit ball positive in your phone. But then passing to the dual, it just interchanges inductivity and surductivity. Okay? When it regenerated transformations of a finite dimensional vector space and passing through the adjoint transformation, which just means the natural map in the opposite direction.
00:14:45.054 - 00:16:01.152, Speaker A: Okay, so that's, that's how, that's how you deal with the, that's the outline of what you should do to prove that. Why is isometric? Because once you know it's isometric yourself between elements, then you know, use the sister algebra identity. And here you just reduce to sulfur joint elements too, because one of the exercises that x is invertible, if only x star, x and x star are invertible. One of the suggested exercises, and it's important, it's important to look at itself a joint element. Look at itself a joint element. Then if a is self adjoint, then there's always a sequence, an converging to a. And a n is invertible, okay? Whether a is invertible or not.
00:16:01.152 - 00:17:00.808, Speaker A: An is invertible because you just add a complex number. You add an imaginary number, small imaginary number. If h a is self adjoint, then a plus t times I is invertible, okay? Arbitrary non zero t. Okay, so let's assume that a is an element of little a. Sorry? Little a is an element of large a, some algebra. And assume it's invertible in b. So assume that a belongs to b.
00:17:00.808 - 00:18:16.682, Speaker A: Inverse a is an invertible and b, okay, but then, but then it's still true that a n converges to a, right. An converges to a in capital a, and it's just the subalgeber of b. So by the way, now this is advantic algebra theorem. If I, if I have the an converging to a and the an are convertible in the subalge. Could be just talking about Banach algebra. Algebra case is reduced to the Banach algebra setting using self adjointment. Okay, so if a n converges to a in balance, well, in b you have a inverse, okay, so in the Banach algebra in the seat where they say cst algebra, if you want, if you have a bunch of, or just look at operators, you have a bunch of operators or elements of the Banach algebra converging to the elements of the Banach algebra.
00:18:16.682 - 00:18:56.914, Speaker A: And if everything inside is invertible, the elements of the sequence are invertible, as they are here, because they're invertible in the subalgo. And if the limit is invertible as it is by something in the large algorithm, then the inverse is converge to the inverse. That's just like, that's calculus, okay? A bunch of functions, you can prove a bunch of functions converge to a convertible function, nonzero values on the integral zero one. Then the inverse will be one over the function, will converge to one over the function. That's. You have to prove it. Okay, it's not quite trivial, but you have to prove it's true in calculus.
00:18:56.914 - 00:19:31.354, Speaker A: It's true here. A lot of terms and calculus are terms in battle calculus. So, for instance, the definition of the exponential. Okay, that's not pertinent exactly here, but the power series converges in any manic algorithm using completeness. Okay, the same, and the same arithmetic is in real number. All right, so. So a n to minus one converges a to the minus one, but a to the a, n to the minus one belongs to a, and a is closed.
00:19:31.354 - 00:19:46.404, Speaker A: So b a inverse falls to a. That's the go. Okay, got a question. Are you chi cam? Yeah. Okay. Okay, well, right, I can see that. Yeah, but I just.
00:19:46.404 - 00:20:00.264, Speaker A: I could see that immediately. I couldn't quite see you immediately. I wasn't sure. Okay, but. All right, but no, but of course, yeah. And what is the question? Suppose we have a digital sea algebra. Can we always find.
00:20:00.264 - 00:20:56.164, Speaker A: Well, it doesn't contain the unit of the whole algebra unit, because in the finite dimensional case, every finite dimensional sequel algebra has a unit, not necessarily the unit of the larger algebra. Okay, but you take the zero subalgo. Well, that's a good question, but remember, you should pinch yourself before you think you can't answer a question to make sure you're awake. Well, no, no, I have to do that all the time. I mean, it took me a long time to remember that. You do this by reducing to the commutative case, okay, which just makes it easy. It's just following your nose, putting 1ft in front of the other.
00:20:56.164 - 00:22:08.154, Speaker A: Okay, so let me run through people's names, try to do it fairly quickly. I was supposed to measure people's participation somehow and asking questions even questions where the guy forgot to pinch himself. But that's okay because it gets things started. Okay. And so answering questions and then coming after class to ask a question that I didn't ask during the class although I welcome, I would like to welcome questions coming up during the class too. And then. Well, everyone aware of the tutorial that Mister Lal is running on Friday afternoon from three to four.
00:22:08.154 - 00:23:00.154, Speaker A: So it's in a certain room upstairs just on the math board. 66180, the big seminar room, the small seminar. Okay, so and also that's, that's participation. And by the way, you could, you could do it. I forwarded an email about the. Of study groups, right, so you could form a. Well, everyone has a study group of one, but you can have one of two or three and even do it under the ages of the university.
00:23:00.154 - 00:23:33.734, Speaker A: I guess they got tired of complaining about people doing homework together. Okay, but. So Abigail Arsenal. Thank you. Alexander bowling. Thank you. Thank you Jack Ceroni.
00:23:33.734 - 00:25:03.918, Speaker A: He was asking me after class about the exercise I just talked about so I especially, I wanted to direct my comments to him but does anyone know him? Doctor? Okay, why not let him know to try to commute his case? Do the case first and then see if he can reduce that basically. So let me just inspect names of your Charlie and you came around last time, but I forgot, I don't know if I asked. Okay, we just corresponded recently so I got your name on the list now. I mean if I put it in myself, but I didn't, I didn't yesterday, it wasn't on purpose, but we'll see what happens. Oh good, good. I really, what I like to see is people who have struggled to get in the court. That's almost as bad as a comment.
00:25:03.918 - 00:26:08.264, Speaker A: When I was a postdoc at UBC and there was a guy who would organize hikes and of course a lot of the year the hike in UBc hike in British Columbia means snow walking in and out, getting snow. So. But anyway, at the very beginning of the walk down below, one of the participants faculty member had new boots. So they were obviously new boots. So the tour guide, the one who was the faculty member who was taking senior faculty, moderately senior faculty member who was taking, he said in a kind of nasty way, that's what I like to see, someone with new booth. Okay. Yuja Cheng.
00:26:08.264 - 00:26:49.864, Speaker A: Thank you. Thank you Siddharth dagger. Thank you Daniel Dima. Daniel Freddo, did you put up your hand? Oh, okay, sorry it's I wasn't quite awake and it's a bit dark once I start complaining about something, I can't stop. So maybe I better not start. Okay. Justin Foos thank you.
00:26:49.864 - 00:27:56.444, Speaker A: Send back Jeremy Salisbury send me gorge. Thank you. Henry who please forgive me for more minor, well, I hope minor. Piccadillas Alexander Cool Dao Xiang Lin thank you. Yifei lu it's already sort of rewarding that someone puts up their hand when I put, when I mispronounced the name. Okay. But I couldn't go.
00:27:56.444 - 00:30:17.584, Speaker A: Luke Mccutche abu bakr rohito mano mulaisho ruben navasarja Jonathan Rishi praka how are you? On she h yuo so, amy, everyone, are you even okay? Yeah. All right, well, I didn't need to ask. Thank you. How? Dong Wei chicken Wong. All right, well, today I went, I was talking about wind work on the PhD pieces of resistance products of matrix, including finite tensor products, including just ordinary matrix algebra. Remember, finite product, finite tensor product. The matrix algebra is another matrix algebra where you just multiply the order m two tensor m two is m what? M two tensor m two.
00:30:17.584 - 00:31:08.422, Speaker A: If it's a single matrix algebra, which one is it? Okay, I guess I say things too fast. What I said was, if it's the order. So if you say m m n, then n is sometimes called the order or the size. Okay, so you take two by two matrices and two by two matrices, then what do you get? You take the tensor form. Well, what's the linear dimension? What's the linear dimension? Pardon? Well, yes, of two by two matrices, the linear dimension is four. Okay, and you take the tensor product of two vector spaces. I guess the vector.
00:31:08.422 - 00:32:10.054, Speaker A: What happens to the dimension if you take two finite dimensional vector spaces and take the tensor product. Sorry, I can't hear you. Sorry. If you take vector spaces and take the direct sum, they, you add the dimensions, right? But if you take the tensor product, then what do you do? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, but then that means if you look at the, now remember that the mn is not the dimension, n is not the dimension of the algebra considered as a linear space, right? It's just the order of the matrices. It's the, it's n by n matrices. And sometimes you write n by n with a, with a multiplication sign in the middle, right? So that, and that, I don't know if that's purpose, but if you're calculating the linear dimension of n by n matrices, then you just multiply the n and the n, and if it's n by m n by n matrices, you just multiply the n and the m.
00:32:10.054 - 00:32:45.374, Speaker A: And that gives you the linear dimension. Well, and so the, and you take the tensor product. If the dimensions get multiplied, then the square root of the dimension also gets modified. Right, so m, two tensor m, two would be. If it's m, something, if it's m, sub n, what's n? The linear dimension is two squared. Okay? Two squared times two squared is 16. Well, take the square roots two times two.
00:32:45.374 - 00:33:15.904, Speaker A: Two times two is four. Right? Okay, so, but this is an exercise. I mean, this is not a proof that tends to two by two matrices, tensor two by two matrices. This is not a proof that it's isomorphic to m to m. Four, four by four matrices, right? That's an exercise. You have to prove it somehow. But that's, that's quite fundamental for studying UHF outputs, the infinite tensor bar.
00:33:15.904 - 00:34:12.802, Speaker A: Okay, so that's, that's maybe the, um, that's maybe how you. That's maybe the sort of foundation for studying film's work. The idea that if you. And so what that means in particular, if you look at matrix algebra, I don't know what someone would do who's less heavy than I am, though. I guess they would be doing chin ups. Right, okay, so if you look at mn and. Well, that means looking at n in particular.
00:34:12.802 - 00:35:21.376, Speaker A: Right? All right, well, n, if an n is a natural number, say, not equal to zero, then it's equal to two to some power. Let's say the exponent is e, sub two, and then it's times three times to the three and five e, sub five, and then some finite, some finite product of prime powers, right? And furthermore, that's a unique expression. You have to work a bit to get its. It's not too hard to prove that the decomposition exists if you know that the prime numbers are the same as numbers that can't be factorized in a proper way, but to get that, it's unique. Okay, well, that's. I don't know whether you should say yes. Well, it's number theory, right? I mean, it's a.
00:35:21.376 - 00:36:01.292, Speaker A: You don't have to quote a theorem. It is a theorem, right? You quoting a more general term. All right, but the integers form a unique factorization domain. Is that what you're going to say? Yeah, but that's just, that's in the philosophical use of the term. I think that's just begging the question. Coming back to the, coming back to the beginning, my lexicon, begging a question. Begging the question doesn't mean asking, inviting the question.
00:36:01.292 - 00:36:44.074, Speaker A: It means somehow trivializing the situation. Well, okay, so, but it's a unique factorization in terms of primes, a well known prime number. Okay, but then how does that. That means that mn is equal to m two to the e two, three to the e three, five to the e five, so on finite product. But that's a trivial statement. That's just carrying over the factorization of the number. But if we were going to.
00:36:44.074 - 00:37:41.644, Speaker A: Charissa, how would you interpret that in terms of the tensor product matrix? And I hope you've had time to bone up on your arithmetic. I'm sorry. Okay, so what is the answer? Yeah, so. So it's isomorphic. If we agree that. If we agree that m of n one, n two is isomorphic to mn one, hence, or mn two, for any natural numbers n one and n two, then it would be m to the two to the e two tensor, m to the three to the e three tensor, so on. Okay, and you could even.
00:37:41.644 - 00:38:53.024, Speaker A: We could even split up the prime numbers, too. We could just say it's m two tensor m two certain number of times, e two times, and then tensor three a certain number of times, and so on. Okay, so. So just. Just as every natural number is uniquely a product of prime numbers with repetition, that's also true for the matrix algebra system. Every finite matrix algebra, some order, is a tensor product isomorphic to the tensor product of a fine finite number of matrices of prime order. Matrix algebra, prime order.
00:38:53.024 - 00:39:34.154, Speaker A: And furthermore, this factorization is unique up to order. You have to be a little careful because multiplication of numbers is actually commutative. That multiplication potential product of algebra is not quite some. It's not quite commutative. Commutative. Up to isomorphism. But that's not right? Yes, that's.
00:39:34.154 - 00:40:07.424, Speaker A: Isn't that supposed to be e two of the twos and e three of the three? Yeah, well, okay, but I didn't. I don't know what e three is exactly, so I couldn't write them all down. I just wrote the first one. I should have written the last one, too, maybe. But there's a finite number, finite number of m two s. There's an e two, m two and e three, m three, and so on. Just put them all down in a row.
00:40:07.424 - 00:41:06.524, Speaker A: You said that's e three, not e two. That's. I was getting a little sloppy in my handwriting. Okay, well, maybe it's not clear who said who's the phone? Right, okay, so it's like leaving something unsaid. There's a difference between leaving something completely unsaid and saying it in a careless way, which is worse it depends on the situation. All right, so, but then, now the next thing is to do the case where n is infinite. Okay, what do I mean by that? This is what grim this in the terminology.
00:41:06.524 - 00:41:57.564, Speaker A: In a formulation explored by Dixmee, Dixmey wrote a paper which was one of the things forming my whole career, if you like. It was that 19 seven paper, 1967 paper. It was in volume one of the journal of Functional Analysis. I was supposed to be studying functional analysis, and I was a graduate student then. That was my first year as a PhD student here. All right, so it still resonates inside my head. I hope I can recreate the same phenomenon.
00:41:57.564 - 00:42:32.784, Speaker A: Okay, so. Well, Dix may formulated a meaning to n being infinite in this context. He called it the generalized integer. Okay, you have natural numbers or integers, and then you have dictionary generalized integers and what they were. It was a formal definition. It was to mean it was. It didn't, didn't.
00:42:32.784 - 00:43:28.444, Speaker A: Actually, he took a whole lot of prime powers, two to the e two, and even allowed e two to be infinite. And so basically just, it's a sequence of exponents, three to the e three. You're basically just looking at the sequence of exponents and each one can be equal to zero, one, two, and so on up to plus infinity. But, but you're not trying to really, you're not physically trying to take prime number two to the power zero? Well, you can take it to the finite power, that's well known. Taking it to the infinite power. That's, um, that's just a way of speaking. Okay? Meaning it's a look at the exponents.
00:43:28.444 - 00:43:45.504, Speaker A: And um. So that's, uh. So a subtract. So a general Dixma is generalized integers. You wrote them as n is to the e two to three, to the e three, five to the e five, and so on. Infinite product. The dots in between them, if you want.
00:43:45.504 - 00:44:40.374, Speaker A: Then you have to keep the single dots separate from the sequences of three dots. Okay, but a topology guy who was visiting Copenhagen for a while, kind of a smart alec there wasn't before the EU, it was just a. But he went to visit Germany and didn't take his passport. He didn't bother taking his passport, he just took his danish insurance. But he was such a smooth talker, he didn't get into any trouble. And this is Larry Smith, very helpful operator. Alcibiade, well, his wife, similar interest.
00:44:40.374 - 00:45:35.844, Speaker A: Miso Weissman. So, his suggestion was to call these. Well, we have the ordinary natural numbers, and these are the supernatural numbers. Okay? And they exist perfectly well. They're just infinite sequences of not zeros and ones, but zeros and ones, and all the way up to allowing infinity plus the infinite number, if you call it l zero. And so the, if you allow the finite ones, too, then arbitrary sequences are allowed. Okay, but if there were sequences of zeros and ones, we know there's an actual topology, right? What's the topology of Ellen? Or Ellen, how do you pronounce your name? I was thinking it was just Alan for a while.
00:45:35.844 - 00:46:54.006, Speaker A: Okay, good. Well, so what's the natural topology on sequences of zero to one? Okay, well, it's a cartesian product of two point spaces, right? So any cartesian product of topological spaces, there's what's called a product of hollow. It's a little more well known if it's a finite cartesian product, but it's infinite cartesian product, doesn't make any difference. And furthermore, if it's compact spaces, then the Cartesian product is compact. And if the individual spaces are totally disconnected, that means the basis of open close sets, then the Cartesian product is totally disconnected, right? And in certain cases, if its infinite sequences of zeros and ones, well, if it's any finite. If it's any. Okay, but if it's a completely discrete space, then it's sort of clear that the infinite product doesn't have any isolated points.
00:46:54.006 - 00:47:46.736, Speaker A: Okay, so it's the counter set. It's not just more than one point to start with, but it's a good exercise that you get the same topological space. Remember, the counter set is unique with certain properties as a compact metric space. We just have to prove that the infinite achieving part of, of copies. Thank you. Infinite Cartesian product of copies of this space, of this space is a contraceptive. So that means we have these algebras, and the algebra m sub n, the n sub n sub n is just the infinite tensorflow, naturally traumatized by the cancer cell.
00:47:46.736 - 00:48:07.424, Speaker A: Okay, and in fact, I'm going to turn that into what's called a continuous field of procedurality. But that'll have to be another day, I guess. There are people coming in now, but outside in the hall, we can talk.
