00:00:00.090 - 00:00:46.780, Speaker A: Ordering within the block. So if someone were to pay the bribes to the block builders to include their bundles in the transaction or put their transaction at the top of the block, so they were to have a high. Suspicious of doing mev related activity. So Eggonfar has conducted an extensive study on those was paying extra tip to the block builders. And among those transactions, the most well known mev tabs are arbitrage in Atomic transaction and Sandwich. Attacks and also the liquidation. We have labeled and provided data on those Mev tabs through our product.
00:00:46.780 - 00:01:46.560, Speaker A: So here is a typical arbitrage transaction will look like. So it will involve the swapping between at least two trading venues. And you need to have the price difference between the trading venues and also the bot will generate a profit after a circle bike of the Arbitrage and Sandwich attacks. The feature is also very clear. So the tiger will targeting on the victim's swiping pool and then conduct a front running before the victim's transaction and then do a back running after the victim transaction to generate the profits. Here is what a liquidation transaction will look like. So the liquidator repays the borrower's debt assets and in return get the borrower's collateral assets in a better price.
00:01:46.560 - 00:02:32.560, Speaker A: So here's the three mev types that we have been identified. And now let's see the recent trends in the mev. Market after the merge. So there have been a few significant events that has happened since the merge. Like, the two notable events are the FTX crash in November and also the USDC deep hiking in March and the Mev. Activities become more frequently during the market fluctuation and also with the appearance of the generated Subway sandwich bots. Since April, the mev activities has been pushed up to a new level.
00:02:32.560 - 00:03:17.850, Speaker A: Here is the monthly revenue showing that those mev bots has been generated, things merge. So, as you can see, during the FTX crash and USDC deepaking, they were generating much more revenue than other months. And also the Jared plays a crucial role in contributing, in making. Up, like, in April and in May, the revenue just much more than other months. So it's obvious, like, from the data, those mev searchers definitely drained a lot of money from the market. But let's be clear. The searchers are not the only ones that involved in the Mev supply chain.
00:03:17.850 - 00:04:11.026, Speaker A: So searchers needs to split their profit to the block builder to bribe the block builders to include their bundles in the transaction. And guess what? The block builders also need to pay the bribe to the validators to get their proposed block being accepted. So it's a whole chain of the bribing going on there. And here is how the mev value has been allocated in the supply Chain. We Have Investigated On The Data For The Last Month. So The Data Is From The June 11 To The July 11 this Year. And It Can Be Seen That The Searcher Has Been Extracted almost $20 Million Revenue From Angchen Transaction.
00:04:11.026 - 00:05:02.390, Speaker A: And It Is Just Based On The Minimum Amount because We're Only Considering Just The Arbitrage And Sandwich And Liquidation. But among those revenues, the searcher can only keep nearly like $5 million of the profit in their pocket. And the rest of the meva rewards will flow to the builders and validators. And also, the builders can only keep, like, $1.5 million. And then the validators are the ones that kept the most Emmy rewards for around $16 million. Here I have clarified with different colors on the transfers in black and purple color, where it depends on whether there is a direct transfer at the end of the block from the builder to the validator.
00:05:02.390 - 00:06:25.746, Speaker A: And according to flashboard's definition, the behavior of the transfer from the block builder to the validator is considered as typical Amelia booster behavior. So it is worth noting that there is $7 million of the revenue from the searcher flow to the supply chain. But it is by the way that those builders and validators role is not separated. So it raised a concern of the current situation of the PBS. And also just one thing that should be noticed that is wide data as opposed to generate the profit from the regular transactions. But currently the mev rewards has accounted for almost half of their income. So here is the data and also the mev value allocation that we want to share ignvi is on chain data platform that we kept monitoring the liquidity data and especially on mev but there's a question that we kept asking ourselves is data enough? Because we think the mev market is a quite dark forest here and that is because Ethereum transactions is lack of the transparency.
00:06:25.746 - 00:07:57.462, Speaker A: So like for the ordinary users, they could suffer all kinds of losses due to swapping for a malicious token or falling to the victim of sandwich attacks and also for the Blockchains researchers and also the data analyst. They may also be very curious about what's the most recent trend for the Mev bot and also for the MV bot themselves. They could be suffered the tax only targeted on them. That's where we think the transaction analysis becomes very crucial in ending more transparency to the ecosystem. But how to do a transaction analysis? So here is a situation if you got a transaction hash, what would you do? I think most of them will put it into ether scan and search for the transaction to see whether it has been executed successfully or not. But if you want to get more information about this transaction so the information you may get from Ether scan is like the from to address validity transaction and the ERC 20 transfers, all the gas fee information, the internal transfers or the event logs. But however, decoding this kind of information requires advanced knowledge on the blockchain and it is hard to understand.
00:07:57.462 - 00:09:01.420, Speaker A: Also to decoding the information is still time consuming. We believe everyone can understand blockchain transaction. So if we can get a transaction analysis tool with a feature like it provide intuitive token flow also like the address label service, the transaction behavior label, the address group, also the measure of the transaction distance and also the strategy identification. So this is where Egantx could provide a help. So I'm going to share some cases I'm doing when I'm trying to analyze unchained transactions using again TX. Here is an interesting case when I analyze a sandwich bot, you may wonder what some recent strategies has been employed by this sandwich bot. So for example, this is a typical sandwich attack will look like the bot will hold the assets to initiate attack.
00:09:01.420 - 00:10:01.520, Speaker A: But in certain cases, the sandwich bots needs to input a large amount of volume to initiate the attack. But what if the bot doesn't have that much asset in their account? What will they do? So, here is a clever sandwich bot that comes into play. So it uses the feature of a flash swap from uniswap. It first borrows out large amount of USDT and then use it to attack on the target pool of doodoo. And then it repays uniswap by swapping out the required asset of USDC and then repay to the uniswap. So this bot doesn't need to hold, that like 1 million USDT in the count, but they could initialize this attack. So it leverages position to conduct the firm running.
00:10:01.520 - 00:10:47.660, Speaker A: Here's another case that I want to share is a targeted attack. We find just targeted only on the arbitrage bots. So as you know, the competition among those mev bots is very very intense. In order to outperform their peers, they need to optimize their gas usage. That means they would skip the steps of the security checks sometimes to save the gas. But in this way they become the target of the specific attack. So here is TX showing how this is happening.
00:10:47.660 - 00:11:23.986, Speaker A: First, this attacker is sending a baiting signal into the ManPool. And this aperture bot just found a signal and then execute a back running. But this signal contains malicious tokens. This token called yoink. So here is the transaction for this arbitrage bots. Looks like the arbitrage circle went very smoothly. Say it's like start with 00:58 WH and bike with zero eight WH so it got a surplus.
00:11:23.986 - 00:12:22.006, Speaker A: But you can see there is malicious transfer. It is like an abnormal transfer from this contract to the leaf address of 4.2 WETH. And what is surprisingly is this leaf address doesn't belong to this mev bot or even the block builder's address. And we further conduct some analysis and find that sleep address belongs to the group who send the Betty signal to initiate the tag. Here is another scenario where someone experienced a loss due to exchange for a tax token. So you'll notice that this rectangular label here, someone was trying to swap the Wbmb token in the Pancake swap pool and trying to buy some CEO token.
00:12:22.006 - 00:13:42.050, Speaker A: But instead of getting expected amount of the token, there is a proportion of the amount going flowing to a leaf address from the cake pool and this is what we call a tax token. Now this kind of scenario would be easier to identify when you search in Escan or BSA scan with our Chrome attention. So simply load the token flow chart and you will see the initiate token flow happening within this transaction. So be sure to check if there is any abnormal transfer happening within your transaction so you can avoid loss without even knowing about it. Due to the time constraints, I could only share the three use cases that I find when I'm doing the analysis of onchain transaction. But here if you're interested in more like new mev strategies or complex trading strategies or even some more on chain attacks, I would invite you to scan the QR code here. This is a booklet that we have just written with a collection of all the interesting and fascinating transactions that we have been identified.
00:13:42.050 - 00:14:47.500, Speaker A: So hope you will find anything that matches your interest and also expand your knowledge on blockchain. So happy reading. Okay, and one last thing is Eganfire has recently launched our block builder service. So if anyone is interested, please contact with us. Okay? Thank you for listening my presentation, Sam.
