00:00:00.170 - 00:00:53.546, Speaker A: Welcome to hack FS or hack file system. Today we had 650 hackers from 61 different countries and 18 time zones for this event. And we're going to be judging based off of this format, with four minutes of demo, three minutes for questions and feedback with the judges, and a ten minute break in between. And the criteria for judging is based on technicality, originality, practicality, UI design, and of course, the wow factor. Just mind you that this is not a competition, and we are here to learn, here to explore what's possible. We're not aiming to become businesses, and hackers are here to get feedback from the judges in those three minutes. And I'd like to introduce our judges.
00:00:53.546 - 00:01:21.130, Speaker A: We have Jeff and Sophia. Thank you very much for your time. And we could go ahead and get started if the first team is ready. Please share your screen. I'm sorry, is this Ethostep is the first one? Yes. Okay, sure. I'll share my screen.
00:01:21.130 - 00:01:44.480, Speaker A: Can you see my screen? Yes, we can see it. Great. So. Yeah. Ethostep. Ethostep is a Madras gesture torques for planet and people repair and empowerment. Preface I'm no expert, just a curious mystic for alternative modes of communication.
00:01:44.480 - 00:02:43.112, Speaker A: And most of the visuals you see in the demo are made from code pen artists. I was very inspired by Juan Bennett said about crafting spells at near zero costs with software, and I like to think about it as alchemy bringing new light into hackathons and software development. The great new creation abundance. It tends to lean on various dynamics we might look at in the contents of the Trinity, symbol of karma to drive human progress between human, earth, machine, and spirit, and dating back to group like rituals. The software approaches these abstractions in a mechanistic way to gather, connect, and grow altogether, realizing traditional morality and coining a new term ritual reality. We can take a page out of the locomotive as thinking about a collective signification, as a type of machine or movement, but it can be done periodically in gateways forms and curing pods. The goal is to make accessible, distributed participation for one to one planet health.
00:02:43.112 - 00:03:48.140, Speaker A: And the use of these Madras hand gestures as a communication tool makes it accessible for all those to participate and feed data flow to reimburse by organizations, output it to something like the Eden Project, where a collective groove can make and feed data from the right sources. So cognitioner data, simple gestures, stream payment, reimbursed to plant trees in and across the world, and syndications are representing certain trackers in the certain cultures. And again, I'm no expert, just a curious mystic. The use cases encompass possibly two or three different areas. One would be community, the elderly, or other rituals. In community, you might be seeing BCIs being performed in, let's say, unison, across specific culturally open public festivals or trees, whereby the future uses of this data gets produced and presented in type of fiance, etching. And artist representations in the elderly, the gestures or exercises for the elderly of the paraplegic sometimes as physical activity, can be difficult.
00:03:48.140 - 00:04:34.460, Speaker A: So the movement of hands in Hastas or other symbolic gestures might yield productive and connected hearts and minds. And then finally, other ritualistic movements, whether it's data, scientific redemption, or other curing pods. In longevity research, the ideal computing stack has data with different types of shapes. So I tried to incorporate different types of technology stacks here in the project. But for the time being, this is the ideal stack. And the implementation is quite minimal at this point. Ideally, I'd like to be able to have a Minting model where group computer vision entities are sold as a group, kind of like a totem, and that becomes a sort of mechanistic model for the economic ways that things are generated.
00:04:34.460 - 00:05:41.680, Speaker A: The architecture might look like you would have a group with a single host, and that host would stream payments to those that are participating in and amongst the group. And I'd like to get to the point where there's a data metric where the flow coming from a BCI headset coming to the point in where trees get planted. Considering the Fluence API as the main source of technological innovation here, it's a type of in between computing OS between the typical tree structures that we see that can be woven together across the new tree formations that we might see from Earth and people. And this external input can be also mapped from external, let's say, frequency sources in a type of sound bath and whatnot. And the ideal architecture would be that these Minting moments or collective totems would be minted to a Gnosis safedow, and the data would be stored on textile. And now work in progress demo. Sorry, the thing up here is just a little bite.
00:05:41.680 - 00:06:44.080, Speaker A: So I like to think about the gears as sort of like this mechanistic new clock that we're formating and we're winding the time on longevity and human and planet repair. And so people would gather and connect across these different type of gestures where they would perform them together in a type of ritualistic activity, also representing a type of hand to mind connectivity. So here I'm performing a transaction here to stream payments, and the computation would be performed in the Fluence API and the data set, or at least the computation would be performed also within the Fluence API in terms of how much data is flowing through the Fluence API to the IPFS. And you'd have a counter with the trees being planted. And that's the end. Be happy to open with questions. Thank you so much.
00:06:44.080 - 00:07:09.560, Speaker A: So now your three minutes for judges, feedback and questions begins right now. Wow. That is super cool. So in the demo, as was stated, our next presentation comes from Alan. He needs no introduction, but I'll give him one anyway. He's a software engineer working with protocol labs currently working to make the distributed web more accessible to developers. Where that came from.
00:07:09.560 - 00:08:09.512, Speaker A: Sorry. No worries. Yeah, I was just going to say that's really cool. How so what you're doing is you're performing these hand gestures and that connects to your MetaMask in a way. Hand gestures would ideally be picked up by computer vision and the MetaMask would be streamed payments coming from the host to the people that would be gathering. And so the person that would be the host would stream those payments. Let's say if there was a donation, or let's say there was a post Mint coming from the collective generation of the group photo or the group, let's say collective video, how does the group gets connected? Is it also through, like, a computer vision where you unlock the connection with them through performance of some ritualistic movements? Yeah, ideally it would be, let's say, picked up with computer vision AI.
00:08:09.512 - 00:09:04.444, Speaker A: But for the time being, doing it in a simple way would be using a BCI headset where the stream data is sort of like collected over the frequencies and you can possibly map that to some type of T Snee visualization of showing the visualizations of each frequencies together. Would that be very unique to each user and therefore it's very secure and unchangeable in terms of the signature of each frequency. It's pretty delicate with how you might think about it being unique, but you might see it as finding group similarities. And I'd like to see it where different people with the same type of frequency would be mapped to the same type of gathers. Those people would have the same type of essence or totems in their NFT Minting modems. Gotcha. Very cool.
00:09:04.444 - 00:09:58.748, Speaker A: Jeff, over to you. Yeah, thanks. I mean, just like fascinating. This is such a unique the. Actually, I want to ask you so I think Sophia covered a lot of the other aspects I was interested in. But on the technical side, what were some of the challenges that you ran into and what is sort of the next step? So, for example, what I'm thinking is, how do you connect to tree planting? Is there sort of some off chain or is that a very human connection at the end? Yeah, it would be pretty off chain as long as there's stream payments coming from the host to the gatherers. Ideally, I'd like to use something like Aave as a type of delegated credit, where the person as the host, let's say, would have a donation or let's say funds allocated from a longevity research institution, and the interest would then get streamed down to the sort of trickle down effect.
00:09:58.748 - 00:10:22.628, Speaker A: And then there's an organization called the Eden Project where I could send crypto or I can send a donation to them and then they would plant trees. So there's sort of like this, I guess, middle ground, where there has to be a little bit of man in the middle there. But eventually this organization is able to plant trees based on a ten cent model. Great. Thank you. Really appreciate it. Yes.
00:10:22.628 - 00:10:52.674, Speaker A: Hope you enjoyed. Thank you so much. Team Ethos set for your presentation. We'll now be moving on to Team SPECT. If a representative from your team is ready to share your screen, please steel. Hey guys. We respect in this hackathon.
00:10:52.674 - 00:11:37.718, Speaker A: We built a reputation based deal making protocol that makes it easy for contributors to contribute to Web Three projects and the projects to find contributors. Our team saw a problem with the way work is currently done in Web Three. Currently, the most common way for people to contribute to Web Three projects and Dows is through grants. They're a good way to build out an ecosystem on top of an existing project. But most grant applications currently are submitted by people who have already been involved with the project's community for some time and have a good understanding about the project. Web Three projects therefore don't readily have access to a large global brands work well for larger projects and contributions. However, it is somewhat hard for smaller bitesized work to get done in an early stage project without the same amount of capital or community, especially when they are trying to build their core product.
00:11:37.718 - 00:12:10.190, Speaker A: For newcomers looking to contribute, the plethora of Web Three projects to pick from can be overwhelming. Contributors also need to spend upfront time without an income to get an understanding of the project's ecosystem before they can meaningfully contribute. Spec makes it possible for contributors to start contributing meaningful work to Web Three projects and earning an income the day they set up a MetaMask wallet. Spec also makes it possible for projects to complete bite sized work by hiring the best person for the job from a global talent pool. Now, Aditya Permar is going to do a demo of our platform. Hi.
00:12:10.260 - 00:12:33.382, Speaker B: So I'll be giving the demo for a project. This is the first page we see when we open our app. So for the sake of the demo, I'm going to assume the role of a contributor and apply for this logo design job. So over here we can see the job description, assets, and most importantly, these parameters. So first is the price range creator is willing to pay in dollars. Next is the lock stake, which is the amount of dollars I need to stake for this work. This is to ensure that I complete the job within the set time.
00:12:33.382 - 00:12:51.354, Speaker B: Next is the completion days. The number of days I need to complete the job by. Next is acceptance days, the number of days the creator needs to review and accept the job, the number of revision decide, and finally, how much percentage of fees the creator is willing to lock in the escrow. So before I submit the proposal, I'll go to my profile page and I'll.
00:12:51.402 - 00:12:54.670, Speaker A: Add some spec to my stake.
00:12:58.790 - 00:13:23.210, Speaker B: So yeah, my stake has been updated. Now I'll go back to the project and I'll submit a proposal. All these values are prefilled and I'll submit proposal has been submitted. Now let's see what the creator sees. So on the creator page, we can go to the proposals and see that okay, he has received a proposal for his project. So I'll go to this proposal. I will verify all this.
00:13:23.210 - 00:13:58.238, Speaker B: It looks good, so I can accept it. So, yeah, the proposal has been accepted, but it needs to be confirmed from the contributor side. So I'll go to the contributor, go to the proposals tab and see that my proposal was accepted. I will just confirm again all these parameters are right and confirm and start to sign the transaction. So, yeah, the project has been started. Now I can see I have one day left to complete this project. So I'll go to the project page, go to the submissions and submit a logo.
00:13:58.238 - 00:14:20.140, Speaker B: And I will submit the logo has been submitted from my site. So I'll go to the creator side, go to the projects tab. I will see that this has gone to awaiting acceptance. One day left to accept. I'll go to the project, go to the submissions yeah. So I can download this and verify it. I'll just complete it now.
00:14:20.140 - 00:14:32.400, Speaker B: So, yeah, the project has been successfully completed. Now we can see on the contributor side and go to the profile and see that the balance has been updated. Thank you.
00:14:33.650 - 00:15:10.054, Speaker A: In summary, spec makes it very easy for people to find meaningful work to do in a Web Three world. It also lowers the barrier to entry in Web Three projects by providing a way to make steady income. It empowers Web Three projects by creating a large talent pool of contributors with diverse skill sets. It also strives to build tools and protocols that make it possible for larger teams of freelancer and projects to collaborate with each other in a trustless way in a highly customizable fashion. Thank you. We'll now be moving on to the three minute judge feedback and Q A. Do you want to go first? Sure, I'll go first.
00:15:10.054 - 00:15:56.774, Speaker A: This thanks. Thanks. Sovia, yeah, super slick UI was my first thinking. It seemed to work really well and I was taking a look at your live demo also, I guess two questions. The first is where are the files stored? And then second is one of the issues, I think, with these sorts of platforms is always like, how are disputes handled? Especially in sort of like a Web three or decentralized way. Like the work that was uploaded was no good or it didn't match what my expectations were. So if you can just comment on those two things, I'm curious to know how you're actually handling the storage of files, especially when there could be private data involved.
00:15:56.774 - 00:16:42.634, Speaker A: Like, I don't want the world to see my logo yet. And then also how disputes are handled. Yeah, those are really good questions. So currently the files are stored on Web Three storage, and that is currently publicly stored. And we are assuming because the nature of Web Three is a lot of it is open source. Right now we are assuming that a lot of it would like, people would be okay with open source storage, but also we are looking into stuff like end to end encryption and all that. And in terms of dispute, yeah, that's a great question because that's something that we're trying to figure out.
00:16:42.634 - 00:17:43.502, Speaker A: So right now the main point of dispute is deadlines. So let's say if someone doesn't complete a project and submit it in time, that is actually being stored on chain, like the deadline for it, and that can be triggered by the other party who can actually call that deadline violation. And because we have staked collateral, so we actually incentivize that. But in terms of the quality of the work, again, because it's qualitative, it's hard to figure out, but there are things like arrogant courts and other jury mechanisms. So something often a jury consisting of experts for their specific subject matter is something we want to look at in the future, but we're yet to figure out the qualitative sort of disputes. Got it. Yeah, but great job.
00:17:43.502 - 00:18:00.574, Speaker A: Looks really good. Sophia, over to you. Yeah. Slick. UX UI like, really nice. Curious, how did you identify this problem? Did you run into yes. Yeah, we actually ran into it ourselves.
00:18:00.574 - 00:19:01.142, Speaker A: We were actually taking part in another hackathon and we had a hard time and at that time, we were actually trying to build out a whole project and we had a hard time finding someone who could help us with design and like logo design. And it was me and Aditya Permar, and we actually were both developers and we weren't even able to make a very good video because of that. So at that time, we realized that many small teams, because we see the future in a way that there'll be more of smaller project teams that are targeting very specific problems. And these small teams have trouble finding specific expertise in roles. So that's something we face. So that's why we actually went ahead and built something like this for people like us. Sort of, yeah, there's definitely a need for this.
00:19:01.142 - 00:19:24.798, Speaker A: A lot of our portfolio companies within our fund have trouble accessing good talents, good engineers, but at the same time, they just don't want to go out and hire full time engineers without going through a testing and getting to know each other process to understand your capabilities. So this is super useful. Thank you very much for putting this together. Thank you. Thank you for your questions. Thank you so much. Spec.
00:19:24.798 - 00:20:01.352, Speaker A: We'll now be moving on to Team Five token. So you're ready? Please share your screen. Share my screen now. Sorry, wait a minute. Who have deeply divided into blockchain industry for you. Hello everyone. This is Veiwon from Five Token a brief introduction about our products and showcase what we have developed within the two weeks.
00:20:01.352 - 00:20:51.092, Speaker A: Five Token team is formed from a group of people who have deeply divided into blockchain industry for years. And Five Token targets to create a bridge tool to implement the whole ID information including payment, identity and regulation system. And now I'll show you the development status about our ID information storage within two weeks. Let me introduce the identity framework of Five Token to you. First, Five Token can transform it into web two method of almost DF into web three method. Five Token provides users with an independent data repository in the web three storage section on the right, user data is divided into public info and private info or info support crosschain authorization. Any DF can read the data according to the protocol provided everything will be completely defined by the users.
00:20:51.092 - 00:21:38.596, Speaker A: In conclusion, we target to be the primary to let users own and use their identity information by themselves. So here is a GitHub demo link about API and interface to let you know the whole picture of the ID centralized storage and management. You can briefly read the introduction of our products here. And we need to mention that we also support multiple blockchains into binance, smart chain, ethereum DEFINITY and so on. And the APIs we show you is about how to management the public user information, but about private part it's still under the development. So for the first one, the DF link request. For the DF link request, it supports Five token apps to link between the apps and web three storage.
00:21:38.596 - 00:22:22.010, Speaker A: And it can get user information in the whole uploading process on web three storage. And for the second one, it's our DAP link on message. The API is about listen to function to get user information smoothly. And the whole process is we guarantee under users authority. And to let you get a whole picture of the API call, we design a Five token ID information storage demo here. So first connect the wallet and on the extension page you can see that we create Five Token wallet account. It's about Five token dress and also the Ethereum address.
00:22:22.010 - 00:22:50.320, Speaker A: And you click connect here. And now you just upload the information on the website. So to define the ID account you can upload a series of different information. First the provide picture. This is the mascot of five token named Pichu. We name it as PSHO. Here we have import a simple definition mascot of Five Token.
00:22:50.320 - 00:23:38.640, Speaker A: And when you click modify your ID information, the data just being saved on the network and it will ask you whether you'd like to have the authority to help us access your information. And you can click Confirm here and all the information just being uploaded successfully. And if you refresh the website or you just logged out all the data is being saved on the background. And so you just need to click, get your ID information and give the authority and access to your account again and confirm. So all things you'll be importing, the website pages will show again. It is the whole thing about our demo. So thanks for listening.
00:23:38.640 - 00:24:50.370, Speaker A: Yeah, that's all about I think we might have lost. Faye, can you hear us? Faye? Oh, no. That was a very cool demo. Yeah. Well, since this is recorded, I hope when Faye reviews the recording, she'll see our hero comments. I guess my question, I don't know if you're able to answer right now is why did you choose Filecoin to start out of all the other ecosystem out there? I think that would be my first question. And then, Jeff, did you have any follow up questions? Yeah, mine again, we're sort of on the comment leading into the question is there is a real challenge around any of these ecosystems, including Filecoin, around Usability, on sort of the infrastructure side? And I think that Five Token seems to be aiming to solve that.
00:24:50.370 - 00:25:49.234, Speaker A: And I just wanted to dive in a little bit more as to kind of the next steps on that. And then what are the next things? That kind of roadmap they could be done. And then also, how do they come up with this in abstentia? Faye, maybe we'll get you back a little bit and we can have a further chat if there's time. Yeah, but thank you for tackling the reliable ID management problem because definitely that's a need to be solved. And one of the decks that came across our desk includes something like this, but not in the way that you've tackled the problem. The other way of tackling the problem would be kind of like having your own name tied to an address and then we use that. For example, my name is Sofia Zoud at whatever the URL, and then I can just use that URL to more conveniently sign in into different platforms.
00:25:49.234 - 00:26:08.680, Speaker A: So thank you for creating this really cool idea. Yeah, thank you. Thank you, Faye and team, great job. Thank you. Five token. We'll now be moving on to Team Easy Web Three. Please share your screen when you are ready.
00:26:08.680 - 00:26:36.990, Speaker A: Hey, yeah, I'm going to share my screen. Can you guys see my screen? Yes, thank you. We can see. Okay, I'm going to play the video. Create simple web three application. The project is Code Easy at Webster, which is a website builder for non coder to create simple web three application. As Cripple get popular, more and more people want to get into Webster ecosystem.
00:26:36.990 - 00:27:32.454, Speaker A: However, most people do know how to code, even though people with coding experience still hard to learn the website development ecosystem and to develop actual website enabled application. Therefore, we block a lot of people out of the website ecosystem. With Easy, website, people can simply use jack and job website enabled component to create a web three enabled site, I'm going to do a quick demo to see how easy website works. First create a navigator. I'm going to name it Easy websuite and I'm going to show some web three component I developed. Say we want to listen to some music. We can drag and drop the audience music component here.
00:27:32.454 - 00:28:37.494, Speaker A: It will show list of music in these tracks and you can click this button to listen to the music. And if you want to listen to different checklist you can customize a check URL here. For example if you update the list here it will automatically update the component list. You can also put some NFT you want to show off. For example we can track and drop some zora component here. Nice dodgy and we can choose Zack ID here. You can also live stream videos so live here and you can set the playback ID here website behind a paywall.
00:28:37.494 - 00:29:59.660, Speaker A: So unlock for example you want only people who buy the unlock membership to view the live stream. So you can add unlock content class here and add another unlocked class favorite crypto price to your website. You can customize here by providing covering key and the ticker. Click on this button here and you can type in your website title demo and you can put a web three storage token here and click deploy and after a while it will show up the decoy side link here, click on it, it will link you to the website you just created. You will see the live stream. Live peer stream video is not showing up here. If you click unlock button and up by the membership it will show up here.
00:29:59.660 - 00:30:38.694, Speaker A: Yes, that's a demo video. Thank you. We'll now be moving on to the three minute judge feedback and Q and A. Amazing. That had a pretty big wow factor for me. I mean great use of grapes JS and the website builder. I think a simple solution to this would have been just doing one component but you added like unlock zora bitcoin price the live.
00:30:38.694 - 00:31:31.960, Speaker A: So very cool. Great job, great job with that. And also the deployment to IPFS sort of like end to end front end building for web three. What do you think it would take to productionize this? Where do you see the gaps with what you've got now to sort of like where you want to go with this? Yeah, I think definitely one thing is to integrate more components and also I think there are some small bugs like for the rows or components. Currently I need to manually refresh the page if I want to change the zero ID. We need to manually refresh the page in order to reflect the new change. I'm still trying to figure out why it happened.
00:31:31.960 - 00:32:26.426, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's mainly issue and also maybe currently it still requires some for example when user want to hide if they want to hide the content behind the unlock. They need to update the class for the specific component you want to hide. So maybe it's not very friendly for user who is not familiar how the CSS class works. Yeah, basically, I think the major issue is still requires some knowledge for user to use this application. So maybe we need to add better guidance for the application to teach people basically to let people know how each component works and to make sure that great. Thank you. Sophie, over to you.
00:32:26.426 - 00:33:42.290, Speaker A: Oh, thank you, Sifong. I mean, yeah, this is definitely a product bill for me because I feel left out for not being able to code anything. So with so many possibilities on what you created, what do you think would be the most easy to use? Or what would be the entry angle? Would it be people who want to use it to build NFT? Would it be people that wants to, I don't know, launch their Ido or IEO or launch their products? What would be the first kind of use case for this? The use case adoption? Yeah, I think maybe use case, for example I think, for example, the integration with the live peer is quite interesting. You are hosting like live streaming. You want to people who pay for this live streaming. You can easily use this tool to basically integrate with live poe unlock so people can pay with unlock and upset, they make the payment, they're able to see the live stream. So I think this is nice.
00:33:42.290 - 00:33:59.894, Speaker A: And also this is totally decentralized based on the IPF, so no one can censorship or block your site away. Cool. Awesome. Thank you so much for sharing this. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you.
00:33:59.894 - 00:34:27.240, Speaker A: Thank you, Dex. Okay, so thank you very much. We'll now be moving on to Team Docs. If you're ready to present, please share your screen. Yeah. Hey, everyone, can you see me? Hey, Connor. Hello.
00:34:27.240 - 00:35:10.570, Speaker A: All right. Hi, Hecfs. I'm excited to show you what I've been working on for the last few weeks. It's a Web three notebook app called Docs. So Docs is a web three notebook linked to your ENS name or Ethereum address, uses IDX, ceramic, IPFS, and Web Three storage to publish your documents on the decentralized web. I was heavily inspired by Notion's Seamless editor and data model and especially interested in exploring the challenges of building a responsive, real time app backed by decentralized storage. It was definitely a challenge.
00:35:10.570 - 00:35:36.734, Speaker A: You can use Docs as a blog, profile, journal, homepage, wiki, test, tracker, and more. The block based editor lets you edit text, upload files and images, and embed content that's all stored on ceramic and IPFS. The documents you create on Docs are linked to your Ethereum address or ENS name using IDX. And of course, all those documents are public. So take care if you docs yourself. Here's how it works. Everything in Docs is a block pages.
00:35:36.734 - 00:36:15.326, Speaker A: Text content blocks are all tile documents written to ceramic streams. That means each block has an immutable version history. Here's an example block representing a page dux uses IDX to link your ENS name or Ethereum address to your documents maintains an IDX index of blocks and pages that are linked to your IDX profile. Profile pages read data from both IDX and ENS text records. Docs itself is a TypeScript and react app hosted on ENS and IPFS. You can access it through a Web Two gateway or directly if your browser supports ENS name resolution at any of the links below. Finally, image and file uploads are all stored on IPFS using Web Three storage.
00:36:15.326 - 00:37:08.078, Speaker A: Here's a demo so you've already seen pages. Text blocks support inline markdown like bold italic and strike through. You can add inline emoji with emoji, shortcodes lists, code blocks and lots of other markdown elements work too. You can embed images which are uploaded directly to IPFS and files like the Etlo paper here. It also supports a number of other rich content blocks like BOOKMARKS, embedded Media, and even embeddable NFTs. To view a published doc, click Copy Link in the upper right to get a public link to your page. Here's an example you can see there's a nice clean reading experience, and the author of the doc is linked in the upper right.
00:37:08.078 - 00:37:42.950, Speaker A: This link will take you to their profile. You can click your address or ENS name in the upper right to view your profile. These read information from your IDX basic profile, and from text records associated with your ENS address. Here's my profile for horsefax ETH. There's a link out here to Etherscan. You can see my display name, the emoji I've chosen, cover image, and some of my social accounts over here. Most important, you can see and view all my docs here on the left, including the docs we've been looking at for this demo.
00:37:42.950 - 00:38:19.954, Speaker A: So go check them out. Afterwards, you can edit your profile, update all this information, and store it on IDX, including this supplementary username information, which is stored in a separate schema. And for users who don't even have any docs but do have records on ENS, you can read their ENS metadata. Here's an example for Santi. I gave him a Blue check because he's verified on Proof of Humanity. That's the demo. Here's what I learned first, working with decentralized storage means getting used to a different set of tradeoffs than working in Web Two.
00:38:19.954 - 00:38:45.820, Speaker A: You get really great guarantees about immutability versioning and verification, but you have to think a lot more about stuff like latency and serializability. That's docs. It's all often available at docs link docs east link. Check out my profile docs link slash Horsefacts. You can see all the docs you've seen in this demo today. Thank you. We'll now be moving on to three minutes of feedback and Q A.
00:38:45.820 - 00:39:40.694, Speaker A: Hey, Connor, thank you so much for sharing that first of all, love your bookshelf. Well, impressive. I guess that ties into you're creating this to store documents, to store images and files. Curious to understand, who do you think your target audience would be? Who will be using your product the most? Yeah, I mean, you probably tell it's super inspired by Notion. And I think sort of the idea of something like Notion, a personal notebook with self sovereign data and self sovereign identity is really interesting. Especially because it gives you that opportunity to take the data that you put into your notion and display it in different ways and different services, sort of different views on owning that data and taking it around the Internet. I was also sort of just inspired by seeing people share their east usernames on Twitter.
00:39:40.694 - 00:40:03.826, Speaker A: Like it's sort of become an identifier for folks. I think having kind of a place to build a community around folks using that username as an Identifier is really interesting. I see these interesting people on Twitter with their east LinkedIn and profile and would love a place where I can go and learn a little bit more about them and connect with them. So I think those are the two groups I'd target with us. Cool, thank you. Over to you, Jeff. Yeah, very cool.
00:40:03.826 - 00:40:33.262, Speaker A: I was just trying to log in and I like the little icon you've got in the lower right, the ceramic and IDX, and then the different colors as it cycle through. And I haven't seen that before. I don't know if that's something you built or from somewhere else, but very cool. Yeah. I'm going to ask one of sort of the kind of immortal questions for this kind of thing. Like, how do you ensure content stays for the right amount of time? Right. Especially when you've got so many different blocks and different protocols you're using.
00:40:33.262 - 00:40:59.638, Speaker A: Sort of like, where is my data? Right? If there's sort of one place to look, it can be easy. I think it's great what you're doing in terms of integrating these different protocols. But then how do you sort of handle that? Make sure that the data is not getting deleted or is getting deleted after when you want it to. Yeah, it's a really interesting problem. I don't think I nailed it in this. Right. It's really difficult.
00:40:59.638 - 00:41:33.238, Speaker A: So the blocks are pinned on ceramic and documents are pinned on web three storage. Right. But yeah, you do have to think a lot more carefully right, about when I delete a block, I need to go sort of recursively delete all the parent blocks, all the child blocks, something like that, unpin that data. I think when I was experimenting with it, at one point I found I had like 13,000 pinned documents that I needed to clean up and delete. So yeah, that can grow if you're not careful. And yeah, it's definitely a challenge, right. And there's this sort of fragmentation that can happen the more complex your data model is right on some of these protocols.
00:41:33.238 - 00:41:50.998, Speaker A: So it's a good question. I don't know if I have a great answer. No, I mean, forward, looking, forward thinking question, but yeah, great job with this. Super slick and yeah, love the user experience, love the technical integration as well. Awesome. Thank you. Thank you very much.
00:41:50.998 - 00:42:12.400, Speaker A: Thank you, team. Thank you. We'll now be moving on to team certificate maker NFT. So if you are ready to share your screen, please do and I'll begin your four minutes when you are ready. All right. Certificate NFT. Okay, I will now share my screen.
00:42:12.400 - 00:43:49.770, Speaker A: I think the video is on mute or something. I can't hear the video. I'm sorry about that, I forgot to hear and I'm a full size developer. I build a DAP where users can create certificate and upload it to IPFS and users can also mint the certificate as NFT. So the problem is that it's difficult and time consuming when you are creating a good certificate, storing it online and sending it to someone else. App that I created solves these problems by allowing the user to create the certificate and unknowing it to IPFS where the certificate cannot be lost and users can choose a certificate template created by the designers and designers can earn cryptos when someone use their design template. Here are the technologies that I use for this step.
00:43:49.770 - 00:44:35.270, Speaker A: It's time for the demo. So here is a list of certificate borders that you can choose from. And if you want to see more certificate borders, you will need to purchase a membership. So you click this button, this will open up the unlock modal and purchase and then connect inbox a wallet. Then click on wallet and then confirm. Now we purchased the membership. And now you can see all the certificate borders that you could choose from.
00:44:35.270 - 00:45:37.400, Speaker A: If you want to upload your own certificate border, you can click on this link and then upload the certificate border. The image is stored on Snakes host where it will store the image on IPFS. Then here is the certificate. Then you can connect to your wallet and then set the price to 0.3 e. So if someone uses your certificate border, you can earn some cryptos and then you click on submit and then confirm. If you want to create a certificate and send to someone else as a NFT, you can send out one of the certificate borders and then enter the following details.
00:45:37.400 - 00:46:46.710, Speaker A: And this one was 72. And then you can click on mint NFTs. And there is the certificate has been generated and minted as an NFT. So here's the link to the certificate in IPFS. And here's the transaction hash on paragon scan. And to see that it was successfully minted as an NFT, I will add more features for customizing certificate. Allow the user to send out multiple certificates and allow the user to share their certificate on social media.
00:46:46.710 - 00:47:03.163, Speaker A: That's it. Thank you for watching. Thank you. I'll be moving on to three minutes of feedback and Q A. Sophie, you want to go first? Oh, sure. I went last time. You okay? I'll I'll first.
00:47:03.163 - 00:47:20.636, Speaker A: Go, go first. Sorry, I lost track. I lost track. Song. Thank you. That was super cool. I love the fact that it was just like working end to end right from you've got the certificate borders that you purchase or generate and then you enter the details.
00:47:20.636 - 00:48:21.590, Speaker A: It generates a PDF, uploads it to IPFS. It's very slick. And I think that sometimes those very straightforward applications are solving kind of one of the key problems with blockchain, which is just usability. So great work there. I guess the question I might have is what's next? What did you learn from this and what do you want to do next with a project like this? What I learned is I learned how to use unlock so basically the user won't need to purchase a membership. I did that because sometimes I don't want that user to see all the designs created by the designers until they pay just to avoid maybe copying. Makes sense.
00:48:21.590 - 00:48:50.300, Speaker A: And what's next is maybe add more features on the certificate generator. I kind of ran out of time. I'll try to add more users know, maybe add more text or add signature. The issue will do signature and then issue to someone else. Makes sense. Great job. Great job.
00:48:50.300 - 00:48:57.968, Speaker A: Sophie, over to you. Yeah, thanks. Jeff. You asked my question. Sorry. Hey, sal. Nice to meet you.
00:48:57.968 - 00:50:03.124, Speaker A: That's interesting angle. Well, can you tell me how did you come to this idea? Why did you wanted to use this certificate template and certificate generation for your project? Okay, well, when I came up with the idea of certificate, it was one of those hackathons. When I saw someone that one of those participants, they asked the hackathon organizer, are there any certificate? And most of the time they say no. Some hackathons they do, but most of them say no. And I was wondering why. Then I was thinking about why do I make it easy for them, the organizer, to send off certificate by creating this application and then the design template? Sometimes not every hacker are good at design, so it'll be nice to have some good design, some beautiful certificate, and then basically make it easier for hackernons to issue certificate to the hackers or the participant. Yeah, well, I totally agree with you.
00:50:03.124 - 00:50:37.276, Speaker A: I think we are living in a society where a lot of times showing branded items or certificates is a signal that you've done something. So yeah, I mean, if there is a certificate for this hackathon, totally share it on social media and just say I put in the work and this is a proof of it. So yeah, that definitely solves a need. Thank you very much for sharing this. I hope the organization adopts it that'll be fun. That will be fun. Great work Song.
00:50:37.276 - 01:02:17.850, Speaker A: Thank you everyone, thank you for the inspiration. So now I'll be moving on to our ten minute break in the timer right now and if the following team team Yoss can raise their hands so they could present right after, that would be wonderful. See you in ten thank you very much. Thanks, see you in ten okay, so ten minutes is up judges if you are ready we could resume when you are give it a few more minutes back. Awesome. Okay, so now we'll be moving on to team NFT aftermarket when you're ready, please share your screen and I'll begin your four minutes hello everyone, this is Mingtha Wen I'm glad to be here to present our second version of SuperZero. SuperZero is a copy NFT copy machine and as long as you own the NFT and you can copy as many as you want.
01:02:17.850 - 01:04:25.480, Speaker A: And this time we not only demo how to make a copy, we present the whole SDK in JavaScript so developer can make their own copy machine and make different application. We also bought into Polygon network testnet and also supports Robston and Rinkabee test name for Ethereum. In order to make the metadata of NFT copy we put the backup to IPFS. And now you can not only copy crypto, Kitty, you can copy any kind of NFT. Theoretically, if you only need to know the API for the metadata you also can use any kind of ERC 20 token to pay for it this time also support token streaming from Superfluid. I don't have any application demo, but I can show you the document. This is the major command you can use to do the copy.
01:04:25.480 - 01:06:36.192, Speaker A: We call it NFT copy and the parameter you can see why you can choose any kind of token for payment and NFT to copy. You only need to have the payment token, contract address and NFT contract, address and NFD ID which one you want to make the copy and how many copy you want make. So that's it. Thank you for listening, thank you so much. So we'll begin the three minute Q A and feedback with the judges hello Ming, how are you? Nice to meet you thank you very much for taking the time and share with us your creations I guess first question would be what inspired you to tackle it from this angle to make NFT copies? Because this is second time I present my super zero because I very think the NFT is just one copy and you can resell the that's why I call it aftermarket. Then you can print as many as you want either because for example if you have a copy of a right or book then you just resell that copyright to the publisher or transfer to others, right? Then you have right to make a copy from it and many many other examples. Then you can replicate NFT, right? And certify that you have right to print and resell the copy.
01:06:36.192 - 01:07:53.836, Speaker A: Like if you have a print a very famous painting, then you can make a painting to your t shirt or a mark. Then you can use my solution. Then this time I'm making SDK, not just an application for demo. SDK can let many people do any application and run on any use case. Yeah, well, when I speak to some of the startups and they definitely feel there's a need for a more usable set of SDK to allow people to continue to build and I think that is a very important feature to have. And then yeah, in terms of NFT, well, that's interesting that you thought about this angle because I think there are some debates about the legal rights and the IP rights attached to these non fungible tokens and that may impede people from copying it, but that is still an area that is still being explored. But that's very interesting.
01:07:53.836 - 01:08:13.584, Speaker A: That your angle. Thank you. Yeah, thank you. Jeff, over to you. Yeah, no thanks. I guess sort of building a little bit on what Sophie is saying. How do you deal with copyright claims more Xerox? And it might not even be like take down my work.
01:08:13.584 - 01:09:03.576, Speaker A: It could be you're copying somebody else's NFT and then you want to basically license it from them so you can make copies of it. Sort of like how you might copy an article, a professor might copy an article for a class and then have to pay some small amount of money to the publisher. Yeah, I think the wording of NFT copy is not really appropriate. Actually. You are on the right of the NFT. You can prove it because you have the NFT token. Then actually my solution is just like you to get people to pay for your royalty to pay any view of their content, if that is a movie.
01:09:03.576 - 01:09:51.872, Speaker A: So actually it's replaced the whole media right management. So it's pretty easy to approach the royalty payment and then how many you want to redistribute and then you redistribute the copyright to the other guy because they have the copyright. Just like if you can rent a house and you actually have an NFT, just the owner of real estate, but you can rent, you can prove that you are the owner of the house. So then you can send the copy of your house, real estate and to the lender. Right. So it's fun. It's a many application can run.
01:09:51.872 - 01:10:26.360, Speaker A: I just waiting to make it more open. And then the only problem is currently I only have to manually add the new NFT for copy and then eventually it can be automatically scanned all the NFT contract and find out his API or metadata and automatically make it available for all people to make copy. Thank you. It's very cool. Megan, it's great to see you building on this. I know, I saw it. I think in a previous hackathon.
01:10:26.360 - 01:10:41.132, Speaker A: Love the SDK focus now, and it's great to see this sort of incremental continuing. A great idea. So congrats, great work. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Team NFT aftermarket.
01:10:41.132 - 01:11:24.960, Speaker A: We'll now be moving on to team Chill with Audius API. If you are ready, please share your screen and I'll begin your four minutes. Yes, I'm here. Let's see. Looks like I'm sharing, so I'm starting the video now. Hey, everyone. My name is Raz, and I have been working on this project called Shield with Audius, and it utilizes the Audience HTP API to get trending tracks.
01:11:24.960 - 01:12:07.100, Speaker A: I didn't really have an idea to start with, so I was just playing around with the API and see what I could come up with. So the goal with this project was to showcase some of the music that's available on audios. So I decided to pick a couple of genres. I started out with electronic and rock. In this case, tied them to two buttons, and the user then selects what genre they want to listen to with these buttons. And then down at the bottom, we have our player, and it's actually playing right now. And this is one of the electronic songs.
01:12:07.100 - 01:13:08.720, Speaker A: And you can also shuffle, and that will just play another random trending song in the same genre. So what I did is I implemented a continuous mode. It will keep on playing one song after the other. So we have the song here and it's about to finish, and then the next one stops playing straight away. And then if you want to listen to some rock music, we can just go up to the top left and click on the rock button. And then we get all of a sudden, the trending tracks in rocks instead of electronic. And we can see that the information here from Wikipedia has been updated.
01:13:08.720 - 01:13:29.690, Speaker A: Thanks for showing interest in my project. Yeah. Oh, sorry. We'll now be moving on to the three minute Q A and feedback with the judges. Me. Right. All right, thanks.
01:13:29.690 - 01:14:17.910, Speaker A: Yeah, this is super cool. Ras. I was getting MySpace vibes from it, and I mean that in a complimentary way, because MySpace started out as, like, a music sharing platform, and I like the kind of minimalistic idea behind it that you just go and you listen. You pick three artists or three genres, and it cycles through the music for you understand? For the description you have on your page. It's more of a traditional DAP or sorry, a web app. But if you were to add web three features to it, I don't know, I have some ideas, but I'm curious to know what you might add, like where you would want to take this. Yeah, and the thing is, because this is like, the first hackathon I've done in so long.
01:14:17.910 - 01:14:55.120, Speaker A: Stepped out of development for a while, and then I'm back into it. Welcome back. Yeah. So this was like my first and I'm very new to DAP development and everything. So I'm just starting to learn solidity and everything from the ground up, web Three JS and stuff. So with this project it was like, I guess a conscious decision to go web Two and just play around with this API rather than trying to build a DAP completely from scratch all by myself while I'm learning all this stuff. So I don't really have any ideas where I could take this to make it into like a DAP.
01:14:55.120 - 01:15:44.876, Speaker A: Well, I was thinking of maybe an unstoppable domain or something like in that kind of realm, but I have to look into that more. So maybe like yeah, no, it's great. Just one comment and one suggestion. So the comment is I think that that's totally valid to do something that's like a little bit more Web 20. Even though this is a Web Three hackathon, I think it speaks to the fact that the APIs are getting to the point where people can do that right and interact with the blockchain, but we don't have to always be MetaMask and pop ups and things like that. So that's great. The one idea I have is being able to tip the artist or like the artist, like even not necessarily pay them money, but record on chain.
01:15:44.876 - 01:15:58.852, Speaker A: That the legitimate interest in it. And then maybe plugging in record labels or a R or something like that to come in and oh yeah, like this has got verified likes or plays or something like that. Anyway, great job over to Sophia. Thanks. Thank you. Ross. Yeah.
01:15:58.852 - 01:17:07.550, Speaker A: Curious to hear how do you select guess the music playlist? I'm not familiar with any of the artists that you have demoed in the video. Are you curating this selection? And if so, how are you going about choosing these artists? No, in this version, like my proof of concept, it's very primitive. So audios have their own they have a trending endpoint and then they have like a flag or in the query you can select what genre you want within the trending tracks. So I'm just pointing it to the it's like on load because I'm using React, so it's like a use effect. So when it renders the component, it fetches data from the endpoint that's like trending. And then I have my parameter query, my parameter genre, which is like either rock or electronics. So it just fetches like 100 tracks, puts them in an array and then it's like a random function that pretty much just picks any element out of this array and puts that as the current playing track.
01:17:07.550 - 01:17:50.412, Speaker A: And then if you use the shuffle button or if to manually say you listen for like 5 seconds and you're like, I don't like this song. So you just hit shuffle and then it just gives you another next random from that same array. Or when the on ended event hits, the player itself will actually call that same random function. So basically it's very primitive implemented at this stage. Yeah. Well, I definitely appreciate that you're allowing artists an additional channel and medium to express their creativity and to potentially reach more audiences. So thank you very much for sharing that with us.
01:17:50.412 - 01:18:01.064, Speaker A: Yeah, thanks. And welcome back to Hackathons. Yeah, great job. Great job, Ras. Cheers. Thank you. Team Shill with Audi's API.
01:18:01.064 - 01:18:19.072, Speaker A: We'll now be moving on to team checkout FS. Please share your screen when you are ready, and I will begin your four minutes whenever you are ready. Hello. How's it going, guys? Hey, Chris. Nice to meet you. Good. Hi, Chris.
01:18:19.072 - 01:18:46.860, Speaker A: How are you? Should I just jump into it or what's the format? I think you just jump right in. Yeah, if you have a video to play. If you've recorded video, you can play that. Or if you don't have a video, then you can just talk live for four minutes, and then after that, we'll do three minute Q A. Sweet. I have a video, so let's just go with that. All right, my name is Chris, and for the Hack FS challenge, I put together an app called Checkout FS.
01:18:46.860 - 01:19:36.636, Speaker A: Now, some of you may be familiar with the app called Shopify, and what Shopify really excels at is enabling anyone anywhere in the world to create a product page without necessarily knowing how to code or being able to check out or set up a checkout system. Now, Shopify works well for a lot of use cases, but it has its drawbacks. In particular, you're paying a subscription fee every month, regardless of volume, to host your website. Credit card fees happen on every transaction, which are variable and might have an indeterminate turnaround time for you to get paid. Crypto allows you to get paid faster and potentially with lower fees. Lastly, any SaaS vendor is also highly centralized and can be attacked or suffer an outage. So we wanted to create a platform using some of the newer technologies like Filecoin, to avoid some of these issues.
01:19:36.636 - 01:20:25.870, Speaker A: So what I wanted to do is create a very easy platform to enable anybody to create an instant checkout experience without necessarily signing up for a centralized platform or company and be able to accept cryptocurrency as a primary payment. Let me show you how this works. So I'm already logged in with my Ethereum account on the testnet. I can go ahead and create an example storefront what products are going to be in my store so I can upload multiple images. But I have this example set of sunglasses, and what happens is, when I upload it, it's going to connect to IPFS and store those assets and that metadata using ceramic screens to facilitate and render any checkout page that was created with this app. So I'm just going to enter in some example data and set the price at 0.1 e.
01:20:25.870 - 01:21:12.110, Speaker A: Click done. Give it a few minutes IPFS and filecoin are really at the core of this. And after this is completed, you'll take note that there's a bunch of data listed here, but in particular, we want to take note of the CID and the IPFS URL. So the IPFS URL is essentially the storage for this particular storefront that was created. That image that I uploaded, as well as the metadata are there for the stream ID. If you take the CID and go to the embed page, you can generate a QR code that is scannable and would take any user to be able to access your storefront and images. But let me show you how that storefront looks like based on the data that I uploaded.
01:21:12.110 - 01:21:58.750, Speaker A: Give it a few moments. You can see that images, that the image or multiple images in the case that I uploaded, multiple items, and the ability to purchase any of those items if someone wants this URL. So purchase now. This is using unlock protocol, which enables anybody that visits this page. So if I logged out and connected with a customer's account, I can check out with my wallet and go through any sort of digital process to collect the address and ultimately send those sunglasses. Lastly, for any business that doesn't necessarily have a wallet, we use Etherspot to verify that their wallet is ready to go and they're able to accept payments. So Pillar is the primary facilitator for that, but it can also be used to send the payments during that checkout screen I just showed.
01:21:58.750 - 01:22:40.030, Speaker A: Lastly, we want to be able to use checkout FS for any sort of digital sales as well. So, Audius, we are leveraging with a Playlist ID instead of a CID, and if I click that, that CID is actually pulled against their API, and we now have a Playlist that people can purchase and check out just like before, but for music and digital files. Now, all that code there is available on my GitHub. I encourage you to check it out, but that's pretty much check out FS project. And thanks for your time. Thank you. We'll now be moving on to your three minutes with the judges for Q A and feedback.
01:22:40.030 - 01:22:51.950, Speaker A: I forgot, whose turn is it? Jeff, I think it's yours. I think it's yours this time. Yeah, go ahead. Cool. Awesome, Chris. Super cool. Yeah.
01:22:51.950 - 01:23:24.106, Speaker A: So I'm part of a blockchain fund, and we've been looking at a lot of deals where they're trying to make it easier for people to integrate with shopify, to really basically remove the friction of people purchasing NFTs, whether it's music files or merchandises leveraging existing infrastructure. So I think this idea is fantastic. It is definitely very much needed for wider adoption. So thank you for tackling this problem. Very interesting. Cool. Yeah.
01:23:24.106 - 01:24:27.930, Speaker A: And I would say just on that, I think we're trying to tackle ecommerce, cryptocurrency, lower the fees with credit cards. Compared to that, I think credit cards do serve a valid. Purpose for sort of like buyer confidence in case there is fraud and things like that. So initially this platform could be used with NFT digital assets, but ultimately expand into physical things if you were collecting addresses to mail these sort of products. But I think IPFS actually is pretty useful to provide a platform to host all of these things in a distributed nature such that you don't have a single source of failure. Because I think that is a big proponent of decentralized model over your single entity kind of owning everything. And sorry, just to follow up on that then, is this something that you want to move forward with as a potential business idea? What did you get out of this experience? Yeah, so to further develop this idea, I definitely need more backup.
01:24:27.930 - 01:25:05.398, Speaker A: I think I'm good at prototyping, like, I can build UIs and stuff like that, but the initial concept would probably be similar to in flavor to what you were talking about with NFTs and Digital Products, but be a no code platform as well. I think that's starting to pick up popularity. So that would be the first step, is to just make it work with music digital files, and then expand into physical products, potentially, where anybody can shut up a storefront. Cool. Very cool. If you ever do want to take this forward, do check out the different foundations of different protocols. They have a lot of grants.
01:25:05.398 - 01:25:30.514, Speaker A: So if you want to build this marketplace on flow, for example, you can definitely check out for some additional resources. Support. Sweet. Hey, Chris. Great. Great work. Just super fast question for know in e commerce, right? Oftentimes you want to update the metadata related to an item, its description or price, or even like we're no longer selling this version of it.
01:25:30.514 - 01:26:25.947, Speaker A: How would that work with IPFS and Immutable storage? How might you solve that in the future? Yeah, so that was actually a problem that I ran into while I was building. This is the example for IPFS had, like, storing JSON data where you would upload a JSON file and it would just be like a raw object. Ceramic worked great, actually, to solve that problem in the form of a stream, because that's actually mutable, and we can mutate the stream for a given CID. So the CID was a lookup key for the storefront. So every storefront would be identified by a CID, and it could have a custom domain on IPNs. I didn't demo that, but you could set up custom domains for the storefronts, and then ceramic actually would hold potentially inventory the description of the product and things like that, more or less like a distributed store. But IPFS was purely just for all the visual files and documents associated with the It.
01:26:25.947 - 01:26:38.198, Speaker A: Got it. Yeah, that makes sense. Again, great work. Sweet. Thank you. Team checkout FS. We'll now be moving on to team project Infinity.
01:26:38.198 - 01:27:30.380, Speaker A: When you are ready. Please share your screen. Hi. This is Project Infinity. My name is Victor and I worked on this project as a solo developer. I built an application that allows users to create NFTs within NFTs, allowing users to traverse through portals of collective NFTs. So how does it work? Well, the users can select a block, mint a block, and enter blocks to mint more NFTs.
01:27:30.380 - 01:29:07.848, Speaker A: Here's a quick demo. The project was bootstrapped from Scaffold ETH and uses NFT storage to store and retrieve data from the IPFS network. Things we might have in the future, payment options in different tokens social features customization and deploying to mainnet. If you like our project, you can check it out on GitHub in the link above. Thank you. Okay, your three minutes with the judges for Q A and feedback begins now. This is super cool.
01:29:07.848 - 01:29:45.684, Speaker A: Victor. It's like one of those ideas that's so simple looking, but just turns mesmerizing for me so quickly. And it reminds me, I mean, the first thing that came to mind is there's like, pixel matrixes matrices. Like, there's one on Reddit a few years ago where you can change pixels and it eventually gets stuck in some shape at the end. And I think there's another one that's going on right now. As an NFT, I like this sort of interactive community social feature where you go down this rabbit hole of what's the next one going to be. Or it's almost like a Choose Your Own Adventure book, if you're familiar with those.
01:29:45.684 - 01:30:42.904, Speaker A: I can also see artists using this for very creative things. It's almost turned it into like a story or a narrative and exploring the different aspects of it. And you could do things like all the pixels of the same color or similar color, but where's the hidden one to take you to the next step? So, yeah, very cool. Of those sort of four things that you mentioned at the end for Next step, what do you think would the top one be and where would you go with this? I think you're muted. I think the next step would really be integrating it with social profiles. So if you've heard of the concept of Kevin Kelly's A Thousand True Fans I don't know that. Yeah, I'll look it up.
01:30:42.904 - 01:31:33.844, Speaker A: Yeah. It's a thesis or concept that a creator only needs a thousand supporters to actually be financially sustainable to pursue their passions. So for any creator who has some level of influence, they should be able to have the online communities contribute to one of these portals or blocks that they've created. So you'd have the communities developing whatever comes to their mind, whatever ideas, whatever imaginations or creations that they come up with. And it's really up to the communities to decide how this thing pieces together. So there's endless possibilities. You could have things for events, fundraisers, or just social profiles in general, but if you can even try to be even more imaginative and think about how this could be applicable to things like the Metaverse.
01:31:33.844 - 01:32:19.496, Speaker A: For example, if you see websites like Crypto Voxel, for example, you have many ghost towns where there aren't really any communities filling these different land parcels that are being created. And there's these NFC galleries that are actually popping up in the Metaverse as well. So you can think of it as a place where people could actually link a 2D portal of these blocks to somewhere in the Metaverse and actually be able to teleport between different locations within these NFTs in those places. So, yeah, it's really endless possibilities from there. Wonderful. Very cool. So, Sophie, over to you.
01:32:19.496 - 01:33:32.060, Speaker A: Yeah. I was going to ask for you to clarify what does it mean to traverse through different protocols? And I think you just answered it. So if you were to build like an ecosystem partnership or transfers to a different protocol, what would that be? Or if you have a particular NFT gaming type of startups that you like, could you name a couple that, if you were to take this project to actualization that you would love to partner with? Right. I think at the moment, we probably just want to keep it within our ecosystem. So I kind of already have a different startup that I'm working on as well, and I want to integrate it into my existing platform and then kind of collaborate with more individual creators to adopt this kind of technology and then start experimenting with what kind of creations that they can make from there. And then from there on, we could possibly partner with Metaverse companies that need an entry point into NFT art galleries and things like that. So there's very specific things to start exploring.
01:33:32.060 - 01:34:12.476, Speaker A: Would you say this portal is more of like mobile based or would it be web based? How do you see it being carried around or how do you see people using it? Right, I think at the moment it's probably more web based because it's more accessible. So you'd be able know somebody could share it on Twitter or one of their social profiles and then jump into one of these creations and then keep exploring different creations within that. Yeah, there's really no limits. Thank you very much for sharing this much. Appreciate your time and effort. It's very cool. Yeah.
01:34:12.476 - 01:34:41.750, Speaker A: Thank you, Victor. Thanks. Okay, so we'll be moving on to our final team, see if they are responsive. Team yas. If this is your last chance to present in front of the judges and get that feedback, we'll give it maybe like 30 seconds and they don't respond. Judges, are you comfortable with hosting? Oh, never mind. I'll ask the question after they present.
01:34:41.750 - 01:35:26.270, Speaker A: So please raise your hand so we could promote you as panelists. And please start sharing your screen when you are ready. Alejandro, we can't hear you or the video. Just FYI. Do you want to try unmute? I think you're muted to start and I don't know if you're playing a video or just showing a PDF.
01:35:26.610 - 01:35:27.630, Speaker C: Can you see it now?
01:35:27.700 - 01:35:31.050, Speaker A: Okay, can you see? Yeah, we can see and hear you. Perfect.
01:35:31.140 - 01:36:26.740, Speaker C: Excellent. So yes, perfect. So I am Alejandra and my background is actually so I'm a little bit kind of like in the realm of Sophia that I'm actually trying to train myself into learn how to code just to really understand the technology behind it being mostly involved always in strategy and in the product development. So I've been solo hacking this summer just for kind of fun. So in short, what I wanted to build for this so even the sponsors that we had the opportunity to collaborate with, I was thinking how can we empower and what is the problem? So the problem that I was trying to address is decentralization of an artist. So artists are artists and they're supposed to be creative. By the way, I'm not an artist, but I leave for art.
01:36:26.740 - 01:38:02.334, Speaker C: For me it feels like they are curated, they are managed, so it just felt like they're not the ones that are always being able to even have be in control. So I believe in entrepreneurship. So I was thinking, well, how about empowering by the power of either a co op in addition to power of negotiation together to manage a business. So running a small business where you are like an artist or anybody could be fairly difficult. So the solution for the entrepreneur economy then I proposed a peer to peer or creator to peer relationship where the value you think of lifetime value of the relationship and not only the relationship growth, the asset. So now instead of being like a middle person, it's like the actual NFT that is getting accreted with value by different interactions. So I was looking at the data, how it gets like transactional hashes, additional data fields that could be proposed and thinking about ways to enhance the data so that you could actually track that information and know that in the lifetime value of when I was holding that NFT in addition to that and that I participated in an event or even I did borrow or lend or whichever transaction.
01:38:02.334 - 01:38:53.730, Speaker C: So the whole provenance becomes a true provenance of everything that happens in the life of the NFT. And I created with the creators in mind in particular for the woman's encryptor just because I was working another project and then since I'm a rookie at this, I didn't know that last minute you can use the same project as before. So I came up with another one which was I was very happy that I had something else that was going to do later in the summer. Let me walk you really quick. So, design principles, decentralized, scalable, affordable, accessible. What I was aiming for is how it benefits the creator considerations. I was thinking from IDX to ceramic.
01:38:53.730 - 01:40:05.466, Speaker C: So the security of the data. So everything that they have is IP, right? So is that intellectual property? How do we make sure that goes? I mean, you can really reach file point non encrypted because then you can encrypt it when it reaches there. So really understanding the flow of the data, the security that it needed to be like the persistence and understanding even the pinning along the way, like what is required again, next steps for me will be I love a lot of the people I heard today because I can see a lot of the ecommerce for example. So what I'm proposing here is each person in this DAP is like each creator can have their website that has a store and it's 24/7. So it's like 24/7 global access. In addition to that, in addition to the store, the gallery, you can start thinking of partnerships as well. I always think of it's always like in addition to and not versus and against.
01:40:05.466 - 01:41:07.966, Speaker C: So I actually have not that one TV, but something very similar from Samsung frame. And Samsung is also very big in digital wallets and crypto. So I was thinking, well, how will it be to be as an artist and you're the business? Then you could also have partnerships with other type of businesses even though the model for this is purely decentralized. It's like having that flexibility to collaborate as well. The same thing for merchandise, it's like you could have supply chain without having to have the inventory at hand, just be an on demand. It's like, oh, I want to create that NFT of the artist, I want to have the hat, the t shirt, whichever things that you want and the idea will be personalizing. These images are like 3D galleries so you could actually do even virtual reality as well.
01:41:07.966 - 01:41:39.430, Speaker C: So they're pretty cool for somebody more technical than me, they have APIs that you could integrate it for me. But I was thinking of that entire experience from protecting the data, from having a way for the artists to be empowered, to curate the experience, to enrich the experience, to have real data that is not just number of dollar amount sold, but it's just the additional value of the true artist.
01:41:41.130 - 01:42:31.800, Speaker A: Thank you. So I'm sorry to cut you off, but you are two minutes over time and I want to for the other teams. So we'll be moving on to the three minute feedback and Q and A with judges starting right now. Well, thank you so much for sharing this. I totally hear you on the whole partnership and creating that ecosystem and empowering people to create these experiences, artworks to enrich our lives. And I think that's part of the reason why I'm in the world of crypto is to help bring people together, hope to make some tangible impact and how we change and live and appreciate our lives. So, thank you very much for sharing this.
01:42:31.800 - 01:42:46.910, Speaker A: I don't have any questions but I really appreciate you taking the time to share with us how you envision your creativity.
01:42:48.050 - 01:42:49.840, Speaker C: Yeah, thanks.
01:42:50.770 - 01:43:21.720, Speaker A: Yeah, great. It's inspiring to hear. Alejandro, thank you for sharing. And kudos to you on getting involved and learning about development as well. I guess what could the Web Three community do to make that even easier as you're learning about it as you're coming into it? So you talked about some of the tech stack here, but how could we, as a community, all of us, help?
01:43:23.390 - 01:44:16.578, Speaker C: That's very kind, but I think that I'm a very self starter. I teach myself. If you had to ask me, I think that the one thing that I will say is what's new to me. So I'm coming from corporate for a long time, and so for me, there's a lot of new things in the ecosystem. So I think that's what I'm going to be focusing on next for me is going to be like, how does the grants I've been in academia just like when I was in school, but I never targeted grants or never I've been considering. I have, like, four ideas right now that I'm kind of cooking, and I'm trying to see which one is the one that has legs. And I think that I want to clone myself because I think they all have legs.
01:44:16.578 - 01:44:26.090, Speaker C: So I just have to see how that path of, like, how do you get grants? How do you apply to grants? That is very new to me because I come from the world of corporate.
01:44:28.830 - 01:44:58.262, Speaker A: That's great feedback. Yeah. And I was speaking more of how could we help, as in what additional resources could there be for somebody who's a self starter? But I think your answer on grants and help with applying for grants, because there's a ton of grants out there, to your point. Right. And sometimes I know we've applied for some in the past, they're sometimes a little bit hard or inaccessible, so that's a really good point. Thanks for your comments on that. Again, great work.
01:44:58.262 - 01:45:28.366, Speaker A: Best of luck on continuing to explore in this space. And yeah, look forward to seeing to following you and seeing what great things you're going to do. Thank you. Thank you so much for your presentation. So, judges, I now have a question for you. So Team five token from before had technical difficulties and was not able to hear their feedback, and they have stayed this entire time. And we're wondering yeah, it's no problem.
01:45:28.366 - 01:45:53.980, Speaker A: It's no problem. Yeah, absolutely perfect. Thank you. So if we could invite up five token once again to have your three minutes, and then we could close the session. And thank you for staying all this time. Hello. Hey.
01:45:53.980 - 01:46:28.318, Speaker A: Thank you for waiting. Well, no, thank you for staying this whole time. Wow. I'm glad we can hear you. Now. It's our problem first, so I think it's very profit to stay all the time. And shall I repeat your question or shall I just answer about your question before or you have any new ideas or new opinions that you want to share? Yeah if you could share your feedback on what was asked as a starting point that'd be really helpful.
01:46:28.318 - 01:47:40.906, Speaker A: Yeah I think your first question is why we choose FICone to be the base technical of our products? Because firstly, the former version of Five Token is FICO wallet. We have a kind of three years experience in developed FireCon wallet to help provide with a professional service to the miners but actually we have catched the trend of web three and we think there is a kind of lack products that can contain different service, including identity, payment and reputation system. So we want to move forward to these steps, and I think FICO have a very mature system to keep all the ID and data, be safe and internally on the line. So we think the technology is what we have confidence in. So we choose this one. Yeah gotcha yeah I know Filecoin has quite a large ecosystem of projects and developers building on top of it and therefore you'll be able to have access to resources and support as you continue to build so thank you for the context. Yeah.
01:47:40.906 - 01:48:50.178, Speaker A: Thank you. And also I want to add it, although we based on five ecosystem, but we'd like to get involved with different blockchains, including DEFINITY ethereum also. And we want to add the smart contract features of ethereum in our network to perform or have a comprehensive service of the whole five token. So it will be a start of our long term roadmap. Why do you choose or why do you mention DEFINITY first? Why not solana? Why not Matic or Polygon or Harmony or Cosmos? That would be kind of two reasons. The firstly is we have a kind of connection with DEFINITY and we have read about their whole system. We think if there is a big band of applications, definitive will be definitely a good choice compared with other ones.
01:48:50.178 - 01:49:55.190, Speaker A: So it will be quite efficient to develop any kind of different apps. So we just choose this kind of network to our network. But if we collect different feedback from our customers and we'd like to get involved with different blockchains also because we have a plan to develop our RPC networks and the customers can choose their supported blockchain in our system by themselves, that's a really good feature. Yeah, just to share what I've seen from my line of work. So I work at a blockchain fund, and we fund startups that build different products and services and different protocols. So for us, we've seen an increased interest and activity around the Solana ecosystem, polygon and Dot as well. So I was quite surprised to hear DEFINITY because that's not really on our radar, just because the projects that we look at are mostly building on those three protocols.
01:49:55.190 - 01:50:20.494, Speaker A: Yeah thank you yeah, I don't have any additional questions. Faye. Just great work. Yeah. Very interested to see where you go from here and how you bring your file coin, your extensive file coin experience into the Web Three ecosystem. So be taking a look at the Chrome extension you've put together. Continuing to check it out.
01:50:20.494 - 01:50:54.626, Speaker A: Great work. Thank you. I have a question for Kaylin if you can stick around. So if the startups want to get in touch with us afterwards or vice versa, is there a way for us to connect? Yes. So after this session, you will be receiving an email regarding any further steps from Kartik. And in that email, you could always respond to him asking about the particular startups, like in your roster of Point Tallies. Then you could try to get in touch with them through him, and I'm sure you could figure out the next steps from there through Kartik.
01:50:54.626 - 01:51:05.914, Speaker A: I think that is very possible. Okay, great. Thank you very much. Very nice meeting you, Faye, and thank you for staying all this time. Yeah, thank you for sticking around. Great to speak with you. Great to meet you.
01:51:05.914 - 01:51:27.600, Speaker A: Thank you so much. So thank you, hackers, for participating in Hackafest, and thank you, judges for your time and everybody's patience. This is pretty much over, so follow up with Kartik after you'll receive an email and we'll notify that this session is over. Thank you once again. Great. Thank you so much. Thank you again.
01:51:27.600 - 01:51:32.466, Speaker A: Hope you get some rest. Have a great day, everyone. Have a great evening. Bye.
