00:00:00.160 - 00:00:30.038, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Grey refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and the Nissan signer, and today's the 7 September 2022. Everyone, let's get into it. So I spoke yesterday about the participation rate around ballot tricks, and it seems that basically it's returned to pre balatrix levels. I mean, you can see here on the Beacon chain website that we've had participation rates of over 99% again here. And I think the data on the Beacon chain website is a little bit delayed here. It's not totally accurate.
00:00:30.038 - 00:01:07.906, Speaker A: So we can cross, cross reference it with the and scan website, which also has the participation rate above 99% here, which is basically what it was pre bell trick. So everything seems to be back on track with the participation rate here. And I explained yesterday as to why this is, you know, obviously important and why people kind of were focusing on this and being like, well, this shows that belt there was a problem with Bellatrix. I like, I hate when people say that because it didn't actually show that at all. This doesn't show that there was a problem with the Bellatrix upgrade itself. All it showed was that people didn't upgrade their nodes in time, upgrade their software in time, so they fell off the network or they didn't configure it correctly. Bellatrix itself worked just fine.
00:01:07.906 - 00:01:40.562, Speaker A: I mean, the people who did upgrade and saw everything and it worked completely well and completely fine. There was no issues with it. And then the change continued on and finalized as normal. So when you kind of like look at that and take all that into consideration, you definitely get to the point where you're like, okay, well, battle tricks went forward or went, you know, very, very successfully. So I covered that yesterday. I'm not going to rehash it now, but there is a couple other things I wanted to get through here, such as these two websites. So this is node watch IO, which tracks the beacon node account.
00:01:40.562 - 00:02:00.650, Speaker A: So you can see here the node count is 11,917. This is the total node count. 69.1% of that is synced to the network with 30.9% of them not synced right now. And you can see that the node count has been going up a lot over the past few days, and that's obviously because of people getting ready for the merge, running more nodes here. So it's very, very awesome to see that.
00:02:00.650 - 00:02:20.226, Speaker A: So that's the nodes that, the beacon nodes, I should say. Sorry. And you can see here the node count by country. So a breakdown, obviously the US dominates, but there's a lot in Germany, actually 17%. So Germany's coming in second there. And then a full breakdown of everything. You have client type distributions, network type distributions, and other kind of information like that.
00:02:20.226 - 00:02:42.480, Speaker A: So this is the website that you can go to to track the beacon nodes on the network. And then there's ether nodes.org, which tracks the execution layer nodes. Beacon nodes is technically consensus layer nodes, and then ether nodes.org tracks the ethereum execution layer nodes. And as you can see here, we have 7414 of these. Now, this is broken down obviously by clients as well.
00:02:42.480 - 00:03:26.570, Speaker A: You've got Geth, Aragon, Basu, Nethermind, and a bunch of other clients listed here. The client diversity on the execution layer is not great like it really is. Leaves a lot to be desired right now. And Geth, which is the majority client, has actually been going up because people who are getting their local execution layer clients ready are choosing Geth over the other ones, which obviously I've said before, I think I've said in the past that we don't want to push a client diversity on the execution layer to post merge, but still, it's not great. I mean, 81% of people are using Geth. So this means if there was a critical bug in geth, 81% of the network would be forked onto its own chain, and it would mean that that chain would finalize, and that would be the kind of, I guess, like ETH chain. It would require social coordination to fix that.
00:03:26.570 - 00:03:53.960, Speaker A: So you definitely want to be running a non Geth execution layer client, such as Aragon base or Nethermind. I would recommend Besu or Nethermin simply because Aragon is a fork of geth. So you definitely want to be running something that is on a totally different code base. So base who and nevermind the choices there. I personally run nethermind. It's always been good to me, but there's nothing wrong with BeSU there. But this is the website that I use and everyone uses basically to track the amount of ETH one, or execution layer nodes, I should say, that are on the network.
00:03:53.960 - 00:04:28.764, Speaker A: And up here you've got the merge, which is a tab that says, you know what, clients are ready for the merge, which aren't. About. Almost 80% are ready for the merge, which is great to see. Obviously the others just need to upgrade, and if they don't upgrade in time, they'll be kicked off the network as solo validators, or, sorry, I should say validators, and they'll quickly get back online because of that. But yeah, you can check out this website yourself. It's also got a breakdown of like country sync, status, os network types, history and all that sort of stuff here. So definitely go give these two websites a check and I will link both of them in the YouTube description below.
00:04:28.764 - 00:05:43.750, Speaker A: Alright, so Domothy shared this document that has been floating around for a while, which is called the Serenity design rationale. Now, for those of you who don't know, Serenity was the name that I guess, like a lot of people referred to ETH two as for a while, and it basically stemmed from, I think, three to four years ago. As you can see, the first document was put here that for the design rationale of, I guess like the quote unquote ETH two fit or, or the, you know, the beacon chain or the serenity, and it's just gone by a bunch of different names. Now, why I'm highlighting this design rationale document is because if you want to know why things were done certain ways within, especially proof of stake Ethereum and beyond, then this is the document to read. Like, I always get questions from people, you know, why 32 ETH, right? Why is it done this way? Why is there no delegation of stake in protocol? You know, there's a ton of questions. You know, what was the, what was the point of going to proof of stake? Like, what were we aiming for? Well, I mean, there were the five principles here, which is simplicity, long term stability, sufficiency, defense in depth and full light client verify verifiability. And then it discusses all of that in the document, as well as trade offs and, and it discusses the fork choice rules, the LMD ghost fork choice rule and Gaspar and all that sorts of stuff.
00:05:43.750 - 00:06:26.910, Speaker A: So if you want to dive deeper into the design rationale around ETH two or serenity or proof of stake Ethereum, then this is the document for you. And now, of course, Ben Edgington is also putting together his book, which is an annotated book of the the Serenity or ETH two proof of stake effort as well, which isn't finished yet, but once that's done, that will have even more information for you. But this is a document that I remember reading quite a while ago. It was last change eight months ago, so it hasn't been updated recently. But I don't think it needs to because I don't think the spec has changed in the last eight months. But essentially this is a document that I really enjoyed reading because it allows me to answer those questions. If you'd like why 32? Ethan well, basically because with the 8th number is based on amount of validators and network can handle.
00:06:26.910 - 00:06:48.966, Speaker A: Right. It's not based on some, just some arbitrary thing. There's a lot of other, other information like that in this document. So I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right. So Tim Baiko put out just a little innocent tweet today that I wanted to kind of talk a little bit about. So he said, I've said, quote unquote, we might have merged by then, quote twice on meetings today.
00:06:48.966 - 00:07:17.136, Speaker A: And it feels pretty surreal, to be honest. It's happening. It does feel surreal. Right. I know I've mentioned this plenty of times, but it really does feel surreal how close we are. And I can't even imagine how it feels for the core developers and researchers that have been working tirelessly on this for many years at this point. I mean, Tim Bico especially, and of course Danny Ryan, the two lead coordinators of the whole effort generally, they've been working tirelessly on this sorts of stuff for many for a long time now.
00:07:17.136 - 00:07:54.148, Speaker A: And not only that, they've also worked on other things in between. Right. So their efforts definitely, I hope are going to get rewarded and their efforts have been what has gotten us to this point. But it's not just them. It's hundreds of researchers and developers that have gotten us to this point that is only about eight days away from today. So I think it's just amazing that, you know, we can basically say that we might have merged by then, right? If we say, if we're quoting a date after September 15, we could say, oh yeah, yeah, the merge will be done by then and we can focus on this or we can do this, we can do that. And I've spoken about all these other upgrades that are going to be coming to a theory and post merge.
00:07:54.148 - 00:08:16.046, Speaker A: And the reason why they haven't come yet is because we had to basically table them in favor of the merge. And now that the merge is done, we can start working on all this other exciting stuff. So I'm super excited to just like, it's going to be fun, actually. I should step back a bit. It's going to be funny for me personally that once the merge is done, it's going to be something that I'm going to talk about anymore. Like obviously it being done. It's like ERP 15 nine.
00:08:16.046 - 00:08:44.780, Speaker A: I used to talk about that all the time, but I mean, I move on to the next thing. Like I am someone obviously, who reports in the news and educates. I refer back to things sometimes, but generally there'll be no reason for me to refer back to the merge anymore. Theorem will be full proof of stake. We'll be looking ahead to the future with upgrades like vocal trees, proto dank, sharding PBS, all the good stuff coming, and you know, all the stuff that Vitalik has shared in his Ethereum roadmap flow chart before. And there'll be no need for me to talk too much about the merge. So it's good.
00:08:44.780 - 00:09:10.400, Speaker A: It's a bittersweet for me. I've loved following the entire development. I've loved following the whole thing. I loved reporting on it, I love sharing all the information with you guys. But I am as ready as anyone for this thing to just happen and for us to move on to the next things in Ethereum. And also I'm just excited to see how the full Ethereum network fares as a proof of stake network. Because we've seen the beacon chain on its own, we've seen Aetherium under proof of work on its own.
00:09:10.400 - 00:09:48.998, Speaker A: You're separate to the beacon chain, and now we'll get to see how it all plays out. And you know, who was right and who was wrong about certain things. Like there are a lot of people who are bearish on proof of stake, right? Proof of stake, a theory. I'm saying this attack vector exists or this one exists and you know, you're handing over your chain to the bankers and just, you know, random fud, random talking points, but we're gonna see what's actually true and what's not. You know, there was a, one of my, one of my friends said this the other day and really struck a chord with me. He goes saying things, you know, whether it's online or otherwise, that don't match with reality is free. Like there is no, there is no force kind of at play that, that forces these things to match with reality.
00:09:48.998 - 00:10:22.292, Speaker A: But at the end of the day, reality is reality. Like you can say whatever you want, but then reality comes crashing down whether you like it or not. So people can say whatever they want about Ethereum, proof of stake. They can say it's going to be captured by this and this, it's going to centralize, blah, blah, blah. But if that doesn't play out right, as they've said, well then they are objectively wrong and reality has trumped what they've said, because anyone can say anything and reality is reality. Now I know that may seem obvious to state, but I think in an industry like crypto and especially within Ethereum, where we see people just say the Darndest of things. Darndest.
00:10:22.292 - 00:10:31.620, Speaker A: Darndest. I think that's the. That's how you say that word. I'm. I don't have a thick country. American accent. Is it called country in american? I was going to say outback.
00:10:31.620 - 00:10:46.088, Speaker A: That's what we call the country in Australia. I should maybe say a thick, rural out. Outback american accent. Where I go darndest time. Right? That was so bad. Anyway, I'm getting so off track. Um, where was I? Actually, I was talking about how the merge and how.
00:10:46.088 - 00:11:24.400, Speaker A: Sorry. How people will fud things and not actually stick with reality when reality will come crashing down on them, regardless of what they say. So at the end of the day, I personally don't care too much about what people say. I do try to debunk fud here and there, but if it's actual fud, if it's something that doesn't match with reality, then reality itself will take care of it. But yeah, just a cool little tweet from Tim Baiko here today. All right, so the new home of the heart merge NFT exhibition that I've been talking about lately is going live on Monday, and all proceeds, of course, are going to the protocol guild and artists. So there are 119 Ethereum core devs that are going to be getting a share of these proceeds.
00:11:24.400 - 00:12:08.658, Speaker A: There are 16 artists, eight auctions, six editions, and one merge exhibition. So if you want to follow stateful works and jpeg here for updates. And also Trent, this will be going live on Monday, September 12 and you can participate in it if you like. And I'll link this in the YouTube description so you can go follow all of these accounts. So we have the latest allocation update from the EF Ecosystem support program covering projects that received funding in Q one and Q two of 2022. So in the first half of 2022, the the EF ESP organized an academic grants round alongside their usual grants program, awarding over $17.6 million in two grantees, including all of these great teams that are listed here as part of different categories.
00:12:08.658 - 00:12:40.252, Speaker A: So there's a category for community and education. There's a category for consensus layout, cryptography and zero knowledge proofs, execution layer, general research, indirect funding L2s and user experience in the Q one, where a total of $9.3 million was awarded, and then Q two, a total of an $8.2 million was awarded. Now you can go check out this blog post for yourself to check out everyone that received money. But, you know, this is, this is kind of where the EF's money is going. Now, for those of you who don't know, the Ethereum foundation was initially funded from the ETH ICO.
00:12:40.252 - 00:13:03.576, Speaker A: They started out with about 12 million ETH, or I think exactly 12 million ETH. But that has been whittled down to, I think, 300, 250,000 ETH now because they've helped us. Had to sell it to develop a theorem, obviously. And obviously, the price of ETH until, you know, mid 2017, it was, it wasn't worth that much. Right. And they had to sell a lot in the early days to fund early Ethereum. So they, they are very well capitalized right now.
00:13:03.576 - 00:13:35.824, Speaker A: I believe they have a massive cash position and, you know, a billion dollars worth of ETH or something like that at one point, it's probably less now, obviously, because the price has gone down. But that's where this money goes. Like, I mean, this is one of the places it goes. It goes to the support programs. It goes through the Ethereum foundation payroll, obviously, for people that work for the Theorem foundation and a bunch of other causes like bitcoin grants and things like that. So if you want to dive deeper into the programs that the EF ESP supports or teams, I should say that the EF ESP supports, you should definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:13:35.824 - 00:14:26.858, Speaker A: All right, so finally here on the Ethereum core protocol side of things, Frankie has highlighted this very underrated paper on Ethereum data structures, which you can check out here. Now, this is one for the technical people, for the researchers, this is apparently a lot more accessible than the yellow paper, which is the technical specification of the Ethereum protocol itself, and with a lot less details left as an exercise to the reader. So just wanted to highlight this for you guys out there who want to dive even deeper into the technical weeds of Ethereum. If you've read the yellow paper, then this is definitely something that would interest you. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to check out. I'm not even going to bother trying to summarize this, because it is way beyond my kind of like, technical understanding, but it's still very interesting nonetheless. All right, so another massive raise today from, I guess, the L2 world.
00:14:26.858 - 00:15:24.864, Speaker A: So, fuel labs, who are the creators of the fuel VM, announced $8 million round led by blockchain capital and Stratos here. So their fuel is calling themselves the fastest modular execution layer, delivering the highest flexible throughput with maximum security guarantees for the Ethereum ecosystem. Now, of course, everyone says that right about their L2s, but you know, that's, that's kind of like the marketing at the end of the day. But anyway, it's cool to see them raise this amount of money because this is a huge raise, I believe one of, if not the biggest L2 raises out there. And I don't think fuel is limiting themselves to just Ethereum. They're also going to be building on Celestia because some of the, the founders, or at least core team members, share a shared between Celestia and fuel. But regardless of that, I think that this huge fundraise here is going to give them so much Runway, so many resources to just go full blast on their L2 effort here, on their kind of like modular, modular execution layer effort here.
00:15:24.864 - 00:15:58.682, Speaker A: I don't think they've actually. Have they said anything like l two here at all? It seems that they've said l one. L1. Yeah, they're kind of like not, I guess like not really using l two a. They're kind of like using l two, but they're more in line with using this terminology, which is the modular execution layer, which I think is. I think it's okay from a branding perspective because you can see here the consensus and data layer falls at the bottom and then there's a module execution layer and smart contracts that sit on top of that. So, yeah, anyway, you can go check out the blog post for a little bit of a deeper dive here.
00:15:58.682 - 00:16:42.674, Speaker A: But congrats to fuel labs on this massive raise. I am pretty excited to see that more and more L2 teams are raising massive amounts of money because there are still new layer ones out there that are raising huge amounts of money, which I think is like. I think it's very short sighted by the people that are funding these things. But at the same time, look, there's, there's probably going to be some new narrative next bull market shield by these like, alternative layer ones that for some reason pumps the token and then the investors can cash out whatever. But I've said before that I think most of the time, most people in this industry are behind the bleeding edge by about six to twelve months. And fundraising is no stranger to that and is no exception to that, I should say. So.
00:16:42.674 - 00:17:21.736, Speaker A: I expect more and more L2 teams to be getting more funding. I expect more and more kind of, I guess, like modular, I guess, teams getting more funding, teams that are focused on the modularity of blockchains and that shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone given that we, I guess over six months into the modular thing becoming very popular, I think so. Very, very cool to see this. Congrats to fuel labs on the rays. Alright, so Metamask has announced today that they've launched support for multiple languages on the metamask knowledge base. So this is the knowledge about base has been translated into the top 35 most used and most used. Sorry.
00:17:21.736 - 00:18:05.100, Speaker A: So I should say they've translated the top 35 most used and most important articles into the following 15 languages. Spanish, Filipino, Portuguese, Vietnamese, Malay, Turkish, Thai, French, simplified Chinese, Japanese, German, Korean, Italian, Dutch and Russian. So a wide breadth of languages covered there. But I talked, I spoke about this the other day and I said that we need more and more things in crypto to be translated from English into other languages. And what better than metamask support articles in the top 35 most used and most important ones? Because obviously Metamask has an absolutely massive user base. And it's not just english speakers, it is speakers of multiple different languages. So it's great to see them prioritizing internal internationalization here.
00:18:05.100 - 00:18:24.964, Speaker A: I don't know what's wrong with my pronunciation today. It's even worse than usual. But go check this out. If you speak any of those languages, obviously you speak English or you wouldn't be listening to me. But maybe it's not your first language. Maybe you prefer to read things in Spanish or Portuguese or Japanese or German or whatever other language is supported here. So I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to go check out.
00:18:24.964 - 00:18:59.826, Speaker A: So Arbitrum has announced the first, their first ever Arbitrum hackathon, which is happening on October 15 and 16th in Bogota, Colombia, where obviously Devcon is happening. So you can go check out and apply to hack below at this, this link here. But I don't think arbitrary is going to be the only one doing this. They're definitely going to be a lot of teams taking advantage of the fact that Devcon in Bogota is the first Devcon in like three years. It is going to be absolutely massive. Unfortunately, I will not be there. I'll be just kind of like sitting in my study watching all the videos, watching all the other things going on, on social media.
00:18:59.826 - 00:19:38.600, Speaker A: But I think this one's going to be big. I regret that I'm not going to be there because as I said, it's the first DEF con in three years. There's going to be pretty much anyone who's anyone in the Ethereum community is going to be there and it's going to be a great celebration because it's going to be about a month or less than a month after the merge happens as well. So if you're going to be there, and if you're a developer that wants to be part of the arbitrary DEfcon hackathon, then I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to apply to. Now, as I said, albatrome isn't going to be the only one doing this, so keep an eye out for any of your other favorite teams or platforms doing hackathons. I'll highlight them as I see them on the refuel as well. But yeah, I mean, at the end of the day, Devcon is a developer conference.
00:19:38.600 - 00:20:09.574, Speaker A: It is definitely. I mean, it is a developer conference, but at the same time, most people go to conferences to socialize and you can still do that. But if you are a developer or you're aspiring to be one, you should definitely take advantage of all of these opportunities that will be available to you at DeFcon if you've been able to get a ticket, even if you haven't. Like, the thing with these conferences is that there's always like side conferences and there's always people, there's always events happening outside the conferences that you can go to. So you can go do that. Even if you weren't able to secure a ticket to DEfCon itself. Plenty of people do that, especially if you live in the region.
00:20:09.574 - 00:20:43.522, Speaker A: I mean, if you live in South America, then getting to Bogota will be relatively easy for you. Even if you live in North America, it's easy. I mean, I guess like the hardest places to get, or at least the longest flights are from, from Europe and where I am in Australia, of course, and from Asia. But if you are in the the Americas and you haven't got a DEF con ticket, then you can still go, right? You can still go and still go to those little side events and stuff like that. So definitely go do that. But as I said, I'll link this in the YouTube description if you want to apply to Arbitrum's hackathon. Alright, so an interesting proposal here in the Makerdao world.
00:20:43.522 - 00:21:03.234, Speaker A: So Hexanal shared here that Coinbase has put out a proposal to invest 1.6 billion out of the $1.6 billion out of the PSM, which is the peg stability module, into a yield bearing account. This will boost maker revenue by 24 million a year. Maker has 5.5 billion in USD like collateral. This is one of the many proposals to generate yield from the real world.
00:21:03.234 - 00:21:24.778, Speaker A: And he also has a follow up tweet here about how exactly this will work. And he says, you know, here is a thread to clarify some misunderstandings about this yield offering. First, the difference between protocol controlled value and users assets. The proposal will invest in the PCV in the USDC PSM, not us user funds. So that, that's a good clarification there. And then there's a bunch of others in this trade. I'm not going to read them all out.
00:21:24.778 - 00:22:19.406, Speaker A: You can go check that out now. I wanted to just have a broader discussion about Makerdao here on the, on the heels of this proposal. So I'm not going to talk about this proposal generally. I'm going to talk about more of Makerdao's direction and strategy. Obviously, there's been a lot of drama in the Makerdao world lately. They've gone from ideas around, you know, yellowing in the PSM into ETH to get off reliance on centralized stable coins like USDC, as well as discussions being floated that, that Dai should depeg from USD because it's a risk and a bunch of other drama, of course, and the usual maker drama around low governance, turnout and all that sorts of, of stuff. My honest opinion here is that I personally don't like the direction that maker is going in because of the fact that, like, it really seems very confused as a project right now, like before, especially on the single collateral die, it had a very clear mandate that everyone could understand.
00:22:19.406 - 00:23:08.244, Speaker A: There was Dai, which is a decentralized, stable coin. There was ETH that could be used to generate it, and, you know, then you could go use that within defi and whatever else. Now in multicoloral die, which I have supported in the past, don't get me wrong, but now on the multicolateral die, there is this kind of very weird amalgamation of things happening, and it seems that the maker community wants to prioritize real world assets, or rwas, as a ways to scale maker and a way to scale Dai. And that's totally fine because as I've mentioned before, the, there is a, there is kind of like a bottleneck when creating a decentralized stablecoin. And the, the holy trinity of a stable coin design is having something that is scalable, stable and decentralized. Nothing has got those three properties at this point in time. Because if you're stable, right, and you're, and you're scalable, you're not decentralized.
00:23:08.244 - 00:24:36.174, Speaker A: Or, I mean, it doesn't, there's not like a one to one mapping there, but, you know, from what I've seen from every stable coin, they usually have a trade off, like the decentralized stable coins. They may be stable and scalable, but they're not decentralized, right. Die, for example, under single collateral. Single collateral dai, it was decentralized because it was only backed by ETH, but it was not scalable and it wasn't very stable. Right? So there are all these trade offs, and obviously we've had many, many attempts at building a decentralized stable coin before, but I don't really think that makers attempt here is the one that is going to, I guess, win because like dai is already backed by a lot of USDC if they keep backing it with real world assets, and it's just going to be even more centralized if they keep kind of having this like, I guess like breakaway of the cohesion within the community around what direction maker should go and around, you know, things like if Dai should actually be pegged to USD and all the other drama around that, it kind of feels like they're going to lose and they already lost to centralized stable coins. But I guess that's not an apples to apples comparison. So maybe it's not right to say they lost to it, but at the same time, if Dai is backed, you know, mostly buy centralized assets, then why would you use Dai instead of just USDC or USDT, right? Or busd or any other centralized stable coin? But in saying that there are other attempts at building kind of stable coins that aren't pegged to the USD, such as rye, but that also suffers from the fact that it's truly decentralized.
00:24:36.174 - 00:25:28.744, Speaker A: It's, it's stable to itself. So it kind of like flips the stability point on its head, but it's not very scalable because of the fact that it is trying to be truly decentralized with just being ETH backed. So there are so many trade offs here, and I actually, as more time goes on, I actually don't think we're going to be able to get a fully decentralized stable coin. And what I mean by that is I don't think we're going to be able to get a fully decentralized stable coin like single collateral dai that is both scalable and stable. We're going to have to just accept the fact that there requires centralization vectors in these stable coins if we want to grow them to the world. Maybe I'm wrong about this, but I don't think I am because I've just, I've discussed this before on the refuel unless ETH was able to obtain an astronomical market cap, we wouldn't be able to scale a stable coin. Sorry, scale a stable coin to where we needed it to be to service the world.
00:25:28.744 - 00:26:15.962, Speaker A: And I've discussed the numbers before. I even went up to like an ETH at $100 trillion market cap. And I've even said how even if 10% of ETH was backing die at that market cap, it still wouldn't be enough for the planet. It would require ETH to be worth a stupid amount. And at that point, you would just use ETH as your currency, right? You wouldn't even bother using a stable coin that was pegged to the US dollar. So it's kind of a thing of if eats market cap goes to a stupid high level, then ETH would probably just be the unit of account and the MoE that we use within the world anyway. I know that sounds very far fetched, but that is more likely a scenario than something utilizing ethos collateral to create a stable coin pegged to the USD, which, if all intents and purposes, at that point, if ETH achieved a hundred trillion dollar market cap, then I don't think the USD would be worth very much, because obviously that is measured in USD there.
00:26:15.962 - 00:26:42.034, Speaker A: And then you can go dive even deeper into things like measuring purchasing power, measuring stability of assets against itself. Like it. It's always funny when you think about the stability of assets. If you measure USD stability against energy prices, for example, I mean, USD hasn't been very stable against energy prices at all. It's lost value against energy prices and just general purchasing power. It's lost a lot of value because of inflation, both monetary and supply side. And I don't think that's something that people think about too often.
00:26:42.034 - 00:27:19.570, Speaker A: And maybe I'm going off a little bit of a tangent here, but people tend to think of stability as USD. But in reality, if you had held USD over the last five years, right, you have lost so much purchasing power. And the thing is, is that depending on your timeframe and depending on your. Your way of viewing things, it's very hard to see what you've lost and what you haven't. Because one USD was one USD. Yes, but one ETH equals one ETH as well. So if you're just comparing USD to itself and saying, oh, USD stable, because it one USD was one USD, well, you can say the same thing for ETH, but because you're measuring its value against the US dollar, that's where the volatility comes from.
00:27:19.570 - 00:27:56.248, Speaker A: Imagine if we had measured USD against the purchasing power or against energy bills. If you had that chart, we have those charts. We see the energy prices going up. Right. That that is the true measure of USD stability, if you want to think about it like that. So in my mind, either way I look at stability is purchasing power. So, yeah, I don't really think we're going to get a truly decentralized USD stable coin that is scalable and stable because at that point, or stable to its stable relative to other things, because at that point, Ethel would just be big enough to act as that currency and Moe and ETH will be that very good store of value as well.
00:27:56.248 - 00:28:19.056, Speaker A: So, yeah, anyway, that's a. I can. I could talk about that for a long time because this is something that I think about very, very deeply. As someone who is in a position that tries to preserve capital. Now I'm less about growing capital, like in an exponential way, and more about preserving what I already have. I'm always thinking about purchasing power. For me, it's always like, okay, I don't want to hold too much fear because of such and such, you know, because of inflation, because of this, because of that.
00:28:19.056 - 00:28:46.454, Speaker A: But I also don't want to leave myself in a position where I'm just exposed to risk assets. So I try to diversify and try to do things here. It is very difficult, right. But it is something that I think about often as a thought exercise, too, and something that you, maybe you'll get value of thinking about as well, was measuring things as part of, like, purchasing power rather than measuring everything against a fiat such as USD. But I'm going to leave that at that for today. I think that's all I wanted to talk about. So, yeah, thank you, everyone, for listening and watching.
00:28:46.454 - 00:28:53.014, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
