00:00:03.330 - 00:00:51.378, Speaker A: Hi everyone. So I was told to stand here. The Mev garden. So that's very sweet name because we've been talking about the dark forest for a long time. So my name is Steincheck, I'm mated flashboards founder net of Mind, trying to wear a few hats and we'll be talking about how to connect through PBS many different domains with Swarf. So this is not an announcement of a product, it's not a suggestion that Flashbot's going to build, it's more like building the open, presenting you a bit more of undercooked ideas that potentially will be rejected. Like maybe something will be missing in quality, maybe it will be not really aligned with the values, all the values that are at flashbacks.
00:00:51.378 - 00:02:08.316, Speaker A: So illuminating through the bringing transparency to mev activity, providing permissionless, access to mev extraction and distributing fairly the mev revenue. All right, so once again, Mev Garden will move away to something that is a bright place, clearly divided into components, PBS and with kind of conditions for everyone to participate. So we're talking about connecting everything with the existing ecosystem and making sure that there is place for everyone, especially that the users feel very good in this ecosystem. That's one of the small steps really what we'll be showing and hopefully we'll end up with something like this and maybe a little survey like how many of you know what PBS is? Okay, it's going better and better. So now we divided it slightly more, but just slightly more. So I say the builders would divide them into the sequencers and builders sequencers will be choosing the transactions, sequencing transactions and the builders will be building blocks out of the transactions that are preselected. So it may happen in some of the setups and it particularly might be important if you start talking about the shared sequencers.
00:02:08.316 - 00:03:07.820, Speaker A: So start to forget for a moment that sequencers are what in the roll up is like everything together and how nowadays we see the PBS done. So I'll go quickly over maybe some very simple visualizations of what we have, what we can end up with. So nowadays many of the roll ups are like summer two and a centralized native sequencer. In it the decentralization very often is seen as like just introduce a few sequencers and leader election and they start proposing blocks one after another, depending on some rules. With a shared sequencer, we say that the sequencer is actually shared between multiple L two S L1s and we may have some atomicity with it. And then something that is like ethereum nowadays would be you start splitting the sequencers into proposers and builders. So there's builder market, they're bidding for the best block and there's proposers.
00:03:07.820 - 00:04:27.352, Speaker A: So you know all of this right now I start saying that we will say that shared sequencers and native sequences like centralized sequencers, all of this can coexist and you can start to have various combinations of all those setups and also very important thing is that PBS does not necessarily require that the proposers are decentralized. You can have a centralized proposer native to the roll up and still create a builder market so they can be biding for the best block. And the proposer may decide to either capture that value for the operator of the L two or to maybe burn it for the protocol. And now, as I say, all of this may coexist. And because we can have many different protocols arriving at the solutions at very different times with different like, we see an Arbitrum proposal, we see what scroll was proposing, what StarkNet is working on and so on and so on. So maybe in this world for a few years where we want to create the market, start building the markets for mev and for PVs and still connect all of those different protocols. So when we know that we want to achieve that, we set some design goals for the protocol that will allow to do the PBS with the cross domain mev.
00:04:27.352 - 00:05:20.696, Speaker A: And we want to support that heterogeneous sequencer space, different designs. We want to enable permissionless and transparent cross domain mev market. We want to be in line with whatever happens on Ethereum, but also be in line with what happens with other chains, right? So think about not too much pushing the protocols themselves to change. We want to operate slightly outside of the protocol, maybe opposite to what Zaki was saying, or maybe not opposite, but related to what Zaki was saying. We want to respect the position of various market players that are building shared sequencers, middlewares risk kaking solutions and so on. So we want to make sure that everyone feels like oh wow, there is a marketplace arising, there is a game which I'll be able to play with, play inside. We want to make sure that it's aligned.
00:05:20.696 - 00:06:09.448, Speaker A: So that's my internal goal, like make sure that whatever we're working on at Flashbots is actually part of our greater vision that is strategically well tested and discussed. And one thing is that we keep thinking about it. We need to ensure that their equal rights are there for the solo stakers and large operators to participate in that game. And this is for the validators or proposers. And now this will be the proposal for what we really can build to try to support all of those requirements. So first of all, we want to have some kind of chain, it can be swap chain, it can be something on the side of swap chain, which is just like a global ordering system. So a set of Oracles or whatever construction.
00:06:09.448 - 00:07:11.148, Speaker A: And the construction here is not really defined on the technical level, more on the vision idea level. We want to order the blocks on different chains and have a way of looking at this ordering from the outside just to use it for construction of the proofs and slashings. So I'm saying I'm looking at etherscan, StarkNet, polygon and many other chains potentially, and maybe even things outside of the l two or ethereum space. And I want to keep order of everything that I can do possibly within all of those domains. And I say that I want to introduce a definition of synchronized block proposals. So if I'm a shared sequencer, for example, I'm practically in some cases I'll be sure that I'm proposing blocks that will happen at the same time. If it was a based roll up on L One, I know that every 12 seconds I produce block and within that block I'll be producing blocks, batching blocks for multiple roll ups.
00:07:11.148 - 00:08:16.960, Speaker A: So I can start making some promises. But to describe those promises, we need to agree on some definitions. And I'm not sure what those definitions would be over time in the market, which of those would be the most the strongest? And here, for example, seeing something like a very strict definition, like we're looking at two different domains and we don't allow anything in between. So on the screen, the ethereum block 100 will be synchronized with the StarkNet block, but not with the following ethereum block and not with any of the blocks before the StarkNet block because they belong to a different domain and there is something in between. So I want the blocks to be exactly next to each other, but then maybe this will be difficult. And maybe I would sometimes not care about the other domains because I'm trying to synchronize to blocks to extract mev and maybe not always I will believe that through some other chains construction I can extract that mev before this happens, before the synchronized execution happens. So maybe I want to define something that is like strict but within the domain.
00:08:16.960 - 00:08:56.636, Speaker A: So as long as there is no other block that belongs to the same domain as the two blocks that I'm talking about in between, that it's synchronized. So here the ethereum block is synchronized with StarkNet block. It's also synchronized with the polygon block because there's nothing from ethereum or polygon in between. So there's only StarkNet block in between and it belongs to another domain. So I don't care. And the more domains I will see there, the more I will probably want to restrict the number of domains that I care about when defining what doesn't mean that it's synchronized. And then I may say that, well, I really care only about the situations when both domains that I'm synchronizing between or multiple domains.
00:08:56.636 - 00:09:40.188, Speaker A: Like we can probably extend it to many domains. If no set of blocks happened in between that would belong to the same domains, then everything is fine. So here I really say that even one of the last polygon blocks is still synchronized with ethereum, ethereum block 100. But the STARTnet block 202 is not synchronized with that block because we see both the ethereum and StarkNet block in between. So this is not very strict. I'm just proposing something that may be relevant when making announcements. Like if I'm a sequencer proposer, as a proposer shared sequencer proposer, I want to make commitments to what I'm going to do and I have to describe it in somehow.
00:09:40.188 - 00:11:08.504, Speaker A: And as we were working on it, we discovered that well, the definition is not that obvious, we may still need to work about which definition was thick. The communication about this the announcements may happen through something like nowadays for the relay, but potentially may happen through the Attestations and PTP network. So there should be no difference whether we keep the existing ideas of ethereum and existing roadmap and whether we change it towards the EPBs and shrine PBS not really to the way we approach this solution at Mivgarden. And when you look at the proposals of PEPC, like protocol enforced proposal commitments, you can think of this a bit like a cross domain PEPC. So cross chain PBS, we're adding communication layer from proposers to builders. So the other direction proposers make announcements like in PEPC, like some announcements of what I would like to commit to and I define asynchronization between the blogs that I'm about to commit to and I can be slashed if I don't deliver that. So we'll show how to do that and once again think of it maybe as a cross domain PEPC and this is part of the design goals.
00:11:08.504 - 00:12:43.380, Speaker A: We want to create the permissionless and transparent market. So you start to feel maybe it's permissionless because we created that chain and anyone can start announcing this proposals, defining some kind of we can have some format description of what I'm going to do as a shared sequencer. You can say polygon ethereum block in ten minutes they'll be synchronized according to the strict domain rule and if I don't deliver, you can slash me. If I do deliver, then actually you can start bidding on that proposal and any of those shared sequencers, native sequencers, decentralized sequencers may start judging themselves how much of the probability of delivery of that commitment they have. Do I only propose it, only announce it if it's 100%, if I'm sharing sequencer or sometimes I want to start extracting value even if I have 5% chance, 50% chance of success and I know what my deposit is, what can be slashed. So this is both the global time with the set of proposals. We look at this chain and we see that we start noticing blocks and there is a commitment from a proposer saying I'll do synchronized StarkNet ethereum blocks and then we start seeing bids from the block builders that are now cross domain block builders and they're bidding on what will be the best payment to that synchronized proposer.
00:12:43.380 - 00:13:32.660, Speaker A: The block is selected when it's accepted, when the bid is accepted, then from now on we practically have a promise that there is some slashing. So the deposits where exactly it's deployed, it's maybe not the most relevant. It can be something on this chain, something outside, some restaking solutions and so on. And then we see at the end, either I delivered synchronized blocks according to that definition or I failed. If I delivered, I get the beat that was promised. If I failed, I'm going to be slashed. Why is it important in the Suave Roadmap alignment? Well, if you've seen the presentation from Robert about Swav, we were talking about this promise that a searcher can say I'll pay you one if you deploy something on two different chains.
00:13:32.660 - 00:14:22.260, Speaker A: So without this, maybe the one problem is that I may make this promise, but on the other side, the executor has to have some kind of expectation about how likely they are to achieve that success of landing something on two different blocks. And they want to have someone else promising that yes, they can do that for them. So the executor want to have a bid, but also a promise that they can operate on that bit and start simulating and building blocks. So this is the component that is needed for swap to connect for the cross domain. And this one thing is here in yellow because it's kind of missing. This is risky. It's to be explored how the Solo Stakers Solo proposers validators can compete with the large operators that have huge overlap between two networks.
00:14:22.260 - 00:15:36.070, Speaker A: So shared sequencer is a simple case, but if I'm large operator two networks, for example, 70% of blocks on one network, 70% of blocks on the other network, more likely 30 or so, then I will have overlaps very often. I can make these promises of cross domain extraction all the time so I can capture more and more value. So within these we have to make sure that those proposals between the Solo stakers solo proposers can be somehow coordinated and that we know what exactly happens if the slashing happens, who is at fault for not delivering and now, what's the roadmap? Well, ensuring that the design is actually satisfying all those goals, supporting PBS on multiple chains so they can be connected to this solution. And this is not trivial, as we've seen, there are different questions about what consensus mechanisms are used. Like if it's tendermint, how this will work there, if it's ethereum l two, how it will work there, how it will work with provers and so on and so on. So that PBS work already started many we look at many protocols and try to help them to build POCs. So reach out if you would like to have those conversations with the flashboards team.
00:15:36.070 - 00:16:38.370, Speaker A: And yes, we'd love to hear from all of the l two S, all of the domains of what exactly works here, what doesn't work? Is there much mev to make here, how the market makers think about it is really needed and is it value aligned? And just to summarize, maybe the slide was initially at the front, but we didn't know about the time. So the Flashboard's Nevermind collaboration started around 2021 and there's a bit of invitation for many builders teams or like protocol engineering teams to maybe start collaboration with Swap. We've with Flashbots on Swap on multiple components. We do lots of research materials together FRPS, but we also do engineering. So I hope that the journey of being totally outside of Flashbots and enjoying the fantastic time on research and building can be your journey as well. Thank you so much. That's all from me.
