00:00:00.320 - 00:00:49.672, Speaker A: What Solana enables is very unique in the world of blockchains. This chain has amazing tech, but more importantly, it has an amazing community that supports you and it builds with you. The entirety of the success of Helios is due to the Solana community itself. My name is Mert. I'm the co founder and CEO of Helios, a developer platform for Solana developers. It helps you build better, faster and cheaper applications on the Solana blockchain. Before this, I worked in banking, crypto exchanges, and now I run Helios and post a lot on Twitter.
00:00:49.672 - 00:01:43.936, Speaker A: Solana is constantly pushing the frontier of distributed systems technology, the frontier of hardware engineering. It leverages physics fullest potential to enable the future of the Internet. As a developer, building on Solana right now is super exciting because you can write code and deploy it on the blockchain. It'll just run forever. You can build things like decentralized physical infrastructure, payments at the speed of light, new forms of finance, digital collectibles, all things that weren't really possible before Solana. On Solana, you don't have to wait for this hypothetical future of when blockchains will actually be performant enough to compete with the existing Internet. You can just build things that work, work well, work fast, work cheap, and work more efficiently than even the older Internet right this second.
00:01:43.936 - 00:02:30.778, Speaker A: And if you get stuck, there is this massive global community of developers everywhere from India to Germany to Turkey to the UK, who have a vested interest in helping you so that we can all succeed together. This chain has amazing tech, but more importantly, it has an amazing community that supports you. And I just want to show that to other people that, you know, build on slot. I want to help them become more successful, grow their businesses, build a future of, you know, finance, gaming, social. When people think only possible on Solana, most people think very technically, which is fair, I would say. What uniquely enables Helios on Solana is the social layer. All these people around the world have different perspectives, right? There's a massive diversity of, like, opinions and thought processes and experiences.
00:02:30.778 - 00:02:58.994, Speaker A: It's pretty unusual for a piece of technology to have, like, a community this vibrant. Solana is the fastest, most performant, most scalable, and the most cost efficient chain out there and will be for a very, very long time. It's a super exciting time to build on Solana as a developer. Everybody's building at light speed. You can also compose with other apps that other developers have built. Things like, you know, order books, nfts, digital collectibles. There's just no other alternative that I could even imagine building on top of, other than Solana.
