00:00:00.240 - 00:00:34.944, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the daily Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Andreas Asano, and today's the 25 March 2022. Hi, everyone. Let's get into it. So this isn't directly crypto related, but I did see this, I think, a couple days ago, and I wanted to kind of like, talk about it and how it kind of relates to crypto. So what I'm talking about is there's this kind of like, meme account on Twitter called Nancy Pelosi, CFA, which is kind of like a parody account of Nancy Pelosi, who is the speaker of the House in, in the US. Very famous politician, actually, and a very rich politician, which brings me to what I wanted to talk about.
00:00:34.944 - 00:01:36.896, Speaker A: So Nancy Pelosi, in the kind of like the parody account here, tweeted out saying Nancy Pelosi just exercised 25 call options for 2500 shares on Tesla worth $5 million at a strike price of $500. The share price is $943 today. Nancy Pelosi is the greatest investor the world has ever seen. Now, for those of you who don't know how this works, basically she, she or whoever manages her investments took out these kind of option call options a while ago with, with the strike price of $500. So that basically means that she, by exercising them today, she was able to buy Tesla shares for $500 when the share price is $943 today, leading to a pretty substantial profit. Now, while this is an issue beyond her being kind of beyond this being suspect, given, like, how much, how often she tends to do, this is the second tweet here where it says Nancy Pelosi regulates the oil and gas industry and benefits when she puts on undue burdens on America's energy independence, then she profits handsomely off her burdensome regulations with Tesla call options. Very disappointed in the SEC here.
00:01:36.896 - 00:02:18.978, Speaker A: And that's what the account said. Now, as far as I know, and from what I've read, the insider trading is pretty much legal. If you're a politician. There is no, it doesn't seem to be any kind of, like, hard laws against it. And you're able to kind of like, trade stocks and call options, do whatever you want, basically, even if you're a politician, even if you're a high ranking politician, even if you have conflicts of interest, like what Nancy has here, which is obviously really stupid. Right? Like, I, the fact that this is even a thing is really dumb. But I'm not necessarily surprised because, as I've said, plenty of times before, guys, I think financial regulations are way too harsh, but they're always kind of like, overreaching, but they're not, they're not, they never get kind of go after the right people.
00:02:18.978 - 00:02:39.364, Speaker A: Like the SEC, for example. You know, I quote Twitter this tweet and said, don't worry, guys, I'm sure the SEC will be all over this soon. They're not going to investigate this. The SEC is not doing its job of protecting investors. It's not doing its job of looking into insider trading and all that sort of stuff. It really is just a protection racket, I think, for those in power. And I'm not going to go on a kind of like, rant about the SEC.
00:02:39.364 - 00:02:59.828, Speaker A: But how this relates to crypto is that, you know, there's obviously a lot of insider trading in crypto. It's everywhere, guys. Like, seriously, it's really bad, right? There's. It's very hard to stop this. Like, even centralized exchanges struggle with this all the time. So, for example, a centralized exchange may come kind of like announce internally that they're going to be listing a certain token. Say it's Coinbase, and they're going to be listing a new token.
00:02:59.828 - 00:03:48.924, Speaker A: And for a while, not so much these days, but for a while, whenever Coinbase listed a token, there was like the Coinbase pump, right, where the token would go up substantially in value immediately after listing. Now, if you worked at Coinbase, you're obviously going to sign agreements saying you were not going to trade based on this information and if caught, you'd be prosecuted, blah, blah, blah. But how would they police that? Because it's not like you have to set up a brokerage account, do KYC or AML, in order to trade these things on Ethereum as a token, right? Like, say there's an ERC 20 token and it's trading on uniswap, but it's not on Coinbase yet. You can literally go home, spin up a new Ethereum address, fund it from another centralized exchange if you want, or fund it through tornado cash or something, and then trade based on the information you got as an employee at Coinbase. Right? And this has happened plenty of times before. Guys like, this is not hypothetical. This happens, and not just with Coinbase or with every other centralized exchange.
00:03:48.924 - 00:04:24.100, Speaker A: And there's really not much that can be done to stop it. So I totally get, like, why maybe the SEC or other regulatory bodies don't want to go after this. Because it's just a waste of their time. Because they already know that it's very, very hard to, difficult to stop and all those sorts of things, and that's totally fine, but they don't even go after the most obvious things. Like, for example, all the youtubers that kind of just shill coins that they don't disclose that they're holding, right, for basically a pump and dump. There's been hardly anyone that has actually kind of been prosecuted for that or gone, you know, all the regulatory bodies have gone after for that. But the regulators continue to go after the legitimate teams building legitimate products like uniswap labs.
00:04:24.100 - 00:04:55.480, Speaker A: So I think just looking at all of this together, I, you know, I struggle to understand why people would want more financial regulation or why people want financial regulation to begin with when it's not actually doing its job. We see stories of banks all the time being caught money laundering. They pay a fine. You know, away they go. So many of these things, of these, um, all these scams, they just end up paying a fine and away they go. Like block one did it with eos, paid a $24 million fine to the SEC after raising billions of dollars in an unregistered security sale and wash trading. And that's it.
00:04:55.480 - 00:05:53.376, Speaker A: Now they have like a massive BTC treasury and, and they're, you know, they're on their merry way else they never amounted to anything, but they're, they're off scot free. They're living on private islands, whatever they're doing with that, with that money. So, you know, that, that's crazy in of itself. Uh, but there's plenty of examples of this, kind of like, you know, especially in crypto, where this just keeps happening again and again and again and you kind of like say to yourself, well, if these financial regulations are really strict and they're basically restricting the legitimate teams from being able to do anything because they're just scaring scared of the financial regs, but they're not actually stopping the bad stuff from happening, then what's the point? Right? Like, really, what is the point? And obviously, it's a lot more nuanced than I'm making it out to be. There is, there's a lot of kind of, I guess, a lot of complexities that go into this, but I just, I'm just so bearish on a lot of those regulations. Like, I don't understand why they exist outside of being a protection racket. Like, honestly, it seems like especially laws, like the accredited investor laws exist just to protect the already wealthy people.
00:05:53.376 - 00:06:21.980, Speaker A: Because accredited investor laws is literally a wealth test. If you don't have a $1 million net worth or you don't earn things 20, $50,000 a year for two consecutive years. And that net worth has to be excluding your primary residence. You're not able to invest in early stage companies like, like someone else who has that kind of, that net worth. Is that right? There is wealth, gatekeeping of opportunity. And like, that doesn't make sense to me. Like the only way it makes sense to me is if it's been put in place as a protection racket.
00:06:21.980 - 00:07:12.988, Speaker A: And honestly, in the traditional, kind of like finance world, as I've said before, it's an average of seven years for a traditional company to IPO. And by the time they've IPO, they've gone up to like a series deal, Series E funding round, maybe even further than that sometimes. And by the time it hits the stock market, those 100 x gains, you know, or 1000 x gains even, are completely gone. Like you may get that over the long, long term, like decades of holding a stock, for example, if it's relatively undervalued when they ipO. But for most of the time, you're not getting anywhere near that. And you're basically going to be exit liquidity for the VC's and the funds that got in on the earlier rounds because they were able to get in due to kind of like those laws and other, and other things around that. So I don't know, like I would love to see here someone give the bull case or give like a good justification for why so many of these harsh financial regulations exist and why they should exist.
00:07:12.988 - 00:07:48.474, Speaker A: I'm just not seeing. I think a lot of them need to be repealed. A lot of them need to be just completely removed. And I do think that there is room for some of them. But I just, there has to be a balance between kind of, I guess, like innovation and regulation. And I think at this point in time, the pendulum has swung way too much towards regulation, especially in the crypto space, for no good reason, considering the fact that all the scammers, or at least 99% of the scammers in this space, get away with it, get away with making millions, tens of millions, potentially hundreds of millions of dollars off of this stuff. I mean, there literally, there have been billions actually of dollars made from pure scams in this space.
00:07:48.474 - 00:08:36.916, Speaker A: And these people are just laughing all the way to, I mean, maybe not to the bank, as the, as the classic terminology goes, but they really are laughing like really, really hard at the fact that they've just gotten away with this and, and then you have like other teams, like legitimate teams getting prosecuted, getting, you know, fines and stuff like that, and getting pressure put on them, which I just think is very, very unbalanced and very, very unfair. But anyway, a little bit of a rare there for today's episode. But I think it's very important to think about these things, especially in the context of crypto, because DeFi is being built to resist this sort of stuff. And maybe we can't repeal or replace or remove a lot of these financial regulations. Maybe we just have to build around them. Maybe we just have to keep building these true defi tools in order to basically get around all of this. Because once something is truly decentralized on ethereum, it becomes basically impossible to shut it down.
00:08:36.916 - 00:09:12.184, Speaker A: And from then we don't even have to worry about financial regulations anymore. For the app itself, we do extra protocol stuff like stablecoins and fiat on off ramps are always going to be pretty heavily regulated or centralized. Stable coins, that is. But I think at least if we have true defi products, it just becomes a lot easier for us to route around this sort of stuff rather than trying to fight the bureaucracy and the politics and all that sort of stuff. So. So, yeah, anyway, I'd love to hear your thoughts on this, guys, like in the Discord channel or in the YouTube comments. As I said, try and give me the bull case for financial regulations and why you think that also that a lot of them should exist.
00:09:12.184 - 00:09:51.562, Speaker A: And if that, and give me like a positive and give me some positives of what they've done to outweigh the negatives of what they haven't done, basically. All right, so crypto Gucci shared tweet today where they said CNBC ran a segment today around a theorem outperforming bitcoin amid new quote unquote ethereum 2.0. The narrative around the Ethereum merge is finally getting out in the mainstream media. It won't be long before the world grasps the power of Ethereum. Now, you can see here there's a, basically a picture being taken of CNBC and it says Ethereum 2.0 bull case of, quote unquote, the merge, the Ethereum network to become more efficient. That's, that's completely correct and kind of like accurate in terms of if you're, if you're framing it in terms of the fact that it's using 99.98%
00:09:51.562 - 00:10:26.928, Speaker A: less power. But I guess becoming more efficient could be taken other ways, but I'm not going to knock them for that. But then they go on to say it's cheaper to create because it will require less computing power and energy. Now, I don't even know what they're trying to imply here, but I'm guessing, like, cheaper to create blocks, maybe, but no. Like, I think this is where kind of like, the narratives around the gas fees will. Will be reduced at the merge come from. A lot of people seem to think that because proof of work uses heavy computation to produce blocks, or I guess in order to kind of like, produce those.
00:10:26.928 - 00:10:44.096, Speaker A: Those results, in order to have. Have the right to produce a block sort of thing, it means that the. Because proof of stake doesn't do that. You require less computing power, so we get more scale. That's not actually how it works. And I think this is a very actual common misconception. And I finally figured out that that's where the.
00:10:44.096 - 00:11:04.902, Speaker A: The narrative came from about the merge. Lowering gas fees is because people think, you know, proof of stake makes things more efficient. That must mean we get more scalability out of it and we have less gas fees. No, the. The gas fees are always set by the opcodes, right? The operation. Operation codes in the EVM, which have a fixed cost or a cost that. I mean, fixed cost at all times, but can be changed via hard forks, of course.
00:11:04.902 - 00:11:22.628, Speaker A: But, you know, as I've explained before, it's all dictated by that. And because there's a gas limit, there's only a certain number amount of gas that can fit into a block. So if the. If we're at that limit, then you. Then basically people have to outbid each other to get their transactions in. So that remains the same post merge. Like, that is not going away.
00:11:22.628 - 00:11:48.176, Speaker A: That is not changing. And that's exactly why the merge doesn't reduce gas fees. So I think I finally figured it out, that kind of bad narrative. And I actually get the logic too. I really do get the logic. It's not just people being stupid, it's people just having this misconception, which we do need to try really hard to, I guess, rectify before the merge happens at this point in time. Guys, I think that the only thing that's going to happen is that the merge will happen.
00:11:48.176 - 00:12:13.264, Speaker A: People have realized that gas fees didn't get lowered because of the merge. The ones who care will go and research more about it and see, you know, okay, how is the gas fees actually being reduced? Things like L2 and sharding and other upgrades coming. But then there'll be a lot of people who would just be like, oh, this is a scam. This is a rug, whatever. You can't help those people. You know, they have to help themselves at the end of the day. And then the third point here is crypto's carbon footprint has been a key critique, which obviously it has.
00:12:13.264 - 00:12:45.004, Speaker A: I mean, as I've said to you guys plenty of times, it doesn't matter at all if bitcoin or a proof of work is actually good for the environment for whatever reason. I'm not even going to give the kind of like arguments. I'm just going to say it doesn't matter if it is good. The narrative is against it. And not just the narrative. Everyone's against it. I mean, I think a lot of people really do need to speak to the younger generation, especially the people that are still in their early teens, about what they think about things that use a lot of energy and just climate change in general and kind of, you know, sustainability within the, within the environment.
00:12:45.004 - 00:13:37.556, Speaker A: They have a very, very different view, guys like, and it makes sense for them. They are pretty much going to be suffering from it for most of their lives. If they're like twelve years old, for example, right? And they live to be 80, they're going to be dealing with the effects of climate change for 68 years, right? And they're looking at that. And among all the other things that they're looking at like, you know, rising house, housing costs, rising cost of everything at this point in time, uh, you know, inequality, all that sort of stuff, they're looking at all of that and they feel kind of an existential dread even at that young. And, you know, I don't think a lot of people realize this, especially people, you know, older people. Like I'm almost 30 and I'm just starting now to realize that. But I think a lot of older people in their forties, fifties and sixties, the ones who just don't have much contact with this generation unless it's like directly their kids, but even then they don't seem to make that connection and they don't seem to realize just how concerned these people are.
00:13:37.556 - 00:14:07.156, Speaker A: So that bad narrative, or I guess bad or good narrative, whatever you want to call it, that narrative around proof of work being bad for the environment is not going to go away. And I'm, as I've said plenty of times, I'm so thankful Ethereum won't have to fight this fight. I'm so thankful that we basically get away with it by saying, well, I mean, we're merged now. Like we were on proof of stake. You know, we don't, we don't use mining. And I think from there it'll take a while for that to kind of like that information to disseminate across the crypto sphere. But I think once it does going to be very, very positive.
00:14:07.156 - 00:14:39.492, Speaker A: But it's still cool to see CNBC covering the, I mean, we're mainstream now, guys. Remember I told you guys that I, I felt like the merge narrative was really going to pick up steam. Well, in the last two weeks it really has. And it's crazy how fast that happened. But I remember saying to you guys, like, you know, when it starts picking up steam, it's going to be too late to kind of, kind of like get the alpha out of it. Like obviously ETH is back over three k now and I really do think it's because of that. But you had plenty of opportunity to buy ETH under 2500 bucks and even earlier than that, obviously if you kind of sorry even less than that, if you had kind of like clued into the merge earlier than that too.
00:14:39.492 - 00:15:01.460, Speaker A: But anyway, not going to give financial advice there for you guys. Moving on to the next update here. So something from Dan Crowdfeist, who is an ethereum researcher at the Ethereum foundation. It's a post about client diversity. So it's a blog post titled Ethereum Merge. Run the majority client at your own peril. And the TRDR is for reasons of both safety and liveness.
00:15:01.460 - 00:15:27.700, Speaker A: Ethereum has chosen a multi client architecture in order to encourage stakers to diversify their setups. Penalties are higher for correlated failures. A staker running a minority client will thus typically only lose moderate amounts should their client have a bug. But running a majority client can incur a total loss. Responsible stakers should therefore look at the client landscape and choose a less popular client. Now, obviously I've spoken about client diversity a ton on the refill, so I'm not going to rehash my thoughts there. But this is a very, very good blog post.
00:15:27.700 - 00:16:11.274, Speaker A: Basically required reading to understand exactly what I've been banging on about the fact that if you're running the majority client right now, which is obviously prismatic, then you stand to lose a lot if there's a bug, and it could incur a total loss, meaning you lose everything if you're staking your ETH. So that's a pretty big penalty, guys, like when you, when you really think about it. And it's really just as simple as changing over your validator clients to the non super majority clients if you're staking on your own. But if you're staking with an exchange or something like that, encouraging them to change over to something else. And I think, you know, once they once kind of like more customers put pressure on these exchanges, it'll happen. But as I've said before, they move slowly. But I think it's happening in the background.
00:16:11.274 - 00:16:32.506, Speaker A: I really do. I think we're going to get the prism down below the super majority that they currently have, which is 66%. I think we're going to hopefully get them down below 60% sooner rather than later. Ideally we want to do that before the merge and ideally we want them below 50%. We don't want any client over 50%. I'm not just trying to pick on prism here, but I've explained all this before. I'm not going to rehash it for today, but definitely go check out these blog post for sure, guys.
00:16:32.506 - 00:17:08.136, Speaker A: I mean, this is required reading and this is the thing that you should be reading right now. I mean it, pause the video and go rate it. That's how important it is to understand this stuff, especially if you're a staker on the, on the beacon chain here. Alright, so Polynya has a new blog post out today which, which also is a highly recommended read. So this is their updated thoughts on modular blockchains. Now obviously, Polinar was the one who basically popularized the modular blockchain term, has been talking a lot about them. It's with the separation of concerns here that I've spoken about a lot where you separate, you know, execution, settlement and data into, into different layers, execution being roll ups or L2s, as we call them.
00:17:08.136 - 00:17:52.784, Speaker A: Settlement being the Ethereum chain and data. Ethereum layer one chain and data also being the Ethereum layer one chain. But polynomial has kind of changed his thinking about this and he wants to add kind of, I guess, like a fourth, I can, a fourth concern here called history, which I've talked about a lot lately about history. Expiry and stuff like that and state expiry and all that stuff and where it got, that kind of gets stored. And then he goes poly now, goes on to, I guess, dive deeper into this and talk and talks about enshrined roll ups, which I've mentioned before as well. So I'm not going to kind of like break it all down here because you do need to read these blog posts for further context on it, I believe, and to get, to get the good explanation of it. But essentially Polina's vision, I guess, for the modular, sorry, the modular stack is that everything is just Ethereum.
00:17:52.784 - 00:18:42.112, Speaker A: Right. Execution, settlement data and history is all just Ethereum and nothing is. I mean, the concerns are still separated, but it's separated in a way that it's all enshrined within the, within the kind of like Ethereum protocol itself, so that we have interoperability, composability and all the good stuff that we're used to while getting the scalability and security that we all want. Right? So highly recommend giving this blog post a read to learn more about that. And I think the overall point of this piece was also to show that there are a lot of hybrid constructions right now, like validiums and validity and all that sort of stuff going on. Obviously there's other kind of like constructions like ZK Porter, what Celestia is working on, what Polygon avail is working on, and things like that. And I think people are getting confused by calling them roll ups when they actually aren't, like a roll up.
00:18:42.112 - 00:19:29.862, Speaker A: So, so the strict definition of a roll up is something that stores both its transaction proofs and its data on kind of like the settlement layer, which in this case is layer one. Ethereum, it's not a roll up, is not something that will store its data off chain, that is a validium or, you know, some, or some other such construction, like a ZK porter or something like that. So I think it's very important to realize the differences between these things, because at the end of the day, your funds are only as secure as the data. Really. And if the data isn't on chain and on layer one, not available on layer one Ethereum, then you're at the mercy of wherever the data is somewhere else. And there are other solutions, like people being able to host their own data and kind of like secure their own data, which is a step above the other solutions. But still, this is kind of like the nitty gritty of what we talk about when we talk about scaling via the modular blockchains.
00:19:29.862 - 00:19:54.990, Speaker A: And getting the terminology right is very important. So I'll link this in the YouTube description and you can go check it out. I highly recommend giving it a read. Alright, so optimism announced today, as I mentioned yesterday, that they have shipped their core data compression to Mainnet. So 40% transaction free reductions are coming. They're not live just yet, but they are coming. You see, optimism said 15 hours ago that you'll start to see fee reductions over the next week as they figure out the correct new overhead numbers.
00:19:54.990 - 00:20:10.702, Speaker A: Stay true. Tuned. So I mentioned this yesterday how I think the fees yesterday. What are the fees today actually on, on optimism to solve a token $0.41, same as yesterday. I mentioned that they would drop to about $0.30 with this kind of like, actually, I think less than that, probably.
00:20:10.702 - 00:20:36.230, Speaker A: Yeah, less than $0.30 with this kind of upgrade. But it's not live just yet. So if you're using optimism, you're not feeling it just yet, but you will over the next week. As they kind of like adjust these numbers, obviously, as they run the only sequence sequencer, they, they can kind of like play around with this and tune it correctly and all that sort of stuff. But there's also a link here to the first compressed mainnet transaction that you can see on either scan, which is really, really cool to see. This is, I mean, this is awesome, guys.
00:20:36.230 - 00:21:06.216, Speaker A: Like, honestly, I think arbitrum nitro can't be far behind at this point because of the fact that optimism has just shipped this. I think they're cheaper than arbitrary right now because of this, or will be cheaper than arbitra. I think they already were cheaper because of their optimizations. Yeah, they're a bit cheaper than arbitrum, and this makes them even more cheaper. And once arbitrum does arbitram, nitro, and a bunch of other kind of like things that they're bringing in, I'm sure we're just going to have like a battle down to like, you know, less than $0.10, you know, cents on the dollar kind of transaction fees here. And that's what we want to see.
00:21:06.216 - 00:21:38.772, Speaker A: We want to see this kind of like healthy competition between roll ups and especially between similar roll ups, like, obviously, optimism and arbitrary, the leading optimistic roll up solutions. We want to see competition between them as well. So very, very cool to see this, this live on Ethereum mainnet. And that's a pretty massive fee reduction coming for optimism users in the coming week. And speaking of optimism, Huawei Global has launched ETH deposits and withdrawals on the optimism network. Now, they were supporting arbitrary before, and now they support optimism. So this is just another way for you to get from a centralized exchange directly onto optimism.
00:21:38.772 - 00:22:21.650, Speaker A: And I believe the fees are less than the other kind of exchanges out there. I know binance is currently overcharging for fees. They're actually charging users more to withdraw from, to withdraw to arbitrarium than they are to withdraw to ethereum layer one, which makes absolutely no sense. And this is one worry that I had about centralized exchanges in that the fact that they can charge whatever they want for withdrawal fees and they wouldn't dynamically adjust that binance is actually a really, really bad offender of this. And I think they do it on purpose because they make so much money from it. But they, they always consistently have fees that are higher than what, that is what is required to be paid to pay the fee on the network. And as I said, I think it's really because the fact that they make a shit ton of money off this.
00:22:21.650 - 00:23:04.890, Speaker A: Like think about the amount of withdrawals that centralized exchanges process a day, and if they can inshat an extra ten to 20% on the withdrawal fee, why wouldn't they? And I think it's much higher than that in some cases like 50% higher than that or something. So makes sense from a business perspective, I guess being profit maximalist as decentralized exchanges are, but it sucks for a user experience and usability perspective. So I hope we see more competition there. I hope that we see the fees come down over time as more centralized exchanges launch support for, for these sorts of things. But yeah, cool to see hubby launch support for optimism. So if you're a user of the hubby exchange, go check them out and go withdraw some funds to optimism. All right, finally, here we have orbiter finance announcing support for immutable x.
00:23:04.890 - 00:23:34.136, Speaker A: So you can transfer in and out of immutable x within 30 seconds and for less than $2. Now for those of you who've used immutable x before, you'll know that it is a validium. It is not technically a ZK roll up, but they have about a twelve hour withdrawal time, I believe, which honestly, I mean, it's not that bad. It's not like a seven day withdrawal time or anything like that. But 12 hours is still a little while. Like I've withdrawn funds from there before and I'm like, ugh, I have to wait 12 hours, right? Even if I didn't need the funds immediately, I was like, oh God, waiting, waiting 12 hours here. Well, now you don't have to do that.
00:23:34.136 - 00:24:06.228, Speaker A: You can transfer in and out of immutable x within 30 seconds using orbital and orbiter. I mean, look at how many, I guess like chains they currently support. Basically pretty much all the popular l two s, you know, polygon, pos chain there as well are now immutable x too. So which is really, really cool to see. So if you want to check this out, you can go to orbiter finance to kind of like use it if you're immutable x user. If you trade nfts on there and all that sort of stuff, you can use this to hop in and out within 30 seconds, which is very cool to see. And I think this is the first bridge to support immutable x, I believe.
00:24:06.228 - 00:24:32.626, Speaker A: I don't think hot protocol or connects or anything like that are supporting it just yet. So orbit is moving much quicker than these, than these solutions right now, which is very, very cool to see. All right, so I got a few minutes left here, guys, and I think what I want to cover today, given that I've got a few minutes left, is the market. I did briefly mention before that ETH is back above three k. It's at like, 3150 at time of recording. I don't usually talk about the market too much. I don't give investment advice.
00:24:32.626 - 00:25:19.912, Speaker A: I try not to kind of, like, give any advice like that, and I don't trade, so. But what I like to do from time to time is reflect on kind of, like, where we came from, where we are today. I did mention, I think, a couple of weeks ago that I felt really good about ETH, because if the war, like in Ukraine, if the fed rate hikes, if all the uncertainty around the china stuff and more didn't bring us below two k, I just thought to my, and with the merge kind of, like, catalyst coming up, I thought to myself, who's left to sell ETH here? Right? Like, who's actually left? Like, in 2018, it was very different. We had ICO treasuries that were selling a shit ton of ETH, right? They had so much ETH left to offload. You could, you could quite clearly point to it on chain and be like, okay, well, these people are going to sell. You know, let's kind of, like, front run them. And that's, I think, a big reason why ETH went down as much as it did.
00:25:19.912 - 00:25:55.082, Speaker A: But the opposite is actually happening now, where instead of ETH being sold from these kind of, like, there's no ICO treasuries to sell ETH, but ETH is actually being hoovered up by the market because you have ETH going into staking at a record amount right now. I mean, the validator Q is like 11,000 right now, and that's 11,000 times 32 ETH. We have over 10 million ETH in staking. You have ETH being bought up for the merge narrative, right? You have ETH being burnt with 1559, which no one talks about anymore, but it's still happening, guys. We burn 2 million ETH the other day. You have all these massive demand drivers. And when I look at that, I kind of look, okay, well, I don't really feel like there's a reason for east to go below two k.
00:25:55.082 - 00:26:23.600, Speaker A: And I know I was shitposting about it, but I never actually thought ETH was going to go below two k personally. And it could still happen. Right. I'm not telling you that it's not going to happen, but just when I look at all of these sorts of things holistically, I feel really good about, about Ethereum and ETH right now, especially with the massive catalyst of the merge coming up. I mean, honestly, as I said, like, who's, who's going to sell their ETH with that catalyst coming up? There's going to be massive demand drivers, uh, this. And it seems the market is turning up very positive, positively right now. So I'm very excited about that.
00:26:23.600 - 00:26:48.666, Speaker A: Obvious, obviously. But what I'm more excited about actually seeing the amount of ETH going into staking. I think. I think a lot of people have clued into the fact that staking ApY is going to go up post merge, and they want to get in now because of that validator queue. And I also think that people kind of like, like, okay, well, what's the safest thing to hold? And, you know, I want to earn a yield on it. So they'll go with ethanol. They're not just doing kind of like staking on their own.
00:26:48.666 - 00:27:13.366, Speaker A: They're going through platforms like rocket pool and Lido and centralized exchanges and all that sort of stuff. But it's just more ETH going into staking. It's more ETH being locked up. It is a very high kind of like, signal to the market. And I mean, over 10 million ETH guys, like, that's like a eight, 9% of the total supply or something like that. That's huge. And not to count all the ETH in Defi, all the eat sitting in people's wallets as kind of like a store of value, all the ETH being burned, like, I don't know.
00:27:13.366 - 00:27:34.974, Speaker A: And then we have that massive issue introduction coming as well, which is obviously part of the merge narrative. Yeah, I just don't see a reason to be bearish. Like, I just. It's just too hard. Right. If there were, like, massive piles of ETH waiting around to be sold, like in the Ico treasury days of 2018, then, yeah, you could, you could try and convince me of that. But at this point in time, I am very excited about ETH.
00:27:34.974 - 00:28:02.430, Speaker A: I think we could see new all time highs before the, before or around the merge. To be honest, given how strong that narrative is, but that's not investment advice, of course. That's just my own opinion on things. And you know, you guys know that I buy ETH all the time anyway, so. And I'm never planning to sell my ETH either. So it's just going straight into staking. Every time I get, you know, another 32 ETH, I just put it straight into staking because what, you know, I want to earn more ETH on my ETH, right? Like I love supporting the network with my validators as well.
00:28:02.430 - 00:28:15.796, Speaker A: But anyway, I think that's enough about the markets. Just wanted to give a quick thing there. But that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all next week.
00:28:15.796 - 00:28:17.484, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone. Bye.
