00:00:00.840 - 00:00:37.366, Speaker A: What is up, guys? Taki here. And in this video I want to go over some various stablecoin farms and the risks associated with them and my general thoughts on stablecoin farms right now. And also, I'll be asking an open question on why do we hold stable coins in the first place? What is the utility of stablecoins? And that might sound like a dumb question, but if we can, you know, get to the fundamental reason for why we hold stable coins, I think with the powers of Defi, it'll open up some new DeFi strategies that I think will be more interesting than just, you know, holding cash and entering various stablecoin forms. So that being said, let's get right into it. None of this financial advice. If you like the content, please like and subscribe. Leave a comment in the comment section below.
00:00:37.366 - 00:01:27.838, Speaker A: I am a defi guy in this environment, so, you know, I need any dopamine that I can get. Okay, so the question is like, why do we hold stable coins in the first place, right? This might sound like a dumb question, but for me, I'm speaking for myself. We're no, we buy stable because when we sell something for dollars, we're buying stable, right? And also if we're holding stable coins, then we're making a conscious decision that we don't want to buy a risk asset. Like, you know, Internet coins, right? Internet money. But you know, you know, we hold stable coins because we decided that we want to go risk off somewhat and create optionality, right? If you have cash, you can buy things whenever the hell you want, right? It also helps reduce volatility in the portfolio and protect downside. I think this is the reason people hold cash. But if this is the reason people hold cash, then, you know, you can do other things with your stable coins.
00:01:27.838 - 00:02:12.966, Speaker A: Like you don't just have to hold cash, you can, you can buy things and then you can hedge that by shorting another coin. And maybe you can earn more yield doing that than just holding cash in a bank account, in a centralized exchange, or just, you know, some stablecoin farm with asymmetric risks associated with them. So here's an example. Yeah, so I'll be giving various examples and it might not make sense at first, but near the end I think it'll click. So what's the difference between someone holding 100% cash and then person b holding $80 in cash, $20 in bitcoin, and then shorting $20 worth of bitcoin using some other instrument? Right? Of course there are funding rates. You're also going to be earning yield on your bitcoin. So it kind of depends what tool you're using.
00:02:12.966 - 00:02:52.956, Speaker A: But both people are essentially delta neutral, right? They're essentially 100% in cash. Maybe person b is like 99.5% cash, but essentially the same thing. Second example, what's the difference between, you know, someone 100% cash and someone else having $80 in cash, $20 in bitcoin, but then using that as collateral to borrow $40 in bitcoin and entering a BTC USDC farm, right, and staking those LP tokens and earning liquidity mining rewards. Because if you borrow $40 of bitcoin and then you're entering this farm, you have to sell half your bitcoin right into USDC. So technically you're almost like the person b is almost still to neutral. Not perfectly right, because there's impermanent loss, there's like borrower rates and whatnot.
00:02:52.956 - 00:03:56.992, Speaker A: But you know, you know, you kind of get the point. Second example, or the third example, how about someone borrows $30 worth of bitcoin and enters tricrypto, right? Or GLP, or you have $80 in cash and you long $20 of this volatile altcoin, right, whatever it may be, and you hedge that by borrowing $40 in Avax and then buying GLP with it. Okay, so all these examples, they're not the same, right? The like, holding hundred percent cash is 100% cash. And then, you know, with every example, I kind of became like more dangerous, I guess, right? More, I added more volatility the more further down I went. But the point is you can still buy things and still mute volatility in your portfolio by using money markets and using defi, okay, because you can use stablecoins as collateral, borrow volatile asset and use that to hedge whether you sell that volatile coin or you enter something like tricrypto or glp. And you know, that position is earning, you yield. Of course, it's not 100% delta neutral, but it's close.
00:03:56.992 - 00:04:34.000, Speaker A: It opens up interesting strategies. And you can use stablecoins as a tool to initiate peer trades. That's the point I'm trying to get at where. Yeah, like, because, you know, if you think about the market, there's a lot of opportunities out there. I think there's a bunch of bargains. Of course, macro kind of sucks. So, you know, you might be in this position where, you know, things are cheap, but I want to hold cash, right? And what I'm saying is that you can still technically hold cash, mute volatility in your portfolio and still buy things by shorting things that might be less attractive in the short, medium, and longer term.
00:04:34.000 - 00:05:18.346, Speaker A: And you might be asking me, why add so much complexity? Why not just stablecoin form on various applications? And sure, you can definitely do that, but that's not really a fun video. It's like, oh, yeah, put your money in this stable one form, earning 4% APY. It's so good. It's not a fun video. And you don't have to listen to me, of course, you know, I'm just gonna share different things you can do, and maybe it'll, like, give you a light bulb moment or something. Because, I mean, there are interesting stablecoin farms right now, if you care to do research or you look under the hood. I was in this farm for, you know, a couple of months, and it was paying me really handsomely.
00:05:18.346 - 00:05:43.770, Speaker A: Right. This is a USN USDT farm. USN is one to one, backed by tether. So you're essentially staking tether and earning 12% apr. However, I'll talk about the risks later. There's also this farm on Algorand Volks finance. You can stake tether, earn 10%, or, you know, stake USDC, earn 7% algo fi another Algorand application, and you can earn, like, close to 7% staking these individual stablecoin assets.
00:05:43.770 - 00:06:33.832, Speaker A: All these farms I'm farming on Algorand right now, right? And I left the USN farm for various reasons, which I'll get into. But, you know, I mean, these are pretty good farms, right? I mean, with us and USDT, you're earning more dollars, right? You're still, like, you're earning more tether. And with algorithms and folks finance, you're earning both USDC and also more Algorand, which might be interesting for certain types of people with different types of market views. However, these stablecoin farms, it's cool, but they're not without risk. I talked about this over a month ago, on August 3, about the risks of bridges and alt l one s right now, and why I think it makes more sense to deploy more capital into safer applications or native assets on eat or l two s. L two s still have risks, which I'll go over. For example, the Arb drum bridge.
00:06:33.832 - 00:07:23.872, Speaker A: There was an exploit. Fortunately, a white hat hack hacker found it, and they received a 400 ether bounty and also the rainbow bridge on Nier and Aurora. There's been several vulnerabilities. Fortunately, all these vulnerabilities were found by a white hat hacker. So these white hat hackers received a bunch of money and they patched it themselves, or the bridge was able to patch itself. But with these bridge assets, most of these bridges, they use this mint and burn mechanic. Where if you bridge, let's say, USDC into Nir, the USDC that you hold on, Nir isn't like real USDC, right? It's a bridged asset, where if the assets underlying the bridge gets exploited or it gets compromised, then these bridge assets won't be backed by anything.
00:07:23.872 - 00:08:04.496, Speaker A: Therefore making these, you know, assets worth less than $1. We saw this, the Harmony bridge hack, where there's a bunch, like a couple hundred million dollars in the Harmony bridge. It got exploited, and then everything on the harmony blockchain was, like, worth like 20% of what it was actually worth. So, you know, with these bridges, there are risks. And that's why I expected more TVL to migrate onto mainnet ETH, because, I mean, mainnet ETH is the safest place to, you know, like farm and whatnot. Of course, USDT and USDC and these other Ltl one s, they're trying to mitigate these risks by issuing native tether and native USDC. For example, Algorand has both native tether and native USDC.
00:08:04.496 - 00:08:36.354, Speaker A: So if USDC, right, if circle is issuing USDC on the Algorand blockchain itself, then it's not opening themselves up to bridge risks. And yesterday, it was announced that USDC is going to be natively issued on near cosmos, arbitrum, optimism, et cetera. So over time, these bridge risks are becoming less and less so. But right now, in the short term, those risks do exist. And, you know, I don't necessarily think that these bridges are that risky. Right. If they haven't been exploited, like now, then chances are it's not going to be exploited in the future.
00:08:36.354 - 00:09:17.292, Speaker A: However, I don't really know the probabilities of these exploits happening. So it's just good to know that these risks exist and you should allocate accordingly. And even, you know, Algorand, right, both tether and USDC is native. So if you go to Kucoin and you bridge into Algorand, right, you know, opening yourself up to bridge risks. But, you know, Algorand uses this new programming language called Pyteal, and it's less battle tested, right? So, you know, tiny man was a Dex, which got exploited, I believe, late 2021. And, you know, I'm farming an Algorand knowing that there are these risks available. But I'm doing so because, you know, grand has a partnership with the FIFA.
00:09:17.292 - 00:09:49.264, Speaker A: Plus with the World Cup, I think this could be really interesting. I'm trying to put myself in a position to be lucky because if the World cup this year just happens to be like the best in the history, then I'm going to assume that there are going to be moments in the World cup that's going to be sold as nfts. That's going to be worth a bunch. Right? So I don't like, I'm not like buying Algorand, I'm just like farming it for like the past, I don't know, like eight months or so. And hopefully it ends up working, if not all like farming and farming. Dump it, I guess. And also, you know, with algorand applications.
00:09:49.264 - 00:10:17.646, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, they're less battle tested. Right. They use Pyto as a programming language. But none of these tokens, sorry, none of these projects have a token yet. So if you just have a little bit of assets across all these different applications, then you might be opening yourself up to a potential airdrop. So Algofi, which is the biggest application, it's going to drop this token called bank. If you're watching this video now and you're entering it for the first time right now, chances are you're not going to be eligible for an airdrop because I think they've been taking snapshots and whatnot.
00:10:17.646 - 00:10:54.532, Speaker A: But you know, the point is, and I was kind of joking with like these Algorand people, right? It's like, please, like I've been taking on the smart contract for quite some time now, right? Please reward me with like $200 worth of governance tokens. You know, it's probably going to be, not going to be worth that much. But why not, right? I mean, I still think Algorand is an interesting blockchain and it could do well. I'm not that convinced. But the point of farming is that you don't have to buy these things. You can farm it. Of course you're taking a smart contract risk, but that's the point, right? The Algorand foundation is saying if you take on the smart contract risk, we'll give you Algorand tokens because you're taking on that risk and becoming an LP.
00:10:54.532 - 00:11:14.654, Speaker A: So same can be said for the near farm. And you know, there are a bunch of other farms too, but I'm just giving some various examples. So, great farms, but don't put all your eggs in one basket. Avoid tail risks. I had, like at some point I had the majority of my stable coins in the USN farm. On ref finance and it was like paying super well. I was like very, very happy.
00:11:14.654 - 00:12:34.892, Speaker A: But then at some point I was like, you know what, like I don't want to be this defi guy and open myself up to, you know, just getting wrecked because some tail risk happened, right? And I was like, you know what, like native tether just got issued on near, but it's going to take a few months for them to use that native tether to, for the refinance farm. You know, there's like technical complications there. So I'm like, you know what, like it's a good farm, but you know, I'll de risk that stablecoin farm if that makes sense. So you know, that being said, let's go back to the original question like what's the utility of stable farms and what can you actually do with it? And I just laid out these risks not to scare you guys, but just, you know, just inform and educate I guess because my mindset is if I enter a basic stablecoin farm, sure I can earn, you know, I can outpace inflation, but it locks up my capital and you know, I open up myself to tail risks. However, if I use the USDC or tether whatever as collateral Navi, maybe it opens up myself to new opportunities. And though it might not be a perfectly delta neutral stablecoin farm, it might offer me more utility and it might offer me more yield. Which option makes sense for me? Okay, maybe for you it doesn't make sense for me, but for me this makes more sense for me.
00:12:34.892 - 00:13:18.748, Speaker A: So let's talk about my strategy because right now of course the environment sucks, market sucks, but you know, I'm still this guy looking at the fundamentals and you know, whenever prices dump I'm a laughing stock, right. But it's okay, you know, it's definitely a traders market, right? And in the short term, I mean you can't get to the long term without getting past the short term. And I'm definitely trying to be this longer term minded person, but you know, there's a lot of volatility, it kind of sucks. But you know, my bias is that, you know, I'll look for strong fundamentals, I'll deploy capital, and if I extend my time horizon, hopefully it works out. Hopefully it works out, right. There's no guarantees, you know, but hopefully it works out and I don't have to be a doomer that way. So here's an example.
00:13:18.748 - 00:13:49.320, Speaker A: Gains network. I know people have been bothering me to talk about this for like, for the past many months. So you know, I'll just spend a little bit time on it here because the fundamentals are improving and I think it's an interesting project. I'm not a huge fan of their vault design. The tail risks of gains is much higher than that of GMX. But, you know, it's a similar, you know, it's a similar protocol. It uses synthetix and not the protocol synthetix, but, you know, it's a synth trading platform using chain link oracles.
00:13:49.320 - 00:14:29.094, Speaker A: And, you know, if you look at the TVL of Gains network, focus on the Purple Mountain thing here. Right. TvL on the divault has been going up, meaning that there are more LP's entering this farm despite the bear market. Right. They had a situation back in May where they listed Luna as a trading pair, and when it was basically going to zero, a bunch of traders shorted the luna and they made a bunch of money and it drained the LP's. Uh, so, you know, that's one of the tail risks because, um, gains lists all these tail assets. Um, but, you know, despite that, those risks and Tvo going down, uh, or, you know, GNS going down, uh, the dive vault has been going up, which I think is really, really interesting.
00:14:29.094 - 00:14:58.374, Speaker A: And if you go back to my videos back in June, July, etcetera, um, one of my reasons why I like GMX so much was because, you know, despite market sucking, uh, GLP was going up, right. The amount of GLP was going up, which is good for the platform. Right. It's, it might be a leading indicator for these different platforms. So I'm not, I can't really see into the future, but maybe it's a leading indicator for GNS gaining more adoption. And if you go to the trading volume, right, it's going up. Right.
00:14:58.374 - 00:15:25.582, Speaker A: If you go to the left side, the orange line is the moving average, seven day moving average for trading volume. And yesterday it hit over $200 million in volume. And GMX had like $250 million in volume. So I was like, okay. Like, okay, people are using this platform, and if you look at the right side, we see that the number of daily users and new users picking up in a bear market. So, you know, I mean, the platform has risks, right? And it's not a perfect design, in my opinion. So, I mean, that's one of the reasons why it has a lower market cap.
00:15:25.582 - 00:16:24.646, Speaker A: But no, I'm happy to look at this and be like, okay, like, maybe it makes sense for me to, you know, buy some of it. So my mentality, right, is saying, you know, what like, yeah, I can hold stable coins, right? And, you know, like, I can't lose money holding stable coins, right? But, you know, I still want to look into opportunities because I do think that when the markets are down this much, you know, there are opportunities, right? Like, despite what you might see on social media, right, with all the doomers and whatnot, I might be wrong in the short term, in the medium term, and maybe even the long term, but I'm happy taking on the risks. So, like, my mentality is also, like, buy a little bit of GNS, right? Like, less than my position in GMX because I like GMX better. But, you know, maybe if the GMX synthetics platform that, you know, that might launch in q four, like, if that sucks, then maybe GNS gains more market share. And if GMX synths are just, like, got tier and they're amazing, then maybe GNS gets wrecked. But maybe gns can just be, like, a hedge in case GMX doesn't do well. I think they can both coexist and, you know, they're moving to arp terms soon.
00:16:24.646 - 00:17:00.608, Speaker A: So, you know, like, what I'm saying is that, you know, all by x percent gns, I have no idea what the markets are going to do in the short term. So because I want to protect the downside and I want to be sort of delta neutral, I'll hedge my GNS by. By borrowing the same amount of avalanche, right? So an X plus an Avax on Aave and then buy GLP with it. If I want to be perfectly delta neutral. Like, if I, like, save 1% of gns, then I have to borrow 2% worth of Avax and then buy GLP with it, right? Because GLP is 50% stable coins, roughly. But, you know, I'm just, like, trying to simplify here. And, you know, obviously, you know, you can do whatever the hell you want, because GLP, right, it's.
00:17:00.608 - 00:17:16.856, Speaker A: If you look at the middle part, right, it's like 55% stable coins. It's like 1013 percent avalanche. So, you know, it's. It's. It's not, like, perfectly delta neutral. But, you know, what I can do is use stable coins as collateral. Borrow avalanche paying, you know, eight to 12% Apy.
00:17:16.856 - 00:17:43.980, Speaker A: That's roughly where it's been. And then put it into here. I'm, like, hedging. And then, you know, with the avalanche that I farm from GLP, I can pay off my loan that way. And, you know, also I get to farm on GMX, right? And, you know, I love GMX. And I don't really see, like, for me personally, I don't, like, I'm not gonna, like, buy GMX right now because I can just farm it using these various strategies. So the benefits of doing it this way, like, I'm not a huge fan of avalanche right now.
00:17:43.980 - 00:18:10.818, Speaker A: You know, I don't necessarily see it outperforming the markets anytime soon. Of course the markets go up, it's gonna go up. But, you know, if the markets go down 10%, I would assume that avalanche would be down more than 10%. Right. And even if the markets go up, then I don't necessarily think that avalanche is going to outperform that much. So, you know, if I buy Gop on avalanche, then, you know, like, I earn a bunch of Avax, but I don't know, like, I don't. I don't really want Avax right now.
00:18:10.818 - 00:18:45.494, Speaker A: So maybe I can auto compound it back to GLP, which I think is a, you know, a viable strategy. But maybe it makes more sense for me to use this hedging strategy where all the avalanche that I earn, I can use that to pay back my debt, right. And if the markets go down, then, you know, my hedge is going to print money. And though my overall portfolio would be down, down bad, I would be down less bad because, you know, this hedge is going to be being profit, right. And maybe I can convert that into stable coins and sing Kumbaya and, you know, and, you know, not be as sad. Also, I get to farm a stake GMX. I have no intentions of selling GMX.
00:18:45.494 - 00:19:41.586, Speaker A: Like, you know, I'll just, like, see it through, right? Hopefully not get wrecked. And, you know, the third point, which I want to is, like, the more important point is, like, sure, I can enter stablecoin farms right now, right, and earn, like, 10%, whatever, but maybe doing it this way, right? Using, you know, stable coins as a collateral on Aave, earn like two, 3% lending rate. And then, you know, using this borrow Avax strategy to buy GLPD, it offers me. It might offer me better yield, even though that's not. That's not proven, but it definitely offers me more utility because it allows me to go bargain shopping certain altcoins or, you know, just ether, BTC, like, whatever, right? Whatever, right. It allows me to buy certain things and also hedge that downside by, you know, shorting Avax and also farm or GMX, right. I'd rather do this with my stable coins than just put it into some random stablecoin farm that you see on, like, some random chain or whatever, right? Yeah.
00:19:41.586 - 00:20:33.716, Speaker A: So it's this idea of a pear trade that you can do with stable coins because with the power of money markets, you don't have to use stable coins as a collateral, right. I'm just like, using this example just to simplify things. You can just like, you know, buy PTC and then, you know, use that as collateral and borrow, you know, you can do all sorts of stuff. But, you know, you know, if I'm pissing myself about macro, right, if I'm pissing myself at the age of 26, then, you know, like, I'm really in. I'm really in a bad situation, right? I have nothing against Avax, right? But I don't really see it significantly outperforming the market. So I don't mind shorting Avax. And, you know, if avalanche starts pumping, then chances are, like, if we're in that type of environment, then chances are like, my altcoins will be outperforming Avax, right? So I don't really care, right? In fact, I want to lose money on this avalanche hedge because that means that the rest of my portfolio is outperforming.
00:20:33.716 - 00:20:59.620, Speaker A: But, you know, if the markets go sideways, then I'm still, like, outpouring the market probably, maybe not depending on, depending on my coins. And, you know, if the markets go down, then at least I predict downside to some extent. Of course, GLP has risks. Everything has risks. I'm not saying that, you know, you should use GLP. I'm just showing GLP as an example because it's good for me. You can use strike crypto.
00:20:59.620 - 00:21:45.456, Speaker A: You can use, I don't know, you can go to other money. Like, I don't know, like, you can, like, you know, borrow a phantom and, like, enter the Phantom USDC pool or something, right? Like, you can do whatever the hell you want. It doesn't really matter. But from my perspective, if I were to put all my stable coins into one application, even though I just said that, you know, you shouldn't put all your eggs in one basket, I feel a lot more comfier putting everything into aave than some random new smart contract that's less battle tested, of course. You know, I think people tend to overestimate the risks of certain things and underestimate. So, for example, I know GLP had, like, the price manipulation thing that happened on Avax, right? And then, you know, when that happened, everyone was like, oh, my God, like, Gop is dead. I must sell all my GOP.
00:21:45.456 - 00:22:21.554, Speaker A: You know, it's going to zero, right? But, you know, when things aren't going that bad, then everyone's like, oh, yeah, like, GoP, best thing ever. Like, put my net worth into GOPD. You know, people overestimate the risks of certain smart contracts when something bad kind of happens and underestimate the risks when nothing bad happens. But if you think about it, I mean, the risks are the same, right? Like, whether, like, whether a bad event or a good event happens or not. I mean, you know, at the end of the day, like, we're in this digital economy where we have money on chain. We want to make money. But, you know, if you want to make money, we have to take on risk.
00:22:21.554 - 00:22:40.890, Speaker A: And if you are taking on risk, then we're. We open up ourselves to downside risk. But what I'm saying here is that you can still buy things and open yourself up to risk and still hedge your portfolio by using money markets. And the stable coins is collateral this way. So hopefully, I think this is the last slide. Yeah, that's the last slide. Hopefully this video was somewhat useful.
00:22:40.890 - 00:23:05.888, Speaker A: You know, there's no guarantees that it's going to work. And maybe two months from now, avalanche is in top three, and I got liquidated. And, you know, I'll be making a video on, you know, asking for sponsorships or something. Right. But, you know, chances are, I don't think that's gonna happen. And obviously, you know, keep a healthy health factor, manage your positions, and if the facts change. Right, like, liquidate it.
00:23:05.888 - 00:23:41.550, Speaker A: Like, whatever, right. But the point is, everyone is like, you know, there's like, a bunch of questions about stablecoin farms right now. But know, you don't have to directly earn yield on your stable coins. You can indirectly earn yield on your stable coins using these hedging strategies. And also, if you're doing this, then it might offer you more utility because your stablecoins is not only an instrument to mute volatility, mute volatility in your portfolio, but it's also an instrument that you can use to actually make money on the way down because you're hedged. Right? So thank you guys for watching. End of the video.
00:23:41.550 - 00:23:58.218, Speaker A: See you guys. Hopefully, hopefully you guys are okay. I'm hash bag holder, but let's. Let's see the. Where the markets take us. Still bullish on the space. Being a defi guy in this environment definitely sucks.
00:23:58.218 - 00:24:09.522, Speaker A: But, you know, I still focus on the fundamentals. And I think, you know, a year from now, I think it'll make sense, right? Even though in the short term it might not make sense. But who knows? Bye.
