00:00:00.410 - 00:00:59.038, Speaker A: With cosmos ecosystem, I think it's a bit, it's like a wild card. What I really like about it is that it's basically just like pieces of tech infra that are kind of unaligned in a sense that you can actually come there and build stuff without being aligned with any sort of big community or tribe or entity. So would say in this way, Cosmos is a bit of an anti tribe. They are not so tribal as Solana or Ethereum are, for example. And you have many projects like DyDx or even celestial just start building within cosmos ecosystem. But at the same time they are competing for some things like atom tries to be the biggest hub, but it's being slowly outcompeted in different verticals. And cosmos people don't really seem to care about that.
00:00:59.038 - 00:01:54.222, Speaker A: They are not like, oh, you should drive more value to atom. Why are you not using Atom for this? And that? They are just like happy that someone uses IBC. And many projects are just like building on it because it's very simple to use and bootstrap validator set. So I definitely think that within cosmos ecosystem, there will be something that will be extremely successful, either one specific chain or some ecosystem of multiple chains or some hub or something. But it's not very clear like what it will be, which makes it more exciting because when you want to sort of passively invest in Solana ecosystem and you don't want to bother with it, you just buy sol and you hold it and then you have exposure, so to speak, and you don't have to care about figuring out which Defi project will be the winner. You still have some exposure in it. In Ethereum, it's obviously it.
00:01:54.222 - 00:02:53.274, Speaker A: You just buy it, even though it probably won't be the fastest horse because it's just so big. It gives you decent exposure to anything that happens on Ethereum or L2 on top of Ethereum. But if you buy atom, Atom doesn't really have to necessarily benefit from something else being successful on cosmos ecosystem. So you really need to kind of dig deeper and form your thesis about which one of these cosmos zones or hubs that are being formed will be the dominant ones like we see now. Celestia has, I think, higher ftv than atom even. Or you can just simply create an index of all the interesting cosmos chains and just have some index bet maybe that could be interesting product within cosmos ecosystem. But yeah, I kind of like this dynamic that it kind of makes it hard for lazy investors.
00:02:53.274 - 00:02:59.250, Speaker A: They just want to buy one asset and be the with it and I really like that. It makes it more interesting and more diverse.
