00:00:00.320 - 00:00:26.414, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 26 October 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I've been feeling very bullish over the last few days in particular, I guess like over the last 24 hours. And, you know, I know that I'm usually a top signal whenever I tweet anything bullish out, but I kind of said to myself, stuff it over the last couple days, I'm going to keep tweeting, bullish things out. I don't care. I don't think that I'm actually a top signal.
00:00:26.414 - 00:01:04.056, Speaker A: So I kind of put out this tweet today where I basically went through, I mean, a bunch of different metrics around Ethereum and I'll just read them out here. So right now we have 623,000 ETH burned and counting since August 5 6th, whatever it was. So less than three months, 8 million ETH staked, over $30 billion worth staked. 7.5 million ETH locked in Defi. I think it's actually higher than this because I don't think Defi pulse counts L2s right now we have a 90%, more like an 85% right now issue. Introduction coming with the merge, we have L2 scaling ethereum to the world, and we have institutions going along as fuck on ETH.
00:01:04.056 - 00:01:27.290, Speaker A: And then I said, the path to a ten k ETH and far beyond has never been clearer. Let's go. So I guess, like, I don't have to break down the burning of Elv ether and why that's bullish. I mean, I spoken about that a lot before. I spoke about staking yesterday. I think the, the locked in d five I've spoken about before. But what's really interesting about it is the fact that there seems to be like a lot of ETH that just, just sits in Defi and doesn't really move from it.
00:01:27.290 - 00:02:03.106, Speaker A: And I think when I, when I kind of look at my own positions and how I position myself within Defi, it's pretty much the same for me. Like, I have some ETH that's been in maker for a very long time. It just sits there whenever I want to draw stable coins against it, because I want to borrow money from myself, essentially, I'll just, I kind of like use that. But, you know, the ETH just pretty much sits there all the time. Like, even if I paid back most of the debt, I, I'll just keep the ETH in there. I know maybe I should like withdraw it to my own wallet for better security practices, but I just keep it in there. I don't remember the last time I actually paid down all the debt because it's so cheap to borrow from maker.
00:02:03.106 - 00:02:43.530, Speaker A: It's like 2% a year. It's ridiculous. And I know it's obviously not very capital efficient because you have to over collateralize and obviously there's a risk of liquidation. But as I've said before, I keep my liquidation price quite low. But I think that just generally there's a lot of people who just keep like ETH just sitting there and not just within maker, but with other protocols as well, other money markets, amms, like uniswap, stuff like that. And then more just gets added over time as more people want to participate in the ethereum defi economy and, you know, at both layer one and L2. So I think that is one of the most bullish things for me, and something that doesn't get really spoken about too much is the fact that ETH continues to be used as this economic bandwidth for the ethereum economy in a kind of like growing way.
00:02:43.530 - 00:03:20.738, Speaker A: And even if it just kind of like stores for a little bit, where more ethism being locked up. The most interesting thing is the fact that like, it's not really going down either. So there, there really does seem to be a lot of people who are just happy to keep the ETH in these protocols doing whatever they're doing with it over time. And as I just described, like, I'm one of those people, but it's cool to say that there's more than just me, of course. And then obviously the issue introduction here that I, that I've talked about before has got to do with the merge. Once the merge goes through, we're going to be getting rid of proof of work block rewards, going to proof of stake block rewards, and they're about, at current values, I think it's about 85% reduction. So not 90%.
00:03:20.738 - 00:03:57.044, Speaker A: Exactly. And if more ETH gets staked before the merge, which I actually expect will be that issuance reduction will effectively come down even more. So it may only end up being 80% or something like that, which is totally fine because at current fee burn rates, coupled with even if like something like 30 million ETH was staked, we would still be net deflationary. I think we're net deflationary up to the tune of like 2% right now, which is crazy, like negative 2% issuance. So you know, and if there's 30 million each stake, that means there's going to be, what, another 22 million staked. That's a lot of new ETH being staked, and that's just going to push the price up even further. So that's really, really bullish.
00:03:57.044 - 00:04:28.322, Speaker A: Layer two, scaling Ethereum to the world. I mean, I've spoken a lot about L2 is I'm not going to rehash it all, and there's some other stuff I'm going to talk about later on. But, you know, L2 is basically keeping users within Ethereum is obviously incredibly bullish overall. And institutions going along on ETH now, this isn't something that really gets publicized that much. You won't see it in the, you won't see it on, on Twitter a lot of the time. You won't even hear about it, to be honest. But it is happening, like, from people I've spoken to, from people I've listened to, and just from, from kind of like the patterns that we're seeing play out.
00:04:28.322 - 00:04:56.550, Speaker A: It is definitely happening. I think it's happening in a big way. I mean, Raul Paul has been a very big advocate of ETH being, you know, he called it the greatest trade on the Bankless podcast. He's got a lot of institutional and traditional finance connections. He is definitely getting them to buy ETH, or at least putting it on their radar to kind of look into. So from that point of view, it's kind of easy to draw these conclusions. And, you know, there was a, I think it wasn't, was a kind of like role, said that basically that institutions.
00:04:56.550 - 00:05:26.642, Speaker A: I think it was him or Mark Cuban, maybe, maybe. No, I think it was Raul that was saying that institutions were now skipping BTC and going straight to ETH. And I actually think that a lot of them are going to be buying ETH for staking because you basically get, as I've described before, not a risk free. I don't like using the term risk free. It's like a very, very low risk yield on, on ETH. Um, and it gives you expo, you know, it gives you both the exposure to ETH as an asset, as a ecosystem. But you also get to kind of like, um, stake that Ethan earn even more over time, which is about 5.4%
00:05:26.642 - 00:05:56.242, Speaker A: right now, I think yield, which is probably going to go to ten plus percent once, uh, the merge happens because of the unburnt fees going to stakers, which is, which is obviously incredibly, uh, incredibly bullish there. So all that leads me to my classic price target, which I've had for a long, long time. Like, I came up with the $10,000 target back in 2019. Um, and, you know, I've. I've since said that I think it's going far beyond that to $100,000 and beyond. I don't really have any timelines for these sorts of things. I actually think we can see $10,000 ETH very, very soon.
00:05:56.242 - 00:06:25.002, Speaker A: I mean, we're not very far away from that. I wouldn't be surprised to see it by end of this year, early next year, to be honest. But I don't know. I'm not buying ETH with the goal of selling it at $10,000 or whatever, anything like that. And in the $100,000 target that I've given before, I've told you guys that I don't expect that for five to 1010 years. That's, you know, it's a $10 trillion cap around about that, but it's also just about the fact that it takes a lot more money to move the higher the market cap goes. So it's just going to take longer to get to that point.
00:06:25.002 - 00:06:39.810, Speaker A: And all, of course, be drawdowns here. Like, we could go to ten k, right, by end of the year, and then we could dump to six k again or something like that, or to five k even in some kind of, like, ridiculous sell off. You know, it might. It could even go lower than that. I don't know. But, you know, this is crypto. We love the volatility.
00:06:39.810 - 00:07:22.390, Speaker A: We love kind of speculating on these wild price targets. I don't think ten k is wild anymore. It was wild in 2019 when ETH was like 100, $200 when, you know, and back then, Eats market cap was like ten, $20 billion, whereas today its market cap is half a trillion. So doubling to a trillion, which is basically a $10,000 ETH, doesn't really seem too far fetched to me at all. I mean, BTC is already there, and I don't think ETH is far behind. So, yeah, very, very bullish on ETH lately for these, for kind of, like, reasons that I mentioned in tweet, but also for so many other reasons that I've mentioned on the refuel for months now. And as I've said before, I'm still waiting for someone to give me an actual bear case on ETH as an asset and ethereum as kind of like a network.
00:07:22.390 - 00:07:51.390, Speaker A: Feel free to kind of, like, reach out to me on discord or something. That'd be a fun conversation to have. So final reminder here to update your altair, sorry to update your ETH, two validators, or kind of like consensus layer validators. No matter what validator and node you're running, you need to update them for the Altair fork, which goes live tomorrow. So October 27 at 10:56 a.m.. UTC. So if you don't update, you'll be kicked off and basically end up on a minority chain.
00:07:51.390 - 00:08:38.682, Speaker A: We don't want that happening. So please, please, please, if you haven't updated yet, do it now. This is kind of like the last warning I'm going to give, because by the time the next refill comes out, I think this may already be live, or at least almost live, so definitely don't dawdle there. But speaking of staking validators proof of stake, all that good stuff. Terrence from the Prylabs team put out a tweet saying that we now have a quarter of a million active validators on the Ethereum proof of stake chain, which is awesome. As I've mentioned before, the more validators we have, the more decentralized the Ethereum network becomes. And then in the future, the more shards we'll be able to have, which means the more scalable Ethereum becomes, which is just like the most awesome thing to me, because you can imagine, like, if we go live today or not today, sometime in the future, with 64 shards live, and then we have 250,000 validators.
00:08:38.682 - 00:09:20.736, Speaker A: But then say those validator number, that validator number doubles too, because we have 60 million each staked, it goes to 500,000. That means we can double the shard so we can have 128 shards instead of just 64, which means we essentially kind of, like give much more data availability capacity to these L2s, which allows them to, to scale even further. It's just so cool how we've been able to kind of flip this scalability trilemma on a tight on its head and essentially get to a point where we get more scale with more decentralization. So just really cool to see that milestone being reached. I think this is like. So, I mean, this is really only scratching the surface of where we're going to go with, with, with staking on Ethereum. 8 million ETH staked is, is not that much in the grand scheme of things.
00:09:20.736 - 00:09:51.132, Speaker A: It's like six or 7% of the total supply. I think I went through this on yesterday's refuel or last week's. I think it was yesterday's actually, where I basically said that, and I was talking about herbal network. And I was basically saying that I expect so much ETH to be staked, especially through these institutions and these bigger players. It's going to go to 10 million, 20 million, 30 million, 40 million eventually. I just expect most ETH, not most ETH, but like, a lot of ETH to be staked. And that's obviously going to get us more validators, that's going to get us more kind of like, capacity to add more shards.
00:09:51.132 - 00:10:36.578, Speaker A: That's going to make the network more decentralized, that's going to lock up more ETH, which means that the price should naturally go up over time because there's less ETH available on the market to buy. It's just, it's such a symbiotic and beautiful relationship, like it really is. When I, when I, when I think about all this stuff, I was actually talking to my, my friend today, Cooper Turley. He put a tweet out about it that I basically, um, talked to him about the Ethereum protocol, core protocol, and kind of like, what's, um, what's happening there. And, you know, for him, who doesn't pay too much, too much close attention to the Ethereum core stuff that's going on, because he's, he does a lot of stuff within the web3 creator economy and the NFT economy. He kind of, like, wasn't up to speed with it, so I got him up to speed and he kind of was like, wow, okay. I didn't realize all of this had happened, and that's what a lot of people don't realize, and it's not their fault.
00:10:36.578 - 00:11:28.240, Speaker A: They just don't have the time to dedicate to it, this kind of like, core protocol stuff moves really quickly. But when you do sit down and you do understand how all of these pieces come together so nicely and how they actually affect not only the network health itself, but also the health of ETH as an asset, you really start to see that clear vision to $100,000 ether. That's what I see right now. It's what I've been trying to get all of you to see for many, many months now, and I'm sure a lot of you see it, but I see it so clearly. I can basically picture the next five to ten years in the Ethereum ecosystem. I know it's very hard to kind of, like, tell what's going to happen within crypto, but I think we've gotten to a point now where I can very clearly see Ethereum's path to world dominance as a network right to being the global settlement layout, to continuing to be a global settlement layer. But also I can see it's east path to $100,000 and beyond as an asset.
00:11:28.240 - 00:12:09.176, Speaker A: And I mean, that is the primary reason why I stack ETH every day and why I buy as much as I can, even at these prices. Like, you know, I kind of like, asked myself the question the other day and did a little bit of a thought experiment. Like how many people buy, how many kind of like early investors, people who have bought, I guess, like their favorite coins, coin, you know, way earlier, say their favorite coin has gone like 100 x since the first time they bought it. For me, like, I first bought ETH at $10. It means it's gone 400 x or over 400 x since my first kind of like buy of ether, $10. You know, how many people who have made that gain on ETH are still buying it or whatever asset are still buying it? There's not many. I know there's some in the bitcoin space.
00:12:09.176 - 00:12:43.874, Speaker A: There's definitely some in the Ethereum space, but just generally, there's not many people like that. A lot of people kind of tend to scale out over time, which is fine, you know, taking profits, there's nothing wrong with that. But for me personally, I just, I can't do it. Like, I cannot bring myself to, like, take profits in ETH and then, you know, some down, sometime down the line regret the fact that I sold some ETH and then it's worth a lot more. And I kind of like, gave up a potential validator as well. Like, for me, it's not just stacking ETH, it's also stacking validators. Like, I actually count my, my e stacking as every 32 ETH because it means I can add another validator.
00:12:43.874 - 00:13:11.068, Speaker A: And I just love doing that. Not just because I want to earn kind of like a return on my ETH, but also I'm adding to the kind of like, health of the network. I'm, I'm kind of like adding to the decentralization and security of the network, and I'm actively participating in consensus. And as someone who never did mining, that's a big deal to me. So, you know, maybe I've gone off on a little bit of a tangent here. I tend to do that sometimes. But I guess this goes back to what I was saying earlier about how, like, I'm just so bullish on ETH, and I just, I see it so clearly.
00:13:11.068 - 00:13:53.128, Speaker A: I have never seen something so clear in my life, especially, uh, after kind of like coming to, I guess, to the point where I fully understood the modular blockchain paradigm and I was able to, to basically articulate that in my head and hopefully articulate it to all of you. Uh, I just like have this clear kind of like um, vision in my head which, which I don't see changing anytime soon. I feel like it's the culmination of the last, you know, seven or eight years within ethereum. Kind of like development, research and all that good stuff there. So. So yeah, I'm going to move on to a related thing here, actually. A tweet from Kent Barton, which I thought was very interesting today, where he basically said the decision to launch the beacon chain prior to the shift of proof of stake will go down in crypto history as one of the best design decisions ever.
00:13:53.128 - 00:14:30.610, Speaker A: An ideal blend of testing in prod and iterative progress. By the time the merge happens, this thing will be battle tested and ready to rock. And then he continues saying, six months later and we've almost complete, completed soundcheck. Clients are harmonizing nicely, bugs have been squashed, game theory tested, the old crypto kills planet narrative due for an erupt end. So I guess he's pretty much talking about the merge. I think it's going to take a bit more than six months, but still the merge. But what I wanted to focus on, and I wrote about this in the delegate way newsletter today, was the fact that I was just saying like, it has taken seven or eight years of research and development to get Ethereum to where it is today.
00:14:30.610 - 00:14:58.058, Speaker A: Not just the ETH, but Ethereum, the network. Proof of stake and sharding had been talked about since pretty much like early 2014 by Vitalik. That was on the roadmap. It has been on the roadmap. Nothing's changed there. The way we implemented it changed, but not the actual core building block. Layer two has been on the roadmap, arbitrary have been working on it wasn't called roll ups back then, but they have been working on scaling technologies like what they have live today since I think it was 2014, 2015.
00:14:58.058 - 00:15:20.540, Speaker A: So from that perspective, like the Ethereum ecosystem is not just coming up with these things now. Like, it's not just like over the last few months we've been like, oh no. Like we have so much competition from these other kind of like layer one chains now and they're just like cloning everything we do. Let's come up with something to fight them back. Not at all. It's just a bit of a coincidence that this is all happening at once. We've been working on this sort of stuff for a very, very long time.
00:15:20.540 - 00:16:11.904, Speaker A: And to Kent's tweet here about the beacon chain. So the reason why the beacon chain was launched as a separate network is because Ethereum got really, really big, right. Ethereum is home to millions of users, trillions of dollars a year worth of network activity, uh, in terms of like, settlement activity, uh, half a trillion dollar network. So could you imagine if we basically said, well, okay, let's just, uh, implement the beacon chain, uh, or do the merge essentially, on December 1, 2020, and without battle testing this new consensus mechanism that has never been run in production before. Uh, let's just do, let's just do the merge then, and basically rip out Ethereum's proof of work and, and put in a new, untested, kind of like, um, unbattle hardened beacon chain that wouldn't have worked at all. That would be so risky and such a stupid decision to make back then. And that's exactly why it was opted to launch a separate network.
00:16:11.904 - 00:16:32.796, Speaker A: Now, eleven months into the beacon chain, there's been a few hiccups, been a few bugs. We've squashed them. The beacon chain has mostly been running really, really, really well. We've been able to get 8 million ETH staked, a quarter of a million validators, and we're pretty much ready for the merge. We just got to build out the merge. I mean, all the, most of the research and specking has been done. We've got the kind of devnets that have run.
00:16:32.796 - 00:17:30.234, Speaker A: I've talked about the merge a lot lately, so I won't go into it here, but essentially we're almost there. We're almost at the point where we can finally just like merge these two networks together and we can have one holistic ethereum, and then we can focus on what comes after that, which is obviously sharding at the core protocol level, statelessness, a few other bells and whistles, and a few other things on the longer term roadmap and all the meanwhile, we have the entire L2 rollout happening, which didn't just happen overnight. There is many, many years of research and development have gone into these things to get us to this point today. So I think when you kind of like, take that holistic look of the ethereum ecosystem as not just something that has basically grown a lot in the last six to twelve months, that growth is the culmination of everything that came before it, and it will continue to be into the future. And it's just amazing that we've gotten to the, gotten it all coming at once here, at least in the, in the same kind of like release window, which I think is pretty cool. So. So yeah, I guess like on a related note as well, speaking of scaling, mahalo.
00:17:30.234 - 00:18:08.792, Speaker A: Put out a tweet today about another impressive milestone for polygon. They have crossed 1 billion transactions processed on the polygon pos chain, which is really, really awesome to see. I don't know what the total transactions processed on the Ethereum mainnet is right now. Maybe I should know this off the top of my head, but I don't know if it's more or less than that. But the funny thing is, is that when you look at total transactions processed, you kind of have to, I guess like not doing apples to apples comparison, I think because like with Ethereum we're obviously, you know, hard limited to the amount of transactions that can be processed based on the gas limit. I think right now we could do 1.31.4 million a day.
00:18:08.792 - 00:18:29.270, Speaker A: I think it's spiked like 1.6 million a day. If all of the transactions were like ETH transfers, we could probably go to multiples of that. But as the network is being used today, it's about 1.61.7 million a day. I'm pretty sure the polygon Pos chain can do much more than that, which is the whole point of it. And then the L2s can do even more more than that in their kind of like final forms.
00:18:29.270 - 00:19:21.722, Speaker A: Like the optimistic roll ups can do four and a half thousand tps in their current form if kind of like they were I guess like upgraded to that point. And then, and then eventually, I mean eventually, I've spoken about this before, there's going to be the chains that can do millions of transactions per second once we have sharding and all that sort of stuff there. So we could get like a billion transactions processed in like a day once we have the demand, right? So I mean the POS chain has been live for quite a while now, but it's still cool to see them kind of like cross the 1 billion transactions processed mark here. But I mean again, this is just the beginning. 1 billion is nothing compared to what we're going to see. We're going to see quadrillions of transactions processed kind of like on these networks. And you know, a lot of this is definitely going to come in, you know, maybe in the medium long term future, maybe not in this in the short term, because I still think we're in the early adopter phase a lot of stuff to work out here.
00:19:21.722 - 00:20:25.182, Speaker A: But if we get to a point where there's like a million transactions per second and that's full, say, like, it's being used and like totally utilized, a billion transactions a day is not, you know, not, not going to be something that we scoff at. So, pretty cool to see this milestone from, from the Polygon Pos chain, nonetheless. So a lot of projects seem to be building on immutable X, which is obviously the NFT L2 platform here. The immutable Twitter account shared a bunch of projects already building on them, such as IMX punks, college kids, orcs, immutable apes. So all, I mean, basically all these, a lot of these NFT projects would have either launched on layer one, which is obviously very expensive, or gone to another network. So now that we have like an option for them to launch on, on a L2 that's dedicated to nfts and kind of like has much lower gas costs and much faster transactions and it's just much better for users, uh, then we can do this. So it's great to see projects kind of like, uh, I guess, um, choosing to deploy here, even if a lot of these projects are just like these profile picture ones, which we've seen time and time again.
00:20:25.182 - 00:20:56.560, Speaker A: But I don't think it really matters too much. Like, as I've said before, I don't like moralizing about what people use kind of like these networks for. They can use it for whatever they want. That's the whole point. So I'm not going to say, oh, you know, the fact that, like these profile picture nfts are being launched here is actually not bullish because, you know, they're not like innovative nfts. No, I don't care about any of that. All I care about is getting adoption of the L2 ecosystem and making sure that users go to L2 rather than going to layer one because it's just too expensive for them at layer one, obviously.
00:20:56.560 - 00:21:30.832, Speaker A: So getting them on L2 is the goal. And it's great to see immutable offering this solution for people here. So we now have another bridge protocol. I mean, how many of these are they going to be? There's going to be a lot of them. As I've said to you guys before, bridges are the thing, which I'm going to talk about in a sec from this tweet from Patrick McQuarrie, who puts it better than I can. But essentially this new bridge protocol is called across protocol, and they're billing themselves as the fastest, cheapest and most secure, l two to l one bridge. And they say the bridge allows users to take a short term loan on l one.
00:21:30.832 - 00:22:00.888, Speaker A: This loan is trustlessly guaranteed using transaction insurance. So they're taking a different approach to, I guess, some of the other bridges out there. I think it's an interesting design and I suggest checking out the blog post for a full breakdown of how it works. But essentially this is the TLDR. They say here the way across works is that users on l two send the transaction to an l one liquidity pool. An insurer on l one takes the same amount of funds, lesser fee, and she sends them to a destination address on l one. Then she should, she submits a request to be reimbursed from the liquidity pool.
00:22:00.888 - 00:22:31.044, Speaker A: This opens the two hour dispute window. She's the only one liable in this dispute window and for this she earns her fee. This is equivalent to someone taking a short term loan out. But for the end user, the experience is an instant transaction across. Protocol will be live, audited and on Mainnet on November 8, which is really, really, really cool. Apparently 100% of the ownership will also be distributed to the community. That's a first, right? Like it means that there's going to be potentially a large airdrop or kind of, I guess like a distribution in some kind of way to the community.
00:22:31.044 - 00:23:01.638, Speaker A: If there is going to be a large airdrop, obviously you want to be farming it on across. So definitely keep tabs on this and use it once it's live on Mainnet. But I think this is cool. I think, you know, bridges I've spoken about a lot recently, but I think the fact that there's people just still innovating here and using different designs on these bridges is what I'm most excited about because I don't want every bridge to look the same. I don't want every bridge to just be a cross chain decentralized exchange or a message relay protocol. I want bridges to innovate with stuff that what, like what across is doing here. I want, I mean, I want.
00:23:01.638 - 00:23:38.256, Speaker A: I just much more than what we already have, which, which I think we're going to get. But I think the opportunity right now is growing for teams to be building these sorts of things because they see the need for it. They see that we are going to basically be in a multi chain world whether we like it or not. And that multi chain world is going to definitely consist of a lot of L2s. And there are drawbacks to these L2s, like long withdrawal times and fixing them with different designs, getting to, like the quote unquote like, perfect design. We're never going to get to the perfect design of a bridge, but as close as possible to a perfect design is the way to go about it. So I'm really, really excited to see all these experiments playing out here.
00:23:38.256 - 00:24:27.280, Speaker A: But on the note of bridges, Patrick McCrory put out a really great tweet where he said, someday we will move away from the phrase L2 for new off chain systems, and we are going to be happier for it. We'll evaluate the bridges and we'll ask ourselves questions like, do I have custody of my funds? Can the operators freeze my funds? In what way? Do I trust them? Custody and trust is a liability. So this is what I've talked about a lot recently, especially around these bridges, where I basically said that not all bridges are created equal. There are bridges that will keep custody of your funds that are like, literally just not even controlled by a multi sega, controlled by like, one address and holding a lot of funds. There are bugs and kind of, I guess, like, exploits that could be happening on these bridges. There are multi sigs that secure some of them. There are bridges that work as like, cross chain decentralized exchanges where you may be taking on liquidity risk and things like that.
00:24:27.280 - 00:25:21.790, Speaker A: So the phrase L2, I mean, I'm still gonna use it, I think, for, I guess, like as a marketing term and as a term to kind of like, easily explain these things to people. I think it works fine. But in terms of, I guess, like people, as like, developers and protocol engineers, it makes much more sense not to use the layered terminology. And it's kind of moved to the modular blockchain terminology, which I've obviously spoken about a lot, like consensus security layer, that availability layer and execution layer, those things. I mean, we shouldn't expect most end users to ever have to worry about those things. But that's the way that we, as the kind of like people, hardcore ethereum community members or kind of like people in the community may talk to each other about these things in that kind of like, language. But then the bridges, I think, are important for end users to be aware of as well, because we don't want them using totally centralized bridges and then one day losing all their funds because of it.
00:25:21.790 - 00:25:44.398, Speaker A: We want them using the most trustless bridge that we can find for them. And I think that that's where a lot of these kind of, like, top bridging protocols are barreling towards and making sure that we get there. But it's got to be a journey. And I think that changing terminology takes a while as well. You know, for example, the ETH two terminology has actually been phased out, phased out by the core developers. But a lot of people still use it. I still use it.
00:25:44.398 - 00:26:19.094, Speaker A: And consensus and execution layer mean nothing to most people. Doesn't matter how many times I expect it to you guys, a lot of the time it's probably not going to mean much to you. And ETH two is just like an easier way to describe or refer to these sorts of things, which is fine as well. So, yeah, great tweet from, from Patrick here. Speaking of Layer twos as well, Starkware put out an update tweet where they said that Argent is coming to Starknet. So you'll remember that Argent has been working very closely with the Zksync team to onboard, kind of like their users to ZK sync, but they're also going to be working with Stocknet now. And other L2s as well are coming too.
00:26:19.094 - 00:27:02.846, Speaker A: So this is really cool. They apparently have a dedicated Starknet team already building developer tools. And as Starkware describes here, Argent is an amazing wallet and OG team, and Starknet gives boundless computation and account abstraction. So Argent plus starknet equals rocket, which, I mean, I agree with. I think if Argent plays that plays their cards right here, by supporting all the relevant l two s and making it really easy for users to interact with it, they're going to dominate the wallet space, which, which I'm pretty excited about because I really love Arjun's wallets mobile wallet. It's a smart contract wallet, obviously. Maybe not so obviously, but the reason why I didn't take off on layer one is because it's very expensive to create a wallet and they were covering the gas fees, but that's like cost prohibitive for them.
00:27:02.846 - 00:27:38.520, Speaker A: So, you know, being able to kind of like create a wallet on l two and kind of like have a smart contract wallet and l two is going to be much, much cheaper and much better for the end user as well. Get, you know, allowing them to interact with these sorts of things. So very, very exciting to see that argent is coming to Stocknet, which reminder goes live in an alpha fashion next month on main net. So very much looking forward to that. All right, so perpetual protocol has a testnet trading competition for perp v two live with a total prize pool of $3 million. That is huge, right, for a testnet trading competition. I mean, if I was a trader, I want to get a piece of that.
00:27:38.520 - 00:27:59.358, Speaker A: So, I mean, if you are a trader if you like, trading perpetual assets. If you want to be part of this testnet, definitely go check this out. The game will start today, 26 October at 1400 UTC. So 02:00 p.m.. UTC the full rules of the game can be kind of like checked out in this blog post. You can give this a read. It'll be linked in the YouTube description.
00:27:59.358 - 00:28:25.740, Speaker A: The payouts will of course be in perp tokens, but essentially, I mean, that's a lot of money for kind of participating in this. So definitely go check this out and kind of like check about, check out all the information got to do with it as well. Perp is great. I mean, perpetual protocol is great. It's kind of like very similar to, I guess Dy DX in the fact that they trade perpetual contracts. But perpetual protocol is currently on XDAi. They're coming to arbitrum soon as well.
00:28:25.740 - 00:29:06.736, Speaker A: So really cool to see more of these protocols kind of out in the wild. So just the final kind of thing here. Trent van Epps announced that Tim Biker and Trent will be hosting a merge community call for infrastructure providers in two weeks. So this will take place on November 5 on Friday. If you work with wallets, web3 providers, explorers and want to better understand how the merge will affect you, you can dm Trent for an invite. So if that applies to any of you, definitely DM Trent. But this is really cool that they're already doing community calls for infrastructure providers, which is obviously critically important because the infrastructure providers need to be on the same page and need to be kind of like ready for when the merge happens in the hopeful near future.
00:29:06.736 - 00:29:32.882, Speaker A: Right? Q two. I've said Q two many times before, but it's good to see that they're already working on this. And you remember that Trent did this for ERP 15 nine as well. He's been responsible, or at least one of the people responsible, for getting a lot of these infrastructure providers to be ready for ERP 15 nine. And he's still doing it as well, still trying to get these exchanges on board with it too, and they will be over time. But yeah, cool, cool to see this being hosted here. And if this applies to you, definitely reach out to Trent.
00:29:32.882 - 00:29:43.754, Speaker A: But I think on that note, I'm going to end it there for today. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
