00:00:05.450 - 00:00:34.066, Speaker A: Great. Thanks a lot for having me. My name is Dhang Sung. I'm the founder at Oasis Labs and also a professor at UC Berkeley. Today I will talk about decentralized data governance and data tokenization for a responsible data economy. So, as we all know, blockchain has made a tremendous proud us. With bitcoin, it brought us self custody of money, and with Ethereum, it brought us programmable money and financial assets.
00:00:34.066 - 00:01:35.500, Speaker A: So the question is, what's next? What additional new capabilities and power can blockchain bring to us? So, to answer that question, let's look at in another really important domain, which is data. As we all know, data is a key driver for modern economy and the lifeblood of AI and machine learning. And more and more data is being collected every day, and the global data economy is growing exponentially. However, a lot of this data is really sensitive, and handling sensitive data has posed unprecedented challenges to both individuals and businesses. So first, individuals have lost control over how their data is being used. Oftentimes, users data has been sold or misused without users awareness of consent. And also at the same time, users data has been locked in different silos in the different web services and so on.
00:01:35.500 - 00:02:44.130, Speaker A: And more importantly, a lot of valuable data is being locked in different data silos. So even for businesses and for the society, it's difficult to actually utilize the data to extract valuable insights from data to have it better serve the society. So how can we address these challenges? An important concept I want to introduce here is data sovereignty. So what is data sovereignty? It needs a number of several different things here. One, it's important to establish data rights, and it enables control, use of data with the privacy protection and compliance to data use policy. And we also want to create data assets to enable frictionless use of data with the value attribution. And with these capabilities, we also hope to enable data commons a new type of structure for decentralized data science.
00:02:44.130 - 00:03:50.646, Speaker A: So how can we achieve this? Here we propose to build a new type of data governance platform that is auditable policy compliance with decentralized trust. In particular, this data governance platform satisfies a number of desired properties. First, control, we want to enable data owners and data producers to be able to specify policies of how data can be used and also enable data consumption to comply with data use policies. And it needs to be privacy perceiving. For example, data confidentiality needs to be protected during data consumption, and we also want to support auditability. For example, data usage is locked on the immutable ledger and data producer and otherwise items can easily audit how data has been used. And also very importantly, we want to build others with decentralized trust.
00:03:50.646 - 00:05:49.814, Speaker A: So we do not need to rely on any trust on any central party. So what are the key components that are needed to build this data governance platform? Essentially, we need to combine technologies from blockchain, decentralized key management, secure computing, and also be able to check data use policies and do compliance checks on program policies. So this is how we can put these different components together to enable this new decentralized data governance. So in this paradigm, data providers will encrypt their data and attach the data use policy and commit this information to the blockchain. And the data analyst and data consumer who wants to use the data can submit their program that may run on the data, and the access controller will get the latest information about users data rights and data use policy from the blockchain, and then it will evaluate the program that's submitted by the data consumer. One component of the access controller, the Saski analyzer, will check the use policy against the program and to ensure that the program satisfies the desired use policy and it will send a proof of policy compliance to the distributed key manager. And then the access controller will instantiate a secure execution environment and the key manager will send the decryption key to the trusted execution environment, which then can fetch the data and decrypt the data and run the program.
00:05:49.814 - 00:07:22.410, Speaker A: And in the end to generate a result data capsule with the results encrypted and with the appropriate residual policy attached. And this information is also committed to the blockchain and then the digital consumer can then receive the results and depending on the residual policy can then view the results or query, for example a chain machinery model and so on. And finally, the data provider can inspect the blockchain to see how their data was accessed. So overall, this is a decentralized data governance platform that enables the desired capabilities and properties that I mentioned earlier. And at OASis we have built up the parcel architecture to enable all those capabilities and to enable this decentralized data governance platform. And the OASis parcel architecture provides the API and SDK and also apps for the users and the developers to manage their consent and also do their app management. For example, the users can use the OSIs viewers app to set permissions for applications from developers who may want to use users data in this privacy preserving policy compliance manner.
00:07:22.410 - 00:08:53.666, Speaker A: And furthermore, with the OASis parcel architecture and SDK, we enable data tokenization which helps create a new type of NFT. We call them database nfts. So with the parcel platform and SDK. So in this case, the data producer can upload data assets to the platform and then the data producer can mint a token, continued asset and a data use policy for the token holders and the data producer exchanges these data backed tokens with the data consumer for other tokens, for payment or other types of tokens, and so on through the various different types of exchanges. And the data consumer can then gain access to the data assets with these data tokens and then run analysis in confidential compute that satisfies the data use policy. And finally, the data consumer may receive the analyzed results and can tokenize this result, starting the whole cycle again. And also with these data tokens we can further enable data token aggregation so that from individual data assets they can also join data pools to form, for example, data etfs and data dows.
00:08:53.666 - 00:10:35.500, Speaker A: And these data pool tokens can then be exchanged as well. So overall, data tokens establish an important new asset type for deFi. Data tokens are the next generation nfts in particular as these databacked nfts, and they can be used in different types of DeFi applications such as index, in lending, liquidity pools and so on, and they represent unique access ownership to specific data. Utilizing the parcel platform developed by Oasis Labs, we have enabled new use cases, including for example, data backed nfts for genome sequencing, for example, utilizing the technology here, we actually George Church has minted his NFC for his genetic data, and George Church is considered as the founding father for modern genomics. And that's just one example. Data tokens can enable many, many different types of use cases. So here's an example where using data tokens, one can help music bands to read money by tokenizing and selling streaming royalty.
00:10:35.500 - 00:12:41.008, Speaker A: So furthermore, as I mentioned, one of the big issues users face today also is their data has been locked in different data cellos in different web services. With the GDPR privacy regulation, it has established users right to data portability, where the data subject shall have the right to receive the personal data concerning him or her and so on. So this is a great time to enable users to take more control of their data. So, utilizing the capabilities supported by this portability rights, and utilizing the platform provided by Oasis, parcel and so on, users can now essentially download their data from these different third party data silos, form personal data vault, and then create data assets and data tokens out of its own data to enable its data to be utilized in a privacy preserving way for other applications as well, and to help users to maintain and to gain more benefits from their data, and also a further step. As different data owners and producers join different data pools and so on, we can establish a new type of structure that we call data commons for decentralized data science. So in this setting, data owners and producers, they can register their data sets with the policies specified into different data pools listed in distributed data catalog. And the data consumer and data analysts can search this data catalog to find relevant data and then exchange and get relevant data tokens for consumption.
00:12:41.008 - 00:14:41.150, Speaker A: And then the data consumers can submit their analysis program and the platform can then enable these programs to run in a distributed, secure computing environment while ensuring the program is compliant with the desired policies. So with this approach, it helps reduce friction of data usage, remove data silos and ensure strong security and privacy protection, and help users to gain more benefits from their data. And here I do strongly believe that in ten years, data trust and data commons will become the predominant ways of utilizing diverse source of data enabling ownership economy where users can benefit from their data as owners and partners. And with this technology, we hope that this can help build towards a responsible data economy where it helps users to establish and enforce their data rights and data rights serve as a foundation of the data economy and prevent misuse and abuse of data and enables fair distribution of value created from data to enable users to gain more benefits from their data and also ultimately enable efficient data use to maximize societal welfare and economic efficiency. So with this, we hope that with the progress of blockchain, essentially besides enabling self custody of money, programmable and of money and financial assets, it can enable data sovereignty and programmable data assets. So for others and also learning more, you can try out Karso today and go to OAsiS Labs website, it's available in beta today. And thanks everyone.
00:14:41.150 - 00:14:47.210, Speaker A: Thank you so much John, appreciate you coming on and talking about this with us.
