00:00:00.240 - 00:00:24.273, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Daily Bay Refuel, where recap the latest news in the theorem ecosystem. I'm your host, Dano. It's the 28th of October, 2024. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So, once again, I have to apologize for being a little bit AWOL over the last few days. I plan to actually do an episode on Saturday or Sunday, but it just didn't happen because I've had a bit of a cough for the last few days, and it kind of turned into, I think, a little bit of a cold that's kind of drained my energy.
00:00:24.273 - 00:00:50.845, Speaker A: I am kind of on the mend right now, but we're gonna see how we go over the next few days. But I figured I didn't want to keep you guys waiting any longer because I hadn't done an epis, and I think a week or something now. So. Yeah, and there's a lot to talk about, actually a ton to talk about. And as you guys know, I'm headed to Dead devcon in, like, less than a couple of weeks as well, so there won't be any refuels during that. But I'll talk about that more at the end. But kicking off today, we have a little bit of a Vitalik tweet thread here that I wanted to talk about briefly.
00:00:50.845 - 00:01:35.717, Speaker A: Now, as you guys know, the Ethereum foundation has come under fire for not just like, I guess, the last few months, but like, years about what it's actually spending its money on. Right. Like, as you guys know, the Ethereum foundation is funded via the. The ETH that they sell that they originally allocated to themselves at time of, I guess, creation of ETH and the time of mainnet for Ethereum, because that was part of the ico. Now, I believe they have like a few hundred thousand ETH left or something like that, and they sell a chunk, about $100 million worth a year in order to fund operations. Now, of course, people take issue with this because there hasn't traditionally been that much transparency around it. There's been one transparency report, I believe, for 2022, and there hasn't been one for 2023 yet, which I believe is coming out soon, though.
00:01:35.717 - 00:02:26.471, Speaker A: And obviously 2024 is not over yet. So there's not one for 2024, but Vitalik put together this kind of this mini tweet thread, basically saying, well, the Ethereum foundation isn't just cashing this money out to go buy Lambos, it's using it for a lot of different things within the ecosystem. And chief of those is that paying researchers and developers that work at the Ethereum foundation, or I guess closely with the Ethereum foundation, or just giving grants to researchers, developers and other people in the ecosystem via the ETH that they sell out of their treasury. And Vitalik basically noted here what this has actually led to over the years. So Ethereum hasn't been bleeding 5 million eth a year to proof of work because we're now on proof of stake. And as you guys know, moving from proof of work to proof of stake reduced the ETH issuance by about 90%. The fees are lower today.
00:02:26.471 - 00:03:19.245, Speaker A: And I think like when he says this, he means on, on L2s because the Ethereum foundation is responsible for obviously a lot of the layer 2 efforts and funding them and, and also just kind of like helping them, but also getting blobs over the line, right? And your transactions getting included in less than 30 seconds instead of like 1 to 30 minutes because of EIP 1559 and this is on the layer 1. I don't know how many of you were transacting ON Ethereum layer 1 before 15:59 went in, but it was not pretty. Whenever there was kind of demand spikes and stuff like that, transactions would get stuck, it'd be a mess. Like especially I remember in 2017, the ICO craze, it was an absolute mess. Like transactions would get stuck for a long, long time. So 1559 fixed that as well as obviously burning the fees, but there's that there. And then he continued by saying the other stuff that if you foundation has helped build and fund is ZK0 knowledge tech.
00:03:19.245 - 00:04:12.701, Speaker A: Obviously that's been a big part of the EF funding efforts for a very long time. Account abstraction that's not live yet on the network, but it live in some other ways when he's going live. Local ETH events worldwide, including many that barely mention their foundation's name. And Ethereum having zero downtime since 2016 from DoS attacks and consensus failures, various security work and libraries and all the codes that you use for wallets, DeFi apps, etc. So yeah, the Ethereum foundation, obviously for anyone, I mean with half a brain cell, knows that they've done a lot for Ethereum over the years and they've actually distributed a lot of that power out as well. Because as you guys know, and we're just talking about core Ethereum work, there are 10 client teams, right, like on the consensus layer side and the execution layer side and the Ethereum found only has one that they incubate in house. Or I guess, like, that's part of the Ethereum foundation, and that's the Go Ethereum or Geth team.
00:04:12.701 - 00:04:31.141, Speaker A: The rest of them are independent now, of course. Ethiopian foundation helps them with funding and has helped them with things like that. Ether giving them eth to spin up validators in order to earn rewards. Kind of a program that they ran, I guess. Guess they've been running it for a couple of years now. But essentially that is a big thing that the Ethereum foundation has. Has been doing here.
00:04:31.141 - 00:04:51.049, Speaker A: So I think Vitalik, you know, he kind of ended these tweets off by saying, show some respect. I think he got pretty annoyed because who he was replying to was some guy who said, I mean, I have this. This account blocked. But, like, someone said, just stop. Stop dumping and we'll be all right, bro. And then Vitalik's like, I haven't sold a single eth in the past month. The amount of eth I hold has actually gone up.
00:04:51.049 - 00:05:17.023, Speaker A: And then this other account asked, and what about the Ethereum Foundation? Then Metallic's like, oh, my God, like, stop. You know, we've already answered this question a million times. It's pretty obvious what the Ethereum foundation uses the Eth4. But, yeah, there's always these troll accounts on Twitter. And I think Vitalik finally got to the point where he's like, you know what? Like, screw these guys. I'm gonna, like, I don't know, enter some kind of, like, war mode and go against these guys. Not in a mean way, but essentially saying, like, sit down, like, you got no idea what you're talking about.
00:05:17.023 - 00:05:40.729, Speaker A: So I. I was actually happy to see Vitalik kind of do that because as you guys know, I'm one of the people that do that as well. Like, I basically will try to fight this fight on Twitter, and I. I don't take shit either. Like, I'm not going to sit there and kind of, I guess, massage the message. I'll tell you be like, hey, man, like, you're being an idiot, basically, like, this is the way it is. If you're going to keep being ignorant to this, then that's on you, and I won't do it to people who are genuinely asking questions.
00:05:40.729 - 00:06:08.493, Speaker A: It's more the. There's a lot of people out there who know better, but just like, like to stir the pot or like to troll or like to be assholes about things and spread fud. I don't have any patience for those people. I literally tell them to their face, but you're fighting eth fighting Ethereum is spreading absolute bullshit and this is why sort of thing. So I'm glad Vitalik did a little bit of that there. But enough on that topic. Moving on to the next thing, which was Vitalik quote tweeting someone from A16 Noah I should say from A16 A16Z crypto here, talking about Helio.
00:06:08.493 - 00:06:42.401, Speaker A: Helios is a light client for Ethereum but it is now becoming a multi chain light client. So it will also be able to do a L2s on Ethereum as well. And Vitalik essentially TL tldr this and gave some next steps. He said Helios or alternatives should be integrated into user wallets on mobile and desktop. The layer 2 configs moving on chain and layer 2 conflict configs including specification of state proof verification rules. And he links to kind of possible starting points here. Once those three are done, we get universal L1 and L2 to light client verification.
00:06:42.401 - 00:07:15.125, Speaker A: And this was the tweet that, I mean I just covered about the person asking him to stop dumping eth bro like that was on this tweet. I think that's why Vitalik also got annoyed. He's like, he's tweeting about something completely unrelated to price and the markets and something that he's genuinely excited about when it comes to, when it comes to the actual technology. And people are just trolling him with these, with these comments basically. But enough on that. I'm super excited about light clients as well. As you guys know, light clients are kind of like the holy grail for verification of Ethereum and of the L2s because it essentially means you get to have a full node without having to download a full node.
00:07:15.125 - 00:08:09.105, Speaker A: Well, I shouldn't, I wouldn't say you get a full node. What you get is like the same guarantees. Like you get to basically verify the chain and verify the chain without relying on any kind of third parties and be able to relay your transactions via that instead of going like a third going via a third party like Infura or something like that. So it's much better for user verification and it's also getting us closer to the world that that is envisioned that we have like really beefy kind of block builders, but very cheap verification. Now what I mean by this is essentially all of people that will be building blocks for layer ones and L2s in the future will be running these really beefy machines that, you know, in data centers or like things that just require ridiculous amount of bandwidth, especially at L2s. But the thing is that that doesn't matter. I mean, it doesn't matter in terms of for verification if we can verify these things via light clients, because it means you don't have to run the beefy hardware yourself in order to verify this stuff.
00:08:09.105 - 00:08:33.171, Speaker A: Where it does matter is things like censorship, resistance and liveness. Because if there's only one, let's just say there's one builder, like on one of these L2s. Let's say there's only one builder. I mean, a lot of them only have one builder right now, but let's say in the future that, you know, they say they're decentralized, anyone can be a builder. But let's say that like one builder is responsible for pretty much like everything happening on the network. That means that that builder has control over everything essentially. And they can sensor if they want to.
00:08:33.171 - 00:08:59.751, Speaker A: And they, I mean they can send to you at the L2. Obviously a properly constructed L2 will be able to escape hatch out to the L1, but that's still not ideal for them to be able to censor there. And then liveness as well. Those kind of go hand in hand where essentially live just means that the builder refuses to build blocks and then the blocks aren't being built anymore. The network is technically offline. It's the same as censorship because you're basically being, for intents and purposes, you're basically being censored in both scenarios. So that's, that's a big thing there.
00:08:59.751 - 00:09:38.597, Speaker A: And that's why we want cheaper verification in order to verify if this thing is happening as well. But also with, with these builders, we want to make it so anyone can be a builder. So we don't need like thousands of these builders. Like having 10, for example, or something, or having as many as we can is obviously much better than having one because it gives you better guarantees there. But then the cool thing about L2s is that as I said, you have that escape hatch option as well. You don't have to essentially be a prisoner to this. I guess like one builder, if they're censoring you if the Network, if the layer 2 network goes offline for whatever reason, you can go to the L1 as your escape hatch and your assets should be fine there.
00:09:38.597 - 00:10:20.157, Speaker A: Obviously there are a lot of other intricacies that go into that, such as where are the assets? Where the assets issued on, where they, where they kind of began. Like, did they begin at L2 or layer one? Can they be mapped? You know what assets are they obviously centralized, stable coins can easily just be replaced because they're just IOUs. For example, if there's like 10 billion USDC on a L2, that L2 goes offline. Well, it's not like everyone loses their 10,000 USD. Sorry, not everyone loses their USDC. Essentially what circle would do is be like, okay, well that USDC is now invalid. We're going to redistribute the USDC to all of the accounts that owned it because it's the same Ethereum address across the L1 and the L2 and you'll have your USDC see on, on L1 essentially.
00:10:20.157 - 00:10:57.235, Speaker A: And yes, you probably going to pay more fees, but you don't lose everything because that's a centralized asset. Whereas with eth it's a different story. If there is no escape hatch, your ETH is essentially, or can essentially be locked in that, in that bridge that you basically put your eth into on L1 to go to L2 and then no one's giving you your ETH back because ETH is issued on the Ethereum L1. It's not an IOU. ETH is a, is a native asset. It's not like there's something backing that ETH in a, in a bank account, right? In the real world, ETH is settled, ultimately settled on the Ethereum network and only exists on there on layer one. So the same is true for like any chain that you bridge to.
00:10:57.235 - 00:11:43.491, Speaker A: If that bridge gets frozen for whatever reason, you're never getting that ETH back because that IOU that you have on the bridge to chain is essentially worthless because there's nothing backing it, right? So got to be careful with this. A lot of intricacies, but moving towards a world where we can have light clients in phones and anyone around the world, wherever you are, can verify the chain without having to download a full node is the Holy Grail. And it's not just the Holy Grail for verification purposes. Purposes and for making sure that you're not getting screwed over. It's the Holy Grail for scalability of L1 as well. Because you can imagine a world where, well, if you get the same guarantees and you don't need to, you don't essentially need to download a full node. You can essentially make full node requirements higher and higher so you can raise the gas limit and you can scale the L1 more.
00:11:43.491 - 00:12:14.255, Speaker A: So this is the ideal world we want to be in, and that's why this is so exciting as well, is that if we get to this world where we have this client verification, we essentially get to scale the L1 a lot from here. Like, I'm talking orders of magnitude, guys, which is super exciting, of course, and. But we get to do that without losing the properties of the L1, the decentralization, the credible neutrality, censorship, resistance, so on and so forth. Right? So that's, that's super exciting there. But enough on that. You can go read more if you want to. I'll link that Tweet in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:12:14.255 - 00:13:08.957, Speaker A: All right, so Vitalik has been putting out a bunch of blog posts recently about the various Ethereum roadmap stages that you all know as the Merge, the Surge, the Scourge, the Verge, and the Purge. Now, you've. You've probably heard of these a million times before. There's no need for me to go through each of them. But Suhail here actually did a TLDR tweet on Vitalik's blog post, which I highly recommend giving a read. So Vitalik did a blog post for each of these things, as you guys have probably seen. But what Suhail has done is just put together a few points about what each kind of, I guess, like, phase or what, like, each part of the roadmap actually aims to do, which is super useful because you could just basically bookmark this tweet and if anyone kind of asks you, hey, like, when are we going to scale the L1? Or when are we doing kind of quantum stuff for the L1 overthereum, or what are we doing about, like, state expiry? Or what are we doing about, like full node sizes, stuff like that, like the very techie stuff.
00:13:08.957 - 00:13:53.975, Speaker A: But you can just refer back to this, this tldr from Suhail, and then you can go actually get the blog post out as well and send that to whoever's asking you, or just for your own, I guess, knowledge base as well there, so you can go give this a read. I'll link this in the YouTube description below, but I thought it was really, really great. I do want to just point out one thing here is that I think people still get confused that they think this is kind of a sequential thing where, like, the merge happens first, then the search happens, then the scourge. No, all of this is being built in parallel because of the fact that each, each roadmap section has different EIPs going live at different times. So it's all basically happening in parallel. It's not like we're just doing the merge related EIPs first, then the surge, then the scourge and for example, the. One of the EIPs that's part of the surge is.
00:13:53.975 - 00:14:16.923, Speaker A: Is blobs, right? And scaling up blobs. So we delivered that. But then the merge, we've still got other things to. To essentially go with that, such as a single slot finality and potentially orbit single slot finality and potentially like, like staking related issuance reductions and sort of things like that there. And faster block times. Right. So as I said, these things happen in parallel.
00:14:16.923 - 00:14:48.194, Speaker A: Just wanted to make that clear for people. But you can go give this a read. I'll. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. So speaking of the gas limits and what I had mentioned before about kind of being able to raise that and scale L1, Thomas from here, from the nethermind team put out a very simple tweet where he said, I support doubling the Ethereum mainnet gas target. Now, I quote, tweeted this and I said, historically, I've been against upping the gas limit because I don't feel like it will have a material impact on L1 scalability.
00:14:48.194 - 00:15:17.431, Speaker A: And we already have L2s. A lot of things have changed over the last few months that have convinced me that we should increase the gas target slash limit, even if it doesn't materially impact L1 scalability. Now, you guys know that I felt very strongly about this. I think, like, I don't know how long ago it was now, but it was a few months ago that I don't think that raising the gas limit actually would materially impact L1 scalability. I still don't think it would, to be honest. But that's not the reason why I'm in favor of it now. Or at least that's not the main reason.
00:15:17.431 - 00:15:56.631, Speaker A: The reason I'm in favor of it is more, I guess, like, on the social side of things. And the main reason is that by. By doubling the gas limit or like increasing the gas limit, essentially what we do is instead of talking about in the future sometime, you know, raising the gas limit or scaling up L1, we essentially socially commit to doing it. And we basically say, okay, well, here's the social commitment, but then here's us, we're actually raising the gas limit to prove that social commitment. Because now we're just socially committing, right? We're just saying, okay, we're going to do it. Well, cool. When? And then we say, oh, well, you know, when this, this and this happens, it's like, that's all well and good, but what's more powerful than just saying it.
00:15:56.631 - 00:16:40.737, Speaker A: Like, it's not like no one believes us. But what's powerful? What's more powerful than just saying it is actually doing it to show that we're committed to doing it. And you don't have to do it in a big way, you don't have to double it. Like, I'm not going to say that we should double it from here, but like we could do like a 10% incremental increase, then another 10%, then another 10%. And that could show that we have a commitment to scaling not just the L2s, but the L1, because scaling up the L1 actually scales the L2s as well, not just with blobs, we're scaling up the gas limit because that gives L1's better. Sorry, gives the L2s better UX and potentially cheaper fees for things like posting proofs down and stuff like that. Right? But another big reason why it's potentially okay to do this now is because we've had blobs live on the network for six months now, right? And the network's been chugging along just fine.
00:16:40.737 - 00:17:21.091, Speaker A: We have a better understanding of how the network does with a bunch more load put on it. We don't need to essentially have this big unknown over our heads of like how blobs are going to be utilized, what that's going to look like, what the bandwidth is going to look like on that. We know that now and we're gathering more data as time goes on, so we have more hard data to work with rather than just like stabbing in the dark. But in saying that, we're also doing a lot of work to reduce bandwidth consumption too. Like that's a big thing for the, for the gas limit. But as well as blobs is bandwidth consumption. Because as you guys know, there's been a lot of discussion recently about the fact that we actually do need to define some, I guess, minimum bandwidth requirement for solo stakers for people running full nodes at home.
00:17:21.091 - 00:17:57.629, Speaker A: Because right now, I mean, there's not really any high definition of this. And I discussed this on one of the previous refuels. There's essentially. Well, what's the lowest kind of, I guess like powered node on the network? Like who's got the least bandwidth on the network and it's particularly upload bandwidth and that becomes our flaw. I don't think that should be the floor because essentially you're basically letting like a handful of people dictate the whole network in that, in that sense. And I'm not going to say they're dictating it like on purpose or anything, but what you're doing is it's just an arbitrary thing. You're just like looking at them and being like, oh well, I don't want to kick them off the network, which we shouldn't want to do this.
00:17:57.629 - 00:18:45.489, Speaker A: But at the same time there is like a hard kind of discussion that needs to be had around having a minimum requirement here in order to keep scaling up the network, but in order to I guess like have an understanding around the fact that, you know, we get that it's hard for people to get bandwidth, get more bandwidth if it's just not available to them because it's not like hardware, you can't just go out and buy it. You have to rely on usually your government to kind of put in the infrastructure. Like here in Australia there are suburbs that have fiber right to their house and then there is a suburb, the next kind of suburb over like a five minute drive. Not even that has copper still to to their house. Right. So the disparity and the I guess inequality when it comes to fiber optic connections and good Internet generally, even in first world countries is huge. So I'm not going to say that that's not an issue and that's not something that we have to take into consideration.
00:18:45.489 - 00:19:16.007, Speaker A: But we just can't go on like this. I don't think we can't just go on and be and keep saying to ourselves that's, that's the flaw. No, we have to define a flawless in megabits per second for upload bandwidth specifically and then we can work from there. I really don't think we should be doing it the way we're doing it right now. I think it's a big mistake and I think it holds us back as a network and as a community, but on top of that as well. And the reason why I'm also in favor of a gasoline increase is because the clients have gotten a lot better and they've gotten a lot more efficient. Like all of them have gotten so much better and more efficient over time.
00:19:16.007 - 00:20:04.461, Speaker A: Not just with their bandwidth usage, but just with their general stability and how they handle different things on the, on the network, how they handle syncing through the network, how they handle basically managing storage space. Managing a bandwidth obviously is the big one there. So that to me is a perfect reason or another good reason why the gas limit increase is actually justified here. And as I said, like this is Tomas from nethermind someone actually working on a client who said this. So when the client teams are saying this, not just one person, obviously you want like the majority of them to be saying this. I think that it's pretty safe to say that they're confident in what they've kind of built here and they're confident that, that raising the gas limit is not going to result in any kind of, I guess, like unintended or negative consequences for the network here. Now also, what's really cool about raising the gas limit is that it's a very easy thing to do.
00:20:04.461 - 00:20:39.979, Speaker A: Even though we have to consider everything that I just said in terms of actually doing it. It's super easy. The validators just up, just essentially vote up the gas limit themselves and you say, okay, well the gas limit is currently set to this. I'm going to manually change my, my parameter in my config file and I'm going to say I want the gas limit to be 40 million or 50 million or whatever, whatever you want it to be. And then the whole network can slowly do that and get up there. Right. Traditionally it's been done with the, I guess like soft blessing of the core devs who are saying, okay, you guys, doing this isn't going to destroy the network, which is, which is pretty good, right? But it doesn't require a hard fork.
00:20:39.979 - 00:21:09.553, Speaker A: That's, that's the really cool thing about this because as you guys know, hard forks are pretty much like once a year at this point. So if we had to wait for a hard fork to increase the gas limit, we'd have to wait each year and it would not, it would not be very obviously not very, very fast. It would just be way too slow. But at the same time, we've actually gone longer than that since the last one. I think the last gas limit increase was like two or three years ago. So again, like, we're justified again in increasing it because it's been so long. Hardware has obviously gotten better, bandwidth have gotten better, clients have gotten better.
00:21:09.553 - 00:21:51.093, Speaker A: I understand that there are some people on the network that cannot get access to better upload bandwidth and we should make sure that we don't negatively affect them as much as possible. But as I said before, there needs to be a line drawn here. There can't just be a put our finger up in the air and just like get a feeling for what, what we need to do here. So that's my, my general take on that. Now there's also a tweet here from Vitalik that talks about other things we can do, you know, not just increasing the Gas limit. But like also the fact that we can reduce the gas costs of different EVM upcodes or pretty much every EVM opcode that's currently in the 2 to 5 range to 1 and in the 6 to 2 range to 2. So that is a pretty huge, huge boost there as well.
00:21:51.093 - 00:22:16.785, Speaker A: This requires a hard fork of course. Cut the gust a gas cost of log by 4x, cut the gas cost of pre compiles except the ones that we want to retire. So we can probably get a 1.5 tps increase without worsening any critical worst case numbers such as call data, site and size and IO. But as I said this all requires a hard fork. So like it's not something that's going to happen just because people want it to happen. It needs to go through the governance process, needs to go into the network.
00:22:16.785 - 00:22:36.817, Speaker A: But it seems like that is actually being discussed at the core dev level as well. So cool to see that there. But yeah, that's why essentially in a nutshell, why I'm now in favor of increasing the gas limit. I don't think we should like double it. And like now like I don't think, you know, every validator should right now just go and double their gas limit in their config. That would be reckless. But I think we can gradually increase it.
00:22:36.817 - 00:23:13.891, Speaker A: There was actually an effort and this is the last time I spoke about this was an effort called Pump the Gas and I think their website's still live, so pumpthegas.org and you can actually see how this works in practice. They didn't want to double the gas limit, they essentially wanted to increase it from 30 million to 40 million which is like a 33% increase. And then essentially all you need to do, as you can see here, is in your validator clients and on your execution client you essentially increase your gas limit. So you go from 30 million to 40 million. You put the number in there and they actually have the kind of the lines here for you to copy paste. They've also got a validator checker as well.
00:23:13.891 - 00:23:51.507, Speaker A: And then it just increases as more people, as more people kind of increase their limit here as well. You can go check this out. It's still pretty relevant to today and I think this would be the better way to do it going in like maybe 10 million kind of increments here, like 30 to 40, 40, 50, 50 to 60 rather than like doubling it straight away. And I think, you know, Tomas and other core devs would agree with this. It's a much better way to do it rather than just like yellowing and going double. And then over time we obviously can increase it even more. And then once we have upgrades like the Verge for example, and we have other ways of and then we have like better light clients, we have proper light client verification in then we can increase it even more.
00:23:51.507 - 00:24:19.911, Speaker A: And there's other things way down the line like sniper flying the base layer and stuff like that too. So essentially we should be doing a moderate gas limit here. So maybe I'll be pushing for it more. You might see me pushing for it more publicly because I obviously run validators and full nodes and all that. So I might change mine and then just push it for it publicly as well. But I want to see more core devs chime in on this. I want to see this discussed a bit more before I do that because I don't want to be reckless with it, of course, but it seems like it's closer than it has ever been, to be honest.
00:24:19.911 - 00:24:58.482, Speaker A: And I think more people are on board with it now that we have a stable network with blobs and we have a lot of improvements coming on. Bam. On the bandwidth side and the clients have gotten a lot better over time as well. All right, so Rocket Pool has a massive upgrade that went live today called Saturn 0. Now Jasper has the thread you need to read on this which I'll link in the YouTube description below. It is 42 tweets, so it is not a short thread but essentially it will give you a tldr or not just Saturn 0, but like everything that's happening with Rocket Pool. So he's calling this Rocket Pool Reborn, which is a four step process to rocket Pool A Rocket Pool 2.0.
00:24:58.482 - 00:25:28.315, Speaker A: So Constellation L2 already went live. I spoke about this last week. This is XR 8th which is the first full yield LST Saturn 0 which is ETH only bonds that essentially went live today. So you can see this here in this tweet from from Jasper. Saturn 1 which is LEB fours, so basically four eighth mini pools plus direct value capture and a redesign and Saturn 2 which is sublinear bonding down to 1.58 plus an RPL buy and burn scheme. Now of course you can go read his thread.
00:25:28.315 - 00:26:08.131, Speaker A: Full, full explanation about all of this. I'm not going to try and TRDR it because of the fact that you need to read the thread and I don't want to spoil the thread for you there. But yeah, as I said, like Saturn 0 went live here, which is a huge upgrade because you can now stake with just 8 ETH. You don't need RPL anymore. That was probably the biggest blocker to Rocket Pool's growth over the last however many, I guess months, maybe even years at this point that it's been, it has been, I think the number one complaint from nerd operators that you needed RPL in order to spin up a mini pool. Now you don't, which is obviously massive because it means that now more people can get involved with staking. We're setting up nodes as Rocket Pool Node Operator because I don't have to go out and buy this other token.
00:26:08.131 - 00:26:55.165, Speaker A: They can just bring their eighth which is I guess the entire purpose of this upgrade, right? Just making it super easy make to scale up the Rocket Pool ecosystem, the Rocket Pool node operator ecosystem here and remove any potential blockers, which is really, really great to see. So I've already got a bunch of mini pools up and running. As you guys know. I have a bunch of RPL staked on them but unfortunately like the RPL price went down so much against E ETH that I'm like severely under collateralized. But the nice thing is is that now if I want to spin up more mini pools, I don't need any more rpl. So I can just leave what I have there and then just bring eth, which I may just do very shortly. Actually I do have some ETH that's just lying there not staked right now and I was kind of thinking about what to do with it and then I, I think that this might be something that I do in the near future.
00:26:55.165 - 00:27:26.715, Speaker A: Spin up a bit, some, some more mini pools here because I definitely want obviously my, my eighth to be stuck staked and I want to keep supporting the Rocket Pool effort. So as I said, you can go give Jasper's tweet thread a read on everything got to do with Rocket Pool being reborn, not just this Saturn Zero upgrade. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, a big announcement out of Kraken over the last week. So they have introduced their L2 called Inc. Now of course this L2 is built on Ethereum. It has been a long time coming.
00:27:26.715 - 00:28:00.753, Speaker A: I remember them teasing this quite a while ago and it's no surprise that they're building a L2 considering the success that base has had. Because Kraken is I would say like the number two US based crypto exchange in terms of, in terms of like market share in the US here and the fact that they're doing their own L2 is a no brainer. I think now there are a bunch of details about this on their website or incon chain.com I actually really love the name honestly. Inc. Like it's such a cool name because as you can see from the branding like it lends itself to some really cool and unique branding. The purple is like the Kraken purple.
00:28:00.753 - 00:28:18.865, Speaker A: So essentially it fits in with their overall branding scheme anyway. And yeah, you can see like it just, it just looks cool. Like I love purple. Purple's actually my favorite color. Purple and orange really. I mean it's funny but behind me is not really purple and orange but in front of me behind my, my setup here, my. My monitor and everything, there's orange there, there's purple there.
00:28:18.865 - 00:28:41.141, Speaker A: Like I just love it. It's just such a nice color scheme. And they've actually gone towards more. The more degen side with Ink as well. Like they really trying to appeal to that more speculative side of crypto. Those crypto natives who really want to just get on do stuff on chain and do it fast and not have to pay high fees. So really, really cool to see this year now their test nets going live in less than two weeks and they are built of course on the super chain.
00:28:41.141 - 00:29:06.253, Speaker A: I say of course because the op stack is just dominating right now. Now Yano from Blockworks did a podcast with the Ink founder which you can go listen to them to that podcast. I think it's out soon on Empire on the the Empire podcast. But he tldr'd essentially what. What Kraken's thinking is around this new L2. So there was an eight months from decision to launch of of inc. So I think that's when they kind of first started teasing it.
00:29:06.253 - 00:29:34.579, Speaker A: They're using Ethereum as their data availability layer. They obviously also looked at Celestia and Eigen but they chose Ethereum which is really cool because it just shows again that Ethereum DA has a premium on it, that's for sure. And people want to use Ethereum DA. They're going to be exploring L3DA for a more modular, not just Ethereum. So they might just build L3s on. Sorry might build their LA DA with L3. Could have more than one L2 in the distant future.
00:29:34.579 - 00:29:58.289, Speaker A: Not anytime soon. I don't know if that'll materialize. It doesn't really make sense to have more than one because it kind of shifts your focus. Maybe that was just an offhand comment that was made on the podcast. Thought about building in house but used a roll up as a service provider instead, which is Gelato. The goal is to get centralized order books on chain, which is a pretty, pretty big goal I think and pretty doable with the current L2 infrastructure that we have. The wallet is the portal.
00:29:58.289 - 00:30:16.073, Speaker A: They thought about forking the OP stack but are leveraging the interoperability of the super chain, which makes more sense. Which actually if you read between. Not read, you don't have to read between the lines here. If you're paying attention, that means that INC and Base will be able to interoperate with each other. That's cool. Like that is really cool. Like I can't wait for that to be a reality.
00:30:16.073 - 00:30:39.325, Speaker A: They didn't share revenue split information, but that will be public soon. We'll lean into dev tooling ahead of mainnet. There's a thousand plus people at Kraken that are in the Ink Slack channels. This is obviously something that's exciting them like it's exciting me. They hundreds of L2s are launching in the next several months. So that's more of I guess like not just about Ink, but just the general trend that we're seeing right now. It's very obvious that every app will have its own chain.
00:30:39.325 - 00:30:57.145, Speaker A: I completely agree with that, honestly. And those chains will be within the respective super chains, whether that's on OP Stack or somewhere else. They launched with. With Base support, which is very cool. They're going to launch a token for inc. If it wasn't for the regulators. We know that Base would do the same thing.
00:30:57.145 - 00:31:24.101, Speaker A: Like if it wasn't for the regulators. If we had like an SEC that wasn't run by Gary Gensler, Base would have probably already had a token, to be honest. And INC would definitely have a token as well because a token gives you just so much to work with. Right. The board members and investors like the idea doesn't think it will hurt their future IPO prospects. And an unofficial vision is to have every PRD at Kraken have an on chain component to it. So essentially every product at Kraken have an on chain component to it.
00:31:24.101 - 00:31:46.463, Speaker A: So I guess this is Kraken going head to head with Base. Honestly, like that's what the comparison is. That's what the comp is here. And but as I said, like Base and INC are going to be interoperable with each other. They're going to be able to talk to each other. There is not going to be a walled garden here. So really it's going to be interesting to see like what each of these businesses do to drive customers to their L2 obviously Coinbase is further ahead because Base has been live for a while.
00:31:46.463 - 00:33:02.269, Speaker A: They already have more downstream products like their Coinbase Wallet. But I think Kraken stands a real chance to compete here especially if they appeal from the, from the very start to the more degen crowd because that's oh, I guess like the more DJ and on chain native crowd and especially leverage their unique branding here with Ink in order to, in, in order to get people on chain. So just super exciting guys. And I think what I agree with most on these podcast notes is that, that the fact that there's going to be hundreds of L2s launching in the next several months and that every app will have its own chain because launching a chain has become as easy as kind of just deploying a smart contract at this point. And if you can launch a chain and the infrastructure costs come down because it's not just launching the chain, it's also paying, paying for like an Ether scan implementation of your chain, it's also paying RPC providers, all that sorts of stuff, right? But if all of that collapses down to I wouldn't say zero but like very, very low and it becomes so cheap to launch your own chain and then you can internalize a lot of your revenues and you can get the security of Ethereum. You can leverage Ethereum for your consensus, your security, your da, everything like that. Like why wouldn't you do it? And that's the vision, right? That really is the Ethereum vision, vision and I think that's what we're going to see and that really is the bull case for the modular future.
00:33:02.269 - 00:33:46.213, Speaker A: That is the bull case for Ethereum is that you're going to have all these chains that are just going to default launch on Ethereum because where else are you going to go? Like where else is as reliable and as secure as Ethereum L1? Where which other L1 is actually being built for this? There are some out there, but they're very small. I think Tezos is being built to be L2 friendly but they're more focused on like the enshrined roll ups which is a noble pursuit. But I think you try and roll up a can be limited in several ways, but in terms of like building for L2s specifically then there's nowhere else really. It's just Ethereum. Now of course you can build these on other networks because the other networks are permissionless as well if they allow for it. But if they're not specialized for it, if they're not focused on that, if the culture around their, their chain is not built for that. Then I don't think they're going to get much traction there.
00:33:46.213 - 00:34:08.197, Speaker A: I don't think they're going to get much market share there. Whereas Ethereum is specifically built for this. And we are going to keep pushing the frontier here on this with blobs, with other improvements to L1 in order to scale up the L2s. And it really is a no brainer because as I said before, where's Vitalik said Ethereum has never gone offline. Ethereum has been online the whole time. It is incredibly secure. It has $100 billion worth of economic security in each stake behind it.
00:34:08.197 - 00:34:42.726, Speaker A: It has tens of thousands of nodes distributed across the planet. It is just so secure, so reliable right now that there's nowhere else to launch. So that is really kind of a really, I guess, like big bull case for Ethereum going forward there. All right, so Peter here, who is doing marketing at Circle, the issuers of usdc, has been putting out a lot of these tweets lately about the fact that Base has been doing record numbers when it comes to USDC stable coin transfers. Now you can see in this chart what Base looks like. This is on a day. So this is October 26th.
00:34:42.726 - 00:35:20.469, Speaker A: Base processed $18.1 billion worth of USDC stablecoin transfers here, which is more than any other chain. You can see here all the other chains listed as well, it's more than any other chain the other L1 or L2. Now you'll remember back to when I said that Base had a Circle and Coinbase had a huge opportunity with Base to become like the de facto USDC payments layer. And it was a no brainer for them to do that considering that they're, they're the ones heavily invested in USDC and also Base. And well, that's exactly what they've done here. So this is no surprise to me that, that this has happened because essentially a lot of USDC transactions are free or near free on the network.
00:35:20.469 - 00:36:13.763, Speaker A: This transfer volume reflects that. And I actually DM'd Peter and he's going to look into this for me about what is actually happening with this. Like, who's using this, like, why is there so much USDC stablecoin transfers happening on Base right now? Because whenever I see stuff like this, especially on like really cheap chains, I take it with a grain of salt because as you guys know, I've talked about this before. If a chain is like basically free to use, there's nothing stopping people from just like wash Trading or bots from like faking the metrics. Now, I'm not accusing Coinbase or Circle, anyone involved with them as of doing this, but like someone else could be doing it or there could be some other reason for this activity that we just don't know yet. So I like the headline number, don't get me wrong, it's great and it's great to see this growth, but what I really want to see is like a deeper analysis on this, see what's actually happening here. Is there real people using this for like purchases where people using it within defi.
00:36:13.763 - 00:36:51.755, Speaker A: What are people using this for? Because it's like the headline number itself is kind of cool, but as I said, like, it's not going to tell us much right now. So yeah, I'm looking forward to hearing back there and I'll let you guys know how that goes there. Now, speaking of base, they announced something huge over the, I guess like weekend or I guess. No, it was a few days ago now. So fault proofs or fraud proofs are coming to base mainnet on October 30th, which is in two days from now. This means anyone can monitor and permissionlessly challenge invalid withdrawals, removing the need for a trusted third party. The BASE team has been collaborating closely with optimism to bring fault proofs to Base and ensure a safe upgrade.
00:36:51.755 - 00:37:24.879, Speaker A: This, I believe, brings Base over to stage one on L2 beats. So if you go to L2bait.com today and I'll bring up the website for you guys to see here, you can see that base is at stage 0 still, even though it is the number 2. L2 and Arbitrum 1 is at stage 1. It's like sandwiched between two stage ones. Op main, that is stage 1 because it has fault proofs, but once BASE implements them, I believe they go to stage one. I believe they do, which is a pretty big upgrade because everyone keeps telling me that base is never going to decentralize and yet they're moving closer to decentralization by the day.
00:37:24.879 - 00:37:59.113, Speaker A: And I just can't wait until we have Arbitrum one and Base, especially because they're one and two at stage two, because then that could be the day we say, well look, hey, the L2s are decentralized. There goes that FUD. I'm sure there's going to be some other FUD, but like, there goes that FUD, because we can, we can do away with that. And I obviously want to see the other L2s move towards stage one and stage two as well. But the Having the biggest ones there just sets an example for the rest of the ecosystem which I think is very important. So yeah, looking forward to October 30th here and for base to reach stage one of the roll up journey. All right, finally here, this is what I mentioned before devcon.
00:37:59.113 - 00:38:16.361, Speaker A: So DEFCON is coming up very, very soon guys. It is in like a couple of weeks. I'll be leaving here to go on the 9th of November. So from the 9th of November till. Wait, the 9th is a Saturday. So I guess like from the 8th of November until the. Let me have a look here.
00:38:16.361 - 00:38:39.541, Speaker A: Till the 18th of November there will be no refuel. So essentially 10 days without refuels because I will be at DEFCON. Now DEFCON is shaping up to be the biggest, I guess like or one of the biggest Ethereum conferences ever. Definitely the biggest DEF con ever. So 12,000 plus people are expected to show up. That's an enormous amount of people, guys. I think the only other conference that had that many people was Dev Eth Denver.
00:38:39.541 - 00:39:02.457, Speaker A: So yeah, biggest Defcon yet. 900 plus volunteers have signed up, 300 plus volunteers have been selected and the venue is twice the size of the venue in Bogota. Now I didn't go to Bogota but I heard it was a really great time. I heard it was a nice venue. And the venue in Bangkok I believe is relatively new. So it should be a world class fast venue. And I'm very much looking forward to going because this will be my only major Ethereum conference of the year.
00:39:02.457 - 00:39:32.141, Speaker A: Very much looking forward to meeting as many of you as possible that I haven't met before and just catching up with old friends as well. I will be busy like my calendar is filling up very, very quickly but I will make it a point to be at the actual conference like when the conference days are on. And then of course there is the bankless summit on the 16th of of November, which is just the day after the Devcon finishes. And that's where I'll be doing my, my talk as well. But I'll be there pretty much like the whole day. So I'm hop see a lot of you guys there as well. I believe there are still some tickets for sale.
00:39:32.141 - 00:39:57.811, Speaker A: You can probably find a link to that if you just Google Bankless Summit. But yeah, I just wanted to give you guys a heads up that that is coming up shortly and I'll be out of action on the refuel for that period of time. But hey, if you find me at devcon, you're probably just going to get like a refuel because you can ask me as many questions as you want. I'll just answer them. That's what people usually do. Like I meet up with people, we have a little bit of a chat and then they just start asking me Ethereum questions, questions. And I'm like, yes, give me more Ethereum questions.
00:39:57.811 - 00:40:21.723, Speaker A: I want to answer them. I want to teach you guys. Like, that's just what I love doing. Like, it's kind of funny how my, my calling in life seems to be an educator. It doesn't matter what it is. Like, I, I don't just know stuff about Ethereum, I know stuff about a lot of other things. And whenever people ask me questions of stuff that I know about, I get like super excited having being able to answer them and being able to like watch their faces as they, as they basically understand what I'm saying and, and learn from me.
00:40:21.723 - 00:40:39.473, Speaker A: But obviously I know a lot about Ethereum, so that's where kind of my, my home base is. So, yeah, don't be shy to come up to me, ask me questions about anything you want. Just have a chat. Very much looking forward to all of you there. But anyway, I think on that though, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet.
00:40:39.473 - 00:40:43.705, Speaker A: Give it a thumbs up Scott newsletter. Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next time.
