00:00:00.200 - 00:00:22.374, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deliberate refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Designer. It's the 18 January, 2024. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So I did mention that yesterday, or today, I believe. No, yesterday that Coinbase was fronting court with the SEC for their first kind of court date in regards to the SEC's lawsuit against them.
00:00:22.374 - 00:00:59.342, Speaker A: Now, there was a lot of people live tweeting this. There are a lot of people talking about this on Twitter. I'm sure you saw a bunch of threads, but I think the best summary thread I saw was from Sherwinski here, who basically started the thread off by saying today's Coinbase hearing revealed a key flaw in the SEC's legal theory. It turns nearly every asset on the planet into security. This can't be true. The SEC was created to regulate markets for financial instruments, not digital goods or the technologies empowering them. And then, of course, he continues in this, in the thread, saying, the judge assigned to this case, judge failure, seems to get this floor quite well, where she said, I'm presented with the specter of collectibles being regulated by the SEC.
00:00:59.342 - 00:01:33.268, Speaker A: And she's right. The SEC's theory would give it author authority over sneakers, trading cards, watches, basically anything with a market price. And this has been something that has been discussed within the context of, you know, crypto assets and the SEC. And what's a security? And what's not a security is that the SEC is really just gunning for being able to label whatever they want as a security based on their own definitions or based on what they think is a security. And by doing that, they expand it way beyond crypto assets and into things like, as Jake mentioned here, sneakers, trading cards, watches, et cetera, which obviously is completely unworkable. You know, these are things that people buy and sell all the time. There are marketplaces for.
00:01:33.268 - 00:02:10.768, Speaker A: For them, and they are definitely not securities. They are not securities based on the securities laws from the 1930s. And they wouldn't be based on any updated laws because it just would not make any sense for. For those laws to exist, basically. But, yeah, it seems like the coinbase is coming off really well in this, in this case right now. Seems like the judge really does understand the intricacies with, with this case and intricacies with regards to not just the crypto assets themselves and if they're a security or not, but also staking as a product, because the SEC is also going after Coinbase for their staking product. And they're going up to binance and Kraken for the same thing for their staking product, basically saying that what they're offering is security.
00:02:10.768 - 00:02:45.240, Speaker A: And I think there's a quote of the judge saying or asking a question of, you know, does the SEC consider earning interest in a bank account to be a security? Because really, like, you could make that argument. If you're making the argument about staking, you could make that argument about interest on dollars in a bank account. Right? So, yeah, it's looking really positive here. I mean, I remember when this lawsuit first came out, I even said that I thought that Coinbase was in a really good position to basically fight this and also win this. And I think that that's just gotten stronger and stronger over time, especially given. And the SEC has just racked up losses after losses in court. And the thing is, is that I really think that Coinbase is going to wipe the floor with them.
00:02:45.240 - 00:03:14.760, Speaker A: To be honest, I really don't think the SEC is going to win on anything against Coinbase here because it doesn't really make any sense. They, from what I've read from, from lawyers and others out there, their lawsuit really doesn't make any sense against Coinbase. And of course, this is just going to have to be all hashed out in court. And I do hope the judge obviously looks at this as objectively as possible. I don't want her to basically take Coinbase's side just because I want Coinbase to win. Obviously, in a court, uh, you want everything to be as objective as possible. And I think that, uh, from what I've read, Coinbase came well prepared.
00:03:14.760 - 00:03:46.532, Speaker A: The Coinbase's lawyers came well prepared with really, really great arguments. And the judge seemed to really resonate with that. And I think there were better arguments than what the SEC came with. But, yeah, it's. It's kind of funny to see these kind of battles go on because I always think about the incentives here, like, the people behind these things, you know, how much these lawyers are getting paid, what they're kind of. What, you know, what's in it for them, you know, what their career prospects are like after this. Because you could argue that people that work for Coinbase may be much more passionate about this because their whole career relies on this kind of case, not just the lawyers, but others.
00:03:46.532 - 00:04:31.972, Speaker A: This kind of case going Coinbase is way right. It's a big part of their career relies on this. And also, they're probably really passionate about crypto. So they want to fight for crypto in court, whereas the people at the SEC, the lawyers at the SEC, they could be the opposite. They could be people who just hate crypto and just have a, have a really distasteful view of crypto and really want to, you know, kill the crypto bros or shut down the crypto bros, so to speak. They may people there like that, but you kind of have to wonder, you know, what kind of people are on each side of the aisle. And honestly, if I had to bet on people, like, whether they be regulators, government people, versus kind of like, people within crypto innovators, you know, builders, I would always bet on the innovators and builders every single time, because there is just so much more, I guess, like fulfillment and passion and being a builder than there is in being kind of a regulator, I believe.
00:04:31.972 - 00:05:06.050, Speaker A: Unless, like, you know, you're one of those people who get joy out of, I guess, bringing justice to people in your flavor of justice to people that you think should be brought against them. Because, you know, it's funny when you talk to different people out there, some people really, really, really hate crypto for one reason or another. Like, just absolutely hate it. And we've seen that actually play out with some of the biggest asset managers. You saw Vanguard the other day, Vanguard, I should say the other day saying that they're not going to offer bitcoin ETF products to their customers because they don't think that it is the right thing to do or they have a subjective view on this, and that's fine. That's totally fine for them to do. They're a private business, right? They're a private company.
00:05:06.050 - 00:05:47.212, Speaker A: Um, or, uh, they're. They're allowed to do that, right? They're allowed to, uh, essentially, uh, I guess, pick and choose which products they want to offer. But the, the funny thing about this is that there's no real reason for them to do this outside of, in my, in my opinion, spy, in my opinion, that the, the leadership of Vanguard probably just doesn't like crypto at all. And that's why this has become a decision, or that's something that they've gone with here. And it just makes no business sense, really, because the BTC ETF's have generated a lot of volume, and I think they're going to lose a lot of customers by not offering these products. I think eventually they will offer them. But you're taking this kind of moral stance is always weird in markets, I think, and when it comes to market related stuff, because you could make a moral stance for basically anything you can moralize anything.
00:05:47.212 - 00:06:18.080, Speaker A: I mean, I've had people try to, oh, I've seen people try to moralize everything within crypto. They say, oh, you shouldn't invest in this because it's immoral. You know, the bitcoin maxes will say that Ethereum is a scam, and anyone who's, who's buying ETH is a scammer, right. Or anyone who's promoting ETH is a scammer. So there are obviously a lot of subjectivity here, and the same just extends out to the non crypto world because I, and I always thought it was funny when I, when I thought more, more deeply about this. When you really think about it, the Bitcoin Max is calling Ethereum a scam is the exact same as the normies calling crypto a scam. It's the same thing.
00:06:18.080 - 00:06:48.816, Speaker A: It's just like going up, right? It's totals all the way down. So you're just going, going up and up and up, and then you start at the top and then you work your way down to the bottom. And then, you know, you have some people in the Ethereum community calling other things a scam that aren't a scam, right. Maybe other l ones and stuff like that. Then you have the other l ones calling other ones a scam or, you know, not morally correct or just shitty blah, blah, blah. And it's always funny seeing those kind of things play out. But I honestly think it's, it's, it's a bad business decision, as I said, from Vanguard and others out there to do this and they'll come around eventually, but yeah.
00:06:48.816 - 00:07:25.222, Speaker A: Anyway, I'll keep you guys updated on this case with the coin, with Coinbase and it, and the SEC. As I said, I do expect Coinbase to win this, but it could take a while to get there because seems that the SEC also came to fight here. They're not just going to roll over and, you know, they're not, they're definitely not going to withdraw their case. But their track record is not great within the crypto sphere. So I hope to see them obviously lose this case, like, personally, because I do think that they've got no, no basis here for a case. And the SEC has just been extremely hostile towards crypto, so they have absolutely zero goodwill with me personally. I know within the crypto ecosystem, it'd be very hard to find anyone that is in favor of what the SEC has been doing.
00:07:25.222 - 00:07:47.498, Speaker A: Even people who don't like crypto have even spoken up in defense of crypto, saying that the SEC is actually not doing what they're supposed to be doing. They're going way beyond their mandate. They're basically power grabbing. And it's just funny when you have the people who actually don't even like crypto defending crypto because they don't like the SEC more for the way they're actually, you know, treating the law and the way they're actually going about things. That's when, you know, you kind of screwed up. So. Yeah.
00:07:47.498 - 00:08:15.896, Speaker A: Anyway, moving on from that one to some ethereum related news. Now, of course, we had the girly den Koon fork yesterday, and I remember I recorded yesterday's episode earlier, so the fork would have happened by the time you watch the episode. And I think I said on there that don't expect there to be a high participation. Like, if there's low participation on the test net, and that's totally normal, and that's exactly what happened. There was low participation on the test net. We needed to wait for people to come back online and to upgrade their. Their validators and nodes in order to advance the chain.
00:08:15.896 - 00:08:38.326, Speaker A: But eventually we got there and the girlie fork finalized. And you can actually track this at the Dora girlie Explorer here. I'll link this in the YouTube description below. But there was also another thing that happened. A little bug that happened at the time of the fork, I believe, got to do with the prism clients, which was basically an edge case bug that I don't believe could happen on Mainnet. Yeah, I don't think it would happen on Mainnet. Or maybe it would have happened on Mainnet.
00:08:38.326 - 00:09:02.546, Speaker A: Sorry. But they didn't get caught in the Devnet because the Devnet, I think, were too new. And this was like a bug that only happened if the network was but past a certain age or something like that, or past a certain historical route, as parathos details here. But there was a fix patched in very, very quickly. Validators came back online, and the chain started finalizing again. And, yeah, everything's been fine since then, I think. I mean, you can go to the explorer and you can actually see that everything's chugging along just fine.
00:09:02.546 - 00:09:25.790, Speaker A: And we do have blobs live on the network right now. The blobs are there on girly, I should say not on main net. The blobs are working fine. And then Kun successfully forked on girly here. Now, of course, the inevitable question people have is, is this going to lead to a delay in the timeline here? Well, two things on that. One thing, there's no main net timeline, yet there are only estimations like I've given, you know, mid to late March. I've said that many times now.
00:09:25.790 - 00:09:54.098, Speaker A: And two, because it was a relatively minor bug, the prism bug, I don't foresee this actually having an impact. We'll know today. I think there's an all core devs called today or tomorrow that will know. But even if there is an impact of this, maybe they, you know, maybe they decide, oh, we'll push the other testnet forks out a week or something like that. That would be the most I would see. But at the same time, I don't see why they would push them out because the fix, as I said, was deployed very quickly. It was a very minor bug in the grand scheme of things.
00:09:54.098 - 00:10:19.422, Speaker A: And everything else seemed to work, work fine. And again, this is what testnets are for. Like this is exactly what test nets are for. So I would put money on at least right now that there won't be any kind of delay in the other testnet forking. They'll fork, Superior will fork on 30 January, whole skill on February 7. And you know, I expect those to go well, I don't expect there to be any, any hiccups there. And then if they do, yeah, there wouldn't be any kind of, I guess, quote unquote delay to get Mainnet going there.
00:10:19.422 - 00:10:46.532, Speaker A: But we'll have to see, I guess we'll see by either tomorrow or Monday, depending on the all core dev call is. I think the all core dev call is actually today. So we probably see by tomorrow's episode because tomorrow's Friday, obviously last episode of the week, what they decide there. But yeah, I don't know. I don't know why they would need an extra. Like why would they, why would they would push anything out considering that the fix is already in and there's no other bugs that have kind of creeped up or anything. And the low participation stuff, as I explained yesterday, is literally testnet specific.
00:10:46.532 - 00:11:10.350, Speaker A: It's got nothing to do with the kind of upgrade. It's just the fact that people are slow to upgrade their testnet nodes and come online because there's no money at stake. You know, I explained all this yesterday, so I'm not going to go through it again, but that's kind of why it happens like that. So on Mainnet we don't have that issue. So. Yeah, but anyway, I will keep you guys updated on this and I'm sure you probably see a tweet on this before I do tomorrow's episode. If they do decide to delay anything here.
00:11:10.350 - 00:11:47.202, Speaker A: But I don't think so. That does. It doesn't really make much sense to me that they would do something like that. All right, so I covered the roadmap items, or I guess like the eips that are slated for possible inclusion. So they just proposed right now possible inclusion in the Prague electra upgrade, which is the next upgrade after Den Koon. And I come across a really interesting tweet today from Jimmy Ragosa, who basically has a nice little animation here where he places the, the eips as part of the Prague electra upgrade in the invitalics roadmap here. So he basically places them where they belong in the roadmap.
00:11:47.202 - 00:12:02.238, Speaker A: I don't know if you can see this. If I go full screen here. I think you can. Let me just quickly go full screen here. Yeah, you can see it. You can see it here, but it's a bit cut off. But you can, you can see that on the left hand side, this is the, this is what I shared yesterday, which is a list of all the ips that are proposed for Prague Electra.
00:12:02.238 - 00:12:26.966, Speaker A: And Jimmy has basically dragged them in to the roadmap on the right hand side here and to where they fit in on the roadmap. So you can see he drags in the vocal trees section into the verge. Then the new opcodes, they go into this, the splurge and the purge. And you can actually see them like on the video. I'll link this in the YouTube description. You can watch it for yourself, but you can actually see. And what I wanted to point out here beyond this was that these things are part of multiple categories.
00:12:26.966 - 00:12:49.494, Speaker A: There's, as I've said before, like this roadmap that Vitalik put out is not sequential. It doesn't happen one after the other. It happens in parallel. And that's exactly what you're seeing here. We could have eips that belong in the verge category and in the splurge category of the roadmap going in into the same upgrade. Right? So there's no need to wait until, like, we do the, all the surge, we do all the scourge and then, you know, go through the steps like that. That's not how it works.
00:12:49.494 - 00:13:20.890, Speaker A: And actually, a lot of these eips are part of the splurge. If you, if you're watching the video here, which is pretty, pretty fun to see because the splurge is considered the nice to have, I guess, and the things that may not necessarily have to be on the back burner. But just things that aren't necessarily like the biggest priority. And as I've said before, these ERP are only proposed right now. They're not, you know, they're not considered for inclusion or slated for inclusion in the upgrade yet. They just proposed as possibly ips for the upgrade. But still cool to see that there is actually the splurge AIP is being, being worked on right now.
00:13:20.890 - 00:14:03.144, Speaker A: But anyway, you can go check out this video for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so speaking of updates on Ethereum's roadmap, Josh Rudolph here, who works on Verkle trees or I guess like the vertical upgrade of Ethereum, has shared the latest updates on stateless Ethereum from the Verkle implementers core number ten. Now this of course is a pretty big tweet. You can go give this a read, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But I think that the TLDR is basically that they had client team updates, testing and tooling, launch of the newest testnet and block hash upgrades. And he also posted at the top of the tweet here why we're actually doing vocal trees and statelessness.
00:14:03.144 - 00:14:43.352, Speaker A: And he says Verkle and statelessness not only improve decentralization by making it significantly easier to run a node, but just as importantly also paved the way for future performance and scalability gains such as stateless nodes equals eliminating disk I o reduces barriers to a higher gas limit, and so on. And that's what I've talked about before, about the fact that once we have these implemented, we can actually raise the gas limit a lot higher without suffering from those negative externalities that I mentioned I think a few days ago on the refuel here. And then he linked to Peter from Geths slides that he did on this topic that I remember highlighting on the refill a little while ago. But you can check these out there. These slides are quite old now. I think they're from 2022, but it's still the same thing. It's still, it's still very relevant to today.
00:14:43.352 - 00:15:20.128, Speaker A: And then of course you can check out the rest of the tweet here for updates from the call. And I'll just link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. But yeah, it definitely seems like a lot of work is being done on the Verge verkle slash statelessness right now. But in saying that, I still don't think it would go live this year. I still think it will get punted to next year because it is such a large upgrade and this is such a large undertaking. And I believe that there are more, I guess, like, I wouldn't say urgent, but more like important upgrades that need to go live this year, especially raising the effective balance. Sorry, the max effective balance.
00:15:20.128 - 00:15:53.198, Speaker A: I think that's pretty important because, as I said, that takes load off the network and allows us to potentially increase the size of blobs, which benefit l two s, which is where all the users are. So we're talking about priorities here, like vocals. Great. Don't get me wrong, it's awesome and it's much needed, but you have to prioritize, like, as I said, like those ERP is in that list of the ones that are proposed for Prague Electra. They're like, not all of them are going to go in. And the core devs, the community has to prioritize what we actually want to see go in in that upgrade and what we'll get that kind of punted to next year. So we'll have to see how that shakes out there.
00:15:53.198 - 00:16:32.218, Speaker A: But yeah, you can go read this tweet. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so we have something new from flashbots today. So there's a dashboard that they've released illuminating Ethereum's order flow market with an accompanying blog post. So what this dashboard shows, if you go to the actual dashboard itself, is basically how the entire private order flow market, or I guess like retail order flow market, works on Ethereum from, you know, the different relays, the different builders, the different kind of Dexs people use and so on and so forth. And you can see how these all interact here through public and private mempool. So yeah, it's not just the private mempool, it's also the public mempool.
00:16:32.218 - 00:17:25.098, Speaker A: And it's pretty cool to see this all visualized. It's actually like, when I look at this, I'm like, wow, this is a generally pretty healthy market, I think, because you can see how many different players there are. Yes, there are some dominant players on here, like the aggregators and things like that, and obviously there are dominant builders, but you can really see just how diverse the on chain ecosystem is when it comes to where liquidity sits, where people choose to do trades, you know, what contracts they use, so on and so forth. But you can see, as I said, like, most of the building happens in the three of the top builders, Beaver build, Titan and Async builder. They, they build a lot of the, a lot of the blocks. And as I've mentioned before, that's generally okay from a, I guess, building blocks perspective. It's generally not okay from a censorship perspective right now because four out of five, I think the top builders are still censoring OFAC transactions, or OFAC, sorry, tornado cash transactions, because it's on the OFAC list here.
00:17:25.098 - 00:17:55.794, Speaker A: But posts like these or dashboards like these illuminate that for us and allow us to work on it with things like inclusion lists and so on and so forth. So, yeah, you can go check out this dashboard for yourself along with the accompanying blog post. I'll link them both in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so octant has updated us on the epoch to allocation window. So this is now open until January 30, 2024. It's your chance to decide where your rewards will go. Keep them, donate them, donate some or all the public goods, or contribute to the matching fund.
00:17:55.794 - 00:18:26.436, Speaker A: I just remind you here, octant is a, an initiative where they're basically taking staking rewards and distribute, well, not all the staking rewards, but, you know, some of the staking rewards and distributing them out based on community input to things like public goods. And this was, and this was put in place a little while ago. I think it's already been a year, maybe. I'm not sure exactly how long it's been, but in this thread, you can see all the details around the second round that they're doing here, how to get involved. And I mean, there's a blog post there for more in depth information about all of this. But yeah. Cool to see this experiment continue.
00:18:26.436 - 00:19:08.864, Speaker A: I think that during the first epoch, they gave away like a few hundred ethos of rewards or something like that. So it's not small kind of amounts of money here, guys. It's some pretty serious money here. And as you guys know, I'm always in favor of anything trying to fund any kind of public goods out there, whether that be, you know, getcoin, optimism, retroactive public goods funding, octants, a bunch of other, you know, things out there. There's actually a fair few of these public goods funding initiatives now, which is great to see because obviously we don't want to just have one because then it becomes very centralized and we don't want to just have one type either. Because, for example, within optimism, what you have is they're funding it via op tokens, basically, and those op tokens were printed out of thin air, and the only reason they have any value is because people are buying them on the market. Right.
00:19:08.864 - 00:19:46.450, Speaker A: And kind of like bidding up the price for whatever reason. And then you have the gitcoin way of doing it where people are putting up matching funds, but then there's also people donating. And then you have the quadratic matching going on. Then you have like Octan is doing it where they're staking ETH and taking a portion of those rewards and allocating them. And then you have like the protocol guild, which is going to all the daos around and basically asking them, hey, you should contribute some of your treasury to the protocol guild because the core devs keep this network alive for you guys to, you know, profit from and benefit from and so on and so forth. So there are different ways to fund public goods, and I'm glad to see a lot of them being tried and tested. And we're going to see which ones, uh, you know, which ones are better than others.
00:19:46.450 - 00:20:11.078, Speaker A: And I'm actually going to talk about one of the failed experiments recently, but in a sec. But, yeah, just great to see this. So you got, you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, and just a shout out here, super fears reminded us today that there is a list of dashboards that he curates that can be useful for interpreting the Ethereum ecosystem, and you can find it on GitHub. I'll link this in the YouTube description below. But this is great.
00:20:11.078 - 00:20:52.144, Speaker A: There are so many dashboards here, guys. You can get lost in these dashboards for hours on end tracking everything got to do with the ethereum ecosystem, whether that's beacon chain, health beacon chain kind of metrics, stuff like that, you know, staking metrics generally, monetary policy dashboards, defi dashboards, MeV stuff. There's so much going on on here, guys, and I highly recommend checking this out. So thanks again to superfiz for maintaining this and shouting it out again and reminding us all to go check it out. But as I said, I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so I just mentioned before about how one of those experiments with public goods has, unfortunately, I struggle to use the term failed because, like, failed is such a harsh term. I'm gonna say not worked out because not every experiment is gonna work out.
00:20:52.144 - 00:21:30.588, Speaker A: Most actually don't work out. Most experiments end up just like fading away or end up not doing what their creators thought they were gonna do. And one of those things is the Public Goods network, which was the layer to the op stack chain that was launched by Gitcoin. So they said here today on Twitter. Today we are sharing a bittersweet update on the public Goods network's future. Since launching the Public Goods Network in July 2023, our journey has been one of building and learning, filled by the incredible support of the Public Goods alliance, our community partners and of course, Gitcoin. So after a thorough assessment, the public goods network stewards have decided to wind down PGN over the next six months, tentatively closing in June 2024.
00:21:30.588 - 00:22:17.104, Speaker A: And they say here, the decision, of course, was not easy. But a realistic evaluation highlighted challenges in our ability to meet our goals of generating significant funding for public goods. And you remember one of those goals was to basically use the sequence of fees from the public goods network in order to fund public goods. Now, I think that they talk about why, I guess, like they're also trying to do contract secured revenue as well, which was basically something that I wanted to see experimented on on L2s. But unfortunately it's not going to be done with, with PGN here. But they explain more in more detail in this thread about kind of their thinking and also the governance forum post as well. But when I think about why this kind of failed or why this didn't work out, the thing that comes to mind for me is really the UX of it all.
00:22:17.104 - 00:22:46.522, Speaker A: Because I remember during the git coin grants matching rounds, you had like, I think three options. You could donate on a theory, main net, the optimism, Mainnet and PGN. And I think anytime people wanted to go and donate via PGN, you'd obviously have to bridge into PGN to do this. And that was just like a ux barrier for people. And PGM was not supported by any centralized exchanges. You had to bridge in from basically Ethereum mainnet. So essentially what happened was, is that you'd be paying Ethereum mainnet fees anyway to bridge into PGN and then you would be able to donate.
00:22:46.522 - 00:23:10.974, Speaker A: And then a lot of people already had money on op Mainnet, so they would just use op mainnet instead of using the PGN, right? Or they just used Ethereum mainnet. So there was like a ux fragmentation issue there, which, as I've said before, will get solved eventually. This will all be obstructed away eventually. But this is bleeding edge stuff here, guys. This is not something that, that is something that normies are going to be using. This is definitely very crypto native stuff. And even then, it's just like a very high barrier to entry there.
00:23:10.974 - 00:23:46.082, Speaker A: And then, of course, because as I've said, before. A lot of these long tail of altoos, especially these ones that are more niche and focus on something specific, probably aren't going to work out because I just won't be able to get the mind share, the market share from the bigger ones out there. Because liquidity is a network, is a power law distribution. At the end of the day, it always follows a power law distribution. We've already seen that play out with l one s, we've seen it play out with l two s. We've seen a play out with pretty much everything within crypto and a lot of things within just traditional finance as well. But I remember when I talked about the PGN back when it first got announced, I was pretty excited for it because I wanted to see the experiment play out.
00:23:46.082 - 00:24:17.492, Speaker A: I can't remember exactly what I said. I don't know if I said if it would succeed or fail. I mean, obviously I didn't know and obviously it didn't end up succeeding. But I thought at the time I was pretty excited because I was like, yeah, another L2, someone's experimenting with this. They're doing, you know, public goods funding via the sequencer fees and sequencer revenue. But I do remember possibly mentioning at the time that I think, thought that getting enough sequencer revenue to do this would be quite hard because you'd need a lot of transactions, obviously, because the transactions are so cheap. You'd have to basically have a lot of transactions happening to, to make this money.
00:24:17.492 - 00:25:03.948, Speaker A: And you would have to have like hundreds of thousands of dollars a day of fear revenue, because then obviously you'd be paying a lot of that to a theorem l one as to settle on it. And then you take whatever's left for public goods funding and it just didn't work out. There just wasn't enough there. And I'm really glad to see that they wound this down sooner rather than later. There are a lot of projects out there that exist as zombies, and I hate it because zombie projects are the worst because they just feel like a slow rug. So I'm glad that Gitcoin decided to wind down the PGN and, you know, earlier, sooner rather than later, which is, you know, speaks to gitcoins commitment to trying things. And then if it doesn't work out, not just like doubling down on it and becoming a zombie kind of project, but just, you know, winding it down and trying something new, trying something else and focusing their energy elsewhere, that to me, is a sign of a very mature ecosystem and a very mature team.
00:25:03.948 - 00:25:27.514, Speaker A: So kudos to them. For doing that. But anyway, you can go read the full thread and post a related post here. I'll link them in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, interesting tweet here from Nick, who is the CEO at fuel, which is an L two on ethereum. He put out a tweet where he said 4844 may be one of the most important features for Ethereum. It enables Ethereum to produce incredible throughput while remaining the ultimate settlement layout.
00:25:27.514 - 00:26:18.840, Speaker A: Node requirements remain low and decentralization remains high. This is the true cypherpunk way. And what I love about this tweet is because is one, I mean, I've been preaching this for years now. You guys know this is, this is what I'm all about, right? But two, it really is the true cyberpunk way, right? Because this entire ecosystem, you know, starting with bitcoin, was founded on the fact that we want something decentralized, right? And if you don't have decentralization, that you're much better off just being completely centralized. I actually don't really believe in the decentralization is a spectrum thing when it comes to, when it comes to crypto, especially when it comes to l one s. I do believe that there is kind of path to decentralization for certain projects where essentially you can start off very centralized and then become decentralized over time. I think even bitcoin started off like that, right? But if you're not decentralized and you're not credibly decentralized, there is absolutely no point to having a blockchain.
00:26:18.840 - 00:27:04.212, Speaker A: Like there is literally zero point, because you can achieve everything you want to achieve in a more efficient, cheaper, faster, better way, being completely centralized. Just throw decentralization out. Decentralization has a really, really high cost to it. The cost is the fact that scale is extremely limited, as we've seen with bitcoin, as we've seen with ethereum, as we've seen with even some of these quote unquote high throughput l ones, right? They're nowhere near enough throughput at this stage to service the world, and they nowhere near enough throughput to even challenge centralized solutions, right? And a lot of them take a lot of shortcuts and pump up the node requirements and stuff like that, which inevitably makes them more centralized. So at the end of the day, and I have this, I've had this strong belief for a very, very long time, like, if you're not decentralized, there's no point. There really is no point. And that's why Ethereum has gone.
00:27:04.212 - 00:27:38.066, Speaker A: Well, one of the reasons why Ethereum has gone with the roll up centric roadmap, because the Ethereum ecosystem strongly believes that if Ethereum l one sacrifices those properties of being able to run your own full node, being able to run the network on low powered hardware, being open to everyone to, to verify the chain, then there is no point. There is no point at all. It doesn't matter if we scaled, all we scaled was a centralized thing, and inevitably, eventually it will get completely censored. It will probably get completely shut down if it's centralized. And the whole point is that it can't be right. And that's why we're scaling via the different kind of l two s out there. I mean, that's one of the reasons why with the roll up centric roadmap.
00:27:38.066 - 00:28:06.374, Speaker A: So I just wanted to, to comment on, on Nick's tweet here. You know, of course there was someone who replied and said, and said, I wouldn't exactly classify 0.375 megabytes as incredible throughput, which is obviously referencing the blob initial blob throughput here. But then Nick had a great reply to him. He said, it is when you're talking about a real blockchain and not a federated server network, one of Ethereum's biggest technical differentiators is accessible node requirements. It's generally the ultimate cypherpunk chain, which is a big reason why it will continue to be so valuable. I couldn't have said it better myself.
00:28:06.374 - 00:28:30.126, Speaker A: Right. If Ethereum hasn't taken any shortcuts to scale, hasn't taken any, any kind of, I guess like anything that will centralize the l one to scale, Ethereum has pushed scaling to l two s. Yes, a lot of them are relatively centralized right now. Some of them are really centralized right now. But as I said, you can become decentralized over time. And it's on them to prove that's on these networks to prove that they're decentralized over time. And, you know, we'll probably get a stage two roll up this year.
00:28:30.126 - 00:29:14.162, Speaker A: Albatrum one is stage one already. If they get to stage two this year, they, they are credibly decentralized at that stage. And then we've got the biggest l two that that's decentralized and we've scaled really at the end of the day. So when I think about it like that, uh, yeah, that, that's, that's kind of my whole view of why we're building what we're building here. And that's why I'm so, so disinterested in all these monolithic chains, because I really do fundamentally believe that there is zero point to a blockchain if it is not decentralized. Zero point. And I, as I said, like, I strongly believe that to the point where for someone to convince me that there is any point to anything, that anything isn't decentralized to be a blockchain, I kind of welcome you to try and convince me of that, because that is, I would say, maybe my strongest held belief in crypto, honestly.
00:29:14.162 - 00:29:50.408, Speaker A: I mean, obviously that falls into how bullish I am on Ethereum generally, but, yeah, that's my strongest held belief in crypto. I mean, the whole point of this entire ecosystem is decentralization there. But as I said, if you agree with me, uh, try to convince me in maybe the day of the great discord channel or something like that, that, you know, not decentralized blockchains deserve to exist. I just do not think that is the case. All right, so just a quick FYI here. As of recording and probably the foreseeable future, the Rockapool Twitter account is still compromised. So it's been, I think, like, poor, at least 12 hours, probably a bit longer than that, that this account has been compromised.
00:29:50.408 - 00:30:16.664, Speaker A: It is sharing phishing links. Do not click these links at all, guys. They will drain your tokens and your money. You will lose money by clicking here. But the reason I bring this up is just another general security reminder for everyone about pretty much, like, everything. Make sure that you've locked down a lot of things that you, that you kind of like, manage, whether they be, you know, web, two accounts such as Twitter, and remove your mobile number off of that. Use proper two fa on there, like an authenticator app.
00:30:16.664 - 00:30:45.430, Speaker A: But also just like your crypto holdings generally, you should lock down. You should obviously have great custody setups. If you are self custarding, you should really just take your security very seriously. So I just wanted to give a reminder out there about that. But also, on the Twitter account compromise thing, the reason why rocketpool's Twitter account is still compromised is because Twitter's customer support absolutely sucks. Like, since Elon took over, it has just gotten worse and worse and worse. And it's because, I believe, Elon gutted the customer support department.
00:30:45.430 - 00:31:18.350, Speaker A: So now, to get your Twitter account back takes days, right? Because it has to go through, like, probably what is a skeleton crew of custom support. Unless you're like a really big account, obviously the SEC got their account back very quickly, but that's one, because they're a government entity, and two, it's a really big account. And same for people like vital. I got it back really, really quickly, but for anything relatively small, like the rocket pool project is obviously big within crypto, but, you know, they're not a huge account. They've got like 50,000 followers on Twitter. Right. So when you look at it from, from that perspective and you look at it from the perspective of what the kind of priority is here.
00:31:18.350 - 00:31:40.858, Speaker A: Yeah, Twitter doesn't have a priority for this, so they just absolutely suck. I hate it. But make sure you lock your Twitter account down. Make sure that you don't have a mobile number attached to it at all because sim swapping is very common. And make sure you have a proper authenticator attached to your account to protect yourself from this. Because honestly, guys, if you have, like, just an account and you, you know, you're only using it to follow other people, you don't really have many followers. The chances of you getting your account back are really, really slim.
00:31:40.858 - 00:32:01.800, Speaker A: I know that Jasper, a rocketball community member, you probably see him on Twitter all the time. Lost his original account, I think, at the start again, and it has a new account. I don't think he's gotten access back to his original account yet. Or maybe he has, but I mean, it was a very long time. It's been a very long time. So, yeah, just lock your account down so you don't have to face that there. But anyway, on that note, that's going to be it for today's episode.
00:32:01.800 - 00:32:08.984, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
