00:00:00.320 - 00:00:25.094, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deadly Way refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 26 November 2021. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So thank you everyone for your well wishes yesterday for the one year anniversary of the Daily refuel. Really appreciated reading all your comments on YouTube, Twitter, your DM's, discord everywhere. Just really, really nice reading all of that. And it was really heartfelt.
00:00:25.094 - 00:00:57.198, Speaker A: So thank you all. I'm glad to see that you also all enjoyed the NFT. I mean, I've got it up on screen here, I think. I mean, it came out so well, right? Like this is just so dope. I mean, the figurines, you know, fun fact, the way we did the figurines in the, in the photo here, or, sorry, in the NFT here, is that I actually scanned them with this app on my phone called Polycam and I got captured most of the detail of them so they look absolutely awesome. But then the rest of it is like completely custom made by Kira. I just took a few pictures of my room and he put it together and basically, you know, bring life to this NFT.
00:00:57.198 - 00:01:14.390, Speaker A: And this is actually what my room looks like. You know, if you look at it from, from my perspective, I have all these monitors in front of me. I have like the charts of the kind of like prices going on and I have all these stuff like, I mean, I don't have the ethub rug. You can see on the bottom here. It's like a, the Ethel blogger as a rug. I don't have that. But everything else is pretty much what I have.
00:01:14.390 - 00:01:48.260, Speaker A: And we put the rug in there because, because we wanted to, I guess I put a few Easter eggs in here, I think. I mean, if I go through the video, I can slowly show you kind of like some more of the NFT here and there. I've got screenshots of the little Easter eggs that are also be sharing. But you can see here, I mean, a lot of this other stuff that's been kind of like created like this stuff, the, the daily way pump and all these cabling, I obviously don't have that that's been added for effect with like solar panels and things like that. But I think it came out really cool because I would love it for my room to look like that. It'd be absolutely awesome. You can see as I, you know, scrolling through here, just piping and things like that.
00:01:48.260 - 00:02:12.188, Speaker A: And then at the bottom here where it says 32. That's like 32 ETH in, and that's another Easter egg, right? Um, so, yeah, I just think it came out absolutely awesome. And it's just, I can't wait to kind of, like, have this as an NFT and immortalized of this room. So, yeah, very much looking forward to getting this going. I had a few questions around what's going to be the process of minting this. So, as I said, minting is going to go live on December 6. We haven't decided on a price point yet.
00:02:12.188 - 00:02:38.076, Speaker A: And as I've stated here, most of the pro sets are going to ethereum core dev. So it's kind of like a. For me, it's kind of like I want to be able to give as much money to the core devs as possible, but I also kind of, like, want to keep it, you know, at an accessible price. Price for people. I will be doing it at layer one. We will be doing the minting at layer one via the mirror platform. You know, we could do it at L2, but I feel like there's two major reasons why I don't really feel like doing it at L2.
00:02:38.076 - 00:03:02.746, Speaker A: One is that there's not that many editions. There's only 365 editions. And I don't want someone just, like, mass minting them at L2 because there's no gas to do the minting there and basically scooping up all the supply. Funny enough, the gas fee actually acts as a deterrent for that. Not that I believe there's going to be any kind of, like, huge secondary market premium or anything on these sorts of things, but someone could just do this to kind of like, troll. Troll me, right? Like, I mean, I have. I have a fair few haters out there.
00:03:02.746 - 00:03:29.514, Speaker A: Unfortunately, a lot of the Cardano community doesn't like me, especially. But, yeah, that's. That's kind of like one reason, and the second reason, um, for doing it at layer one is that, um, I think it just, like, I don't know, it kind of, like, integrates better with, like, everything that we know and use on layer one. Right. Like Opensea and kind of all the NFT tracking tools and everything like that. Um, so from that perspective, yeah, the. The price will be kind of like what we determined before December 6.
00:03:29.514 - 00:04:08.922, Speaker A: Minting will go live. Time will kind of be announced a few days prior, and it'll be the gas fee plus the, plus the price there. And then hopefully, you know, all of you can get your hands on one. Well, obviously not all. Only 365 people can get there to get their kind of like hands on one. But in saying that, I will be sharing the kind of like link to it a bit earlier in the daily grade Discord channel, because I want the more dedicated kind of members of the community to have a chance at minting one before everyone else does. That's not to say I'm trying to exclude anyone, but, you know, the most dedicated members of the Delaware community I consider to be the ones who are, you know, day in, day out in the Discord channel, helping people in there, sparking really great conversations and things like that.
00:04:08.922 - 00:04:39.466, Speaker A: So I definitely want to give you guys an opportunity to mint before anyone else. So if you are active in the Discord Channel, you will see it before anyone else sees it. And then I'll publicly announce it and everyone can go mint it there. I'm hoping we can, you know, have them all minted out because I really want to give, you know, as much funds as possible to the core devs and I'm really excited about that. So just a bit more details on how that NFT drop is going to work. But as I said, there'll be much, you know, more details such as the price and the actual mint time and everything like that soon for you guys to kind of like, be aware of. So.
00:04:39.466 - 00:05:29.874, Speaker A: So, yeah, definitely looking forward to that. All right, so I think, I don't know if this is like a big piece of news. This is a very important piece of news. I don't even know if I'd call it news, but it's basically a very important update from Vitalik here. He put out a blog post today, basically titled a Step by Step roadmap for scaling roll ups with call data expansion and sharding. Now, the other day I went over how there's an EIP to reduce call data costs for roll ups, to increase roll up scalability by basically a five x, instantly bringing down those fees by about a five x, which would be huge, obviously. Now, in this post, Vitalik is basically talking about not only what we can do with core data expansion, but also what the kind of like sharding rollout is going to look like now, the crux of it, I mean, there's detail in here which I should definitely, I definitely recommend going, giving this a read.
00:05:29.874 - 00:06:20.238, Speaker A: He goes into detail about, you know, much kind of like overhead sharding is going to add to the chain, you know, how much kind of like how big the chain is going to get and kind of talks about sharding in the context of fraud proofs and things like that as well. So definitely going to give this a read, but the high level theme here is that I think what Vitalik is saying is that he would. And this is something that I've thought about a lot. It's like he would like to see sharding rolled out very progressively. So essentially, you would start with an initial shards of. Instead of 64, you would start with something like four shards, right? And then as those fill up, you keep adding more because there's no point adding 64 shards if there's no capacity to use them. This is going back to my argument the other day about how there's kind of like the myth around infrastructure phase where, you know, you put all this infrastructure out there, you pay to put all this infrastructure out there, and you have it all there, and no one's using it.
00:06:20.238 - 00:07:04.092, Speaker A: So what's the point at the end of the day? So progressively adding more shards over time as they are needed to the network, um, through kind of like, network upgrades and stuff like that. Seems like the more pragmatic approach from both. Kind of like, uh, the, you know, the chain size, security, stability of the chain, all those sorts of things. Because the chain right now can. Can easily handle 64 shards, but based on how many validators are online right now, um, so that's not an issue. But it's more about the fact of why do 64 when we don't need it right now, right? Like, it depends, you know, once those kind of, like four fill up, or once kind of like even two of them fill up, right? And the fees start getting. Start getting high on the shards because everyone's competing for shard space, then we can kind of start adding more progressively as time goes on.
00:07:04.092 - 00:07:51.214, Speaker A: And it could even be done in a way where it doesn't even require a network upgrade. It's kind of like a soft signaling thing or a kind of a client setting or something like that, which, once the majority of clients have agreed to add another shard, quote, unquote, it could be done. I'm not sure if that's the path they're going to take. I'm not even sure if that's possible. It sounds like it should be possible because you could have, like, dormant shards, for example, where you have, for example, say you have, like, 64 shards and 60 of them are dormant, and you have four active shards. And then instead of having to do a network upgrade to wake up the other ones, you can progressively wake them up by having all the clients or the validators, the majority, two thirds of them, signal and say, hey, you know, we need more kind of capacity and then it could work the other way as well. Like, if for some reason we don't need as much capacity, we can basically put those shards back into kind of like an archive mode or a dormant mode.
00:07:51.214 - 00:08:48.616, Speaker A: But, you know, that would probably be more of a long term thing dependent on if people needed access to those shards or not. So, yeah, there's a lot of that stuff going on there, and Vitalik puts it well in his blog post and explains it quite well. So definitely go give this a read. But this is super important stuff, I think. You know what I've noticed since Suzu's tweet over the weekend, and it's only been like six days, and I mentioned it yesterday, but I have definitely noticed not only a sentiment shift towards Ethereum ZK roll ups, more people hearing about rollups, but also I've noticed the kind of like, Ethereum core devs be more public, especially Vitalik more public about what I've been talking about on the kind of like, refill for quite a while. And that's basically, you know, how powerful roll ups are and how we can make them even better through layer one, scalability, because it's all well and good for me to talk about it, but my social, social kind of capital, my social signaling is worth much less than Vitalik's. If Vitalik says something and he puts something out there, his reach is way greater than mine.
00:08:48.616 - 00:09:11.736, Speaker A: I mean, what's his follow account on Twitter out right now? I think it's like 2.8 million followers, right? That's, I've got 150,000. So it's much more followers than me. But I mean, when the founder of Ethereum says something, it's going to be, it's going to be worth a lot more than anyone else. Like, even if it's not just me, but like, literally anyone else in the Ethereum ecosystem, Vitalik's voice holds a lot of weight. He has a lot of respect. He know, you know, these are, these are the problems that he's working on day in, day out.
00:09:11.736 - 00:09:46.132, Speaker A: So when he posts something about it, people listen, and that's what, you know. And at the same time, this is like kind of like a, I mean, it's a double edged sword, because we don't want Vitalik to be kind of like the centralizing force in Ethereum. Of course, we don't want anyone to be a centralizing force in Ethereum, where we all kind of wait for our lord to come tell us that, you know, pass down the scripture to us, and then we do his will. I don't think it's like that at all. I think what ends up happening is that the community runs with things. We all kind of, like, organize in the decentralized, kind of like, bizarre fashion that Ethereum works in. And then from time to time, Vitalik comes along and says, well, hey, guys, like, you know, we've all been working on this really cool stuff.
00:09:46.132 - 00:10:31.592, Speaker A: I'm going to use my platform to highlight this stuff and basically give credibility to certain ideas so that more and more people can kind of, like, learn about them. And, you know, as I said, like, his reach is much greater than, than everyone any, you know, the funny thing is, anything he posts really on Twitter these days is probably covered by every, you know, crypto media organization or other crypto youtubers that talk about these sorts of things. And, um, you know, Paulina's been getting a lot of love lately as well. Uh, on, on YouTube. Uh, there's a bunch of big youtubers that quoted their tweets, quoted paulina's tweets, and I love to see that as well. So the message is definitely getting out there with regards to roll ups and how ethereum is going to scale. And I really think that, um, the, after the tweets on the recon or off the drama of the weekend, we did hit a very big turning point, which I really, really love.
00:10:31.592 - 00:11:19.496, Speaker A: And I love that. It's just, it's so poetic, right? It's always hilarious when this happens. You know, um, you know, a few weeks ago, maybe a couple months ago, I think at this point, uh, everyone was dunking on Ethereum because Solana was getting a lot of attention, right? Because the price is going up. Then the Solana network fell over. Right? It fell over and it went offline for 17 hours, uh, basically shortly after that. And then over the past, kind of like, I guess, well, last weekend and a few days before that, everyone was dunking on Ethereum from the avalanche community, and they were saying, you know, avalanche is going to take over all these blah, blah, blah. And then not only did the avalanche price kind of like top out and kind of like dump off of there, but on top of that, some of the smartest people in the ethereum ecosystem looked at avalanche and immediately found glaring issues with it, such as the mev stuff that was going on.
00:11:19.496 - 00:11:53.196, Speaker A: Obviously, the fees went high as well, as people kind of like, were like, why? Why are the fees high on Evelyn avalanche? This was supposed to be a cheap fee chain. So all that kind of like stuff happened and it's kind of like, don't come at Ethereum if you're not prepared for the consequences. Because, you know, the Ethereum researchers and developers, they're very humble. They're generally pretty quiet, and they're generally focused on Ethereum stuff. They don't really care to look at the other chains and kind of like point out problems in them until this bullshit happens where it's just like it becomes a thing where they can't ignore it anymore. And that's exactly what happened. So just poetic how that all played out.
00:11:53.196 - 00:12:29.192, Speaker A: But anyway, go give this blog post a read from Vitalik is very, very important, especially for understanding the sharding roadmap and how sharding is going to work. So lion from the chainsafe team today put out a tweet saying that Lodestar, one of the ETH two clients, proposed its first mainnet block. This means that we now have five mainnet ETH two clients, which is absolutely awesome, right? So Lodestar joins an amazing rank of other client. Amazing. The amazing ranks of other clients such as Prism, Lighthouse, techu and Nimbus. Lodestar is a fifth. I think there's a 6th out there that may or may not make it to Mainnet.
00:12:29.192 - 00:13:00.934, Speaker A: There originally I think like eight of them, but only formatted to Mainnet for the beacon chain launch. But now we have five on Mainnet, which is absolutely awesome to see. I haven't checked how the, what's the node distribution is looking like lately in terms of like our prism, still a majority, kind of like no distribution. But having five clients is really good for that as well. Just gives another client people to play around with, people to kind of run instead of the other, other ones. So just to get more kind of like client diversity going there. So really awesome to see this from, from Lodestar.
00:13:00.934 - 00:13:29.702, Speaker A: And I love the graffiti here. It's Lodestar bitch, which is, which is pretty funny. So yeah, this was their first main net block proposed by a lodestar client. So this account, whale alerts for those of you who don't follow it. I don't follow it, but I see their tweets pop up a lot. They tend to kind of like tweet out whenever a big amount of crypto is moved from a centralized exchange out or into a centralized exchange. So today this one picked up 10,000 ETH being transferred from binance to arbitrum.
00:13:29.702 - 00:14:24.122, Speaker A: So, you know, withdrawals to arbitram from binance must be going live soon, right? This is super awesome, because this is exactly what I was talking about a few weeks ago, where it's super easy for centralized exchanges to have an onboarding process into L2s, because all they need to do is send a bunch of ETH reserve to the L2, which is exactly what binance seems to be doing here. And then that's their accounting. So they do the accounting internally, and they are able to issue and credit people either way, you know, going in and out of arbitrum by doing it at L2 with these kind of like hot wallet funds that they essentially have. So I think that's exactly what they're doing here. They're getting ready to enable withdrawals, you know, out to arbitrum from, from the binance centralized exchange, which is going to be absolutely massive. Right? Like the amount of kind of like gas fees that we all have to pay to onboard to just, you know, just to onboard to arbitrum is pretty high. It can go into the hundreds of dollars if you want to onboard multiple assets and want to do multiple onboarding.
00:14:24.122 - 00:14:47.550, Speaker A: It's onboarding kind of like transactions. And, you know, from, from binance, it's probably going to be near free because the only transaction fee you would pay would be the fee to transfer to arbitram directly. And that might be only a few dollars or something like that. Not even. I don't, I'm not sure. We'll have to see what finance does there, but it's definitely not going to be the cost of a layer one ethereum kind of like fee transaction. So absolutely awesome to see.
00:14:47.550 - 00:15:06.766, Speaker A: I'm super excited to see the withdrawals go live. Obviously, deposits alive, but it's a bit different. Going from arbitram to finance is definitely nowhere near as exciting as going from finance to arbitram. So very awesome to see this. And 10,000 ETH is not a small chunk of change. Guys, it's $41 million. Right? Like, it's a, it's a lot of money there, and I'm curious to see if they put in any, any more ETH.
00:15:06.766 - 00:15:45.312, Speaker A: I mean, this whale kind of alert account is pretty, it's pretty spammy. So I don't know if I can see if there's any more being transferred into arbitram. Um, but, yeah, still awesome to see that transfer go through there. So speaking of Arbitrum, premier, one of the decentralized options protocols on Ethereum, it will be going live on Arbitrum next Tuesday. So just another app going to Arbitrum. I've been seeing a lot of people that I follow and respect in this industry be pretty bullish on the premier finance project. I haven't done a deep dive myself, and this is not me endorsing it or anything, but definitely whenever I see my friends and people I respect in the industry being kind of like excited about a project, I pay attention to it.
00:15:45.312 - 00:16:20.438, Speaker A: So I've been meaning to deep dive into premiere and how they've been doing the options protocol. Sorry, how they're doing their options exchange. There's so many options protocols now on Ethereum, it's kind of hard to, to know which ones are better than others. But as I said, the social signaling here from people that I follow seem to be pretty bullish on this project, and them being on arbitrary is obviously very bullish for, for themselves and also for people wanting to interact with this options protocol. So definitely go check this out. As I said, it will be live on arbitrary next Tuesday. So a couple of updates from the polygon ecosystem here from Mahalo.
00:16:20.438 - 00:16:55.420, Speaker A: So they're doing a lot of NFT stuff lately, the polygon ecosystem, the Polygon pos chain. And Mahalo said that Macy's did their first ever NFT drop on Polygon today. They did a giveaway of 9500 nfts and successfully finished an auction, or which already saw over $300,000 worth of bids, all powered by the Polygon pos chain, of course, which, as Mahalo says, is the leading affordable, eco friendly NFT platform. Which it is because it's a POS chain, right? It doesn't use proof of work. So it is definitely eco friendly. And it is affordable because it is on the POS chain. It is not on ethereum layer one.
00:16:55.420 - 00:17:36.188, Speaker A: This is awesome to see. And the second thing was, Polygon is going to be getting 175,000 new users because the swiss post is going to be doing launching a big NFT collection on on Polygon. So the whole collection, 175,000 items, was sold within a few hours, and the items are now tradable on OpenSeA. You know what I find really cool and really, and really interesting is that OpenSea is only live on two platforms right now. It's ethereum layer one and the Polygon Pos chain. And I think this has been a really big deal and a really big driver of the Polygon Pos chains. Kind of like traffic for nfts because we all know there's other platforms right now for nfts, like Immutable X, for example.
00:17:36.188 - 00:18:09.388, Speaker A: But they don't have OpenSea or an Opensea like marketplace yet. They do. I mean, they do have a marketplace you can trade now, but it's nothing like Opensea, and there's no kind of brand power behind that. So it's been very interesting to see how well their Opensea integration has worked out for Polygon. And I'm curious to see when Opensea will go on other, like, chains and l two s and things like that. They may go to other chains like avalanche or any of, like, I don't know about BSc, but, like, they may go to other EVM chains, but I'm curious to see where they, where they deploy to next. But, yeah, it's still awesome to see that all be active on Polygon.
00:18:09.388 - 00:18:49.760, Speaker A: And, I mean, the funny thing is, is that there's a lot of nfts on Polygon, and because the fees are so cheap. And this goes back to what I was saying, saying earlier about how the fees can actually act as a kind of like a positive thing on Ethereum, layer one for nfts one. The first reason being that it acts as a kind of like, spam prevention, so that people can't all kind of, like, bot prevention against, like, botting an NFT drop, getting too many of them because of the gas fees. But it also works to kind of, like, have higher quality nfts at layer one because no one's going, like, what happens on the polygon Pos chain is that there's a lot of spam nfts that get air dropped to people. I get a few of them in my wallet doing that on layer one, ethereum is not worth it. Right. It's just, it's cost prohibitive.
00:18:49.760 - 00:19:21.304, Speaker A: So the gas fees kind of act as, like a deterrent there as well. But that just comes with the territory. You either have, like, high gas fees, which are both a deterrent to spam, but also a deterrent to. Or a kind of like a way to. To exclude users, because there's a lot of users who don't want to spend $50 on a fee. And then on the other side, you have the benefits of the cheap fees on polygon Pos and more people can do more stuff with NFT. So really cool to see that and really cool to see polygon make headways with their NFT kind of like, integrations here.
00:19:21.304 - 00:19:56.990, Speaker A: So I missed this tweet from the, the other day from Lidacon, but he linked it to me today. So I kind of, like, retweeted, I want to talk about it on the refuel. Um, this, this tweet thread basically goes through optimism and the projects launching soon on optimism or have been kind of like whitelisted. So first project is the universe XYZ ecosystem, which is basically an NFT ecosystem. Do you have kratos Dow, which seems to be an Om fork? We're all used to these kind of like Om for some people talk about it in the, in Discord Channel. I haven't looked into it. I am not endorsing this at all, by the way, guys, please do not buy this or do anything with this because I talked about it.
00:19:56.990 - 00:20:21.634, Speaker A: Just do your own research, of course, and see what that's all about. But as it's an OM fork, these things usually are very speculative. So definitely do your research before kind of like aping in there picker protocol, which is apparently a perpetual exchange with leverage. I haven't heard of this before. This is the first time I had heard of it from this thread. So really cool to see that there's projects that even I'm not even hearing of launching straight on L2. So it's live right now, but in beta mode.
00:20:21.634 - 00:20:43.506, Speaker A: There's wepiggy.com, which apparently is a multi chain lending platform that also just launched their own arbitrum as well. Really cool to see that. There's Greenwood Labs here, which is a loan aggregator that dynamically shifts your loan to the protocol with the lowest interest rate. That's pretty interesting. They're live on Ethereum going live on arbitrary and optimism soon. A few more here.
00:20:43.506 - 00:21:20.328, Speaker A: Like polynomial, you have perpetual protocol launching on l two soon. They've been on X Dive, which has been kind of quite nice for them. Then you can obviously jump between albatrum and optimism using hot protocol, which is where little Cohen works at fails, which is part of the synthetics ecosystem going, you know, we'll be launching an optimism soon. You have mean finance, which I've talked about before on the refuel, where it's a tool that allows you to dca into any asset with any Arc 20 or ETH. This is cool. You know why this is cool? Because DCA ing, right. If you want to DCA in $50 a day, you don't.
00:21:20.328 - 00:21:49.368, Speaker A: Doing that on ethereum l one right now doesn't work because you'd be paying $50 fees to DCA in on chain. Right. You, you know, unfortunately, you're better off doing it on a centralized exchange, but by doing it on optimism, you're not going to be paying $50 in fees. You may pay four or $5, but still it's, you know, much, much less. And that's only going to get, you know, only going to get cheaper over time. And then finally there's alien protocol, which is also part of the synthetic synthetix ecosystem. And this describes itself as a deal coordination protocol which will be going live on optimism soon as well.
00:21:49.368 - 00:22:27.788, Speaker A: So, yeah, a lot of cool projects here that you can check out. I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to kind of dive deeper into, but I don't expect any one person to be able to keep track of all the projects launching on L2s going forward. Just like we can't all keep track of what's launching on layer one. I do my best to, but, you know, every other day there are new projects that I've never heard of before that somehow got to like hundreds of millions dollars of market cap. All this TvL and I just see it and I'm like, okay, where did this come from? It's just, there's so much happening. It's basically become, you know, keeping up with Ethereum layer one, and even L2 as well has basically become like, trying to keep up with the Internet. You can't, there's just too much happening and it's only going to get more crazy from here.
00:22:27.788 - 00:23:09.752, Speaker A: So definitely go check out all the projects linked in this thread. All right, so Zappa announced yesterday that they have reached 1 million monthly active users, and they surpassed $10 billion in total transaction volume and now have over 100,000 followers on the Bird app. The Bird app obviously being a Twitter. So 1 million monthly active users. This is, this is awesome, because as I've said to you guys before, I'm always on the lookout for ways to measure the kind of like, active users of the crypto ecosystem in a civil resistant way or in a way where it doesn't actually make sense to game it. So Metamask announced that they had like 15 million monthly active users, or more than 15 million. I think it was up to 20 million or something like that recently.
00:23:09.752 - 00:23:57.444, Speaker A: But, you know, there could be people that are using the metamask mobile wallet and also using the metamask kind of like desktop wallet, and those things count as unique active users. So if you were to discount the 20 million number by half because of those, those instances, or because of people having, like, one on their laptop, one on their kind of desktop, there, there are lots of these kind of, like, things happening here, or for people who just, like, got into crypto one month and then just got out of it and won't come back, you know, you could, you could maybe say there's 10 million, which is still, obviously huge number, right? That's absolutely massive number. And. But metamask covers not just ethereum, but the. All the AVM compatible chains, whether they be L2s or side chains. But then you look at Zappa, which is not a wallet, right? It is an interface to keep track of your wallets and keep track of your funds. You can obviously zap in and zap out of things through there, and they've got a bunch of integrations happening.
00:23:57.444 - 00:24:43.704, Speaker A: But this is just another really great way where I kind of look at this and I'm like, okay, well, how many people have, like, a zapper on multiple devices that they check and they've got synced kind of, like, all the time? And, you know, there might be some. There might be some that have, like, zapper on their desktop, zapper on their laptop, zapper on their mobile phone, which is fine. So you could discount this by a little bit, but I don't think it would make a huge difference to this number in terms of, like, monthly active users. So 1 million monthly active users for a portfolio tracking interface, for a way to kind of, like, obviously interact with it, to zap in and zap out and all those sorts of things is absolutely amazing. And it just goes to show that we have. We're definitely still having a lot of users come into the crypto ecosystem, a lot of new users as well. I mean, a million monthly active users is nothing to.
00:24:43.704 - 00:25:00.880, Speaker A: Nothing to scoff at, but it's also kind of like, just at the very beginning of where we can get with this sort of stuff. Like, I mean, full disclosure, I'm an. I'm an investor in Zappa. I mean, a lot of you guys know that already, but I invested in Zappa because I saw the kind of, like, vision. I saw the mission. I saw them kind of like, what. What they can be, like in five years.
00:25:00.880 - 00:25:24.678, Speaker A: And I. And I definitely feel like they can be an absolutely massive way for people to. Sorry. An absolutely massive platform where they help people do all sorts of things, you know, from tracking their portfolio to zapping in and out of opportunities and all that sort of stuff. So when you really look at these 1 million monthly active users stat, I think that can easily get into the tens of millions within the next couple of years. And then, you know, it could maybe one day go to the hundreds of millions eventually, if it's. If it's super successful here.
00:25:24.678 - 00:25:43.394, Speaker A: So I guess, like, congrats to Zappra on this growth. Absolutely amazing to see. And, you know, the total, total transaction volume being over 10 billion is really, really cool. That seems to be accelerating as well. And obviously, over 100,000 followers on Twitter is a big deal, too. So super cool to see this. Congrats to Zappa on, on these metrics here.
00:25:43.394 - 00:26:19.630, Speaker A: So the last thing to talk about is this tweet from Ennis ETH, who kind of like, has shown like a video here of their Ens name, Ene's ETH at instant Istanbul's Bosphorus, which I guess is the name of the bridge. So you can see here the Ethereum name service is kind of like scrolling across. And then, you know, if I play the video, it's actually got like a countdown. And then you have, you know, three, two, one. Then you have any displayed there, which is pretty cool. And then you have Ethereum name service kind of like scrolling across the bridge here, which is, which is pretty cool to see as well. The reason why I think this stuff is cool.
00:26:19.630 - 00:27:02.008, Speaker A: And not just this stuff, but like, you've, you've all seen the NFTs that go that kind of like, have been displayed in Times Square and there's like billboards and all that sort of stuff is just that. It just makes it feel more like, makes crypto feel more real and kind of like, feel more kind of, you know, grounded than what it. Because usually when in crypto, like, everything's in what we call, I guess, like the crypto metaverse, if you want to refer to it as that. It's all digital, it's online, it's all part of the platforms that we're used to, used to using the twitters, the discords. You know, there's even the, you know, the zap are seeing it there, the, the other interfaces that we all interact with. But then when we put this stuff on, like, the real world things, it just becomes more tangible, more real, and it obviously reaches more people. I mean, think about the amount of people who saw these things on in Times Square.
00:27:02.008 - 00:27:45.754, Speaker A: Think about the amount of people who would have seen this on the bridge and thinking, oh, Ethereum name service, what's that? Right. They might just google it, and they might even kind of like Google any and go to Etherscan and see that and things like that. So this would be like a net positive for Ethereum awareness, which I think is really, really cool when you think about it. And I mean, this is why I think these sorts of things just, like, really help us get the word out there about Ethereum, about crypto, really help us keep, keep us grounded as well and kind of, like, tether us to reality. Because if there's one thing that crypto does, it's kind of like it exists in its own little bubble, its own little reality bubble. And we tend to forget that there's this whole kind of, like, real world outside of it that we still need to kind of, like, on board. We still need to kind of blend these worlds together, and we still need to integrate these worlds with, with us.
00:27:45.754 - 00:28:22.034, Speaker A: So maybe that's taking this example too far, but, like, this just got me thinking about different ways that we can kind of, like, blend these worlds together and have, like, the physical and digital meets, but not just the physical and digital meeting, but, like, the physical, digital and the crypto digital meeting, because we obviously have already have, like, a massive digital ecosystem in the world. But the thing that we added with crypto was the value layer, which adds a, you know, a value layer, but also a coordination layer, which adds, like, a whole new kind of, like, dynamic to. To everything that we have going on. So. So, yeah, that's what. That's what I thought of when I saw this, funny enough, but, yeah, I think that's gonna be it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching.
00:28:22.034 - 00:28:28.434, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone.
