00:00:07.760 - 00:01:00.064, Speaker A: Deploy on multicloud and on premise. So the idea we saw two advantages of this. The first one is one of our first clients was a private consortium doing blockchain traceability. And we really understood that in this case the blockchain will adapt to our different clients stacks. So there were three clients, one carrot producer, one transporter, and one food retailer. And basically our platform was really able to deploy on the three different clouds of the clients. The second point is we really understood as well that big companies in France and abroad, they like to run their own instances.
00:01:00.064 - 00:02:16.792, Speaker A: So we actually try to deploy on the client's cloud. We don't have access to basically the server itself, or we deploy on their server. The idea is that we don't put any one single part of failure because we don't run the instances. Two of our clients right now are french startups using blockchain. One is Onis is doing food traceability. The other one is BC diploma, which is basically certifying diploma on the public blockchain. The idea is that we'll use Chainlink in order in the first case to, through the decentralized Oracle protocol, certify data from university, and then the clients through our platform were able to launch Tezos or Ethereum node, use Chainlink to certify data and then having it in their app interface through basic diploma.
00:02:16.792 - 00:04:21.910, Speaker A: And for honest, the idea is to use Chainlink to certify inventory management data and then having it through the onus platform, which is basically a front end platform that shows you any products followed on the supply chain. Okay, so now let's see the product. So what I'm going to show you is how we deploy basically private blockchain on our platform, not having to run instances, but on the client cloud platform. I pre created two accounts. We going to share blockchain between kilt, our team and chain link. When you arrive on the platform, basically what you see, actually not perfect, but what you see is an extension of what is our product, what is a node, obviously, what is a consortium in this case, because I'm going to deploy blockchain and further documentation for any developer that wants to access to our documentation, what there is behind the vault, basically the docker controlling a node that we deploy on any client's instance. So the first thing I'm going to do is create a consortium between Chin Link and I'm going to invite yuan from Gen.
00:04:21.910 - 00:05:31.820, Speaker A: So then what they will do, what I will do is like create a node. And here you can see that deploy in two ways, either on premise with three command lines or deploy automatically through your cloud platform. So what I did is like I pre registered my AWS account, so when I'm going to deploy I can choose obviously the instance I want to deploy on. I will eat on deploy and deployment of the node will take 1 minute and 30 seconds. So I already have node on site. I'm going to add it to a consortium, which is basically chain link and skills. There you go, a few seconds.
00:05:31.820 - 00:06:47.776, Speaker A: So here we can see that we have like consortium between two companies with one node that is connected. I'm going to do exactly the same with Yoan account. There you go. Node is not consortium. Very good. So now how I have a private blockchain of two companies sharing it, having a node on their cloud provider platform. It's not our instances, it's obviously the site instances.
00:06:47.776 - 00:07:42.368, Speaker A: So we can see that it's in a way fully decentralized because you can deploy on any cloud platform. We support AWS, we support Google Cloud, we support scalawave, french cloud. And I'm going to show you another consortium actually that I used and deployed the smart contract. So you can see that here we have a blockchain explorer explaining the protocol that we use, which is get in this case one block mine and then the transaction fast. Thank you very much. I will be around, so if you have any questions, please feel free. But then to me and yeah, hope to talk to you guys during this conference.
00:07:42.368 - 00:07:46.290, Speaker A: Cheers. Close.
