00:00:00.440 - 00:00:35.962, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 26 July 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into the news from the weekend. So a bit of drama of the weekend surrounding Uniswap, which I'm sure you have all seen by now. Uniswap Labs put out this blog post where they basically titled it tokenaccess on app Dot, uniswap.org dot. And what they did with this move is essentially the Uniswap Labs team made the move to remove a bunch of tokens off the Uniswap Labs interface, the one that they officially managed.
00:00:35.962 - 00:01:05.916, Speaker A: And you can see the list of tokens here. Most of them are either open Uma or synthetix, synthetic tokens that they removed from the interface. Most of them didn't account for any kind of like volumes on Uniswap, very little bits of volumes here. But obviously, you know, Uniswap Labs do it. Making this move had people kind of like saying, oh, well, you know, Uniswap's not decentralized now, like this is, this is crap, like this is censorship, blah, blah, all this sort of stuff. And obviously that's not true. It loses a lot of nuance here, and we need to go through that.
00:01:05.916 - 00:01:38.668, Speaker A: And I will go through that because I want to make the point clear here. But I think that the overall point is that the uniswap interface is controlled and completely centralized by the Uniswap labs team. It is not decentralized. You should not expect decentralization from it. You should expect at any moment that interface to be manipulated, censored. It might, they might block you from accessing it because you're in a country that is not allowed to access it or anything like that. So you should never, ever expect a centralized interface to, to basically be censorship resisted or anything like that.
00:01:38.668 - 00:01:54.596, Speaker A: And that goes for every single defi protocol, every single. That goes for everything on Ethereum. Just because the smart contracts are decentralized doesn't mean the interfaces have to be. They can be. But the app dot uniswap.org interface is not decentralized. It is completely controlled by the Uniswap Labs team.
00:01:54.596 - 00:02:22.364, Speaker A: Now, Hayden makes this clear in his tweets where he says the Uniswap protocol itself is fully decentralized and permissionless, and they are smart contracts that live on Ethereum. That is completely true. V one, V two and V three of Uniswap are all decentralized and permissionless smart contracts. No one can change them, no one can alter them. You know, everything is kind of like all good on those contracts. And that also means that anyone can tap into them with an interface. Now you will have seen plenty of different interfaces over, over time that you've probably used.
00:02:22.364 - 00:03:10.332, Speaker A: Besides the official Uniswap one, you'll use decentralized exchange aggregators, like one inch. You'll use matcha, you'll use Dharma Arjun, the mobile wallet apps, you know, any kind of like app that taps into Uniswap's contracts while not going through the Uniswap's official kind of like interface just shows you that it doesn't matter what Uniswap labs do with their official interface. They can't dictate what happens at the protocol level. And the protocol is completely decentralized. There is no one that can put in token blacklist or anything like that, but they can do that at the interface layer and that's what we saw play out. And on top of that, the Uniswap interface is actually open source code that lives on the Uniswap GitHub repository where anyone can download that and actually host it themselves if they want to. So you could download that if, you know, you know, I mean, it takes a little bit of skill to do this.
00:03:10.332 - 00:03:57.470, Speaker A: It's, it's definitely not for complete beginners, but you can download it and run it on your own machine and host the Uniswap interface on your own machine locally and tap into the Uniswap contracts on Ethereum, and no one can stop you from doing that. Similarly, you can host it on a, you know, a domain and then everyone can come and access that. It's kind of like a proxy, proxy for Uniswap. So that's the most important piece here, is that just because the uniswap labs front end is decentralized, sorry, is centralized and can be controlled by the team and anything happen on there doesn't mean that uniswap itself is centralized. So I think that's a very important point to remember now in saying this. This is obviously not the first time something like this has happened, is not going to be the last. I think regulators are going to be making more and more noise about defi.
00:03:57.470 - 00:04:32.380, Speaker A: They already have been, but it's going to get, it's going to get worse. Like, and maybe worse isn't the right word, but it's definitely going to get more heavy handed. Regulators are going to come in, they're going to say, okay, well, which parts can we regulate? Which parts, you know, should we regulate which parts already fall under our purview? Things like trading stocks or trading kind of like synthetic assets of stocks? I mean, that already falls under the SEC's purview. Like they can already regulate that. They don't need extra powers to do that. But then you have all these other things, like things that aren't considered securities, like most of the tokens that exist today. What's the kind of like regulations around that? And I'm sure that's going to be coming.
00:04:32.380 - 00:05:06.364, Speaker A: There's going to be new legislation, all that sort of stuff. But that's just kind of like the US. And then you have like all the other countries and they have different opinions on things. You have like the EU has different opinion on things, Asia has a different opinion on things. It's, it's going to get messy and it's going to be like a regulatory landscape that, that looks kind of like, I mean, Messi's, I think the correct word here on the accurate way to describe it, but it's going to look like a Frankenstein, really, when all is said and done, because regulations usually do. Because different countries have different approaches to things. Different countries are more heavy handed than others.
00:05:06.364 - 00:05:51.644, Speaker A: Yes, there are kind of like groups that kind of like, come together and they share like regulatory guidance and things like that. But generally what I expect to happen is that things that already fall under the purview of securities regulators, like trading of stock, of stocks and equities that are already considered securities, are going to get regulated first. Things like stable coins which pose, you know, as potential risk to government's plans to issue central bank digital currencies. They're definitely going to come under regulatory scrutiny. Leverage, we're already seeing that play out. And I've spoke about this before and we actually saw FTX and binance limit leverage on their platform. I think binance has even removed margin trading for customers outside of, sorry, no customers in like Canada, Australia, I think the UK, places like that.
00:05:51.644 - 00:06:26.056, Speaker A: So regulators are definitely coming down hard on these sorts of things. And they're going to go after the centralized exchanges and stuff first, but then they're going to come for Defi. They're definitely, and I mean, there already are in a way now for us to resist that. We have to decentralize the entire stack. It's all well and good to say that these smart contracts are decentralized, but we need the interfaces to be as well because they're going to go after any central points of failure, whether that be the team, the interfaces, the infrastructure, any of that sort of stuff. That all needs to be completely decentralized. And we cannot leave any kind of spots open for regulators to target because they will, they'll find a way to do so.
00:06:26.056 - 00:07:05.002, Speaker A: Now in saying that they can always target the on ramps like centralized exchanges, they can say, okay, well you can't withdraw assets from your centralized exchange to your Ethereum wallet and that effectively kills a lot of deFi. Like straight up. I mean that's not banning DeFi or regulating DeFi directly, but that is like a proxy where, you know, lots of people, I mean, pretty much everyone onboards to a centralized exchange. And if you can't get funds off that centralized exchange, well then you can't get into DeFi and you can't get into Ethereum and you can't experience things. Now that would be the most heavy handed regulation. I believe that would be incredibly bearish because it would be very hard to get around that. But I don't think that's going to happen, at least in, in the west.
00:07:05.002 - 00:07:32.792, Speaker A: Maybe it happens in China. I don't know. It's funny because I don't really have a good view over, over China and what's happening there. I don't even think they would do something like that. I really think that the regulations are going to be more around. I mean they're going to justify it by saying it's protecting investors, but in reality it's probably just protecting kind of like the elites, which is what I, I reckon all financial regulations are for, or at least most of them are for. But they're going to basically go after the things like marginalized margin trading and stuff like that.
00:07:32.792 - 00:08:20.840, Speaker A: They're going to go after derivatives trading and basically say, you know, retail investors shouldn't be trading these products. And you know, I've stated before and I've stated a lot of times that I really don't like most financial regulations. But if we're being honest, I, I mean, I can't fault like regulators for doing this because if you look at the way retail investors trade using margin trading and just being cowboys, like really at the end of the day, like what, what do people expect? Like the people always want the government to bail them out when, when, when things go wrong. Not everyone, but like a large cohort of people do. And then they'll go knocking and then like politicians will run with election promises on, you know, stomping down on crime and whatever and like they'll, they'll say something about crypto. And, you know, crypto already has like a really bad reputation with like the mainstream. So you have all this compounding stuff going on and I think we're just going to keep seeing that kind of play out here.
00:08:20.840 - 00:09:04.084, Speaker A: Now, I don't want to get too political with it, but I mentioned a few weeks ago that once the El Salvador stuff happened, I believe that we entered the geopolitical arena of crypto, which is going to be a lot, a lot noisier, a lot messier, and it's going to be a tough fight. And I think, you know, over the past couple of months, we've definitely also entered the, I guess, like, regulatory arena with DeFi. I think we're going to see much more regulations playing into DeFi here. And I think that what Luna soft labs done is just the tip of the iceberg. So let's decentralize the entire stack. Let's get, let's stop relying on these centralized services to access the decentralized protocols and, you know, and let's distribute it, too. I mean, there's decentralized and then there's distributed.
00:09:04.084 - 00:09:46.120, Speaker A: Distributed means making it so that we have, say, 100 different centralized ways to access Uniswap, whether that be through various mobile apps or various kind of like other interfaces. But let's also have some decentralized ones, like things that are hosted in a peer to peer fashion on ipfs or other kind of like places like are we even whatever, stuff like that. So let's, let's do it all. Let's stop relying on just one centralized interface because that's how we kind of like, I guess, push back against regulators and basically defend against them because they're coming and they're coming in a big way. So let's, let's do that. That's kind of like an open call there. And I actually think on the positive side, this move from Uniswap Labs is actually going to encourage a lot more teams to get on this train.
00:09:46.120 - 00:10:22.574, Speaker A: I saw curve deploy themselves to curve ETH link. I don't know if they actually, I don't know if they deployed themselves over the weekend or if they were already on there, but they tweeted about it. So. And I'm expecting to see much more of these kind of projects doing this where they have like an ENS domain and they deploy to ipfs and then you can access it, you know, from, from that without having to rely on centralized service, centralized domains or whatever or web services or things like that. That is the path forward. Let's do that. If you should encourage like if you're part of a community, you should encourage the team to set up to make sure they set up in a decentralized way for their interface because of all of that.
00:10:22.574 - 00:10:56.976, Speaker A: That's what's happened. But I think we're going to see that play out over the next few months and, and I think we're actually going to see the end state be that a lot of new DeFi teams are going to start off as Daos because if you start off as a centralized company, you put like a massive target on your back. So they'll start off as Daos and a lot of them will actually have a non or pseudo anon founders and team members to kind of like beat off regulations as well. So big things coming. I'm going to keep an eye on it. I wouldn't say it's like bearish or anything like that. I would actually say it's long term bullish because teams and projects are realizing that they really do need to decentralize their whole stack to play protect themselves.
00:10:56.976 - 00:11:30.014, Speaker A: So. And what better way to do that than uniswap showing the way, right? Like everyone heard about this over the, over the weekend, so I'm sure a lot of people saw it. But the funny thing is, is that everyone was discussing it over the weekend and everyone was debating and arguing about it and now I haven't heard a peep out of it because the prices went up of like Ethan and things like that. So it's, it's very fleeting. But let's not forget that just because the prices go up, we, we should, we, we don't stop fighting, you know, for decentralization and we don't stop fighting off these kind of regulators and stuff like that. But anyway, I'm going to leave it at that for now. Onto some more positive news.
00:11:30.014 - 00:11:50.914, Speaker A: There are now 200,000 validators staking 6.6 million ETH, which is worth about $15.4 billion, and it's now securing the beacon chain. This is, this is awesome. I mean, what else is there to say really? That's 200,000 unique validators all staking 32 ETH each to make up that 6.6 million or around 6.6 million.
00:11:50.914 - 00:12:54.674, Speaker A: And, you know, that's all securing the beacon chain. Now, in saying that the beacon chain currently is only coming to consensus on itself, but once the merger goes through, well, then it'll be securing the Ethereum network itself and we'll have 15.4 billion, probably more than that. I mean, you know, depending what the ETH price is and depending on how much ETH is staked by Q one next year when the merge happens, we could potentially have much more dollar security here, which is, and we get, and Justin Drake spoken about this a lot on the bankless podcast, but we basically get a better bang for your buck security too, because if you think about it, it's the issuance and under proof of stake is much less than under proof of work and we have much more value securing the chain than we would in a proof of work system. So just super exciting. In general, there, there was some comments in the delegate Discord channel about unique depositors to here and like how 200,000 validators doesn't mean there's 200,000 unique people kind of validating here. Alunara in the Discord channel pointed out that he told me, he told me, don't, not to point this out on the refill, but I'm going to point it out anyway because I think it's important.
00:12:54.674 - 00:13:50.044, Speaker A: But he said the unique deposit address count is something like 40k though, which on average means that each unique person holds five validators. But that average is obviously skewed by big exchanges. Now I don't think each person has five validators because that would be, that's a lot of money, right? Five times 32 ETH, that's a crap ton of money these days. So I don't believe that to be the case. I think there's definitely a lot of individual stakers, but it's hard to get a picture of like, I mean, I mean, I'm sure you can dig into the data, but it's kind of hard to get a picture or at least an exact picture of what kind of like the unique validators looks like. But generally I think that, you know, if we go back and look at the earliest stakers, they weren't staking through service providers, they were kind of like staking on their own. So you can probably get a good view about that from the earlier stakers, but then you'd have to dive into the data for later, later points in time and kind of remove the exchanges, remove their service providers and stuff like that.
00:13:50.044 - 00:14:48.776, Speaker A: But again, I mean, I've discussed at length on the refuel and in my newsletter and on the AMA's about how I actually think that centralized services being a big part of like staking is not a big deal. I really do think that it's overblown as a big deal. I think that the, I guess, like the, the incentives around staking in ETH, two are going to hold, and the game theory is going to hold, um, very strongly for pretty much everything except nation states. And, you know, I don't think the exchanges themselves are going to attack Ethereum or do any funny business with their staked assets. I don't think the service providers will. But I do think that if nation states wanted to, I mean, the easiest way for them to kind of like take over the Ethereum chain, or at least, you know, screw around with it, and the path of least resistance would be to take over a bunch of centralized stakers. So, for example, if you could get, um, you know, uh, get a hold of like the majority of the network, um, you could basically go after like Kraken, Binance, Coinbase, um, and a few other providers.
00:14:48.776 - 00:15:43.350, Speaker A: And you could probably get, I think you get 33% by just going after those, which means you could start doing censorship, uh, on the network, where you start censoring transactions. That's not a huge deal. Like, yes, we want to be censorship resistant, but if you were just censoring transactions, well, then the pro, the social layer would reply, would respond, and the protocol layer would respond, and we'd would probably fork out those stakers, or we would basically, as a community, people would move their stake from those kind of like exchanges and stuff like that. But even in that case, like, if the exchanges didn't let people move their stake, well, I mean, the worst comes to worst, something would happen on the protocol level to kind of get around that. I believe it would be, it would be messy, but that's what would happen. But say they got to like 51% of the network, which would actually be very hard for them to do. Well, then they're, depending on what they're doing, they're going to get slashed, which obviously means they lose their stake, or they're, or they're going to get forked out, generally by their social layer.
00:15:43.350 - 00:16:31.506, Speaker A: So this is why I've talked about how having an extremely strong social layer within Ethereum is the fact that is the thing that's stopping, I guess, like these kind of attacks at the end of the day. And I've spoken about this before about Haasu's blog post about the onion, the onion model for blockchain security. And I spoke about this when I was talking about reorgs within Ethereum and all that MEV stuff. But essentially, because Ethereum has such a strong social layer, I think we could get ourselves out of any kind of attack at this point. So, you know, that to me is like our basically last line of defense. And I think that line of defense would hold under pretty much all circumstances now in the future, could this change? Of course it could. You know, the Ethereum community could, for whatever reason, dwindle over time, get much smaller, and then Ethereum just becomes like this minority thing that many people are paying attention to.
00:16:31.506 - 00:17:01.694, Speaker A: Obviously, I don't think that's going to happen and I don't see any signs of that happening. But that is also a very, you know, a real kind of threat down, way down the line saying like ten years. For some reason Ethereum didn't succeed and like everyone lost interest in it and the community is very small. Well, I guess in that case, maybe Ethereum didn't, didn't do what it was supposed to do. No one's using it. So does anyone really care if it gets attacked anymore? And then that's kind of like how a blockchain dies, really. I mean, we've seen these play out with Ethereum classic where they've been 51% attacked like three or four times and, and no one cares.
00:17:01.694 - 00:17:23.366, Speaker A: The only people only talk about it to like dunk on Ethereum classic. No one cares about it. There's no one really using the chain at all and there's no one building on it. So really the social layer is incredibly weak. And that to me is how kind of like, I mean, the Ethereum classic isn't dead. It's still got multi billion dollar market cap for whatever reason. But in terms of like usage and things like that, I mean, it's completely dead.
00:17:23.366 - 00:17:55.022, Speaker A: Like no one wants to touch it for those reasons. So, you know, there's kind of like two sides there and I think that could definitely still happen to Ethereum and bitcoin and any other network. You know, anything can happen, but I don't see any signs of that. And I, and I do believe that Ethereum is still going to keep growing, obviously over time, and he's going in, you know, for the, for as long as I can even imagine. I think Ethereum is going to remain number one and its communities is going to keep growing. So that is the most important aspect to me. But anyway, just wanted to point that, that all out to you guys and kind of like break that down.
00:17:55.022 - 00:18:39.704, Speaker A: But really exciting to see this. I'm sure we're going to get up to 300,400, 500, you know, eventually with, with a lot of more ETH being staked as we get closer to the merge and post merge. I mean, people are going to see that APy Spike up because fees, the fee revenue that's not burned as part of 1559 is going to be going there. So I think that's going to be really cool as well. But on that topic with 1559, there was a discussion on the all core devs call on Friday and it was agreed that the London network upgrade will not be delayed due to that bug on Robson that I spoke about last week, which is obviously really cool. I did say to you guys that at most I would expect, like, a one week delay, but, you know, at the back of my mind I was like, I don't think there's going to be a delay. I just didn't feel like a delay was needed given how small the bug was.
00:18:39.704 - 00:19:17.548, Speaker A: Now, there was, of course, some drama around these people saying, you know, there should have been a delay, that, you know, it was safer to do a delay, all these sorts of things, but it's kind of like too late for that now, I guess. And, you know, I'm not saying the points are wrong, but this is the decision that was made and it was discussed among all the core devs and, you know, London will go live as planned at block number 12,965,000, which is August 4 5th, depending where you are in the world. I think it's like late August 4 for the people that are on August 4. And, like, most of the world is going to be on August 5 by that point. But it doesn't really matter about the kind of, like, date here. That's why you just look at the block number. But that's still going to be really, really awesome.
00:19:17.548 - 00:19:46.304, Speaker A: So AIP 1559 is almost here, everyone. And I was actually talking to some friends today about this. I'm like, I wonder if the narrative is going to change from people complaining about gas fees to people celebrating gas fees. Because now when gas fees are high, people are like, oh, my God, gas fees are so high, I can't do anything. Ethereum is broken. But then when the ETH starts getting burned from those high gas fees, will people see the high gas fees and celebrate and be like, oh, wow. Yeah, like all these ETH got burned.
00:19:46.304 - 00:20:18.636, Speaker A: Who cares if the gas fees are high? Bring it on. Bring on more high gas fees. And I think it's actually perfect because this coincides with the rollout of L2 and the continued rollout of L2, where more and more people are onboarding onto L2 and even sidechains as well. So I think that, like, that, that's just gonna be a positive going forward, which is, which is a funny kind of like narrative shift, but we're gonna have to see how that plays out. And speaking of, like, watching how much ETH is getting burned, Mohammed updated his watchtheburn.com website. It's now got a new simplified layout, HTTPs enabled, so it's secure.
00:20:18.636 - 00:20:36.364, Speaker A: Geth catching. Sorry, geth catching. And supports Mainnet, Robston and girlie. Yeah, so you can currently see there's a countdown here, blocks remaining. So this is funny. Like I said, august 4 5th for 1559 on my thing it says August 6. This is in my, I think is in my local time.
00:20:36.364 - 00:21:00.286, Speaker A: It is. Man 516 am. I'm not going to get up at that time to watch 1559 go live. I can't remember the last time I got up before 10:00 a.m. Maybe I'll have to make an exception. But I hope you know the time is actually variable because the block times are variable, so you never really have an exact time until very close to the date. And because of the difficulty bomb as well, I think the difficulty bomb is going to start kicking in very soon, or at least like closer to this date as well.
00:21:00.286 - 00:21:25.674, Speaker A: So maybe that'll be like a bit later because getting up at that time is just not going to be something I want to do. I usually go to bed at like two, three am, so definitely not something I want to do. But definitely going to be watching this site all the time to see how much ETH is being burned. I'm sure everyone will be, there'll be screenshots everywhere on Twitter. So I really like that Muhammad has put this together and I can't wait to see the main net ETH being burned as we go forward here. So a wookiee. A wookiee.
00:21:25.674 - 00:22:00.862, Speaker A: Awookie awakey. I don't know, I never pronounced it right. Even though, like, Kevin's a good friend of mine, I always fail to pronounce his surname, so I'm just going to call him Kevin. Anyway, Kevin put a tweet out today saying that his biggest takeaway from ECC is that Defi is just the start. And you can see this kind of like iceberg here with Defi at the top of the iceberg or the tip of the iceberg. And then underneath you have web, three social networks, the Internet of jobs, non skew morphic finance, public goods, the Metaverse, NFTs, Daos. It's funny because, like, I've been going on about this, I guess, like on the refuel in the newsletter for quite a while now.
00:22:00.862 - 00:22:32.166, Speaker A: Yes, Defi captures most of the attention because of the fact that like you can make money from Defi. I think that's a big reason why. And Defi is just like the dominant use case right now. But there are more and more kind of attention being put on all these kind of things that are outside of Defi. And Vitalik did a really great talk about this at FCC. You can go watch that. If you just search kinda vital at Google, you can search Vitalik talking about things past defile or things after defi sort of, sort of stuff there.
00:22:32.166 - 00:23:13.070, Speaker A: And I'm sure you, you can find the link at ABCC's YouTube channel as well. But essentially we're seeing more stuff about like the Internet of jobs, right? This is stuff like gitcoin, like with their gitcoin grants and stuff like that. Cryptocurrency jobs as well has been doing a lot of great work there and kind of like lots of all that different things there. And then we've obviously been seeing nfts blow up like over the last six, seven months, like just massively. I would actually argue that nfts are probably just as big as Defi at this point, if not bigger. Dows obviously making big waves because all of the different projects are going, are actually becoming daos or they're launching as a dow first, you know, public goods. Obviously Gitcoin grants falls into that too.
00:23:13.070 - 00:23:53.400, Speaker A: The metaverse falls into NFTs web, three social networks. We had Aave announced the other day that they're going to try and build a decentralized Twitter and non skeuomorphic finance, which is what, I didn't know what it was, but Kevin kind of like detailed it here. Basically an example of this is the Internet boom for the Internet boom is Yahoo. Google, which had the same mission to organize the world's information. Yahoo took the skew morphic route by putting library card catalog on the net. Google invented something new plus non skew morphic, a search box backed by page rank. So essentially is a post skeuomorphic is, is what is built beyond, I guess like the physical enabled by the digital and no longer tethered to the constraints of the old.
00:23:53.400 - 00:24:42.334, Speaker A: Okay, so it's kind of like the same thing where Amazon puts, you know, I guess like selling books originally and then they went to like the ebooks, right? And then they were selling, they were kind of like scanning books in and making books fully digital and giving people like Kindles to read their books with and everything like that. So I guess that kind of what that means there. But yeah, I guess mean, I obviously didn't get to go to ETH CC, but this is the kind of vibe I got from like everyone and everyone that I talked to that went, basically said the same thing, that DeFi is now just like one part of a much bigger thing. And that thing is obviously ethereum. And I'm really glad to see that because I don't think that ethereum is just deFi. I do think that DeFi is going to be still the biggest use case of ethereum, even if it's just sitting in the background. But we need to branch out and we need to spend more time on these other use cases, which I think we have been over the last few months.
00:24:42.334 - 00:25:36.130, Speaker A: And I, and I expect that to continue on into the future. So, speaking of etc, Chris here put together a thread that he believed the best talks last week in Paris didn't happen during the actual conference, but a gate, a geth workshop that was organized by the optimism team. So the short thread here, going over a bunch of the technical details and what they spoke about, and I mean, it's a short, it's a kind of like short thread. So you can, you can read it yourself. But I think this is just pointing to what I was saying before about how there's so many things happening within ethereum, and you won't even maybe see that at the ECC conference. You might only see that, you know, at the side kind of like meetups or basically, you know, even at like a bar with a bunch of smart people, you know, you might start talking about things or like just independent workshops and stuff like that. So I just wanted to highlight this three because I think you should go give it a read and definitely kind of like check out what Chris is talking about here, but definitely also check out all the etHCC videos.
00:25:36.130 - 00:26:17.492, Speaker A: They're on etHCc's YouTube channel and everything like that. And I think it's funny because like, even though I didn't attend, I'm really glad that I could watch the videos, but generally I think that a lot of people don't really attend the talks. Like when I go to conferences, I don't attend the talks. I know they're going to be on YouTube later, so I watch them on YouTube later, but I go for networking and meeting people and kind of like just exploring a new city sort of, sort of thing. And now that I'm saying all this, I'm getting really sad because I won't be able to do this for a while. But essentially that's why I think a lot of people go to these things. So if you haven't been to an ethereum conference before, I think, I mean, go to the talks that you want to go to, like the ones that you really want to listen to, but spending all of your time going to all the different talks, I don't know if that's the best use of time.
00:26:17.492 - 00:26:48.928, Speaker A: I think that's a mistake that, that, that newbies make is that they think they have to go to like every talk. And that's the main attraction of these things. But really the main attraction is the networking and meeting people and exploring the city that you're in and stuff like that. So maybe just like a bit of a pro tip there for all of you lucky people that will get to be able to go to all the conferences. I mean, I think there's going to be, I don't have a calendar on me, but there's plenty of conferences happening over the next twelve months in Ethereum. And, you know, I mean, ETH Denver in February, there's like ETH Lisbon, I think that's in like October or November or something like that. There's going to be Devcon.
00:26:48.928 - 00:27:21.934, Speaker A: I'm not sure exactly when that's going to be, but I'm sure that the date for that's going to be announced soon and there's going to be like more and more events, just like pocket events here and there as well. So, yeah, I mean, a lot of you will be going to a first Ethereum conference, so that's just a bit of a pro tip. To kind of like survive and networking, don't get me wrong, is really tiring as well. You're going to get really tired, kind of, you know, just talking to people all day. I know I do. But then there's the parties, right? The after parties, the, the bars, the drinking, the events, the side events, the everything. Like, it's just insane, right? But that's like the best thing about Ethereum conference, I believe.
00:27:21.934 - 00:27:59.458, Speaker A: So the Ethereum on Arm Twitter account posted today that they were able to sync a pruned node, which is essentially still a full ethereum node, running aragon on a raspberry PI. Four. This is amazing. I mean, running this on a raspberry PI. I mean, people have been saying that you can't run a theorem full node on a raspberry PI because you need kind of like a beefy computer to do so, but you don't need to anymore with Aragon. And I've highlighted Aragon, before, which used to be known as turbo Gethsemane, and about how they've been making amazing improvements to the, to the geth client in terms of efficiency and effectiveness here. And as Ethereum on arm says, this is a full validating.
00:27:59.458 - 00:28:22.914, Speaker A: No, it verifies all blocks and executes all transactions that happened on the bitcoin. Bitcoin blockchain. On the Ethereum blockchain. I don't know why I said bitcoin there. Maybe because I've had this argument so many times with bitcoin maximalist, but anyway, and all this is done on a raspberry PI. Here's the data and the specs. So this raspberry PI had eight gig of ram, had a solid state drive of 1 tb attached to it, USB case.
00:28:22.914 - 00:29:07.138, Speaker A: You can see here the os it was running was Ubuntu running Aragon, and the sync time was 17 days with a database size of 434gb. Now, obviously, that sync time may seem like a long time, but the point is, is that you can sync this on a raspberry PI. I mean, the funny thing is about like, making it easy enough people to run, like nodes and full nodes. Most people aren't going to run a full node on a raspberry PI, right? But if you, if you needed to, if you could only afford something like a raspberry PI, having the ability to sync the ethereum full node so that you can have your own copy of the blockchain, you don't have to rely on anyone else, is incredibly important. But it also means that Aragon's going to run even better on just normal consumer hardware, like just normal pc. And it does. I mean, I've run Aragon.
00:29:07.138 - 00:29:30.362, Speaker A: It syncs really quickly. I haven't kind of like, taken too close a notice to what I've been meaning to, just to see how quickly it syncs on my hardware. But essentially it is leaps and bounds, like ahead of, I think, the kind of clients. And it's. It's really great to see that playing out. So, yeah, I mean, if you haven't run Aragon yet, or not running Aragon, I would suggest doing so. We need to definitely make it so that go Ethereum or the geth client is less of the network.
00:29:30.362 - 00:30:05.444, Speaker A: And Aragon is one step in doing that, I think. So. Definitely check out the Aragon client, if you haven't already. All right, last thing to talk about was seller network. They released their Seabridge version, version one, which is a multi chain network enabling instant, low cost any, to any value transfers between, within and across Ethereum Polygon, arbitrary and other L2s. So I mean, I've been talking to you guys a lot about how this bridges and these bridges are coming fast for different side chains and L2s as obviously connect and hot protocol and seller. And there's a, I think there's a bunch of others out there.
00:30:05.444 - 00:30:49.062, Speaker A: But essentially this is really awesome because this is now live and you can basically go to the seller C bridge here, connect your wallet and transfer funds from any of these change. Now, I'm not going to connect my wallet here, but in this dropdown, you would be able to go from like Ethereum, Mainnet to all these things like Polygon, arbitrum, optimism, all those sorts of things there. So really, really cool to see this is another bridging tool from seller network here. You know, you can read, I guess these blog posts for a deep dive into how this works and what they're using. Well, they're basically using state channels to achieve this and kind of like doing kind of like liquidity bridges between these chains as well, similar to, I guess, what connects and hot protocol are doing. But it's great that we have options. I don't want there just being one bridge, I want there being like a proliferation of bridges.
00:30:49.062 - 00:31:08.858, Speaker A: So sorry, like a multitude of bridges that we can tap into, which is, I think, really cool. But anyway, go read this post for a full breakdown of what's happening here and what seller network have actually released. But on that note, I think that's it for today. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:31:08.858 - 00:31:09.354, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
