00:00:00.200 - 00:00:19.318, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deli Grey refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is the 7 September 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So just a quick apology for yesterday. On the video, the audio seemed to go out of sync at around the eight minute mark for some reason. I don't know why that happened.
00:00:19.318 - 00:00:43.034, Speaker A: The audio went out of sync with the video and it happened on my local recording as well. So it wasn't a YouTube issue. And those listening on the podcast, you probably noticed there was a gap of a few seconds there where I went silent and then just cut back in. My microphone must have disconnected and connected again or something, which was, which was super weird there. But yeah, hopefully it's fixed for today. I've made a few changes on my end so it won't happen again. But anyway, on that note, let's get into the news.
00:00:43.034 - 00:01:21.928, Speaker A: So boom, as James so far here says here that a bunch of these us tradfi institutions have now filed for an ethanol spot ETF. So you can see here Van Eck and Ark invest have filed for a spot a ETF here. Now, of course, this isn't too surprising. I mean, I've been saying for a while that, you know, Bitcoin is going to get its ETF and then ETH will get its ETF and who knows what comes after that. But yeah, I kind of wonder around timelines now. It's like obviously, as James says here, the top, the clock starts ticking when they, when they follow these things. But obviously the deadlines are going to be later than the BTC ETF deadlines.
00:01:21.928 - 00:02:12.580, Speaker A: And also there is no guarantee at all the SEC is going to improve these things because of the fact that the SA still see is obviously quite hostile towards ETH. I think way more hostile than it is towards BTC, obviously, because Gary Gensler has said that everything except bitcoin is a security. But I have maintained for a long time now and I think it's pretty obvious, obvious at this point that ETH is not a security, it is a, it is a commodity. And on top of that, I think that they're going to be potentially forced into approving these ETH ETF's because once they approve the BTC ETF's, all these same tradfi institutions are going to be like, hey, you approve BTC, you need to approve ETH as well. Because really, Ethan, BTC from I guess like the lens of what the SEC wants to see from for both of them is the same. Right. They trade on the same markets, the same exchanges.
00:02:12.580 - 00:02:31.916, Speaker A: Right. They've got very similar liquidity profiles. They've got similar market caps. I mean, yes, ETH is like, what, 50% less or something of BTC's market cap, but it's still like a very large market cap. It's been around for a long while. It's actually, it's decentralized. So I think that just generally the, the eight spot ats will get approved.
00:02:31.916 - 00:03:04.080, Speaker A: I don't know if it'll happen next year or the year after. I think the PTC ones will definitely happen next year, if not potentially even sometime this year. There's still a chance it could happen there. But yeah, it's still great to see that they've, that van Eck and Ark have made these moves. Now, obviously, the bigger deal will be if BlackRock does their ETF, right? Because then that again sends a signal from big daddy Blackrock that the SEC needs to approve it because basically Blackrock said so. Right. That's, that is definitely like something that changed the, the bitcoin ETF race.
00:03:04.080 - 00:03:40.168, Speaker A: Because obviously for years and years now, these other institutions had been filing for a bitcoin spot ETF, but they were kept getting denied. And then in comes Blackrock. And as I've mentioned before, Larry Fink, the CEO of Blackrock, is a very deeply ingrained Democrat. And obviously he, he has a lot of sway in the Democratic Party, which are currently in power. And the ACC head, Gary Gensler, is a Democrat and was appointed by a Democrat. So it comes all back to politics, of course, but that definitely changed the game there. So right now I think it's just van Eck and Arc, as well as a bunch of other, other tradfi institutions that have also done the futures ETF for ETH as well.
00:03:40.168 - 00:04:10.144, Speaker A: But yeah, we'll see. We'll keep kind of tabs on this and see how this goes here. But I'm going to be curious if Blackrock actually puts their hat on the ring and decides, yeah, we want to have an ETH ETF as well. I mean, it makes sense at the end of the day. And then it also begs the question of, are these ETH ETF's going to be staked? Like, is the. Sorry, is the Ethan, these ETF's going to be staked because then that becomes a super attractive product to these institutions because for them they can basically say, hey, come base, come buy through us. Buy these ETF's through us.
00:04:10.144 - 00:04:45.749, Speaker A: And then we'll give you a yield on top of it. And the yield can be like a very, I guess like muted yield to what you would get solo staking or staking through an LST or something like that. But it's still going to be a yield. And when you think about the types of money that is going to be going into these products, it's retirement account money, right? It's long term money. It's boomer money, for lack of a better term. Right? So these are the kind of types of people, and this is the type of money that really does care about yield. And it begs the question, is the yield going to be paid out in ETH? Is it just going to be added to their ETH balance or the ETF balance, or is it going to be paid out in dollars? It could be done in either which way.
00:04:45.749 - 00:05:20.670, Speaker A: And I'm sure that the companies managing these ETF's can play whatever games they want within order to maximize their profitability from it, but it is a huge thing for them for sure. So yeah, just great to see that these spot ETH ETF's have been filed, no idea on timeline here, as I said. But yeah, we'll have to see how it plays out. But you can check out this tweet from James. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, I've got a few things here today all about Mev that I want to talk about again. So starting off is this tweet thread from SMG, uh, with titled Footprints in the Dark Forest.
00:05:20.670 - 00:05:59.366, Speaker A: SMG researchers mapped the hidden relationships between builders searches and on chain order flow by analyzing top of block winners and the block builders who got them there. And then you can actually see this thread here about what they're, what they're talking about. Now, I'm not going to summarize the thread. It goes into a lot of detail, so I definitely recommend checking it out. But also, I listened to the podcast with, with Hazu and John of oncoming on Uncommon Core today, where they talked about MeV Boost and PBS and EPBs and PEPC and all those things in great detail. So I highly recommend checking out that podcast as well. You can just search uncommon core and you'll be able to find that podcast there.
00:05:59.366 - 00:07:10.882, Speaker A: But this is really kind of, I think, as I've been saying, the, the main thing over the next couple years, one of the main things over the next couple of years, it's going to be focused on, especially in the wake of obviously the sanctions, the relay ecosystem and how that's working out and I'm going to go over that in a sec, but it really is definitely a pressing issue here. And I think, as I think I've said it before on the refill, but Mev, left unchecked, is like the blockchain killer. I mean, I don't think it's anywhere at that point for Ethereum right now. And Ethereum has a lot of mitigations in place and is building more mitigations for it. But the problem is, is that MEV basically takes the concept of like an economic incentives and bring economic incentive and brings it to the forefront and basically forces all of the players to, to essentially adhere to those economic incentives, even at the expense of the network. Now, a, obviously, a pure example of this is people running MeV Boost and connecting to censoring relayers, right? And basically, essentially outsourcing their block production to MeV Boost, which then has relayers which are censoring specific transactions. So that is the obviously negative consequence of, of MeV.
00:07:10.882 - 00:08:10.282, Speaker A: And what I mean by blockchain killer isn't just in the, in the concept of security or disabling consensus, but also in the concept of killing. Credible neutrality. Now, I don't think Ethereum's credible neutrality has been killed or anything like that, but obviously in, in some of the eyes of the, of the wider ecosystem, they look at this and they're just like, wow, okay, there is this, uh, you know, large contingent of block builders, uh, through these relays, uh, that are, that are being censored, or large contingent of blocks, I should say, that, that are being censored here. And obviously, the Ethereum ecosystem has responded to this in kind and basically said, well, we're going to essentially build around this. We're going to build better systems in order to increase the censorship resistance of Ethereum. And I've said it before, but I think that without the OFAC sanctions, a lot of this work would have probably been pushed out more, especially around censorship, because there's different parts of MEv, right, and mitigating Mev and doing things like PBS, there's different reasons for doing it. But when it comes to censorship, it was something that people would tout in crypto and say, okay, well, blockchains are censorship resistant, blah, blah.
00:08:10.282 - 00:08:31.762, Speaker A: But we never really tested it before. Right. There had never been really a grand test of a blockchain censorship resistance until the OFAC sanctions happened. Because now we've seen what can happen specifically on Ethereum, obviously on other networks, it's different. Like if it happened on bitcoin, it'd be different because bitcoin doesn't really have meV. But there's still been instances where mining pools were censoring certain, certain addresses. Right.
00:08:31.762 - 00:09:26.868, Speaker A: So it exists everywhere. So, so in the wake of the OFAC sanctions, which happened over a year ago now, by the way, but in the wake of that, the researchers obviously have said, well, we need to, we need to work on this. We need to work not only on mitigating MeV or making it so that we can get rid of as much toxic MEV as possible, but also putting in place things like censorship resistant lists or inclusion lists and stuff like that that make it really either costly to censor, but also just undesirable to censor and give plausible deniability as well. That's a lot of the stuff around privacy is basically giving plausible deniability to block builders and validators to basically say, hey, we don't know what's in these blocks, or at least to validators. Obviously with block builds it's a bit different, but with validators or relayers, they can basically say, hey, we don't know what's in these blocks, so we can't censor anything. That is the holy grail, I think. But yeah, it depends how that plays out, especially on, on L2.
00:09:26.868 - 00:10:07.716, Speaker A: Obviously it's different on layer one, on L2, but still interesting to think about nonetheless. Now, as a kind of segue into the rest of the MEV discussion that I wanted to talk about this site. For those of you who don't know, I've shown it on the refill before, but this is a great site for keeping up with what's happening on the relayer and builder sites. You can go to relayscan IO, I'll link it in the YouTube description below and you can kind of see an overview sorted by seven days, one day, twelve hour or 1 hour. So I've just selected seven days here. You can actually see each of the relays here and the percentage of, of payloads or I guess blocks they have kind of relayed here. So ultrasound money is firmly in the first place with 22.3%
00:10:07.716 - 00:10:36.724, Speaker A: blocks out, max profit at almost 20%, flush bots at about 17.5%, and then the rest is kind of counted here. And from this you can actually get the censorship versus non censorship percentage by just adding these up. Right. You can add ultrasound money to blocks your out max profit. You, you quickly get up to 30, sorry, 42% here, then add agnostic, which is also a non censoring relayer. You go up to 56% add a eustace.
00:10:36.724 - 00:11:11.674, Speaker A: That gets you to almost 60% with, with these other relays here. So essentially 60% of blocks over the last seven days were relayed through non censoring relayers, which means that they weren't censoring those tornado cash transactions there. Now, on the right hand side of things, you have the builders. So these are the, I guess, entities that put together blocks and then pass them on to the relay. As you can see that there is basically a few dominant ones. So Titan Builder, Rsync Builder, Beaver Build and illuminate, democratize, distribute and build a zero x 69 are the top five. Five builders here.
00:11:11.674 - 00:11:56.956, Speaker A: And they have pretty much the whole market, I guess, cornered. And this goes back to what I think Vitalik has spoken about and a lot of other researchers have spoken about, about this concept of PBS, obviously, proposal builder separation. But this concept of, well, block building is probably going to be quite concentrated and quite centralized. As you can see here, it already is where essentially five builders, five entities building most of the blocks on Ethereum today. And the, the, and the concept behind PBS and inclusion lists and censorship resistant lists and things like that is to, is to basically live in that reality where block building is very concentrated, very, very centralized. But that's okay because the block builders are not the ones that are proposing the blocks. That's the validators.
00:11:56.956 - 00:12:36.736, Speaker A: And they're not the ones that are attesting to blocks as well, which is what we care about when it comes to decentralization and security of the network. But obviously, when it comes to censorship resistance, we care about. We care about that in the context of block building here. And when you look at the kind of block building market, yeah, I mean, it's quite concentrated and centralized today. So if we live in that reality, how can we work around that and make it so that it can be as sensory, as resistant as possible? And that's the whole idea behind PBS, right? That's the whole idea behind PBS and PEPC and all those things that fall off of that. So you can go check out this site for yourself. Now, I've also talked about rater.net
00:12:36.736 - 00:13:27.586, Speaker A: work a lot on the refuel, but for those of you who don't know, a really cool thing about raider.net work is that they actually show you each of the staking entities and what their block space distribution looks like. You can actually see here each of the staking entities such as Lido and the centralized exchanges and rocket pool, what their block space distribution looks like over the last 30 days. Let's say, and you can hover over it and see that over the last 30 days, for example, all rocketpool node operators proposed blocks from 37% were proposed, were relayed by blocks route, 20% was ultrasound money, 16.9% was flashbots, and so on and so forth. So if you want to see what each kind of big staking entity is doing here in terms of block space distribution, aka where they're getting their blocks from, which relays they're getting it from, you should definitely go check this out as well. Well, all right, that's enough on all of that.
00:13:27.586 - 00:14:31.576, Speaker A: Going to move on to the next biggest piece of, I guess, like news from the last 24 hours, which is tangentially related to what I was just talking about. And this is a new privacy paper that has been published by Vitalik Buterin, Jacob alum who works at chainalysis, Matthias Nadler here, who, I don't know where he works, he's a PhD student. And also Fabian Shah here, who is a professor at the University of Baseline, along with Amin Soleimani. And. And this privacy paper is basically covering the, the app, or I guess like the, the, I mean, yeah, that's probably the right term here. The app that Amine came up with called privacy pools, which is something that I've covered on the refill before, which is basically this concept of making tornado cash, or at least forking the tornado cash and making it regulatoryly compliant. Now, the way that they do this is that essentially they split the pools into kind of like isolated pools, where essentially you can prove to a regulator and say to them, hey, I've got, here's my whole trail of transactions, while still preserving your privacy.
00:14:31.576 - 00:15:03.870, Speaker A: And you can prove to them that your funds didn't actually commingle with the, quote unquote bad actor funds. Right. Now, this idea is, I think, really cool in theory. I think in practice. It's going to be fun to see how this plays out, because there's a few different concerns with this. Right. Some people brought up the concern that this is basically normalizing, normalizing this kind of censorship that's, that's been happening around tornado cash and also normalizing financial surveillance on blockchains and stuff like that.
00:15:03.870 - 00:15:53.870, Speaker A: And I get that view. But when it comes to building practical privacy tools, you got to take this view as well. What happens if you, we build privacy tools without the, I guess, like tools that privacy pools wants to implement here, and we build them all like similar to tornado cash, or we build them in a way where you can't actually show the authorities, the kind of trail of funds here in order to prove to them that you weren't part of funds that were commingled with bad actors. If you can't do that, and if we just build all the privacy tools where you can't do that, what do you think is going to happen to all those privacy tools? When they get big enough, they're going to get sanctioned. So you and I know I've said before that obviously sanctioning it doesn't kill it because tornado cash still runs on the network. There's still funds that move through it, but it does have a pretty big chilling effect on it. Right.
00:15:53.870 - 00:16:27.254, Speaker A: It does reduce the usability of the app. It basically locks out a whole country from using it. I mean, any us citizen or even us person, it's illegal for them to use it. And if they do use it, it being tornado cash, they stand to face a prison sentence of up to 30 years. Right. So there's a practicality trade off here where it's like, yes, we would love to live in a world where we didn't have to have this trade off, of having a trail where we could prove to the authorities and to the regulators that we weren't commingling with, with the quote unquote bad actors. Right.
00:16:27.254 - 00:17:27.203, Speaker A: And satisfy their needs. But then the other side of it is that we just build it without these tools and we just get sanctioned and we can never really have privacy. Now, I think that there is a third way this could go as well where you basically have it so that we, and this is maybe a much more less likely way, but you basically have it where the governments around the world, especially in places where you expect there to be freedom, like in the US. Right. Understand that it is not practical to, it is not practical to be able to, I guess, like adhere to every different regulatory agency around the world because, you know, the US, let's just say, for example, example, the US sanctions tornado cash or they did sanction tonight a cash. And then let's say some country or the EU, let's just say the EU sanctions another privacy protocol, but doesn't sanction tornado cash. So, okay, this starts becoming very murky now where you're like, okay, well, no one in the EU can use this privacy protocol, but they can use tornado cash and no one in the US can use tornado cash, but they can use this other one.
00:17:27.203 - 00:18:12.190, Speaker A: And then essentially what you do is you split off the network into these regional pods and it does and no longer becomes a global network. It just becomes fragmented. So I think that we really do need to educate regulators around this and say, hey, you know, validators, if you start at the bottom, validators are supposed to be like the dumb pipes of a blockchain, right? The block builders validators are supposed to be the dumb pipes. They just pass through the data through them like the Internet pipes, and they're not opinionated about it. Right. And then you can go beyond that and you can say, okay, the privacy tools built on top of Ethereum are in a different, different kind of league here because obviously these privacy tools are used by both good actors and bad actors. But that's subjective, right? A good actor in one country is a bad actor in another country.
00:18:12.190 - 00:19:08.102, Speaker A: For example, if you are donating to the Ukraine war effort and you're a us citizen, you're considered a good actor. But if you were doing that as a russian citizen, you would be considered a bad actor. So what ends up happening is you start being opinionated about these things and you start bringing subjectivity into it, which doesn't scale. So I think that educating the regulators and the authorities about this is the only way that we would be able to get them to even start to consider what that looks like and start to consider, okay, well, if we just start kind of putting, trying to put all these guardrails in place, it's not going to practically, practically work, and it actually ends up putting them in a worse situation than they otherwise would have been in. But yeah, as I said, that is like probably the least likely thing to happen because as we know, educating these, these people in power is really, really difficult to do and it's really difficult to educate the wider populace about this as well. And it's a war that's going to be fought for, for many years to come. But anyway, back to the paper itself.
00:19:08.102 - 00:19:30.410, Speaker A: You can check it out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. I thought it was quite interesting. I really do think it's an interesting way to do privacy while still kind of like walking that, that tightrope of needing to comply with certain regulations in different nation states. But yeah, you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so just a shout out here for the Aussies among us.
00:19:30.410 - 00:20:08.014, Speaker A: So block Earner, a company that I'm an investor in, just as a disclosure here, are now offering crypto backed loans. So you can essentially go to block earner with your ETH or BTC. Well, okay, you can sign up to the waitlist to do this. So if you're accepted as part of, as part of the waitlist. You can go here, use your Ethan BTC, and basically take an aud loan against it at competitive rates. You can see here what the rates look like, and these rates are australian rates. So these interest rates may seem weird to anyone that's not australian, but this is basically what the going rates are right now in Australia.
00:20:08.014 - 00:20:25.258, Speaker A: But the reason why I bring this up is because I know there's a fair few Aussies that listen to the. To the show. And obviously, being australian myself, I thought this was very interesting. But this is cool. I mean, you know, when you're using money markets in Defi as an Australian, it's quite frustrating because we can only borrow USD stable coins. There's no AUD stable coin. Right.
00:20:25.258 - 00:20:51.690, Speaker A: So for me personally, I've avoided really using these, using these kind of like money markets for the most part because of that. And it's just a headache from a tax perspective as well. But being able to use something like block earner, which is not Defi, by the way, guys, it's a centralized platform. Just thought I put it out there, but being able to use them and take an aud loan is pretty cool. Now, I'm not saying that you should do it. Do it where you take like a mortgage through it. I don't think that'd be very wise to do.
00:20:51.690 - 00:21:28.344, Speaker A: And they probably won't even let you do that sort of size there. But I think it's really cool for things like maybe you want to buy a car or something, or you want to buy a new bike or something, and you don't want to cash out anything because it's the end, it's the crab market, and cashing out now doesn't really make much sense for you. Well, then you can go kind of get a loan through this. So, as I said, disclosed, I am an investor in this company. But the reason I bring this up is because it is something unique for the Australians among us, and I was pretty excited to see it. All right, so socket has announced a fundraise. So they've raised $5 million in a strategic investment round from Coinbase Ventures and framework ventures.
00:21:28.344 - 00:22:03.136, Speaker A: And they said here, with this investment, we expand a collaboration with Coinbase to bring cross chain primitives to their products, like Coinbase wallet and base. Now, you guys know all about sockets. They're basically a bridging protocol between the different kind of chains and l two s that we all have, that we all know and love, but they're also trying to go beyond that they're trying to become interoperability protocol similar to things like Kinect and chain link, CCIP, of course. And they're just like another player in that game there. But I mentioned socket scan. Yes. On yesterday's refuel are basically the ability to search through basically an ether scan for bridges.
00:22:03.136 - 00:22:38.200, Speaker A: So they've got that product there, but they've also got their, their kind of like bridging products as well that you can use as like an aggregator for different bridges and stuff like that. But yeah, great to see them raising. I mean, I think, you know, right now is probably the worst time for teams to be raising. So if you are able to raise, it really speaks volumes about the product that you're building, I think, and especially if it's like not a RA first time race, I think socket has raised at least once before. So it's a kind of a follow on race here and especially from big players like Coinbase Ventures and framework ventures who are very well known players in the ecosystem, especially when like Coinbase. Right. For example, it makes a lot of sense here.
00:22:38.200 - 00:22:59.160, Speaker A: So yeah, just congrats to socket on this investment and you can read more about them. I'll link this in the YouTube description below. Alright, there's a new dashboard from Hill Dobby today. Well, maybe not a totally new dashboard, but a rework dashboard. So this is his gas dashboard. So there's fewer visualizations to focus on what matters. And you can toggle between chains now on this dashboard.
00:22:59.160 - 00:23:26.098, Speaker A: So I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. But I've just got it up on my page right now so you can see really interesting stats like, you know, median gas price over time. Also the top gas guzzlers, gas spenders and such and such. And there's all these different kind of statistics here. ETH burns how much EIP 1559 transaction adoption there is. You know, it's funny, the transaction adoption never got close to 100%. It like basically petered out at 85% to 90%, I think.
00:23:26.098 - 00:23:49.668, Speaker A: Well, not even that. I mean, how high did it go here? I think the highest it was, was about, yeah, 90% or something like that. Currently it seems to be at about 85%. But that's just a cool little, a little fact there. But here you can see here he's kind of updated it for. And this is obviously for, for ethereum layer one, whereas you can kind of. Okay, I have to sign in in order to, in order to basically click this drop down and check the other chains.
00:23:49.668 - 00:24:08.464, Speaker A: But if you are signed into Dune. You can actually click this, drop down and search the other chains. I think he lists up here what chains are supported. Arbitrum, optimism base, BNB, polygon, avalanche, salonosis. So basically all the AVM chains, of course. But yeah, you can go check out this rework dashboard from Hill Dobby. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:24:08.464 - 00:25:04.342, Speaker A: All right, so there was this question from Jason Choi on Twitter, I think today or yesterday, where he asked, if you're still in crypto, what are your non ideological reasons for being in crypto? Now, I gave my answer here, but I'd be curious to know what your answer is to this question. So leave a comment in the YouTube comments or coming to the Daily Gray Discord channel. We can have a discussion about it. But my reply to this, after thinking in my head, my first reply to this was in my head where I jokingly said, money, right? Because most people are in this, are in crypto for monetary reasons, right? So I joked about that in my head. I was just like, no, but that's not, that's not something that I'm in it for, even though, you know, it's funny because I'm in crypto for a lot of ideological reasons. But I thought to myself, you know, what's a non ideological reason? And I answered and I said I missed watching the Internet. Computers develop from its early iterations to becoming globally adopted because I was born in 1992, so I was too young.
00:25:04.342 - 00:25:29.330, Speaker A: I mean, by the time the.com bubble happened, I was, what, not even ten years old yet. So I was just way too young to understand any of this stuff. I didn't have anyone around me that was into computers, so it's not like I was exposed to it. I think my, my only exposure to computers before I turned, like, 13 was just Game Boys and Nintendo, sixty four s and things like that. I started playing World of Warcraft when I was 14. I was playing some pc games before that.
00:25:29.330 - 00:26:10.358, Speaker A: And then from then I started getting into computers. But by that point, I mean, when I was 14, I think it was 2006, right? So we were just going to the smartphone era, which I got to experience, which is pretty fun. But I missed the early Internet and computers. And that informed a lot of, I guess, like why I got into crypto, where I said, here, I didn't want to miss watching another technological revolution play out. And now I'm old enough to follow along with it. Because when I first got into crypto in 2013, I was ten years ago I was 21, so I was definitely old enough to start experiencing it. And then when I got back into it in 2017 with Ethereum, I was, if I'm doing the math correctly in my head right now, 2017 I was, I was 25.
00:26:10.358 - 00:27:00.438, Speaker A: So I was definitely in a position to, to, to kind of like take that opportunity and run with it. One, because I was working and bringing in paychecks, I was able to bring in a decent paycheck where I was able to invest in crypto. I had a lot of time to invest into crypto as well because what I was doing in my free time was basically just hanging around with friends and playing video games. So I replaced that with Ethereum. And then from there, it kind of just snowballed. And I've just been glued to the Ethereum ecosystem since then and been just so excited to be able to watch it all play out. Because in a couple of decades time when Ethereum, you know, is ruling the world and ethereum is the backbone of the new financial system, I'll be able to tell my kids and be like, hey, I experienced that from not day one, but like the very early days, and I'll be able to tell them, quote unquote, war stories about Ethereum and talk about everything that happened and say, yes, I was there for the merge.
00:27:00.438 - 00:27:31.242, Speaker A: Like, that's the kind of stuff that kind of excites me because I would have loved to be able to do that around the Internet and computers, but I was too young. It was simply just being born at the wrong time, I guess. But I think I've, I feel like I was born at the exact right time to experience crypto and experience Ethereum to its fullest there. But yeah, let me know your non ideological reason for still sticking around and still being in crypto right now. You can comment that on the YouTube comments or in the Discord channel, but I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:27:31.242 - 00:27:36.634, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
