00:00:01.920 - 00:00:32.750, Speaker A: A lot of people are talking about infras are boring and all of that. But I don't think infras are boring. But I think there's some problems. And encryption is one of the things that can enable some new applications or make some applications that are already existent a little bit better and also a lot of fun applications. It's not just deFi. I think there is two fundamental issues with encryption space in general. The first issue is like, it's like heavily misunderstood.
00:00:32.750 - 00:01:21.432, Speaker A: There's a lot of misconceptions like arguments about even from the most technical people in the space. And there's also the issue of inaccessibility in general that makes it really hard to build or like use encryption. And I'm going to start with a couple of misconceptions and talking about the inaccessibility issue and how we are taking some steps. So that. So first of all, the first misconception that I see is that like most people think that like whenever you mention encryption or privacy or anything similar, they just like completely think about like tornado cache or like ZK or like Namada. Like this kind of projects, which is specifically a very like. So first of all it's just ZK and also it's just anonymous transfers, right? So I think there's multiple layers of privacy.
00:01:21.432 - 00:01:51.810, Speaker A: So we have ip level privacy projects like Nim or Tor VPN's are protecting you. Maybe it makes sense if you want to connect to metamask from the US, you should use Nim. That's another issue. So there is addresses, there is a lot of projects like privacy pools like Vitalik, army and Soleimani are working on that. There's tornado cache, there is better versions of that. All of the cosmos projects in general. And there is like encryption in the contents of a transaction.
00:01:51.810 - 00:03:16.502, Speaker A: Or some people call it like confidentiality, but it's not a term that also is not clear anymore. And there is all kind of projects including tes, including NPC's, including threshold FG which is like MPC for me. And all of them are protecting the contents of transaction. It doesn't have like by default anything to do with the addresses or like IPS, it's like HTTPs, right? And the other thing is not the only application that we are talking about is not just hiding transfers or like private transfers or like Defi, right? There's all kind of applications all the way from like the most nerdy sniping like Ethereum foundation applications like preconceived auctions and like make the bids and like encrypt a lane of transactions and to like very DJ style applications like on chain gaming or like silver auctions for like nfts or like even mystery box on chain and more like research and stuff like leaderless auctions, like paradigm, we're talking about that solving the last problem in auctions or incentive aligned auctions, second price actions, it has in general encrypted limit orders that you can encrypt your order. And while your order is waiting the mempool, you are not leaking your strategy. So it's like a glorified definition of MEV in general. And the second thing is just like my mental space about encryption and privacy and applications.
00:03:16.502 - 00:04:05.994, Speaker A: So encryption and privacy are not the same thing. It's just like there are some overlaps. And encryption is not just like Defi or like privacy. Defi and like, yeah, there's like some overlaps as you can see. And like this is what we are doing, the encryption one. So we are doing some stuff with DeFi, other applications, some of the applications have something to do with privacy, but like very corner cases of our applications, not all of them. And the other thing is like for some reasons, like people are incentivized because of VC's or like companies or to sell the idea that if you are doing tes or ZK or like fhe or like MPC, we are solving all of the problems all at once, right? I.
00:04:05.994 - 00:04:23.406, Speaker A: You're solving everything. It's the fastest, it's the greatest. It's going to be like, I don't know, zero, zero, five millisecond of delay and everything. But that's not the proof in cryptography. Historically, there is no one size crystallized solution. There is no general purpose cryptography solution. There's always tailored solutions.
00:04:23.406 - 00:05:00.948, Speaker A: You can't beat that theoretically. And all of these tools, including ZK, TE, NPC's are fundamentally in the first place, they are solving completely different problems. Sometimes they can solve the same problem. But it's like some of the applications, the general one is an overkill. It's like opening a door with an axe when you can easily open the door the way that I think is a toolbox. You have different kind of tools. Sometimes you can use two tools for the same problem, but there's always the better tool, the optimized tool for solving problem.
00:05:00.948 - 00:05:36.330, Speaker A: Sometimes you can combine ZK or Te together, or MPC and ZK two together to open a better, harder problem. And also when we talk about encryption, it's not ZK. In fact, ZK is not even encryption. Scientifically, ZK is not encryption. When you talk about ZK voting mechanisms, it's anonymity of your vote. There is no ceiling of your vote. So it's like still funny, it's still other people can, I don't know, incentivize you or you can tell them that I've actually voted for your party, please airdrop me.
00:05:36.330 - 00:06:03.016, Speaker A: And the other thing is like, that is really annoying is like a definition of MPC. So in general, MPC is like the worst name that you can talk about because we have two PCs. Like garbled circuits, we have like three PCs. Like world Coin, we have like five PCs. We have like hundred pieces. And like, you shouldn't put them in the same basket. Talk about them with same narratives.
00:06:03.016 - 00:06:26.306, Speaker A: Right. And in crypto specifically, it's even worse because we have like teams like fireblocks and other people who talk about NPC's in the sense that it's just signatures. And I'm sure if you go there like, and talk about NPC's, everyone think it's just spiritual signatures. And also including multisigs, which is nothing. And it's like the way that I see is like signatures. It's just a glorified MPC. Right.
00:06:26.306 - 00:06:53.984, Speaker A: By the way, kind of niche market. It's not like some cryptographers don't even call it MPC. But anyways, you have this kind of cute little bird for me that these are actual NPC's that you can. By NPC I mean that it's multiple parties. They have their own private inputs. You can compute over encrypted data. They can decrypt together, right? So we have identity based encryption, fhe and all of like speed Z and like 20 more algorithms that are.
00:06:53.984 - 00:07:19.306, Speaker A: Everything has their own trade offs, right? And these are the lists of the good ones that I know personally, like TFHe, BGB, BFE, CKks are fhe algorithms. All of them are NPC's. They are the same thing. Right? And we have threshold IB with encryption. Some people call it encryption, some people call it like conditional decryption. And they're the same thing. Yeah.
00:07:19.306 - 00:08:12.520, Speaker A: So the way that I think about all of these NPC's in general, or like even just about NPC's, is that like there's a space to trade off, a space between usability in terms of what you're actually going to solve, the application and the security of the system in terms of like how big is your set, the threshold of that, and like, what are the honest majority assumptions and how you are solving that. It's not fundamentally a problem that you can't solve, but there's a price for that, and there's the performance. The performance means the delay, the computation over them, and the bandwidth overhead and all of that. So as an example, when we do IB, our bandwidth overhead is 99% less than fhe because we don't decrypt it in the whole batch together. Right. But fhe is like a general sense like thing that we can potentially use AI inference on that too. Right.
00:08:12.520 - 00:08:58.252, Speaker A: The interesting thing that I've learned, like recently, is that there is like some general MPC algorithms, but historically none of them really work because, like, you can't. You can't beat like Tss with General Mpc. Like theoretically in the academic paper it can work, but it doesn't really beat that because it's a tailored solution. And I think also about the security one, there is some applications like gaming or voting. You don't really need to have $200 billion of real estate security for gaming or voting. You should pay the correct amount for the security. Some of the customers chains, you can even lose the security of the whole chain, maybe $1 million.
00:08:58.252 - 00:09:45.030, Speaker A: You can buy three of their validators, and they have seven validators. So for that chain, you don't really need to just spend like $100 billion of security and honest majority assumption for a simple game. So that's what I'm talking about in the tradeoffs. And this is just to make it even more confusing. There is space encryption, polyomorphic encryption, and ZK. My interesting thing, personal take about that and the trade offs is that with ZK, you can do a lot of stuff as long as the data or the computation, it's in your hand, right? You can prove the computation as long as it's your own, right? You can prove something about your identity technically, as long as you have the card. But you can't do anything in the multiplayer setup.
00:09:45.030 - 00:10:19.676, Speaker A: So if you want to have a multiplayer game, a multiplayer like Defi dark pool or defi protocol, an auction, a voting mechanism, that actually makes sense. You can't just simply use DK, you can combine it. But the actual thing that you need is NPC's like fat or identity based encryption. And that's one of the things that a lot of people are confused about. And the other thing is that in general, when you talk about privacy, it's cool to talk about. It's like the new technology. Remember my grandmother? She was really afraid of microwaves or some old people.
00:10:19.676 - 00:10:54.966, Speaker A: They're really afraid of cars. They think that they're run by evil or something, at least in my country. And right now there's a lot of people who are afraid of AI and how it's going to hit them to the wall with autonomous driving. So we've historically learned that that's not the truth, but it's more interesting to talk about apocalypse situations or bad applications or nuclear wars and that kind of stuff. So that's like part of the reason. But also we've really seen like the worst examples possible in the cryptocurrency. We have seen like Tornado cash and how they are.
00:10:54.966 - 00:11:34.910, Speaker A: And like we generalize it to everything. And as long as everyone is like, yeah, I get it, it's not everything, but like their minds are really biased about the encryption thing. And it's like really annoying because whenever you talk with someone, they're not just putting everything inside the same basket and it's complete. It's like talking about crypto and bitcoin and just saying that it's just Silk road and you get that it's really not the case. And in general, the interesting thing is that the problems that we've seen is just ZK and the very specific application like tornado cache. And even in that protocol, there's privacy rules that Vitalik is working on. And it's not the big problem anymore.
00:11:34.910 - 00:12:04.292, Speaker A: I don't know, but that's a very specific niche application. And before, like, even after that we have. So that's just defi and zk. And even in DeFi applications we can't have completely compliance solutions because in some solutions we have pre execution privacy. After the fact we have like completely transparency. There's no problems. And we can have also dids and match them with confidential smart contracts, regulatory smart contracts that enforce the real world.
00:12:04.292 - 00:12:43.180, Speaker A: I don't know, problems like ten K rules or the OFAC sanction and everything, whatever you want inside the smart contract. So you can just reinvent that unchained without actually decrypting transactions. And in other applications like gaming and voting, nobody really cares about the regulator. The us government is not coming after you if you are building a game with an NPC. And the other observation is that in the real world, the us government, all of the governments, all of the companies, everyone is using encryption. It's not like a bad thing, right? So just to make it clear. And actually you can get into trouble by not having encryption.
00:12:43.180 - 00:13:22.384, Speaker A: If you are running a centralized sequencer and you are handling, I don't know, european data inside the US, I think a lot of people are doing that. Eventually you may find yourself data manipulation risks on charges or like, a lot of other stuff that sometimes happen. And we can have Nikola from protocol labs talks about this a lot. Yeah, that's my grandmother and I was talking about her. The other thing is a lot of people automatically think that when you have encryption, it means bad UX or something. So we've seen it in web two. We don't have problem with like, ux.
00:13:22.384 - 00:14:09.572, Speaker A: When you have HTTPs, it's been in our browser, we don't really see a problem. And it's the same thing with things like fhe or like IB because it's still public cryptography, it's a little bit more advanced, but the delay on the user side is just five milliseconds. So you barely seen that. And to prove that, we've built, like, demos that you can try and see that it's like true, right? So the only thing that people see so far is the ZK ones that you need to send it to RisC zero or have a Giga machine, or you should be a giga brain to use that. So it's not true about everything in cryptography, right? Or even if you are interacting with the TE, it's just like really easy. It's not something that breaks the UX. And in fact, in some applications, having encryption improves the UX.
00:14:09.572 - 00:15:19.570, Speaker A: So for example, on stargaze, like, there's a MEV problem for like NFT auctions, right? People manipulate that, right? So if you have silvered auctions, you can solve that problem actually, like in voting mechanisms on cosmos hub, which is probably like the most active, like, governance proposals, a lot of people are manipulating the whole voting mechanism. They, like, wait for the very, very last second to just like, I don't know, change the results. Airdrop the people who are voting yes and all of that. And with encryption, we can have, like something that makes a little bit more sense, right? And you can build applications with excitements and like, I don't know, something that just reveals that all of the community are excited about, which is like other Ux. And also, like, when psychologically, when you are interacting with the DeFi application and you see that it's encrypted and there's not a lot of shady block builders or something happening in the background, you feel like more trusting the application more and it's more explainable. So I feel like I talk about it like us versus Europe. Like, when you are here, you are paying for your food, the taxes are included there is no hidden fees, there is no garbage fees.
00:15:19.570 - 00:16:21.666, Speaker A: But in the US we are tipping, I don't know, the barber, the uber, there is ticket master fees. So Ethereum is somehow like that today. There's a lot of stuff happening in the background, and it doesn't feel good, even for technical people. And I can't imagine that normal users are really trusting all of those fees that happen in their analog encryption. So some of those problems and, okay, so about the inaccessibility, for the very same reason that we don't see a lot of people in these rooms, in the workshops, we have the same problem with encryption, because here the talks are in the L2s in the second floor, and it's like in the backstage, so not a lot of people actually find the room. Right? So we have the same problem with encryption, because there is very interesting projects like Penumbra or Namada, but in the mind of the user, the whole space is here and penumbra is there, and you should migrate from your actual chain. There is no builders, there is no applications to use that.
00:16:21.666 - 00:17:13.024, Speaker A: Both the technical, financial and psychological cost of migration is really high. So the way that it works is just bringing it to the users where they are. Like the funny joke that I'm making is that a lot of projects are saying that if you come to my room, we can do a lot of fun stuff, we can protect you. But what we actually trying to solve is that we should go to the streets where there's actual people and shops and protect them in the streets, not asking them to come to my own room and make money. So my vision in general for web3 is that in web two, there is like 95% of the messages and everything in Internet or messaging apps, everything are encrypted. Most of the people don't even know that. Even my grandmother is using atoms cryptography in the browser, but she doesn't know that because it's seamless, it's already integrated.
00:17:13.024 - 00:18:12.220, Speaker A: So that's what we need. And there's a lot of more reasons that we needed more into Web three, because of the financial applications, the decentralization, and a lot of the risks that are associated with. And in general, what I want to see about encryption space being having it everywhere in the actual major chains like major l two s and major l one s, and making it simple and fully compliant and programmable, programmable in the sense of selective disclosure and computation of encrypted, not programmability of ZK. The thing that we are talking about is modular encryption in the sense that we have like Celestia, it's solving a very niche problem of DA. We have XLR and wormhole. They are solving like crosschain transfers with threshold signatures. Both of them are cosmos chains, but like an ecosystem, right? They are providing a service to other major projects and abstracting away some stuff that are negatively either expensive or impossible.
00:18:12.220 - 00:18:50.230, Speaker A: So for encryption and MPC, I think that's the thing that makes the most sense. It's not enshrining it in Ethereum, mainnet or somewhere. We need something like, I don't know, some people call it coprocessors, some people call it like modular chains or whatever. We need something that basically takes care of the computations on NPC's things that are expensive or there's high bandwidth overhead or needs to be faster than usual. So in Fairblock we take care of the computations in our own chain. We have a fairy wing chain, which is customers chain. We don't have applications on top of that and we take care of the computations.
00:18:50.230 - 00:19:28.188, Speaker A: And then like l two s, like on Arbitrum, Lorkit, or like other customers chains or ops tag, they can connect to us and they can natively receive and process encrypted transactions, but we generate the keys or like other cryptography hard things. And this is like a couple of the applications to just make it more real for you. So we integrated with Carswap for encrypting your orders. And then they can be decrypted and executed. Once some conditions like prices or unchained conditions like rebalancing or time is happening, we can decrypt and execute them. So basically hiding your strategies while they're waiting for execution. Unchained.
00:19:28.188 - 00:20:18.850, Speaker A: The second application is like our work with the slots community, which is basically a murder mystery game. Everything is unchained so you can read the story and then there's some time to decide and then you can find your suspect and when you choose the actual murderer it will encrypt it and nobody can see your hand, nobody can see who is your suspection, right? And once it's decrypted it will tell you that I don't know what happened, right? And there is like this is like an example of how you can use encryption for like a fun application, some kind of solanazi applications, right? And then there is the like serious application of private voting is already working for like Cosmos hub. So either people can see your hand like real world and this is the randomness generation that we use based on fair blocks like key generation that we have. Yeah, that's all. Thank you so much.
