00:00:10.890 - 00:00:41.862, Speaker A: Good morning, guys. So I'm Getty Hill. I am the co founder of GFX Labs and interest protocol. Prior to starting GFX about a year ago, I spent most of my time at a trading firm called Grapefruit Trading with my co founder. So a whole background like finance and trading, and particularly defi protocols, we built and ran like, delta neutral strategies for those guys for a long time before we decided to go off on our own. Before we get into the topic of barlend protocols, some of you may be familiar with us. GFX Labs does a lot of protocol governance work all over the place.
00:00:41.862 - 00:01:18.238, Speaker A: Optimism, uniswap, makerdao hop protocol more recently, and we used to do a ton of stuff over at compound, but to the bread and butter of today's presentation, I kind of want to go through the progress of barlend protocols. Over the last, like four or five years, a lot of stuff has happened. The industry has changed pretty massively. For those who aren't familiar with borrowing protocols, the general idea here is pretty simple. Someone wants to borrow assets, you have to post collateral. Otherwise you can just be a lender to the protocol and post whatever asset you're interested in lending. Every single bar lend protocol has like, four key components that you just have to have in some fashion.
00:01:18.238 - 00:02:19.560, Speaker A: Whether it's an oracle system to actually get your prices, a liquidation system to actually manage risk of the platform interest rate system in the protocol, to gauge how much folks can actually borrow from the protocol, or some type of mechanism to actually distribute that interest. At the end of the day, Makerdao's PSI, which is like, practically a relic at this point, came out long time ago, back in late 2017, and it was a pretty simple idea. We had bitcoin, we had eTh. At this point, these things were really volatile. People were trying to get around the idea of, like, these things could be a money, but when it was fluctuating by like 15, 20% in a given day, it's pretty hard to say that thing is a money, right? So the folks are like, how do we get a derivative asset that is stable, that shares as many properties as possible with these parent assets of the protocol? So Makerdao Psi, you could post eth up in the protocol, borrow a die against it. The protocol would lend to you, and the protocol would be actually the one, the governance there, choosing the interest rates to actually lend to you. Kind of like a fed like model where a group of folks get on a call and they're like, this is what the rate's going to be.
00:02:19.560 - 00:02:59.394, Speaker A: Back then they really only had like two mechanisms to maintain stability in the protocol. So dive slid around a lot. The stability fee, which was essentially just like the interest rate in the protocol. And then they had this emergency shutdown, which to some degree is as scary as it sounds. Enough people said we wanted to shut the thing down, they could just pull the fire alarm, and all of a sudden all this pSi in existence would just go to $1 worth of eth. But it was like the thing that you could sleep soundly at night, that at least if they fluctuated 10% die, it would get back to a dollar compound, which is like my favorite. The thing I got into d five for the thing that made so much sense to me, was compound.
00:02:59.394 - 00:03:43.054, Speaker A: So the v one of the protocol was like the first money market protocol on Ethereum. The idea here, instead of being maker dower as like the lender, the direct lender to individuals, compound was like a middleman. It said, we're going to develop this open source software that's totally open and permissionless that anyone can utilize to do their borrowing activity. Introduced the idea of liquidity pools. So you'd participate with other folks in these pools, not necessarily know who those folks are, but for the most part, you know that everyone's under the same terms, everyone's getting the same interest rates, everyone's playing the same game. There's no type of special quid pro quo that's happening with anyone. The fact that you can instantly borrow lend with these pools for one block, 1000 blocks, is just really fascinating.
00:03:43.054 - 00:04:11.254, Speaker A: Nothing like this had existed, and it's something that hardly exists in traditional finance either. So it just makes a lot of sense. It's like one of those things that is enabled by the power of Ethereum on the blockchain. Fast forward some time, you get to compound v two, which was really like a general rework of the system. You learn a lot after you develop something for the first time. We introduced c tokens to the system that actually had like an exchange rate. So in order to accrue interest to individuals, they would adjust this exchange rate on the protocol.
00:04:11.254 - 00:05:03.650, Speaker A: A multi contract system, they could control assets with much more specificity, whether it be the collateral factor or other facets in here, the introduction of borrow caps into the protocol, which was really fantastic security measure. And then eventually the introduction of the comp token, which was particularly exciting if for any of you who are around in 2020 or heard about DFI summer comp. And the comp token was really the catalyst for everything that occurred because it was the first introduction of huge yield farming, before yield farming was really even a term at that point. And they introduced really what was the governance contracts that are now used throughout crypto and power, all the major governance protocols, exception of Makerdao. I would say fast forward some time, you come back to Makerdao's multilateral dai. The goal from Makerdao was always to have a multilateral system. So single collateral dai.
00:05:03.650 - 00:05:25.822, Speaker A: It was neat. It was a stepping stone. They had to produce an absurd amount of infrastructure that existed nowhere. A lot of the tooling in crypto and especially ethereum was developed because of makerdao, because they were just so early being the first on every single problem. It was an immense amount of work for these folks. So once multiclateral Dai came out, it was great. They could support essentially unlimited number of assets.
00:05:25.822 - 00:06:07.150, Speaker A: The whole protocol infrastructure became much more robust and much more malleable over time. And now the protocol has been around since 2019, still the most popular and largest D five protocol by far, and continues to have innovated significantly since 2019. Ave, the one we haven't mentioned too much so far yet. Ave is a bit unique. Ave started off as a whole nother protocol being eth lend a long time ago p to p lending protocol didn't get a ton of traction. Saw a compound in 2020 and was like, that kind of makes sense, maybe we should do something like that too. They introduced a tokens and flash loans, so compound runs on this exchange rate model of c tokens.
00:06:07.150 - 00:06:53.354, Speaker A: A tokens are neat because they are actually equivalent to the underlying token there. So that way if you deposit an ETH into AAVE, you get an a ETH back. It should be about the price of an ETH. Pretty close to flash loans was the real excitement when AavE came out. This is like a pretty new concept at that point, that you could lend money to individuals for a finite amount of time, essentially like an instant to be utilized. And it really started the darwinism of d five protocols in a sense, where folks who didn't otherwise have the capital to exploit protocols all of a sudden could get 100 million dollar loan, return it back a second later, blow up a DFI protocol in the midst there, which was really entertaining, very controversial. But of course, at this point it's been widely accepted, and now every d five protocol really has flash loans.
00:06:53.354 - 00:07:42.878, Speaker A: At this point, for the bar lens stuff, v two came around, introduced stable rates, credit delegation, debt tokenization, a bunch of other neat stuff. I'm certainly simplifying that for the Ave fans in the room, so don't hate me. But really, what? Ave did extremely well with v two. It was like the first protocol to prove that you really need to do business development well, they went and deployed on polygon early on, and then a bunch of other side chains and l two s, and that's what launched them as far as market share over compound and took that lead quite substantially. And also just the general idea of we should be more pro risk and managing a greater number of collateral assets on the protocol. So really interesting from that standpoint of they diverge from tech being the necessity to succeed in just pure business development, or could get you there. The VC, the protocol last announced last spring, pretty interesting.
00:07:42.878 - 00:08:09.000, Speaker A: They introduced portals. It's more around reducing the fragmentation of liquidity across all the ave deployments, which is nice. It makes sense. It hasn't really been used a ton yet. Sometime soon, the high efficiency mode, shoot the high efficiency mode, there's emote on there as well, which is also really helpful. So that's good. And they have the isolation mode, which we'll get into here in a second.
00:08:09.000 - 00:08:39.118, Speaker A: Now, the fixed rate protocols, which I'm guessing, since we're in New York, there's a few of you who are in the tradfi world. I personally didn't really come up the traditional way, so the notion of being excited about fixed rate protocols has never really come to me. I know the notional guys and the yield guys quite well. Very interesting technology. It's something like a zero coupon bond system, where you're just originating debt, selling it at a discount, and then whoever's buying that can then redeem it at maturity for the full value. And that's how you get these fixed rates. Yield protocol is the first one to the scene.
00:08:39.118 - 00:09:19.870, Speaker A: They have a three month and a six month, which is nice. They have a significant number of collateral assets on the protocol, but you can only borrow in Dai, in USDC, which generally fine. That's what most people are doing. Notional has die USDC, ETH and rap bitcoin and a one year tenure. They do a collateral math a little bit differently, but generally like pretty interesting protocols. If you are kind of interested in fixed rates now, the permissionless stuff is particularly neat because we're in an era of defi, especially back when Cashy launched, which is a sushi sub project where it's like folks want to be able to have the uniswap experience for borrow lend. I want to be able to deploy my own pool, say I want to borrow lend any of these two coins whenever I want.
00:09:19.870 - 00:10:11.150, Speaker A: Problem is, makes for very fragmented liquidity. Like, the beauty of an ave compound model is you have these liquidity pools, and everyone can get awesome synergy off of all of them. So then Euler comes in really recently, just August, and develops their v one of the protocol, which in my mind, it kind of shoots the gap here. It's like, okay, we want to have the isolated stuff, so anyone can come to the protocol and develop our own bar lend platform, but at the same time, we want the liquidity pool. So they have three different type of assets, collateral assets, cross assets, and isolated assets cross being just essentially, you can lend it on anything, you can borrow it on anything, but it's not collateral isolated, only borrowable on specific assets and only lendable in certain places, whereas collateral is just good for everything. So it's a good middle ground. And so far, they've got some decent early traction.
00:10:11.150 - 00:10:57.754, Speaker A: Morpho, very new to the scene, but kind of the original dharma model. If there happens to be folks in the room from the 2018 era, I'm calling them concentrated. I don't exactly know if that's the right verbiage, but it's kind of neat because they operate on top of compound and ave or whatever borrowing protocol they want to build on top of. And they say, look, instead of, if you're a borrower lender utilizing their protocol, you can come to theirs instead, and they'll promise you a better rate or just as good rate that you would have got on that platform. And then they'll enter you into queue and try to match you up with someone on the other side. So instead of this big interest rate spread that you see on compound and Aave due to a mismatch, you would get instead a much better rate. Neat platform, still pretty new, so take caution.
00:10:57.754 - 00:11:37.766, Speaker A: If you go use it, for the most part, seems pretty legit. And then we have interest protocol, which is actually our Barlin protocol that we launched and developed this spring and then launched back in June. The name of the game across all these protocols is capital efficiency. At the end of the day, whatever protocol is the most capital efficient protocol, whoever can adapt the most number of markets, the greatest amount of support, that is who's going to win it out in the long run. We've seen that with Makerdao. At this point, everyone's pretty well understood that Makerdao does not have the best technology, but they spent so much time and effort into the rest of their organization that it's panned out for them massively. So when we were developing interest protocol, we knew it had to be capital efficient.
00:11:37.766 - 00:12:05.534, Speaker A: And we introduced this idea of a fractionally reserve but over collateralized system. Really, this doesn't exist in defi at this point. We're kind of like the first ones to do it. That being said, it's a very traditional system. This is like exactly what the banking system runs on. Where they say, look, we have a lot of dollars, we want to allow these dollars multiple times over. We'll take houses and businesses, know, other collateral, whereas we're like, we'll take coins, we'll lend out dollars multiple times over by lending out a synthetic asset, USDI.
00:12:05.534 - 00:12:30.826, Speaker A: And so this is this interest bearing asset that anyone can get by depositing one USDC in the protocol. They get a USDI in return. They can use this just like weth. Anywhere they want to go, they can use it, and they're free to redeem it whenever they want. So you don't actually have to go the maker dow route of saying, hey, Dai is a money, please use our money instead. It's like, yo, this is just USDC, it has interest. That's pretty nice.
00:12:30.826 - 00:12:49.540, Speaker A: Feel free to use it if you want to, feel free if you don't. Borrowers can come to the protocol. They can borrow USDI. If they want to use USDI in their strategies, great. If they just want to redeem it for USDC, that works too. Ultimately, it's just a really effective tool for distributing interest to a large number of people. And for the system to be able to lend out the same dollar essentially multiple times.
00:12:49.540 - 00:13:39.710, Speaker A: Particularly, what was really important for us was a flexible collateral system. So having done a lot of work on compound, it was always frustrating to be stuck in a very small world in which you can actually add as collateral to the protocol. And so we really want to be able to support rebasing tokens beyond transfer tokens, weird LP tokens, like anything that folks wanted to come up with, a system should be able to support. And then not only should it be able to support it, you actually need to have a reasonable infrastructure so that anyone can come to the protocol and propose these things and not rely on the team to do anything. So that was like a really key component for us as well in developing the protocol. In addition to that, we have the liquidation system. We're like the only protocol that promises to not over liquidate users, which is this dirty secret in Defi that almost all these protocols I just talked about were generally over liquidate users.
00:13:39.710 - 00:14:17.822, Speaker A: Because it's easier, like math in the back end for them, whereas we took the time to actually do the math, which is, granted, not even that complicated. That's a pretty nice thing to be able to tell users that you won't get over liquidated in times of high volatility. That being said, liquidations on our platform will happen more often, but they'll generally be much smaller, which in our mind is very good for dealing with this sort of risk in the space. When you don't want to just have to liquidate a $10 million loan, you'd rather liquidate it in increments over time. We have a two step oracle system right now. It's like a primary of chain link, generally speaking, and Unispot B three is a secondary. But this is particularly important regarding the flexible collateral system.
00:14:17.822 - 00:15:15.086, Speaker A: In the protocols, you need to be able to have a system that support generally any asset, and each asset is going to have its own kind of collateral and price venue wherever it's trading most robustly. And you want to make sure you have a system that's really adapted to that, because right now if you look at Aave and compound, they're really stuck with a very specific framework and that limits them significantly to what assets they can support. And then we have last my favorite feature. We support governance tokens as collateral and maintain your voting power. So as like a huge governance nerd, since that's what I used to do a lot of back at compound on other protocols, I hated having to choose between the capital efficiency of my assets and then also the ability to use and vote with these things. And so now you can actually post your uniswap token or whatever collateral is on the protocol as collateral, delegate the votes to your regular voting address, and you maintain your voting power. So overall it ends up being a pretty robust system.
00:15:15.086 - 00:15:41.650, Speaker A: We're still pretty new to the scene, but generally speaking we're, we're like really excited about the technology we have in here and we just have a ton of experience in the industry that we're going to keep working on it and keep working it out through the bear run here and have a nice time building the protocol. Yeah, that is the spiel, folks. If anyone has any questions about Barland protocols, like, happy to answer them afterwards as well. I love talking about this stuff, as you probably can tell, but yeah, thanks for listening.
