00:00:05.130 - 00:00:34.150, Speaker A: So let's get started. I want to bring on our three amazing panelists. Stan Kulchov, legion from Variant and Baliji. Srinivasan from 70 29. As our panelists, I want to welcome all of you here. I'd like to ask if you turn on the videos and we'll talk about our round three of basically decentralized social media. We've this has been a very active conversation we've had with a lot of you here and kind of the goal is to kind of finally see that this is now being put into action.
00:00:34.150 - 00:00:53.630, Speaker A: A lot of it from our learnings from these chats before. And I want to quickly ask everybody to give a quick introduction on themselves, on who you are and what you do. So I'll start with Lee would love to kind of understand who you are for the audience to know. And then we'll go with Balaji and Stani.
00:00:54.370 - 00:01:36.780, Speaker B: Hey everyone, lee here and I am a general partner at Variant Fund. We are a first check crypto fund, investing in the ownership economy, really, of the belief that crypto enables digital ownership, which facilitates new user experiences across the board in a variety of different categories. I've been a consumer investor for many years. I previously spent four years at a 16 Z covering consumer networks, including social networking marketplaces and other kinds of multisited networks. And then I left in 2020 to start my own fund, investing in the future of online work and the creator economy. So it's really nice to be here with everyone today.
00:01:38.590 - 00:01:42.620, Speaker A: Amazing. Balgi would love you to give a brief intro.
00:01:43.470 - 00:01:53.970, Speaker C: Sure, yeah. I'm Balgi Srivivasan, former CTO of Coinbase, former General partner at Anderson Horowitz, investor in a bunch of web3 things tweeter.
00:01:56.870 - 00:01:58.850, Speaker A: And without further ado, stani.
00:02:00.550 - 00:02:51.540, Speaker D: I'm Stani Kolachov. I'm the founder and CEO of Ave. So we're a team that builds and creates web3 protocols. And over the past years, I would say past five and a half years I've been building decentralized finance and now we have built the Lens protocol and kind of like creating more tools for developers to build the future of webtree social. I think myself as kind of like a more of a technologist and curious community member and I'm super excited about the hackathon here, especially hearing that we have over 500 hackers, which is insane. So, yeah, that's my introduction. Pleasure to be here.
00:02:52.070 - 00:03:12.540, Speaker A: We're excited to have all of you here. So I want to start off by just kind of just kind of understanding how each of us interpret that when we say decentral social media, this means different things to all of us and kind of just jumping right in. I want to start with Balaji and kind of get your understanding on when I say decentralized social media, when somebody says this, how do you think about that and what does that mean to.
00:03:14.190 - 00:03:43.410, Speaker C: I mean, the way I think about it is if you think about Bitcoin, bitcoin's backend is open and PayPal does not. You can print out every bitcoin transaction that's ever happened. Everybody in the world can do that with a computer and internet connection, just download the blockchain and do it. But you cannot do that for PayPal. It wasn't set up that way. Only the PayPal engineers have root on their database. And so that's why I think of what blockchains are, is they're the next step after open source.
00:03:43.410 - 00:04:31.986, Speaker C: They're not just open source, you also have open state and open execution. Open state meaning the backend is open and public. Basically every record can be printed, not necessarily every row in a database, because it's not a SQL structured thing, but every record in the blockchain can be printed. And it's also open execution, where if you run a node, you are able to see every opcode. And insofar as people didn't trust a ranking algorithm of some kind, the decentralized social media implementation of that people could run the equivalent of a decentralized Twitter node or Facebook node. They actually interrogate the opcodes and actually see that the ranking algorithm is not shadow banning them or biased in one way or another way or that it is. And so once you have an open backend, once you have open state and open execution, here are some things you could do.
00:04:31.986 - 00:05:03.990, Speaker C: For example, if you had a properly decentralized Twitter, you could print all tweets, you could load them into a database, print all tweets that are a particular string, print the entire social graph, sort every follower by the number of tweets they like. You could do sentiment analysis, you could send end to end encrypted messages to other users using their public private key pairs. And perhaps most importantly, you could integrate this with every aspect of your backend. It basically sits next to your postgres because your slice of an OPENState database is actually yours. You have root on it. It's more like your space on AWS or GitHub than your space on Twitter. It's much less locked down, much less restricted by API.
00:05:03.990 - 00:05:22.962, Speaker C: So that just completely changes how you build, because so much engineering time is spent maintaining Flaky integrations with these social media APIs, which can basically just deplatform you at any time, and protocols are just much more potentially reliable and stable than that. That's what this space means to me. Amazing.
00:05:23.016 - 00:05:37.800, Speaker A: I think you ended up prefacing the rest of the set of questions as well. So we go deep into any of these topics, but what if I would lee, how do you think about this thing and how much of this do you agree or disagree with? Baliji's views or rather disagree nuances on?
00:05:38.590 - 00:07:28.998, Speaker B: Yeah, I would echo everything that Balaji just mentioned. I think it's interesting to consider decentralized social networking in contrast to the current state of social networking, which is extremely centralized. So today the state of the world is one in which there's essentially a very small handful of centralized social networking companies that effectively control all of the means of content production and distribution for all of the users in the world. And that really is predicated or is due to the fact that the data and content and basically all of the identity and relationships and every piece of data created by these users is privately owned by that handful of companies rather than being publicly accessible as an open utility or through that open state as Volji was mentioning. And so the implication of that is that the existing social networking paradigm is actually quite coercive where as a participant in this landscape, if you want to be able to reach people or participate in content creation that reaches anyone, you really have to go through this handful of centralized gatekeepers in order to do that. So I think of decentralized social networking really as the opposite of all of that where if we start with the base layer of open state then you could have many different developers all building different applications and interfaces on top that showcase that information in different ways and compete with each other to offer the best user experience. And there could be a proliferation of different discovery algorithms or different content moderation approaches that really serve up different types of social experiences to users.
00:07:28.998 - 00:07:40.990, Speaker B: So I think that's a really exciting vision of the world and the implication then is that users would have a lot more choice and agency in the systems in which they're.
00:07:44.210 - 00:07:47.730, Speaker A: Absolutely and stani without further ado.
00:07:51.670 - 00:09:48.110, Speaker D: I definitely think there's kind of like what's been echoed is that decentralized social media, it creates a lot of choices. Choices for the users, choices for the developers. And the way we have built web two is we got this enormous efficiency by centralizing a lot of data, making it as efficient as possible and then using that data to basically knowing and understanding what the users want and selling them to. And the kind of like a difficult task here is that you always need to follow this particular model when you build a social media business or application and you don't have many choices there. So what decentralized social media helps, especially from the builder's perspective, is that you actually can, as a builder, when you have this kind of like a social graph, as the public good and you can focus on actually building that particular user experience that you want to achieve or certain use case or maybe certain kind of like, I would say, build an application with certain values. For example, maybe you are more interested in building more humane social media or making it more private or maybe the future of social media for your user base might not be what's your reach of followers in the graph, but maybe the quality of those followers and how much engaged there are. And when you would have to create a new social media application from builders perspective, you need to build this big platform effect and to compete with the users and get those network effects.
00:09:48.110 - 00:10:58.202, Speaker D: And in web3 social. What I kind of realized is that if you make this particular piece as a public good and everyone is pretty much sharing resources with each other, the networking, the data what happens is that you can just switch your focus on whatever you want to build so you have more choices as a builder. But at the same time it's kind of like a waterfall effect going towards also to the end user, meaning that as a user you can start actually voting with your I will not say voting with your feed. I would say voting with your wallet and your lens, maybe profile. Amongst those applications which actually serve you the most, and that might be the user experience you're looking for on the same content distribution platform. Or it might be just an algorithm you prefer more to use even within the same application because you are not stuck anymore on building towards the same mode. For example, you might have users that are more interested in actually discovering new content or maybe just getting more deeper content on particular topics.
00:10:58.202 - 00:12:11.220, Speaker D: And this allows developers to like maybe first time ever to compete with big social media platforms like Twitter, Instagram and Facebook and so forth, because essentially everyone who is building on top of a same graph are actually growth hacking for each other. And that's kind of like a value proposition from my perspective and there's a lot to be said about the ownership. So you are essentially building something that is owned by the users. You own your profile, you own your connection with the audience, especially with the NFDS, and then you can actually take that audience kind of like elsewhere or you can meet them in another application. So there's definitely a lot of advantage there and also compatibility maybe now that we have this common, I would say like a graph, maybe we'll see application that couldn't be built before because no one is actually in a Web Two social media sharing those resources on this kind of like a scale. And I think that's a very big opportunity for now. All the developers who are building social now.
00:12:12.150 - 00:12:44.798, Speaker A: Absolutely. I think we're all sort of echoing similar themes here, which is a good premise to think about alternatives. And I know Balji, you've written a lot on this in the past, on just anywhere from how to exit Twitter to just what a good alternative would look like. So maybe my kind of question to you is what do you particularly disagree with sort of how existing web two large kind of consumer social platforms are set up with and what do you think they can do better? We kind of understand the censorship resistant argument, but what else kind of goes in that?
00:12:44.964 - 00:13:39.998, Speaker C: Sure, so censorship resistance is one way of thinking about it, but I think a better way of thinking about it because censorship resistance seemed like more of an edge case, much less so today. But an even better way of thinking about it is in terms of digital property rights. And one way of thinking about that is in the deal that social networks were offering seemed too good to be true or is amazing deal because they gave you free distribution to everybody in the world and hosting and all of these content creation tools and you just had to bring yourself and hit some keys. And relative to the 1980s for example, or even the early 90s when distribution was very scarce and to be on TV was this huge thing. Now anybody could stream on YouTube or post on Blogger or Twitter or Facebook or what have you, this was this huge thing. So initially that was a great deal. But as time went on now that's become actually sort of considered the standard package.
00:13:39.998 - 00:14:53.958, Speaker C: And now what has happened is basically, rather than being neutral platforms, these platforms have a huge thumb on the scale and lots of people, whether it's YouTube's adpocalypse or people are getting downranked in search results or there's various issues where, as more of life has now gone digital, people don't have a share of what they're creating, and they don't have control over their digital presence, which becomes more and more and more important as it becomes a larger percentage of your life. One question I ask to people is what percentage of your hours are spent? Your waking hours are spent looking at a screen and people realize, wait, it's actually more than 50%, often for many people, for many information workers. So most of your life, your remaining life will be spent in the Matrix in some way. And if you don't have root over the Matrix, if you can just be boom, just basically locked in a box in that matrix and all the doors are closed and your money is taken away and you're silenced. Like that scene from Black Mirror where the guy is just mass blocked and nobody can hear him anymore. That's actually possible if somebody has root and then those people wouldn't even be able to hear you and you'd just be totally powerless and so against that. The alternative is for people to have control and have economic rights.
00:14:53.958 - 00:15:26.354, Speaker C: And that control means private keys and the economics also means private keys. So it's both the freedom and the prosperity. Those are kind of they go together. People talk about the freedom in terms of censorship, resistance, but it's also the prosperity in terms of digital property rights. The reason that's so important is cryptocreators will be so much bigger than even internet influencers because they get a direct cut of what they create. Billions of people are not getting a cut of what they create. When they do, they're going to create a lot more of it and it's going to be a lot more useful because they're going to be doing it in return for cryptocurrency and not simply likes and RTS and so on and so forth.
00:15:26.354 - 00:15:30.710, Speaker C: I think the Internet looks very different when that happens, and I think we need to accelerate.
00:15:33.690 - 00:15:58.670, Speaker A: I think. And by the way, Leo, Sunny, if any of you have anything to add on, just feel free to jump in. I don't want this to be like a take your turn type of setup, but I think you touched on a really awesome kind of theme here. And Lee, you've written a lot about this as well, which is just kind of how does this turn everybody into an owner shift sort of side of the economy here? So I'd love to kind of hear your thoughts on what changes in this world and how do we think about marketplace versus social apps, or are they the same in this context?
00:15:59.890 - 00:17:00.622, Speaker B: Yeah, so I really like to ground a discussion about the shortcomings of the existing social media platforms in kind of the concept of user freedom, where today it's the fact that network effects, the combination of network effects plus closed data is a recipe for user coercion. And a lot of people will say, but creators and users are free to just exit from these platforms, choose not to use them, you can delete your Facebook account, whatever. But I think people who say that users have a choice, I think it's actually quite hollow because there is this pool towards these platforms because they control and represent so much distribution and network effects that are proprietary to these platforms. And so this has created all sorts of issues for users and creators in the current social media paradigm. I recently wrote a blog post called The Creator Economy is in Crisis.
00:17:00.766 - 00:17:04.914, Speaker E: Kind of outlining, really, the parallels between.
00:17:04.952 - 00:18:48.200, Speaker B: The gig economy and how it's turned out, as well as the creator economy, where the gig economy had made all of these promises to the supply side about being your own boss. Kind of being free to work on your own terms whenever you wanted, and obviously didn't quite live up to that because the platforms, the apps controlled really every level of detail of how the supply side actually was able to work, ranging from pricing to intermediating the customer relationship to determining whether or not you could even work on the platform at all. And a similar set of issues are now arising on the social media platform. Social media platforms with respect to creators, where you have this exploitation of creator labor, this underlying insecurity, because the algorithms and discovery is really controlled unilaterally by the platforms, as well as intermediation of all of the relationships with one's audience. And the result of that is that you have this entire class of social media creators who exist in this kind of state of economic peril where they at any moment can lose their livelihood and access to their customer base. So I think that's a huge issue today. So I very much agree with Vology that the current state of the creator economy and the economy that has arisen from these social media platforms, it's not just about freedom, but there's a huge part of the economic opportunity that is lacking because people really don't have a choice in the platforms that they're participating in.
00:18:52.680 - 00:19:32.960, Speaker A: Absolutely. I think maybe one kind of question that we get all the time is nobody disagrees with anything that's said. But I guess the question is how do we think about whether it's psychologically or from an experience standpoint, how things would look like if everything was tracked and it feels too transactional. Does that take away any of the experience? Or how people look at anyone from consuming information to interacting with anyone from their peers to their friends? Is that an actual fair kind of counter to having everything tracked and just being at your own sort of mercy of understanding how you parse that information because it exists?
00:19:34.180 - 00:20:11.852, Speaker C: There's both good and bad about that. I think the good is that all of these basically unmonetized actions, people are, if you think about it, like the Netflix CEO once said something like, our competition is the time you spend having a drink of wine with your significant other. Or something like that, right? And that's because basically there's 24 hours in a day and they're just essentially fighting to take as much of your time as possible. And these loops are built to be as addicting as possible. And that is something that benefits that centralized company. And the thing is, on the one hand, you can appreciate how hard it is to build these companies. It is really hard.
00:20:11.852 - 00:21:06.012, Speaker C: Then you can also appreciate that it's actually extremely difficult to have something where you've got a loop like that, which has been optimized for addictiveness on many people and it's draining so much time and then not have that be compensated in some way. So that's a good part is now people actually get compensated for their time. The bad part is, as you say, things become more transactional. I think on balance though, there's some good to that too. And the reason is so much on social media is empty posturing, so much is hostility and so on. It's funny, like when my friend said, wow, if I was a teenager, there's all these famous people that are online and what do people decide to do when they're kids? A lot of them decide to just troll these famous people rather than go and be like, hey, I'm also into art and this is a great artist. Maybe they can teach me something.
00:21:06.012 - 00:22:06.290, Speaker C: And here's, that's like a much more positive kind of thing. And I think you might be able to get more of that if there's more mechanisms for economic alignment as opposed to simply like zero sum status, right? Those are some of the things I think about where I think on balance there's certainly negatives, some relationships become more transactional. We'll probably see also once everything has a price, you're going to see a lot of things that you didn't think of as being priceable now have a price like sentiment. People will be able to trade memes and hashtags and so you'll be able to short and say this social movement, I actually don't think it's going to have staying power. I think people are going to basically sell on this and probably that'll be like a social market alongside it, lots of unpredictable consequences. So I can't say I know every aspect what's going to happen, but I think on balance it's probably better to add some degree of scarcity to the mix here because otherwise that scarcity is hidden and it basically exists as root on somebody's server instead of put that back into people's hands.
00:22:09.240 - 00:22:10.244, Speaker A: Go ahead.
00:22:10.442 - 00:24:14.700, Speaker D: Yeah, I want to add there because it's actually fascinating because normally when you look at how all these kind of like Web Three platforms work, you have databases and you have data in one company's database and it's valuable, but that data is valuable for kind of like a dat party and the stakeholders that the data is shared. And essentially what happens is that it's the users that are constantly giving up that interactional data and kind of like signaling what kind of things you like in life and it's a vast amount of data but the value is captured there in my opinion. So I have this one theory that the value is going towards those stakeholders and this monetization system and the users. We kind of have built previously a system where the users are there to use the product and the customers and we're just shifting in a place now and an environment where actually these networks and protocol are built for the users and it's meant for them and the value should go back to the users. It's really interesting because in Blockchain what is happening actually you might have the same information of value as you would have in a traditional data systems. But that data is kind of like it's accessible, maybe, but also it's in a ledger that is distributed. And you might argue a bit, even in a way that because you have the same data in a distributed system, and you have this kind of like a transparency there, but also the access rights, for example, that you might be able to transfer that value or interact with that value, or you as a member of the community that builds a bit more value into that.
00:24:14.700 - 00:24:54.250, Speaker D: And I think there's definitely a couple of issues here. One is that we in a web. Three, we transact quite a lot in public. We love transparency, we love seeing new information and what people are doing. And then it's kind of like up to us building application to use that value in a way where we create better applications for us, better user experience, but also use the data in a way it's beneficial back to the users. But in the first place we are already getting part of that value anyways. But if there is for example an application that it has been built on top that actually for some reason.
00:24:56.140 - 00:24:56.456, Speaker C: You.
00:24:56.478 - 00:26:15.648, Speaker D: Are not aligned with how the algorithm processes your data or how it collects some additional information. It's so easy to just change the application and have the similar experience. So I guess taking that big layer, the social graph and decentralizing a lot of components of social media, it creates an environment where those platforms and values, they have to compete. So you actually are competing not only of the user interactions but with their values. And you want to be aligned with the users because if you as a social media application developer, you're not aligned with the users, you will essentially lose them to somewhere else because it's very easy to create a new application when you have this kind of like a shared resources. And I think this should some way drive this kind of like a competition on listening the community more better and also the users. Maybe now it's time to actually even the off chain algorithms to actually kind of express what those algorithms are, what kind of data they're used and how they are actually good for you.
00:26:15.648 - 00:26:53.710, Speaker D: And if you don't do that, what happens is someone else will do that and they can spin up very quickly. And I think this is the radical kind of like a change here that we have the opportunity from the developer and user level to actually create a new ecosystem, make things better and you're not tied into the system. And this is something that Lee mentioned that if you lose your account in Twitter kind of like for some reason or you're afraid that's your living hood, but now you have basically the value and it's up to all these applications to show you how you can get most out of it.
00:26:54.160 - 00:27:09.940, Speaker A: Absolutely. I think maybe a question for Lee and bology. What would you say the ingredients are for a really good alternative that's crypto and Web Three Native for just thinking about new social platforms. And I think that'll cater us for the rest of the conversation.
00:27:11.560 - 00:27:13.268, Speaker C: What are the out there?
00:27:13.354 - 00:27:21.210, Speaker A: Sorry, the ingredients for a good alternative to a Web Three Native social media platform?
00:27:22.060 - 00:27:52.588, Speaker C: I do think the single most important is crypto identity, whether it's ENS or salana names or like Urbit or a bunch of other things that are out there. Right. And the reason for that is we're going to probably need a better term than connect wallet because it kind of sounds like this thing's just going to drain your money or whatever. Right. Probably going to need something like that. But if you've seen like web one, web two, web3, like web one is username password. Web two is login with google, facebook, twitter, LinkedIn, et cetera.
00:27:52.588 - 00:28:49.264, Speaker C: And then web3 is currently connect wallet, MetaMask or something like that. That portable identity is way more important than I think many people think, because when identity becomes portable, back ends become liquid. Like you could have the if it's truly one click, and you could truly log into a new service as easily as you load a new web page. That means the billion user tables suddenly become liquid. These gigantic ice blocks that are facebook's database and twitter's database of all these users, where there's lock in, those all become liquid and can flow between platforms potentially as easily as just, you know the thing is that when you talk about something like that, it's kind of like the transition from taking photographs know, cameras taking photographs with digital cameras. At first, digital cameras were clunkier in some ways than normal cameras. They had worse resolution.
00:28:49.264 - 00:29:51.668, Speaker C: If you remember the first iPhone camera, that wasn't the first digital camera, but the first iPhone camera was much worse than a typical but it was portable and it was everywhere, and so people used it a lot. It got better, and now it's way better, right? And so the same way, like once web3 identity hits, that flipping, and it's got millions of users now hundreds of millions if you include all holders. I don't know how many millions of ENS users are, but once that's there, and once you have services are built for that first, eventually, and it'll take a while because there's a lot of momentum in these things by not 2025, but let's say late 2020s, maybe 2030. You have a crypto phone where that's built in, and you have identity that's actually fundamentally on your private keys. And people wonder how it could have been any other way because your identity is linked to your money and all your digital property and how could we have ever lived? Whereas on corporate servers, once that happens, now exit, digital exit becomes much more powerful. That means these big services don't have as much lock in. They need to actually fight for their bread every single day, which is good when it's a huge corporation, it should be doing that, providing a service to people.
00:29:51.668 - 00:30:27.180, Speaker C: And then what happens is that's why I said, what's the scarce resource of each decade, right? The 2000s, it was bandwidth, and the 2010s, because of social, it was attention. The think it's block space, just figuring out technically how to put all this stuff on chain. And then when we've liquefied every single big company back end with web3 in the think, the scarce resource will be loyalty, that is to say, every single community, because people can leave at a moment's notice. They're going to actually need to provide something that is more than simply utility. They're going to need to provide value to their community. And I think so. That's where the 2030s go.
00:30:27.180 - 00:30:30.470, Speaker C: That's loyalty. So, seeing ahead a little bit.
00:30:31.320 - 00:30:34.020, Speaker A: Yeah, thanks for the alpha.
00:30:36.600 - 00:30:44.490, Speaker C: There's a good post. One of my friends wrote this called the Billion user table. On this, john Stokes wrote this post, which explains that thesis in a little more detail.
00:30:45.340 - 00:30:58.380, Speaker A: One quick follow as you kind of talked about, like, is the argument that it's a propagation game and not anything else? Are you just fundamentally saying we just need more people and that's when you can actually do a mass mover?
00:30:59.520 - 00:32:09.168, Speaker C: Well, I think here's the thing you can do, and this is something I've been thinking about. What I want to see are vampire attacks on Twitter's user base, Facebook's user base, like LinkedIn, et cetera, in the sense of just like sushi swap, I'm pro uniswap. I think Hayden's a pioneer, and so on and so forth. I think in a macro sense, it is good that that vampire attack occurred because it made uniswap do like a token and so on. Good things happened. I think overall as a function of that, right? When protocols compete, you win, right? And so effectively, vampire attacks, once you get to a certain scale, you could do something where, let's say you have a million people with an ENS social network or SNS social network or something like that, urban social network, whatever, that's working, right? They all have 100 friends and so they could decide, okay, this thing is working. What's our growth strategy? Our growth strategy is we invite the heck out of our friends and we do the following proof of sperm.
00:32:09.168 - 00:33:30.424, Speaker C: Okay? So proof of sperm means that you are posting, let's say, a tweet or a post or something that is like your last post, your tombstone post on that social network, and so long as that's up your tokens or whatever vest in this new thing. But any further action that you take publicly on that social network means that you haven't actually exited from it, right? So something like that would sort of be like proof of exit or proof of spurn or something like that, where you spurned the old web two network for the new one. And if you get a bunch of people to do that, collectively, you're like Moses parting the Red Sea, right? You get collective exit, collective migration, sort of like the mass migration of people to, you know, SF is done and now we're all moving together, right? And I think you're going to see something like that online where it's like a community migration, and then social networks actually start becoming community aware because there's a culture to that community. Once you have tokens integrated with social networks, right now, people don't really care if someone moves from Twitter to Facebook to Instagram, whatever. They don't really have a culture. But people definitely do care if you move from bitcoin to ethereum to solana to something else like that. Once crypto tribalism is integrated with social networks.
00:33:30.424 - 00:33:39.730, Speaker C: Those are truly online digital tribes that have a lot of community and association and I think that's going to be very important for the world to come both in positive and negative ways.
00:33:41.540 - 00:33:59.300, Speaker A: Amazing. I think this is like a perfect time to kind of think about or rather ask Donnie on just what made you start Lens and can you talk about sort of just overall, how do you address all these things that we brought up and historically consistently been brought up about the criticisms of existing social platforms?
00:34:00.620 - 00:35:10.776, Speaker D: Yeah, well the start of the Lens, I think it was more of like an accident in the sense that we were kind of like helping out in a NFT auction contract and realized that actually one of our developers realized that you can be on the current NFT standard. There's a lot of things you can actually do, a lot of cool things. And if you innovate on the smart contract area and from there kind of like we noticed that one of the ways to do you can actually, of course tokenization NFT profiles but also you can create dynamic content, dynamic NFTs. And essentially we ended up testing a model where you have this kind of like a follow NFT. So if I'm following Balaji, I'm the number one follower, the number one fan, I get the Token ID one. And if there's let's say 10,000 followers, all of those follow relationships are Tokenized NFDS. So if I go into my any wallet openc and look at that follow NFD, it reflects kind of like the latest content of Balaji.
00:35:10.776 - 00:36:23.604, Speaker D: So if there's a picture of a cat and reposting a picture of dog, the content changes. So essentially we realized that actually just having this experimentation, you create this kind of like a permissionless distribution channel between you and your audience and this could be pretty cool thing for wider web Three social. And of course in our team, web Three social was something that was very fascinating and we are always looking what to innovate in larger web Three space because we see kind of like web3 space as an economy. So there's decentralized finance, but also in economy you have ecommerce, you have social, you have creator economy and all these different parts. But you need a value network to transact. So whether it's like a monetary value or social value or something that we didn't even realize that is considered valuable until we put it in on chain. And I think for us approaching the whole web Three social was somehow important to approach from developer perspective and see what kind of ideas we will have.
00:36:23.604 - 00:37:04.370, Speaker D: Because what they learned from the Ave protocol experience previously in DeFi is that you're never building by yourself, you're building as a community and ecosystem and you basically want to grow together. And that's kind of like I think Lens protocol is very fascinating protocol, but I'm pretty sure the stuff that will be built during this hackathon will be way more cooler and our protocol becomes the boring kind of like a back end. And I'm also expecting that people will build those migrators for vampire attack in some very classy, nice way.
00:37:05.940 - 00:37:20.440, Speaker A: Amazing. Lee, I think I want to tap into something you said earlier in one of your I mean, I would love to kind of get a glimpse of what you think the set of opportunities is in Web Three to kind of let people choose their own algorithms.
00:37:22.700 - 00:37:59.444, Speaker E: Yeah, I think obviously in the past few months and years there's been a ton of criticism over the existing state of social media and whether they take too heavy of a hand in content moderation or too light a hand. They're blamed for all kinds of social ills and events that have transpired in the past few years, really because there is only one content moderation policy that can be upheld at a given time on a given platform and it's built in this very monolithic way. So I think the opportunity is really.
00:37:59.482 - 00:38:01.492, Speaker B: For users to be able to choose.
00:38:01.626 - 00:38:09.144, Speaker E: Among a set of different options available to them in terms of type of content they would like to see, type.
00:38:09.182 - 00:38:11.176, Speaker B: Of discovery, experience they would like to.
00:38:11.198 - 00:39:53.560, Speaker E: Participate in and ultimately choose an experience that maps to their beliefs or views and degree of discoverability and content moderation. I think that is kind of the North Star goal of decentralized social media. I think there's also obviously a lot of downsides to that potentially as well, that probably don't get addressed often enough, which is if the existing social media paradigm has created all of these filter bubbles, then a more decentralized social media landscape would probably enable that even more where people would opt into the set of discovery algorithms or the set of content moderation policies that best corroborate their existing viewpoints. A thought experiment that I like to pose to people is do they believe that existing social media platforms have prolonged the pandemic? Usually the answer that I hear is yes. Like you can imagine a world pre social media and the current world in which we do have social media. In which world would the pandemic have lasted this long or would the pandemic be longer? And most people agree that social media as it currently stands has proliferated misinformation about the pandemic and the vaccine, et cetera. So in a world in which users are opting into their own algorithms, I'm not sure how to solve a problem like that, to be honest.
00:39:53.560 - 00:39:58.090, Speaker E: I think it's one of the open questions around the next generation of social media.
00:39:58.700 - 00:40:39.684, Speaker C: Yeah, the tricky part, I'd give kind of a couple of comments on that. One issue is that it's not that necessarily centralized governments did so well on it either. Right. One of the issues is that especially in the west, people either react with apathy, they react with apathy first and then panic. They only have kind of two modes and so like the sober careful, like okay, let's do vaccines, but not say it's just the flu nor triple mask after vaccines. That sort of like kind of scientifically reasonable sort of thing was not as much there. It's not obvious to me that the centralized authority will get the right answer.
00:40:39.684 - 00:41:29.408, Speaker C: If it gets a wrong answer, it's catastrophically wrong. And so you might tolerate some people getting it wrong in order for at least one of those solutions to be correct. There's more system robustness even if there's more loss in an average case, there's less loss in an extreme case. And the other thing I'd say, by the way is with Spanish flu in 17 1918 ish that was something which was heavily censored by governments. It's kind of the opposite of today because states were gaining power at that time rather than kind of losing power, that media was centralizing rather than decentralizing and it was actually a much more lethal virus by everything we can see like about 100 million dead. COVID-19 is not nothing. It's going to be about 10 million dead worldwide when all is and done, if we're lucky and no nasty new variants arise.
00:41:29.408 - 00:42:18.836, Speaker C: That's still pretty bad, but it's not 100 million dead, we're fortunate. It was exponentially ramping in the early days but kind of stopped around like 7500 dead a day as opposed to 75,000 where it easily could have gone. And so the thing is but the Spanish flu, because it's so censored, people kind of didn't even remember that it had happened. It was sort of literally orwellian like kind of memory hold wiped out and wasn't a common point of reference and so on because governments at that time thought oh, if we have control we should censor it to stop panic. But lots of people died and we don't know, maybe it's because we've run an experiment. Perhaps COVID-19 would have spread to more people and we would have not gotten a vaccine on time had folks not taken preventive measures or maybe it would have been exactly the same. The counterfactual is sort of hard.
00:42:18.836 - 00:42:58.230, Speaker C: There's folks who do this thing at the country level and they'll say oh well, Sweden had this policy, others had this policy. But really what you want is actually a huge table with individual cases and you actually want to diff that against the pharmacogenetics in the background and so on to see what actually or the immunogenomics rather like what variants might have made you more or less susceptible. TLDR is I'm not sure that you can say that the kind of very powerful states that existed in the 1910s did a better job. Maybe they would have been better, but I think they have much higher downside risk if they get it wrong. So that's my counterargument lee not gain saying anything you're saying. But the counterargument is centralization, has catastrophic risk when it goes wrong.
00:43:02.840 - 00:44:20.620, Speaker A: I think what we're sort of getting to is that obviously there's well, to kind of back up a little bit, I think it's going to be obviously hard to know and you can't run these types of experiments counterfactually, or rather just look at that and change some variables and see how this would pan out. But we kind of, I guess, are agreeing on the fact that at the end of the day, this is more about how people get to choose their own adventure in this kind of world. Whether it's a billion people and billion rows existing in a single place and everybody having a slice of how they want to experience something or just being able to understand what this would mean if they were to ever exit or just wanting to get more control. And this kind of leads to the question of sounds like we blend this thing with identity. And once you get to scale, everything is a social graph at the end of the day. And it's even more powerful in terms of things being actionable in kind of Web Three. So is this something that any of you agree or disagree with? If so, what do you think the set of the opportunities are? Because I feel like one thing I want to reset everybody on is every time we say we need a new social network, people think it's a Twitter or Facebook alternative, which kind of mentally puts us in understanding this is like a text communication platform and but there's other different ways of thinking about media platforms.
00:44:20.620 - 00:44:32.928, Speaker A: What does that look like? And sort of what do you think about just social graphs at the end of day that are Web Three native? Maybe Sonny, you can pick us up. Or Bob, you go for it.
00:44:33.014 - 00:44:54.448, Speaker C: Sure. So I've actually thought about this a lot and I actually think people don't understand that Web Three, it's not just people calling it Web Three. It really is the third web. And here's why. Let's say the first web, the dub dub dub, that's an open web, and Google could index that. It's actually very difficult to index the open web. It's nontrivial, but you can do it with crawlers and so on.
00:44:54.448 - 00:45:43.384, Speaker C: And for example, you need to do things like you have a fine amount of download bandwidth and you have to guess whether a given site is going to update and then spend that crawler bandwidth to go and download it. And maybe it only updated a little or not, or a lot. And so you have like ciscal prediction algorithms just for whether to recrawl a site and so on and so forth. And it's actually crawling is a very complicated thing and it's a million different formats and you have to do wrapper, induction, all this stuff. If it's a database populated page, how do you know you've got all of it? Are you breaking the web app by crawling it? Et cetera, et cetera. And then the social web is even harder to index because it's on Facebook and Twitter and LinkedIn's servers and they don't want to let you index it. LinkedIn did lose the high five case where know now in theory can index LinkedIn, but they're still not making it easy for you.
00:45:43.384 - 00:46:26.532, Speaker C: In theory, individuals can do like a data export, but really it's not just data that you want to export, it's your identity and your connections to others. The social graph, it's not just you as an individual that wants to leave, it is you plus your social graph. That's your community, your subculture, right? And so what people don't get about blockchains is up until this point, they've mostly been hosting financial data and it didn't look like web one or web two data. It didn't look like HTML pages or social pages. But now it's starting to. As block space increases, you have things like DSO and mirror and urban and capsule social. Essentially you have decentralized storage of posts and identity and other kinds of things.
00:46:26.532 - 00:46:46.276, Speaker C: And the consequence of that is actually profound because among other things, it radically simplifies indexing. One way I can prove this is already going to be a big deal is anybody can set up something like BTC.com or Blockchain.com or Blockchair.com or so on. You can set up a block explorer. It may not be as good as the production ones, but you can do that because that gets back to the early point.
00:46:46.276 - 00:47:15.716, Speaker C: These are open state services. The back end is open, right? So anybody can set up a front end for them. And that's already happened. In fact, multibillion dollar businesses have been built as block explorers, either scan and blockchain.com and so on and so forth. That shows that the concept of an open back end where you build clients for it is super powerful. So the thing is that indexing, because it's easier searching web3 is way easier than web one or web two, because rather than that crawler problem where you have to go and ping a bunch of sites and so on, it gets all pushed to you.
00:47:15.716 - 00:47:34.392, Speaker C: You just get a block every whatever seconds. You just get a block of all the updates. Imagine if you got a block of all the updates on the dub dub dub, right? That's insane. Now of course they'd have lots of pointers out to them. You wouldn't necessarily the data availability problems, nontrivial thing to solve. But we're solved it. That's why I said block space is the scarce resource of this decade.
00:47:34.392 - 00:48:02.116, Speaker C: It might take a while, but we are solving it. Whether it's zero knowledge or many of the other scaling techniques, it'll be solved in different ways in different times. Now you have this super parsable thing. You don't have to do all this inference. Maybe you subscribe to a bunch of different chains, but still it's scoped the problem in a much easier to solve way and you get something else that I think people underestimate. You have a web of trust integrated with everything. Okay? So you have digital signatures as a first class field in every single blockchain that you're indexing in this way.
00:48:02.116 - 00:48:46.028, Speaker C: And what that means is the social web had some of that of course, because you had identity, but you still have fraud, you still have fake profiles and so on. And web one is even more plagued by this where you don't know whether a web page is written by a human or an AI or something like that. That's why Google search quality has dropped off to such an extent. That's why they've just relied on pure money as the ranking algorithm, where more and more of the time their first page is festooned with ads. They don't have the sort of non commercial community signals, and that's why people will search on Twitter or Reddit rather than Google. Increasingly to find people, real people, talking about this, but now with something where people are effectively signing their social posts, their other content, with their ENS or their SNS or their other identity. You now have digital signatures as a first class feature.
00:48:46.028 - 00:49:16.036, Speaker C: That's huge. And they're open. They're not like the closed social web. And you can also of course include the balances of these users to see how real they are. You have a much richer set of signals for effectively integrating the social web with the open web, with now the financial web, which also makes more money. And I think Google is being caught completely sleeping by this. I think Facebook might be the only one that survives, maybe Twitter as well, because Facebook said they're doing NFTs with Instagram, zuck still runs his company, and Twitter is actually pretty crypto aware.
00:49:16.036 - 00:49:52.520, Speaker C: But the others that have not been making moves on this, google hasn't even done a block explorer, which has nothing to do with issuing a token or anything like that. I think they're actually in much bigger trouble. I'll say one other thing, which is a big chunk of Google nowadays with Google search is actually queries for recent events. They don't actually show the historical stuff. If you may have noticed, it's hard to find historical stuff. That means that if it's recent events, their index is highly biased towards things that are, let's say, a year old. That means also that if a lot of content suddenly moves to open state platforms which are less than a year old, a large fraction of searches on Google will move to new clients.
00:49:52.520 - 00:50:21.490, Speaker C: So they're much more vulnerable than people think because the full scope of what they index and the difficulty of indexing it may just get know, sometimes the way to solve a problem in math is you just define the problem. So this problem has now been defined in a different way. Research becomes easier, it's got more signals. Google doesn't have the core competency around it and they could just get boom disrupted like this. The disruption is already happening in block explorers, but they don't realize how important that is.
00:50:22.980 - 00:50:28.080, Speaker A: Amazing. No, I think that's the alpha leak, not the block space argument.
00:50:28.980 - 00:50:29.696, Speaker C: We are at time.
00:50:29.718 - 00:50:59.420, Speaker A: So I'll just do two quick questions and then we can call it I want to respect your time. Maybe just one question that actually just came in from the audience and similar to what you just said ology but I'll have anybody kind of come in is we're obviously seeing Twitter and Facebook kind of go jump into integrating NFTs and just other kind of web3 primitives. How do you think about competing with them in that world? Do you think that's an advantage to them or do you think that just helps them sort of prolong their relationship with their customers or that doesn't matter because somebody will overtake them? That's web3 native.
00:51:00.560 - 00:51:02.380, Speaker C: Is that question for me or Lee?
00:51:03.120 - 00:51:10.050, Speaker A: I was like, I'll keep that open. It's an audience question. I think want to make sure that from a time standpoint, anybody who wants to take the first step can go for.
00:51:13.140 - 00:52:02.284, Speaker C: Sure. I mean basically I think Twitter and mean crypto is kryptonite to large companies, right? So because it has risk. And you know what's much scarcer than budget is risk budget, okay? Because budget you can kind of make more money. But risk, especially like regulatory risk, PR risk, like larger companies, once you have an average of many people, once you have more risk averse people in the organization, it's really hard to take a risk. I respect the Zuck a lot for taking, even if I think that they should have started I actually said this at the time, they should have started by just integrating bitcoin and ethereum into WhatsApp? With like off chain payments or something like that. That's what they should have done rather than starting slash DM. But I respect them greatly for trying that when they were already under a lot of scrutiny.
00:52:02.284 - 00:53:00.880, Speaker C: Only a founder actually has the risk budget, right? So companies that are founderless typically don't have risk budget and risk budget is this thing is like on any accounting statement. They'll show the reward, they'll show the financial return, but they won't show the risk that was taken to get that return that is not actually accounted for. It's invisible to people many times and that's where there's low risk and high risk returns. And so I think once you think of crypto as kryptonite to most large companies, I'm actually much more bullish know frankly places like India, Israel, outside the US. For the most part, as well as small startups and stuff within the west because they don't have the baggage. There's a huge internal immune reaction from a lot of web two companies either both their executives and their customer base against web3. You saw this with, unfortunately with Discord, with Kickstarter, with other companies like this people will make also the kind of neutral argument hey, we can't afford the risk whether they agree with it or not.
00:53:00.880 - 00:53:27.950, Speaker C: So I think for the most part with some exceptions like those two, maybe they'll make it. And in fact if you look at the history of Silicon Valley very few companies have actually made the leap between technological know. Microsoft, Apple are unique in terms of reinventing themselves every decade. But lots of other companies like Decateway Computer they're big in one era and they just missed the right angle turn for the next one. Right? So we'll see but I actually think a lot of them are going to fall. We'll see.
00:53:28.640 - 00:54:28.268, Speaker E: Yeah I'll just add to that for the person who asked this question. I think the exciting opportunity in my view with Blockchain is to actually build social networks that couldn't have existed in the previous paradigm. So social networks that would have been impossible to jumpstart from a network activation perspective or to get past that zero to one stage. I think that is the opportunity that now exists with Blockchain and Tokens. And so I would worry less about or think less about being constrained to more SKU morphic social networks as they exist today and adapting that for crypto and more thinking about what entirely net new social networks could exist that currently don't and that might sound quite abstract. So I'll give an example. I think one of the open opportunities still remaining in social networking is to build a local social network.
00:54:28.268 - 00:55:08.140, Speaker E: Like 20 years into the development of the internet we still don't have a view into what is happening in a 510 miles radius around me. There's no app that I can open where I can see in this moment who is around me, who's doing what, what is happening in my neighborhood in this place where I am. And many people have tried to do that but the amount of network density that you need to reach in order for that experience to be valuable to any given user is so high that I don't think any app has ever gotten there. And so I think that is an opportunity and perhaps the solution to that is leveraging Tokens to get to that level of network liquidity.
00:55:11.360 - 00:55:12.028, Speaker C: Sorry, go ahead.
00:55:12.034 - 00:56:36.776, Speaker D: Sorry I just want to mention that I think what's significantly different now is that many of these web two social media platforms they are very big. But I think what's going to happen is that when we have kind of like a decentralized graph and you lower the barrier to enter to the competition of building applications and building user experiences, and it means that, as previous, you might need a bigger team to deliver a social media application and build something. Now you might need just maybe one, two developers, maybe. We'll see from this hackathon something very interesting built in a couple of weeks that's very exciting for the whole social media space. So lowering the threshold is where kind of like we bring more people to compete and build applications and more people to use them as well. So I think I would not say that it's hard to compete against the bigger participants and stakeholders, especially when we're in a situation where it's so easy to build. Now a social media application, which means that there is more and more innovation when the kind of like a bar to enter is lower.
00:56:36.776 - 00:57:11.860, Speaker D: And it's the same in decentralized finance. It doesn't take much of actually building a protocol, it takes a bit time, but essentially even improving a protocol might take less and there's less financial kind of like a security risk on a smart contract. So I could imagine seeing a lot of interesting stuff coming up and when you have this innovation coming from everywhere, it's just like a constant remix culture. So when you look at open source development, it's always been remix culture like Linux distributions and everything. It's all remix.
00:57:12.360 - 00:57:12.916, Speaker A: Absolutely.
00:57:13.018 - 00:57:48.800, Speaker C: Yeah. Let me say one thing which is I half agree with Lee and I half disagree and I'll say why? It's a part I agree with. I absolutely do think that new kinds of social networks will be built and I think many of them will involve finance as a first class feature because every user, you can assume every user in a crypto social network has a balance and can send encrypted messages where you couldn't do that in normal social networks. Just like Instagram and Snapchat assumed you had a mobile device and opened to the camera. Whereas Facebook and Twitter started out as non mobile. So they were built around a different set of assumptions. Right.
00:57:48.800 - 00:58:47.504, Speaker C: So I definitely do think new kinds of social networks will emerge. With that said, somewhat related to what Stanny was saying, the back end change to a web3 social network is so challenging and gives actually so many benefits because it makes it fully programmable. Like the early Twitter and to some extent the early Facebook, were that what people might just do is essentially have almost exactly the same client, like a familiar client that everybody knows, and just put all of their energy into innovating on the back end and making that actually work first and then kind of the new things would sort of come out of that. So without gain saying what you're saying. Lee I think that would be an engineering mindset approach, which is the front end has been debugged. People have figured out what RTS and likes and so on are freeze that have that be exactly the same and just open the back end and put all your energy into that. And developers will then take it from there and innovate on other kinds of things that's like one, you know, different folks are trying different things.
00:58:47.504 - 00:58:50.150, Speaker C: Farcaster DSO all these folks are trying different things.
00:58:51.560 - 00:58:52.068, Speaker D: Awesome.
00:58:52.154 - 00:59:00.276, Speaker A: Well, I think this. Is a perfect note to end this panel on. I want to thank all three of you balaji, Stani, Lee for taking the time. And also going a little bit over.
00:59:00.458 - 00:59:19.324, Speaker C: I've got a little announcement. Well, I just all right. I'm just tweeting it now. Boom. Okay, new book coming out, and probably everybody here will like it. New book, how to Start a New Country. It's finally coming out.
00:59:19.324 - 00:59:22.460, Speaker C: You can preorder it now. Arrives on July 4.
00:59:23.200 - 00:59:24.350, Speaker A: Perfect day.
00:59:24.960 - 00:59:43.270, Speaker C: So it's my top tweet right now. So if anybody in the chat wants to see it, I thought I'd save the best for last. And I got a nice little blurb by by Mark and Vitalik and Brian and so on. So check it out. Be out in about three months.
00:59:43.640 - 00:59:49.060, Speaker A: I will pre order this right after the chat. Thank you so much and really appreciate this.
00:59:49.210 - 00:59:50.516, Speaker C: All right, thanks, everybody.
00:59:50.698 - 00:59:51.410, Speaker D: Thank you so much.
