00:00:01.760 - 00:00:29.746, Speaker A: Alright everyone, we'll get started. So welcome to the 14th daily Gwei Ama series. Thank you all for being here. As usual, I'll be reading through the questions from the AMA series channel, going in order from when they were asked and answering all of them. If at any time you want to ask a question live while we're going, you can just raise your hand, there's a button down the bottom and I'll invite you up onto the stage. Or you can ask a question in the AMA series channel and I'll get to those at the end of the AMA. This will be recorded and uploaded to YouTube, so no worries if you have to leave early.
00:00:29.746 - 00:01:34.840, Speaker A: It'll be timestamped as well, so you'll be able to rewatch it, relisten to it there. Without further ado, let's get started with the first question from the AMA series channel coming in from Rvdeeb, who asks, what are your opinions on Celestia? The main focus of the Layer one is just for data availability and consensus, which seems pretty perfect for a modular blockchain future. Do you think it would be beneficial for Ethereum layer one to adopt a similar design and remove execution from layer one to maximize roll up effectiveness? Also, do you have any recommendations for followers relating to it? As everything I've found is pretty bare bones so far. So for those who don't know, Celestia is one of those data availability blockchains that I've mentioned on the refuel a few times. Another one would be Polygon avail and another one will be ZK Porter from Zksync. I guess the matter labs team, as I said, their main focus is data availability, right? It's not consensus. They're purely data availability layers where they're hoping to just be able to host the data, not, not necessarily come to consensus on it, but just host the data and then the consensus is done off chain sort of thing, or kind of like within the roll ups.
00:01:34.840 - 00:02:34.426, Speaker A: It's a bit of a different design where it fully separates all the concerns. Because with Ethereum, once we move to ETH 2.0, with the beacon chain, we have consensus and we have data availability on, I guess like ETH one as it's known today, the execution layer, and then later on the shards. So they kind of like more tightly coupled, whereas in Celestia those things are kind of like decoupled. Now, I think that the tightly coupled model is better. From what I've seen, it seems to be better for both scalability and security, but that doesn't mean that these kind of like, data availability blockchains are inferior or useless or anything like that. I think they're actually incredibly useful because, as you know, you would have seen already, there are kind of like solutions out there right now that are called a validium from starkware or ZK Porter from Zksync or evolution, where they kind of have this hybrid approach where it's like, okay, well, let's put all the proofs of the transactions on ethereum layer one, but let's keep our data off chain, because putting data on ethereum layer one is the most expensive part by far.
00:02:34.426 - 00:03:25.588, Speaker A: I mean, you can see the kind of cost difference between something like immutable x, which is a validum, and something like a arbitrary optimism, which, I mean, optimistic roll ups can't do off chain data, but essentially they have to put everything on chain. So it, you know, arbitrary optimism are a few dollars for kind of like a swap or even an NFT mint, whereas on. And that will get better over time, of course. But on immutable x, because they're storing the data off chain, they can do everything for free, essentially because the costs are so little to put the proofs on layer one that they're happy to cover those costs. So, I mean, there's, there's just kind of like a universe of these solutions out there that are coming to market, and there's going to be all different types coming to market. But to answer your question about do I think this would be beneficial for Ethereum layer one to adopt this design? I don't think so. I think Ethereum layer one should stick to the roadmap that it's doing right now.
00:03:25.588 - 00:03:47.394, Speaker A: There are plans to kind of like, enshrine things in the beacon chain itself. So you could do verification to, like, put the EVM in the beacon chain. So you would need to have kind of like a separate, a separate execution layer. But I'm not sure if that will happen. It is kind of complex. It's a roadmap item that will probably end up coming way into the future. It's not a high priority, but that is a solution as well.
00:03:47.394 - 00:04:09.574, Speaker A: But I think that the way layer one, Ethereum is being designed today is already maximizing for roll up effect, effectiveness and efficiency. That's been the way for quite a while now. And. Any recommendations for follows? Well, I mean, Celestia, you can follow the Twitter account. The people working there, I mean, John Adler is one of the co founders. There's a few others out there. They talk about Celestia a lot but at the moment it is pretty bare bones.
00:04:09.574 - 00:04:43.738, Speaker A: It's very early stages for them. Obviously, with Polygon avail, you can just follow Polygon, you can go on, you know, read all the stuff on their website, but this stuff is very early. And ZK Porter, same thing where, you know, there's not much to talk about just yet, but there will be in the future. So, yeah, I guess, like just following the official accounts will give you a nice overview of that. All right, next question comes in from two. Splat. Who says if Ethereum l one fees are up only then eat supply is down only after the merge, but ETH supply can never reach zero because there are users who refuse to sell transactions and we'll just hold forever.
00:04:43.738 - 00:05:16.110, Speaker A: We can't burn 2% of the supply annually forever or we'll run out of ETH in 50 years. So I guess the question is, over the long term, what will the ETH supply look like? Look like a multi decade view. So the ETH supply, I mean, I guess, like probably, yeah, I'm just trying to figure out where to start here. I think I should start with. ETH can be divided into 1818 places, right? So there's 18 decimals for, for ETH. So you could have like 0.0018, and that could be worth a lot of money because there's like hardly any ETH left, and the Ethereum network would function fine.
00:05:16.110 - 00:06:05.470, Speaker A: Obviously, there's things like the 32 ETH minimum for staking and stuff like that that would need to be adjusted in the most extreme scenario where like, we just burn so much ETH that it basically, you know, becomes a thing where there's hardly any ETH left. And then that 18 decimal places can be changed as well. It could go to like 100 or 200. It could go to whatever we want it to go to. So I think, you know, you're talking about the long term here, the multi decade view. I think that the ETH price, if we're burning that much ETH, kind of like a year, and Ethereum is kind of generating billions of dollars of economic activity a day in terms of fear revenue, the ETH price is going to go nuts, right, because of the fact that you're going to have a lot of people holding ETH, not doing, maybe not even doing anything with it, keeping it in cold storage. You're going to have people using ETH for staking, obviously, for defi, all those sorts of things.
00:06:05.470 - 00:06:53.390, Speaker A: Everything people use ETH for today, then you're going to have the fee burn on top of that, which is obviously, reducing the supply post merge, it's going to be negative issuance pretty much all the time. If the fear of a new kind of, like, stays the way it is, the ETH price is going to go up and you're going to kind of like, get this thing where the ETH price goes up so much that it's kind of like a funny thing to think about because the gas market is priced in ETH and it's kind of like detached from the USD price. So network demand is not really determined by the USD price of ETH. Like, ETH could be $5,000 today, and the network demand could be 10%, and the fees wouldn't be high because we weren't utilizing the whole network. Whereas the network demand isn't at 10%, it's at like over 100%. Obviously, it's always full, so that's why the fees go up. But it's got little to do with the actual ETH price itself.
00:06:53.390 - 00:07:42.456, Speaker A: But then when you think about kind of like, the most extreme views of when there's, like, not that much ETH available, people are trying to kind of like, get their hands on ETH and they just like, I mean, there's such a supply shock that the price will just skyrocket, right. And then people will. I mean, people do think of fees in USD terms. I don't think of them in ETH terms, but the protocol thinks of them in ETH terms. The protocol doesn't know the USD value of ETH prices, all the kind of like fees in ETH. Um, but, you know, that's when it kind of gets murky because you, you start blurring the lines there where people say, okay, well, you know, we're paying like tens of billions of dollars of fees a day to kind of like, um, to use the network, and there's so much ETH being burned. But if the network is generating that much economic activity, then I think it'd be safe to say that the price of ETH would be absolutely bonkers at that point.
00:07:42.456 - 00:08:11.652, Speaker A: Right. So it kind of be like a balancing act there. But it's hard to tell, like, I, you know, as you can probably hear, I'm kind of like, just speculating here. I don't have any kind of, like, definitive answer. It's, it's very hard to tell what the future is going to look like. It's very hard to tell what the fee burn is going to be like in a terminal state, what the long term fee burn is going to look like. It's impossible to tell, you know, how much, you know, is there a ceiling on the fee revenue that l one can generate? Like is there a point where it gets to, it gets to kind of like diminishing returns and there will be diminishing returns.
00:08:11.652 - 00:09:01.234, Speaker A: Of course. It's not going to go up like exponentially. Yes, I believe l one phase over the long term are up only, but there's aggregate fees and then there's kind of like individual fees, I think aggregate fees definitely. But then it's a diminishing returns thing. It's not going to, it's kind of like any new economy, for example, where you can spin up a new economy, it'll grow really fast at the start, if it starts getting adoption, but then it'll level out just like basically anything with network effects kind of like levels out eventually. And you kind of have that s curve where, you know, literally the letter s where at the start it's kind of like slow and then it goes up really, really quickly during the adoption phase and then it levels out. So I could see that playing out as well, where the fear revenue basically levels out and it stops increasing and then we maybe just marginally increases and then we can have like a much clearer picture of how the fee market is going to look like.
00:09:01.234 - 00:09:29.004, Speaker A: So, so yeah, hopefully that kind of gives you an idea of how I'm thinking about it. But at the same time, I don't think anyone has the actual answer to this question yet. It's still very early days. 1559 has only been live for what, three months or just over three months now. And I mean, I know we've burned a lot of ETH already, but it's going to be interesting to see how that plays out over, you know, I guess like a multi decade kind of view there. All right, next question comes from Ab Missx zero. Hopefully I said that, right.
00:09:29.004 - 00:10:08.164, Speaker A: They ask, do you think pickle Finance's voting system can gain the same traction as curve? Unfortunately, I don't know Pickle finance's voting system. I just haven't seen it. So if you could link it to me, I'm happy to look into that and just answer it in the Discord channel, but I haven't seen what their voting system is or kind of like what makes it different from curve, unfortunately. So sorry about that. All right, question here from Niket, who asks, contained inside this roll up initializing transaction is the ability for any user to exit all of their money from the roll up. This is called the escape hatch and means that when a roll up breaks or turns malicious, you can just hop out of the escape hatch via transaction. On the l one, a broken roll up is like a broken escalator.
00:10:08.164 - 00:10:51.374, Speaker A: It just turns into stairs. And you say, you read this on bankless, but you don't know how. And then you go on to say, but I don't know. I don't get how one would withdraw nfts from l two s, like immutable x to l one. You can pull your ETH balance to l one, but you can't pull your nfts if such protocols don't provide a proper withdrawal mechanism from day one, should they even be called l two s? So you're right here in that what immutable x is using a validium isn't actually a true l two because they're keeping the data off chain. So unless they actually, unless you actually what? They're going to transition to a volition where you can essentially put your data on chain if you want to, but unless that data actually goes into l one, you're absolutely correct. You wouldn't be able to withdraw your nft from, from that immutable x to l one.
00:10:51.374 - 00:11:42.430, Speaker A: And that, you know, I guess, like, there is a researchers kind of, like, debate this, and they say, is this a true l two? Is it not? People say it's not a true l two because data is not on chain. And which means you couldn't withdraw your nfts. Now, if it was a true l two, you can. And the thing is, is like, there are nfts you can do on kind of like arbitrum and optimism right now, and those nfts will be posted to l one. The data of that NFT would be posted to l one. So I believe, I haven't checked specifically on this, but it should definitely work like this with, at least with arbitrary optimism right now, is that you could withdraw that NFT to l one because it exists on l one. So a good way to think about it is that with the validium, the data portion of the NFT, which is not the JPEG, it's the kind of like state, essentially, of the, of kind of like a user balance that lives off chain, that, that lives on kind of like a server that immutable operates.
00:11:42.430 - 00:12:11.006, Speaker A: And they have like a data availability community that they call it, where they serve that to users of immutable, of immutable x, I should say. Whereas optimism and arbitram don't have that. All the data has to be posted to on chain, on chain, because they're an optimistic roll up. Now, Zk roll ups can do the same thing, but it's more expensive. That's why, as I was explaining before, immutable X doesn't do everything, doesn't put the data on l one because it's super, super expensive. And to be honest, like, most nfts do not need this. Oh, sorry, my dog's barking there.
00:12:11.006 - 00:12:45.450, Speaker A: Most nfts do not need the security of l one. Right. Like, most nfts are worth very little. You do not need a kind of like army to defend your nft that's worth a dollar, whereas the high value nfts, yeah, you would, but I think the high value Nft is going to be fun to see how they play out as well. Like are they going to be issued on l two? Are they still going to be issued on l one? Because, you know, with, for example, crypto punks, they're worth what right now, $380,000. No one's batting an eye if they have to spend a few hundred dollars in gas fees to check, you know, to buy or sell kind of like punks. So from that point of view, it gets, it gets a bit kind of nuanced as well.
00:12:45.450 - 00:13:40.304, Speaker A: But yeah, you're definitely right that right now, with immutable x as they exist as a validium, you cannot transfer your nfts back to l one unless they put the data on chain. And then in the future, if they kind of like give the users the option to, to put their own data on chain without them having to do it, then you can. But obviously you're going to be incurring l one gas fees at that point, which are quite high. So yeah, hopefully that answers your question. Give me 1 second, I'm gonna just sort my dog out. Sorry guys, sorry guys. My fiance's working so I'm on dog duty tonight, so if he does that again, I apologize.
00:13:40.304 - 00:14:21.484, Speaker A: But anyway, continuing on, so question here from Reginald grabs, who says, being a public person as you are, and interacting with smart contracts and protocols using hardware wallets, are you concerned about security? I don't mean security from hacking or exploiting, I mean gun to the head type of security. After hearing about that tragic torturing incident in Spain last week, it got me thinking about a different sort of security, especially for those of us involved in the ledger hack where there is now an association of crypto and our home address. You're in a similar situation where you are publicly known. So I wonder if you ever think about this type of security threat and what you may have done, if anything to protect yourself. So it's not something that I would say that I think about really rarely. I mean, I probably think about it rarely, to be honest. Like, I heard about that story as well.
00:14:21.484 - 00:14:54.690, Speaker A: And then I kind of thought about, you know, what, this could happen to me, me sort of thing. But it's not something I regularly think about. It's because it's kind of like, you know, if you just worry every day about kind of, like, getting attacked over of your crypto holdings, you're just going to go mad. And that's why I kind of, like, I haven't really thought too much about it. But I think, you know, there are obviously people that are very, very public and very, very publicly, like, super rich, like the billionaires in the crypto industry. And they, from what I've seen, have bodyguards. Like, I heard that the Solana founders at the recent conference that they did had, like, a whole detail of bodyguards around them.
00:14:54.690 - 00:15:24.394, Speaker A: I don't know if Vitalik does that. I haven't seen them around him unless they're really good bodyguards and they just, like, hide in the shadows. But I think it's definitely more of a concern for people kind of like, like that. But, you know, maybe I'm underestimating how much of a concern it is for me personally and especially, you know, I guess it's funny because, like, the last time I traveled internationally was in February of 2020, and that was before the bull run. So back then, I mean, like, you know, it was a bear market. No one really cared. I guess we're just coming out of the bear market and no one really cared.
00:15:24.394 - 00:16:17.020, Speaker A: But, you know, now who knows, right? I mean, I feel pretty safe where I am, where I live in, in Melbourne, Australia. But you're right. Like, my address was unfortunately leaked as part of the ledger thing as well. I did worry about that for a little bit, but nothing really happened. And, you know, I think that when you look at this thing, these things about physical security, and I talk, I spoke about this on the refuel when the ledger leak happened, when you're going, and, like, if you were to kidnap someone or you were to try and torture them to get access to their crypto, you're taking a pretty big risk in doing that, not only because obviously you take the risk of maybe one day getting caught, but also the risk of, like, of them even having access to their crypto at that point in time. Now, I'm not going to go through how I've, how I secure my funds, obviously, but, you know, you're basically saying you believe this person is going to be able to access their crypto then and there for you, and you're going to get that. You know, you're going to have long enough to get them to do that.
00:16:17.020 - 00:17:07.666, Speaker A: And then you're also saying that they, you're also kind of, like, assuming that they have a lot of money as well, right at the end of the day, and they have enough to kind of, like, send to you. And, I don't know, there's a lot of assumptions you have to make, especially. But, yeah, I would say that it's not something that I worry about on the regular. It's definitely, like, a concern for public people in this ecosystem. But at the same time, you know, for example, as I said, like, the risk of kind of, like, going after someone and not knowing how they store their funds. What if someone has, like, no access to their funds at all and they've got it secured away wherever it is? Like, they could have it in, like, a bank safety deposit box, or they could have their kind of, like, hybrid wallet there and they have their seed phrase split up with, you know, three or four family members or something, or have, like, a cipher. I mean, there's so many ways to secure your funds and your private keys and things like that that I don't know, I just don't think it's a huge thing.
00:17:07.666 - 00:17:32.337, Speaker A: And, you know, you mentioned that kind of, like, incident in Spain. Well, the thing is, is that, like, how many of these incidents has there actually been over the years? There hasn't been many, from what I, what I know. And how many crypto kind of, like, rich people are there? There's a lot. Right. And how many publicly rich people are there? There's a lot. So when you kind of look. And how many of those people actually scammed people to get the money as well? Like, think about all the scammers that are public that took people's money.
00:17:32.337 - 00:17:53.586, Speaker A: And how many of them have suffered kind of like, any kind of physical violence or stuff like this? So I don't know. That's kind of like how I think about it. But at the end of the day, there's not much I can do. I'm not going to hire a bodyguard to, to stay around me 24/7 that would just be stupid. Um, I just take care to, like, secure my funds as best that I. As my crypto funds as best that I can. Uh, like everyone should, by the way.
00:17:53.586 - 00:18:20.934, Speaker A: I mean, if you have more than, like, maybe $500. No, I would say $1,000. In crypto, you, you're definitely should have a hardware wallet. So that's just a reminder for everyone at least. Um, and then if you, you know, the, the more and more money you have in crypto, the more and more you should look at securing things. And especially, you know, it's easy for people to say, get a hardware wallet. But the most important thing is securing your, your seed phrase, right, your secret phrase, whatever they want to call it, those twelve or 24 words, because they give the attacker or anyone access to everything.
00:18:20.934 - 00:18:47.966, Speaker A: Like with the hardware wallet, even if they have your hardware wallet, there's a pin on it. So if they don't have the pin, there's not much they can do. If they enter that pin incorrectly three times, the hardware wallet actually resets itself and it's gone. Like, not even you can access that. So the ultimate way to access your funds is through that seed, that seed phrase, which you know, you have to obviously do to secure that properly. If you don't, it's obviously a big risk there and something that's like a central point of failure as well. So.
00:18:47.966 - 00:19:25.220, Speaker A: Yeah, just something to think about from that point of view. But, yeah, interesting question. So one here from KB House who says, do you know of any crypto tokens that allow us to get exposure to traditional stock indices such as the S and P 500 or the Nasdaq? I think there's some, maybe some synthetic ones out there on either synthetix, maybe Mira protocol. I, I have, haven't really kept up with this because I find the boomer stocks, as they're named, like incredibly boring and it's not something that I actively invest in. But yeah, they might. I think there's other projects out there as well that I just haven't kind of like looked at lately or haven't come across. But I guess, like if you.
00:19:25.220 - 00:20:00.698, Speaker A: And I mean, I mean, it's not just like within DeFi, it's also on centralized exchanges such as, I think FTX has a bunch of these and binance does as well. But those regulatory issues there. So I think they delisted some of them. I don't know. Yeah, I mean, you could probably just Google for it and find some there, but I'm not an expert on that, unfortunately. All right, so a question here from yawn, the fawn who asks, mind explaining what phone on is? David from bankless was saying it allows for bitcoin transfers between two hardware wallets without using the bitcoin blockchain, but that doesn't really make sense to me. Transfer transactions would necessarily have to be consented upon the network, by definition, for them to happen.
00:20:00.698 - 00:20:51.332, Speaker A: Think you could shed light here? So, phonon, for those who don't know, is an off chain privacy protocol. The really cool thing about phone on is that the way, the way this works is that you share your private key, right? You securely share your private key from one hardware device to the other. So phonon is going to work with the grid. So essentially what you can do is you can basically send your private key from your grid through over the phonon network to this other, to another grid plus or maybe even other side of the world, and only you two can see that because it's cryptographically secured by black moon math magic, I'm sure. But that's how it works. So it doesn't actually have to touch the blockchain itself, because essentially what happens is that the private key is securely transferred between these two devices. Now, there are kind of like other aspects to this as well.
00:20:51.332 - 00:21:39.684, Speaker A: And I suggest people go and read, you know, you can google phone on down, there's more information about this. But this sort of stuff, it uses very kind of like sophisticated cryptography to achieve this. So it doesn't actually need to touch the, any chain like this doesn't just apply to bitcoin, it applies to Ethereum as well. It doesn't need to touch the chain, which is, I think, a breakthrough, because that means you can do, you can do free kind of like transfers, secure transfers of private keys and seed phrases and stuff like that between hardware wallets, which is really awesome. So, and the reason why this works is because the fact that the private key lives on the device lives on the hardware device. So you can kind of like have a guarantee, have the guarantee that, that it has been shared correctly and that no one else has kind of like, seen it along the way as well. So, yeah, hopefully that shed some more light there for you.
00:21:39.684 - 00:22:39.720, Speaker A: And then you had another question here where you ask, is it the case that Reddit is forking arbitrary and working off that forked roll up for settling on Ethereum? Just heard this on bankless? If so, why? Why do that? Doesn't that leave you with a state of the l two chain that's no longer being maintained by the core arbitrum team and therefore subject to becoming stale? So what? Reddit's building is a all new instance of arbitrum. So arbitrum's network that's live right now is called arbitrum one. And, oh, sorry, my dog's barking again. Sorry, guys, one sec. Yes, it's called arbitrum one, the one that off chain labs that team building Arbitrum has deployed. But the thing is, anyone can use the arbitrum software to launch their own arbitrum network. It doesn't have to be a fork.
00:22:39.720 - 00:23:12.596, Speaker A: It can be like literally its own thing that has its own genesis, and that's exactly what Reddit is doing. So you could imagine Reddit calling theirs like arbitrary Reddit or something like that, and it would live at its own standalone, optimistic roll up using the same technology as arbitrum one does. But obviously it would diverge from there and Reddit would be able to do what they wanted with it. They'd be able to kind of like tweak it as they wanted because it's open source, do whatever they want. Or they could just follow arbitrum one's kind of like roadmap. They could just integrate whatever arbitram one does into their software stack. But yeah, that's kind of like how it works there.
00:23:12.596 - 00:23:51.270, Speaker A: It's not, it's not a fork. It's kind of like a new, a completely new instance. And, you know, you or I could do this as well. Like I could set up my own instance on my kind of like pc of an arbitrary kind of like chain. And as long as I'm obviously paying the l one gas fees and stuff like that, it becomes kind of like a roll up. And this is exactly what's happened with optimism recently, where people have other kind of like other, I guess, teams have forked it like Boba network, and I think Nami and stuff like that have kind of like, I guess, fork the code and kind of created their own kind of thing and branded it as their own thing but using the same technology. So, yeah, we're gonna see a lot of this happen, I think, not just with optimistic roll ups, but Zk roll ups as well.
00:23:51.270 - 00:24:23.548, Speaker A: Because as I've said on the refuel countless times now, I think the era of l one is pretty much like over, and now it's all about the l two s. And the easiest way to spin up an l two is not to build your own. It's to kind of like take the code from another l two, launch it, and try to get adoption on under a different brand, which we've seen this happen plenty of times in crypto. Right. And it's going to be, it's pretty wild to see how that plays out as well. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question. All right, so another one from Niket here who asks you mentioned that ethereum l one is trying to protect against attacks from nation states.
00:24:23.548 - 00:25:11.190, Speaker A: However, if a concentrated attack is made from such entities on all on ramps and off ramps, it would have no direct impact on the protocol, but it would still significantly impact price and the crypto ecosystem in general. Thoughts on that? You're correct. I've mentioned before on the refill that I think that the easiest way to attack crypto as a whole right now, or two easiest ways, is the first way you go after the on and off ramps, like the fiat on and off ramps, the centralized exchanges, especially the ones based in the US, very, very easy target. You can shut them down if you wanted to. I mean, right now, basically, the second is go after stable coins, which again, decentralized stablecoins, which again is just as an easy target as these exchanges. And the funny thing is Coinbase, centralized exchange run, I guess like is big partners in running USDC, the centralized stablecoin. So you could go for two for one if you wanted.
00:25:11.190 - 00:25:56.552, Speaker A: Shut down Coinbase, shut down USDC. Now the likelihood of this happening, very low, I think very low for a number of reasons. But in saying that if a nation state was to attack the actual base layer itself, I don't, I don't even know if that actually publicly kind of like state that they're attacking it. Because you could imagine the US army, for example, or the US military, whatever you want to call it, having a little kind of like division as part of their, their kind of like, you know, CIA or kind of what, NSA, all those divisions, and basically having like a secret team. And that secret team is tasked with taking down the ethereum network, for example. And they're not going to publicize this, right? They're not going to say, oh, we're attacking ethereum. Obviously, the ethereum network being open and everything would know that attack is happening, but it wouldn't know where it's coming from.
00:25:56.552 - 00:26:58.632, Speaker A: And it could be an attack that comes in many different flavors. So from that point of view, it'd be very kind of like different to the government basically being very public and saying, we're going to shut down Coinbase, we're going to shut down stable coins, which is what they're doing right now with kind of like signaling that they think stable coins need to be regulated much more heavily. So they're already doing that, but they're doing it out in the open. They're not covertly doing it, whereas I think with attacking the actual network, that would probably be more of a covert operation. But in saying that it's more about resisting nation states that are, I wouldn't, I don't know if I'd call them rogue nation states, but nation states like North Korea, right? Or kind of like places in eastern Europe and stuff like that, like Russia and things like that, or, or kind of like these places that people don't consider to have like a strong kind of like rule of law or aren't democracies and stuff like that. Those, and not even kind of like the existing nation states, but any future nation states as well that managed to kind of like, gain a lot of power defending. And it's not even just nation states, it's also kind of like massive corporate actors, too.
00:26:58.632 - 00:27:45.558, Speaker A: Defending against all of that is a theorem l one's goal. And the only way you do that is by making it as expensive as possible to, to attack l one, of course. And that's what Ethereum is optimizing for, especially with proof of stake. But, yeah, hopefully, I mean, I guess, like, hopefully that gives you my thoughts on that. I don't know, other people might have different thoughts to me on this, but I do think that any kind of attack on these networks that is a serious attack is not going to be advertised before it happens. Because one, you give the network, I guess, kind of like time to prepare for the attack, right? It's not, you know, it's not like if you're an army attacking another, another nation, another, sorry, army's base, you're going to tell them that you're coming, right? They may know because they've got their own spies and things like that. I don't know, I'm getting a bit, like, funny with the analogies here, but no one's going to, you know, they're not going to walk up there and say, hey, guys, we're going to attack you soon.
00:27:45.558 - 00:28:05.692, Speaker A: Just letting you know. Hope you're all good. Uh, you know, this is how we're going to do it. That's not going to happen, right. Um, they're going to just do it covertly, and then it's up to the network to recognize that it's under attack and it's up to the kind of like, ecosystem to defend against that as well. But making it as expensive as possible to attack Ethereum is the, is the goal. And under proof of stake, it just becomes so hard.
00:28:05.692 - 00:28:36.678, Speaker A: Like so, so hard. And that's why I think that, as I've said, the path of least resistance is the fiat on and off ramps, as you mentioned. And also the stable coins. What? Why would you kind of, like, spend all this time and money trying to attack the actual network where you can choke it by going after the fiat on and on ramps and the stable coins? That's why I'm a big advocate for decentralized stable coins. I'm a big advocate for a circular economy where we don't have to actually rely on fiat at all, but we're very far away from that, unfortunately. And we just have to hope that this industry doesn't get choked before we get to that point. I don't think it can.
00:28:36.678 - 00:29:06.478, Speaker A: I think it's already at a point where, you know, it's inevitable, but they could definitely slow us down if they did that. So we're going to have to keep an eye on that. I don't think the US would do it or any of kind of like almost of Europe and most of kind of like the countries that are considered western, but we've seen China crack down pretty hard on it already. And, you know, there might be maybe other countries out there that do this as well. But yeah, it's going to be kind of like a country by country basis, I think. So. A question here from Dixie, who asked question regarding the recent news about Commonwealth Bank.
00:29:06.478 - 00:29:27.736, Speaker A: Commonwealth banks supporting cryptocurrency purchases. You mentioned that you have an on ramp that is cheap and easy to reach from your bank account. I'm interested to know if you can disclose which on ramp this is, since I'm struggling with fees. So I'm going to assume that you're in Australia. So there's a few different ones that you can use. The two primary ones that I use are Kraken and coinjar. Now, I only use kraken for cashing out.
00:29:27.736 - 00:30:08.960, Speaker A: I don't use it for cashing in because I use coin jar to cash in. So Coinjar allows for what's called MPP, or it's called the new payments protocol that a few banks have signed up for, including Comm bank, that allow you to do instant deposits. And I think there's a limit of like $10,000 a day. Aud, I think you can increase that if you want, but that's my current limit on there because these days I don't do too much fiat, kind of like buyers of crypto, unfortunately. But, yeah, I mean, that's what I use. And the fees, I mean, the fees are relatively cheap because they have two things. You can either go through the normal coin giant, you know, buy and sell interface, or you could go to their Coinjar pro exchange, which allows you to kind of, like, trade on an order book.
00:30:08.960 - 00:30:45.796, Speaker A: I usually just go through the normal buy and sell process. Um, for me, you know, when I look at fees, if I'm buying ETH, and the fee, like, going from fiat is, like, 1%, like, it really, why do I care? Like, in the grand scheme of things, 1%. I mean, ETH moves 1%, like, every day, essentially. So to me, I'm actually happy to pay, like, a 1% fee. It doesn't actually make a big difference to me. But at the same time, I have a lot of coinjar points, which are, like, their loyalty points, which allow you to kind of, like, skip the fear altogether. But they're, I think, one of the cheapest, if not the cheapest in Australia, and they've got, like, decent liquidity as well.
00:30:45.796 - 00:30:57.172, Speaker A: And they're trusted. Like, I've used them. They've been around since, like, 2013. I've used them for a very long time. I've never had an issue with them. So that's the one that I use and a bit of color around how I use it as well. But there's plenty of exchanges now.
00:30:57.172 - 00:31:32.336, Speaker A: I'm sure there's probably better ones out there, but I stick with what I know. To be honest, I don't really kind of like, I mean, I don't keep any funds on these centralized exchanges, but, you know, there's always that risk of things getting stuck and then their support being really crap and taking forever to get back to you. Coinjar support's always been good to me. So, yeah, I'm a big advocate of them and have used them for years now. All right, question here from KB House. Who asks what's the best way to get from fiat to an l two directly without going through ETH mainnet and incurring horrendous fees? So right now, your options are, unfortunately, a little bit limited. I think crypto.com
00:31:32.336 - 00:32:29.640, Speaker A: has a direct on ramp to arbitrum, so you can use them. There's some centralized exchanges, like OKX and I think Okcoin and maybe a couple others out there that allow for direct l two onboarding. But there is another way. So what you can do is you can actually go to Polygon, or you can the polygon Pos chain from a centralized exchange, or you can go to BSC, or you could go to, I think, maybe even the avalanche sea chain and their EVM chains, and they have bridges to l two s, like hop protocol, for example. Now, you have to be careful about which bridge you use of course, because you're taking on extra risk, but they offer like cheap fees and obviously you're taking extra risk by being on these other networks in the first place. But I think if you're looking for like a straight on ramp to an l two and you're going to go from a centralized exchange anyway, it doesn't really matter if you go to one of these other networks first and then bridge in. So essentially that would probably be like an easy way to do it as well.
00:32:29.640 - 00:33:07.344, Speaker A: But I would use hop protocol connext, one of the kind of bridges that the cross chain bridges more so than the ones that kind of like do like a weird iou or locking of tokens because they are more risky. So yeah, those are the ones. That's an easy kind of like hack as well, or the workaround as well. Your second question, what are some bridge aggregators that you would recommend to use? So the one that I've used before is called Ally finance. I think there's maybe one or two others that I'm just not thinking of right now. But ally finance supports connext and a few other, I think, bridges right now. So you can definitely use that to go from multiple chains to multiple chains.
00:33:07.344 - 00:33:49.964, Speaker A: Another one here from yawn the faun who asks why would someone want to move assets from l two down to l one ia using a cross protocol. Shouldn't we all be migrating to l two and staying there with l one simply being a settlement layer for roll ups. So that's the long term vision, right? L1 being a settlement kind of like thing for roll ups. Settlement layer for roll ups. But the reason why someone goes from l two to l one is because currently most of the centralized exchanges do not support withdraw, sorry, deposits and withdrawals to these l two s. So if you want to cash out, right, you have to go to l one and then to these centralized exchanges. Or as I mentioned before, you can go to, you know, you can bridge out through to another chain and then go from that chain to a centralized exchange as well.
00:33:49.964 - 00:34:10.232, Speaker A: Another reason would be that they simply want to do things on l one that aren't on l two. Obviously the, it's very early in the l two rollout right now. There are missing apps on certain things like on arbitram. There's no money market, no rv optimism. It's still missing a lot of things on there. And there's other altoos like standalones like dy DX for example. You can only do perpetual trading on there.
00:34:10.232 - 00:34:36.037, Speaker A: And you might want to go back to l one because you want to do other things with your funds. Immutable x is only nfts right now. You know, I mean, there's, there's plenty of others out there, but that's essentially why you would want to go back. The two main reasons why you would want to go back to l one, and for some people it's simply security as well, where they're like, you know, they know that these l two s are still very centralized. They're not as secure. So maybe they don't want to keep a lot of money on these l two s just yet. They go there, do their business, come back to l one sort of thing.
00:34:36.037 - 00:35:08.584, Speaker A: So, so those are the reasons, off the top of my head that I can think of, of why someone would want to go back to l one. For now, maybe, you know, in the long term, most people won't want to go back to l one at all, or almost all people won't, but for now, that's just the state of the market. All right, a question here from md triple five. Who asks, are you aware of any single sided liquidity options on l two s or Polygon? No, not right now. I am not really up to speed with like liquidity providing and single sided liquidity providing. I don't actually provide liquidity to anything right now. I haven't done so in a while.
00:35:08.584 - 00:35:51.280, Speaker A: Um, but, uh, yeah, I mean, unfortunately not. If you want to ask this question in the defi channel in the discord, I'm sure someone will be able to answer that there better for you? There's a lot of, um, we've got a lot of guild farmers in the Discord channel, so you'll get an answer there for sure. All right, a question here from yawn the fawn. Who asks, what is weth or wrapped ETH? And why would one ever need it when there is ETH? So the reason why wrapped ETH exists is because ETH isn't an ERC 20 token. And because ETH isn't an ERC 20 token, it means it cannot be used natively in pretty much most defi apps. Because these defi apps are. I mean, the smart contracts are coded up to run using ERC 20 tokens and using the ERC 20 token standard, and they do not work with native ETH.
00:35:51.280 - 00:36:26.920, Speaker A: Some of them do, but for the most part they don't, and it's actually easier to work with and reason about all these tokens if they're all the same standard. So that's why it's kind of like ERC 20 and the other token standards out there, I haven't really seen any adoption. It's kind of like a winner take all market. That's why wrapped ether was created now and why you would, why you would need it and use it instead of ETH. And in saying that they are exactly the same asset, wrapped ether is a smart contract. So when you put your ETH into it, you're basically, you're using the smart contract to wrap your ETH and transform it into wrapped ether. But it, that smart contract is very, very basic.
00:36:26.920 - 00:36:52.048, Speaker A: It's been around for a very long time. I think it's been around for six years at this point. It's been, you know, obviously audited like crazy, and people have looked at it like crazy. The chance of there being a bug or an exploit in there is pretty much zero at this point, so. And then the reason why it's equivalent is because you can always unwrap that ETH. No one can stop you from doing that. You can do that non custodially, so you can always wrap and unramp it using the contract.
00:36:52.048 - 00:37:37.726, Speaker A: And as I said, the reason you would want to do it is because it's much more compatible with smart contracts than ETH is. All right. One here from Dom who asks, I know it's a bit early to talk about this, but would you consider smart wallets in their final form, where they're headed as being part of layer three? In my opinion, better, safer, simple ux with seamless interoperability across l two zk rollups while preserving self custody seems like a massive shift. It abstracts nerdy, spooky handling of keys into a more adoptable form. For the general public, this kind of abstraction could be its own layout, especially given that l two interoperability means they could be thought of as living on top of l two, the same way l two s live on top of l one. What are your thoughts on this? I think the layer terminology is going to be phased out, to be honest. I've already seen people start doing this.
00:37:37.726 - 00:38:24.230, Speaker A: You know, everyone's favorite polynyar has started doing this. I think it's just a kind of like, I guess like a relic of. Of times gone by at this point in terms of like, referring to things as l one and l two, obviously it's going to persist for quite a while. I don't think that terminology is going to go away anytime soon, but I'm not a fan of introducing more terminology like layer three and layer four and layer five and just keep going like that because I think it just confuses everyone. I would just kind of like refer to the layer three as you put it in this kind of like context as the interface layer or the user interface layer. Right. Rather than layer three because layer one and L2 have very defined technical meanings where layer one is the consensus layer and L2 is the execution layer.
00:38:24.230 - 00:38:57.242, Speaker A: Whereas if you say like layer three is like the interface layer, it's less of a technical thing and more of a kind of like visual interface thing rather than you know, getting into the weeds of the technicals. So yeah, I personally would avoid using more layered terminology. I get where you're coming from for sure. I understand where you're coming from. But I think that if we want to keep things simple and keep things and keep the kind of like narrative simple as well, I would, I would just err on the side of not using that layered speaks, so to speak. So, so yeah. All right, I'm going to take a quick break here.
00:38:57.242 - 00:39:53.518, Speaker A: Drink break. We'll be back in a minute. Alright, next question, another one from Niket which l two s are truly decentralized. So there's only one right now actually out of all of them that are truly decentralized don't have kind of like centralized admin keys or anything like that. So. And that one is the one that's actually not used for anything right now, funny enough. So that's fuel from fuel labs.
00:39:53.518 - 00:40:35.560, Speaker A: This is an optimistic roll up. It is the only truly decentralized, optimistic, sorry, L2 out there in terms of, I mean I guess like I would say in terms of not having an admin key and kind of like putting all their stuff on l one, kind of like following all the best practices. But in saying that it still suffers from the fact that there's a centralized operator for the sequencer so they could censor you. So you know, they could drop your transactions. So if you take that view then that isn't even truly decentralized. So speaking from that view, I would say none of them right now, but the worst that they could do, at least kind of the worst that fuel could do would be to censor, you know. And then there's kind of like other things with the other l two s out there.
00:40:35.560 - 00:41:11.474, Speaker A: Some of them have like very, very centralized kind of like keys. Some of them keep their data off chain so there's other things they can do. I would recommend checking out the l two beat website at l two beat.com dot. If you click into any of these l two s it'll actually describe to all the ways that your funds could potentially be, you know, lost or censored or, you know, what's missing from this to, sorry, what, what centralized controls exist on these things. It gives you a full breakdown, a better breakdown that I can, but I would say fuel is the closest, but none of the other ones are close right now. They obviously want to work towards that, but they're not right now because it's still very early days.
00:41:11.474 - 00:41:39.980, Speaker A: All right, who, I see you. I'm going to invite you up onto the stage. You can ask your question. You just got to click accept. I just invited you. It's still there. Maybe it didn't work.
00:41:39.980 - 00:42:20.124, Speaker A: There we go. That's all good. Sorry, can you repeat that? Sorry. Okay. Why? Yeah, why? The Ethereum foundation decided to send, I think it was 20,000 ETH to Kraken. So, I mean, I don't think anyone knows, to be honest. I think obviously everyone assumes that it is because they're gonna kind of like sell it or whatever.
00:42:20.124 - 00:43:01.940, Speaker A: That's what you do when you send things to a centralized exchange. Uh, there was a bit of speculation around it in terms of what I think the Ethereum foundation sends kind of like ETH to exchanges, kind of like all the time. If you look at their account, they've done it many times in the past. And I know some people were saying that they do this whenever they think the market's going to top. There's actually only kind of like one instance of this happening, I think, and that was back in the 2017 kind of like cycle where the Ethereum Foundation, I think, sold ETH at like $1,000, and then obviously ETH topped at 1400. This time they did it back in May as well, where they sent some, some ETH in, but they didn't technically sell the market cycle top. Right, because we're now at new all time highs as part of, like, this market cycle.
00:43:01.940 - 00:43:37.094, Speaker A: So that pervert, that, that narrative of like, the Ethereum foundation, whenever they sell, they send ETH to an exchange. It means that, you know, we're going to imminently crash. I don't believe that. And I also think that the funny thing is, is that when you kind of like, look at this and you kind of look at, I guess, what they can do with that ETH on the exchange, and there's many different things. You know, maybe they, I kind of, like, I speculated myself that there, it's towards the end of the year, maybe they're getting ready to pay out end of year bonuses. To their staff in the form of ETH. And they, and they don't want to, uh, go, you know, they don't want to dox everyone's address, so they go through a centralized exchange to do this.
00:43:37.094 - 00:44:00.022, Speaker A: That's one possible, um, uh, one possible outcome there. Another one is that they want to split up the funds, um, into different kind of wallets, so they want to preserve the privacy there as well. Another one is, yes, they could be selling it to fund their operations. I mean, the Ethereum foundation, I don't know how many people they have on, on the books, but it's not a cheap enterprise. They have a lot of people to pay. There's a lot of people doing research and development there. There's a lot of other things going on.
00:44:00.022 - 00:44:28.486, Speaker A: So they have bills to pay. Um, and, you know, maybe they just want to do effective treasury management and protect against their downside. Maybe they, they see the kind of like price where it is now, and they're like, okay, well, let's sell $90 million worth of ETH right now. And that gives us Runway for x amount of years sort of thing. So there's many different ways it can go. You, you'll never, I don't think we're ever going to get an answer of, um, kind of like what actually is happening with that ease. But I don't buy into people saying that it's gonna, you know, it means that the market's imminently gonna crash.
00:44:28.486 - 00:44:55.824, Speaker A: I don't know, I just think there's like one, and if you want to stretch a definition of a, two data points of this happening in the past, whereas there's other data points where they've sent ETH to exchanges and the market's been fine. I mean, they did it, they did it in December of last year. I think they sent 100,000 ETH or something to an exchange. And we were at dollar 500 in December of last year, and now we're at 4500. So, yeah, I guess those are my general thoughts on it. I would say not to worry too much about it, I think. All right, thank you.
00:44:55.824 - 00:45:36.846, Speaker A: No worries. Cool. Onto the next question here. So this one comes from Niket, again, who asks, while Ens as a project could do extremely well, how do you project the price of a token like Ens, since it has no utility apart from governance? I don't know. I'm not going to give, like, my framework, I guess, for projecting the price of any given token. I would say that it's, it's always tricky with these, with these tokens, right? I mean, I still hold my ans. So I'm not, I'm not, I'm not kind of, I'm not saying just as sorry, I just as a disclaimer there, I still hold my ans on sassle ETH.
00:45:36.846 - 00:46:23.778, Speaker A: You can go see it and everything. I don't think I'm going to sell it or anything. But when you look at these tokens and you look at what kind of like they're used for, I mean, I think people discount the, you know, what governance can actually be used for and how important governance is. But at the same time, I also think people don't realize how important attention is in this kind of like in this space. I did a video on Twitter the other day, like a ten minute video. I'm sure some of you have watched it where I talked about attention within crypto and how the things that have long term value are the things that kind of like are able to gain to get attention on them and get long term attention, not just short term attention. Now, I think the token that is worth kind of like comparing Ens to or two tokens would be something like GTC, which is gitcoins token, or uni, which is obviously unique token.
00:46:23.778 - 00:46:47.098, Speaker A: Now, I hold a lot of GTCs as a disclaimer there as well. That's at sassle ETH two. So I'm not trying to pump my bags here or anything, but if you kind of compare them, I think they're in the same kind of like stage of their life where they're popular Ethereum based products. They're only governance tokens. There's no kind of like dividends or anything being. Being paid out to them. People are kind of like trying to value them, but they're like much loved Ethereum darling projects.
00:46:47.098 - 00:47:27.664, Speaker A: Is that enough to kind of like keep them from going up in value? Maybe. But you know, they all started with very high market caps, especially like ens started with a very high, fully diluted market cap. Obviously, you know, that's vesting out over time and stuff like that. But, you know, I've been pretty public in the Discord channel about how I feel about coins with very high, fully diluted market caps from the get go. I feel like they bring forward all of their kind of like future price discovery, and then what ends up happening is that over the, over the years, that has to basically be priced in. And you may have like a price that stays, you know, maybe relatively flat against USD, but also bleeds against ETH. So the way I measure my portfolio.
00:47:27.664 - 00:48:10.908, Speaker A: And like, anything that's not ETH in my portfolio is I measure it against ETH. If I'm not outperforming ETH, then the thing that I'm holding may as well be like completely non existent. Like, there's no point me holding it if I am not outperforming ETH. And to outperform ETH over the long term is incredibly hard. Like, if you go look at pretty much most of the, the charts against ETH for most of the tokens that have been popular at any given time, they've pretty much all underperformed ETH over the long term. Even the most popular tokens, like the perfect example is wifi. That was one of the, if not the most popular and most bullish token for, I guess probably from when it launched till maybe like September last year, which was like three or four months, it went crazy.
00:48:10.908 - 00:48:49.334, Speaker A: It obviously started at zero, went to like 44, $45,000. It went to like 110 ETH per Wi Fi. But then over the last year or so, it's gone from like a peak of 110 to, I think, seven or eight ETH per wifi, which is a 90 plus percent drop if I'm doing my math correctly there. So when you look at these sorts of things, it's not, it's not good enough to just look at it against USD. You also need to look at it against ETH. So for me, you know, it's kind of like hard to tell. And as, I mean, I don't, I don't give investment advice here, but I mean, I haven't been shy about the fact that I just, a lot of these tokens, when measured against ETH, I just look at them and I'm just like, okay, I know ether has a much higher market cap.
00:48:49.334 - 00:49:15.426, Speaker A: I know that kind of, like, ETH for me in general, is like a longer term hold. And then you can, you can probably ride the short term waves on these sorts of things, but it's also an attention game. Like will ens keep its attention long enough to keep the price kind of like where it is or going up. I think it will. I mean, es is pretty popular, but. But then you can look at other things, like uni as a comparable thing, or GTC. They've been flat against USD and down against ETH.
00:49:15.426 - 00:49:35.226, Speaker A: So, you know, and that's, I'm not trying to pick on any one token here. And as I said, like, I have GTC as well. So I'm probably like, fighting my bags here. But when you look at it from that perspective, it's very, very hard. And as I said, you can ride the short term waves. You can outperform in the short term like you did. Amazingly, if, you know, if you did this trade where people do this, it's very hard to do this.
00:49:35.226 - 00:50:24.080, Speaker A: I'm going to make it sound easy, but if you did this trade where you basically went from, you put ETH into Wifi at the very beginning, right? Say you bought it at like $1,000, which was the price that it stayed at for a little bit for a couple of days, gave everyone a chance to buy it. And I think it was like, maybe, I don't know what it was, five or ten ETH per wifi or something like that, or kind of like probably, maybe, maybe a bit more than that. I'm not exactly sure what the price was. But say, say you bought one wifi for ten ETH and then you sold it at like near the top. Say you sold it for like 80 ETH and you did that kind of like rotation over the, over the short term, and then you just held that ETH until now. You would have made like, obviously an eight times on your ETH and then against USD by holding ETH, you would have made like, I mean, ETH was like $400 back then. You would have made over a ten x, like eleven x plus at this point.
00:50:24.080 - 00:50:54.344, Speaker A: Now, obviously, no one really does that. Like, there's some people that do. Do that. It's very hard to do that. But this is why things kind of like bleed as well, is that some people who, the people that they do this at the top, but then as it keeps bleeding, people keep doing it and then ETH keeps going up because ETH is really bullish as an asset. So you have both, like an asset that went up a lot in value coming down from its own little market cycle. But at the same time, you have people rotating back into ETH, which pushes ETH up and it becomes this cycle of being incredibly hard to outperform ETH.
00:50:54.344 - 00:51:17.208, Speaker A: And then on top of that, you have to factor in taxes. Your taxes are dominated in fear, they're not dominated in ETH. So even if you outperform ethnic, you have to outperform ETH after taxes because you have to sell to cover those taxes. So it's just, it's hard, and it's, and that's why it's very hard to value anything in this ecosystem. Not just things that are, quote unquote, just governance tokens. I'm talking absolutely anything even things with cash flow. Sushi has cash flow.
00:51:17.208 - 00:51:58.230, Speaker A: It's dead against ETH, right? There's. I mean, there's other ones out there that have cash flow, like aave, I think, and MKR, technically, with the burn all dead against ETH, ETH has cash flow, too, because of the burnout. ETH has better cash flow than all these tokens. And I talked about this in the Discord channel the other day where I basically said that ETH has better tokenomics than, than all of these tokens right now because it has, you know, $60 to $80 million of fee burn a day. Like, crazy amounts of fee burn a day, which is technically a dividend because that flows back to ETH holders. It has incredible ways to increase the scarcity of ETH, right? It has staking, it has defi, it has, you know, store, a store of value, moneyness. It also has all of the attention.
00:51:58.230 - 00:52:38.844, Speaker A: And it's a shelling point for people who are like, well, if I want to get exposure to the ethereum ecosystem, how do I do this? Well, I buy ETH, right? If I want to get exposure to l two s, how do I do this? There's not many l two tokens these days, so I just buy ETH. So when you compare ETH to, like, every other asset on Ethereum, and not even just on ethereum, like every other asset, like in crypto, some of them may outperform over the short term, but over the long term, most of them get just utterly destroyed because ETH is the asset most people want to hold. And I'm not just saying that because, like, obviously I hold ETH, but, you know, I hold a lot of ETH. And most my portfolio right now is ETH because of the fact that I believe that ETH is going to outperform everything. And I don't want to. I don't. I'm not a trader.
00:52:38.844 - 00:52:58.042, Speaker A: I don't think I can spot tops and bottoms on things and rotate out and stuff like that. Sometimes I'll. I'll rotate things. But I have bought things, you know, over the last year that didn't outperform Ethan. I actually ended up kind of like being down against ETH. Now, granted, I bought them with fiat, but I still would have just been better off buying ETH instead of buying this other token and taking on all that extra risk. So.
00:52:58.042 - 00:53:22.500, Speaker A: So, yeah, I mean, maybe that. I don't know if that answers your question about kind of like the. How. How the price of ens is going to go, but that's just my framework of how I think about tokens in general. Thinking about them against us, these all well and good, but thinking about them against ETH is the real winner there. Because by buying these other tokens, you're taking on a shit ton more risk than you are by just buying ethnicity. And you, you want to be compensated for that risk with extra reward.
00:53:22.500 - 00:54:05.674, Speaker A: If you're not being compensated with extra reward for taking on that risk, then there really wasn't, wasn't any point in doing that. And then most people, you know, that are investing in these things are doing so over the long term, which just makes it even harder. Like if you're a long term investor, you're not flipping in and out of things, especially if you have to pay short term capital gains tax, like in the US and where I am in Australia, it gets really painful paying short term cap gains tax and then kind of like being down against ethics. I don't know. For me, it just doesn't end up being, being worth it over the long term. That's not to say that you shouldn't buy these things and you shouldn't have an investment thesis on them, but you really need to be careful if you're trying to kind of like outperform ETH because it is incredibly hard to do so. Yeah, again, not investment advice, just the framework of how I think about things.
00:54:05.674 - 00:54:52.970, Speaker A: All right, onto the next question from axiomatics. Who says, who asks, is there a risk of future gas being so high due to mass demand on scaled roll up centric ethereum that staking Ethan l one becomes inaccessible for small investors in reverse accrued yield from a couple of ETH staked now would be, would at best cover gas costs two to three, two to three years from now. So I would say that smaller stakers are already kind of like priced out of l one. I mean, you can see with rocket pool going live, it's not economical to stake with rocket pool unless you're staking like, you know, one 8th. I guess at this point, because of the fact that the gas fees are going to cost you too much, it's going to eat into any of the future yield that you would have gotten. So unfortunately it's already at that point. But there are ways around this.
00:54:52.970 - 00:55:30.048, Speaker A: You can do like batched kind of like onboarding into these sorts of things. You could have like exchanges cover the cost for users and then just take a fee on that. There's multiple ways to do it, but you know, and then, and then kind of like you go on about the accrued yield from ETH staked, I guess, like, yes, but you could probably just wait longer for that, uh, for the yield to build up and then kind of like withdraw there. But I think in the future, there may be something at the protocol level that can be done where essentially you can kind of, like, have it so that, um, the fees are much less for withdrawing out of. Out of staking. Uh, because I guess, like, the cheapest thing you can do on ethereum today is, uh, send ETH. It's 21,000 gas that could be lowered, to be honest.
00:55:30.048 - 00:56:11.946, Speaker A: I mean, there's no reason it has to be that high. Um, and that would just basically apply to staking as well. So in the future, it could be the gas cost of kind of like withdrawing from staking or withdrawing kind of like the yield that you've got, or staking in general, could be brought down through kind of like what they called opcode changes, where the gas costs for the opcodes go down as well. So, yeah, we'll have to see how that plays out. But I would say right now, unfortunately, smaller stakers have definitely been kind of, like, priced out, even with rocket pool. But there's going to be solutions coming, I believe. All right, a question here from Khan Limany, who says, with the power of quantum computers, in three to four years, I read that they will be able to crack any current cipher that the world is going to need to move to a new level.
00:56:11.946 - 00:56:39.154, Speaker A: Post quantum cipher. Thoughts? How will this affect security of Ethereum? Is this on the roadmap? So I don't know how close, quote, unquote, quantum computing is. I haven't really looked into it myself. I've been hearing about it for a very long time. But one thing I will say, it is on the Ethereum roadmap, but it is something that has been thought about quantum, you know, post quantum resistance. I'm pretty sure Justin Drake has been looking into this a lot, so maybe he's written something about it. I'm not sure, but it's definitely something that's being thought about.
00:56:39.154 - 00:57:39.986, Speaker A: But I don't think we'd probably have to worry about it for a few years still, maybe even longer than three to four years. And, you know, the funny thing is, if that if we, if quantum computers was able to break all the existing encryption today, I think, like, crypto would be the least of people's worries because, I mean, encryption is used everywhere, right? It's used for, like, all authentication, authentication across the web, for securing very sensitive data, for securing banks and stuff like that. So I think that if we do get to that world where I guess, like, quantum computers are capable of doing this, the kind of, like, fix on Ethereum would be deployed very, very quickly, just like it would be around the world. All right. One here from Kleinio Campolina, who asks one thing that annoys me a lot is how Ethan, other crypto assets follow BTC in every dump. Do you think this correlation will someday cease? What has to happen for it to stop? So I think the thing is, is that you can look at short term and long term correlations. Short term, of course, everything's going to dump together or pump or kind of like pump together in the very short term.
00:57:39.986 - 00:58:02.710, Speaker A: And you got to kind of, like, define your timelines here as well. The most kind of like, liquid pairs. Like, if BTC is. So if BTC is dumping, yes, most things will dump with it. But this is over the short term. If you're talking about long term correlations, you can even just, like, look at ETH against bitcoin. Since the bottom in March of 2020, ETH has outperformed bitcoin by, like, what was it, 0.02
00:58:02.710 - 00:58:32.458, Speaker A: to 0.07 today? I guess like three and a half times. Right. So that is an anti correlation there where ETH has outperformed over 18 months. And it's not just ETH. There's a lot of other things that have outperformed bitcoin and outperformed ETH over, you know, over the kind of, like, over certain periods of time. But in the short term, because a lot of the trading is done by bots and traders, these things are going to correlate very, very heavily, especially if the king of crypto, in terms of, like, liquidity kind of, you know, dumps, of course that's going to happen.
00:58:32.458 - 00:59:05.706, Speaker A: The same thing happens in equities and any other market. It's not unique to crypto. If you go look at it when the whole stock market is down on the day, like, I guess, like, the biggest stock goes down, say, you know, Tesla dumps on the Nasdaq, other tech stocks tend to go down with it. Right. Um, but I think in crypto becomes much more pronounced because of the fact that the market seems to just look at BTC as, like, this asset that, um, kind of, like, controls everything that's come down over time, I believe. I think it used to be a lot worse than it is today, and I think that's changing over time. But it just takes time for the market to catch up to.
00:59:05.706 - 00:59:37.844, Speaker A: It takes time for other kind of like coins to build liquidity. But also, as I said, it's, it's over the short term. Short term, I'm talking like, you know, maybe a day, couple of days, three days, it's all determined by, by these bots and traders. But you can even look at things where, you know, I mean, even in the short term, there can be anti correlations where bitcoin could go down, but ETH could go up, because people are selling bitcoin for ETH, for example. And there's other examples of this happening. You know, funny enough, the other day, I think it was a couple weeks ago, people were saying BTC and ETH for Shib. Shib was going up a lot.
00:59:37.844 - 01:00:26.928, Speaker A: BTC and ETH were going down, and then there was actually a rotation happening, and then the rotation happened the other way and BTC and ETH went up. So I think that the market matures over time, but also in the very, very short term, it's going to be mostly correlated to bitcoin and to ETH. And if they kind of like dump, the rest of the market will sell off because of these kind of like arbitrage bots and traders just kind of seeing this, seeing these kind of like, signals and being like, okay, you know, let's go risk off now, just, you know, for the very short term, and let's go risk on again. So, so, yeah, so hopefully that answers your question about that. All right, one here from act three, who says, could you explain, like on five, this moshy tetra node curve gauge thing? I think I mostly understand what happened, but not completely. This seems like one of the more interesting events of the last week. So I'm not gonna say I know totally what happened here.
01:00:26.928 - 01:01:06.994, Speaker A: I followed it loosely, to be honest. It kind of felt like just really bizarre. But from what I know, there was this thing called mochi finance, not Moshi mochi finance, that basically spun up. They got a bunch of money, they bought CVX tokens, so convex tokens, they deposited those convex tokens to kind of like bribe themselves to get like a higher yield on their curve gauge for their stable coin, which was called USDM. And they were able to kind of like redirect, redirect liquidity there. But they also kind of like drain the pool, I believe, as well, to do this, they kind of like drain their pool with USDM for like Dai and USDC, and then bought the CVX doing that. So.
01:01:06.994 - 01:01:47.544, Speaker A: And it was a bit hard to follow because there's a lot of stuff going on there's a lot of people kind of like, you know, fighting each other, like berating each other. But essentially it was basically, you know, there's this kind of concept of bribing within curve where you kind of like lock up crv tokens to get the best yield on your, your curve gauge so that people kind of like go into your pool instead of other pools and that's what kind of like they did here. And then there was this kind of like mochi token that people were like speculating on because it was like a dog token or something. It was weird. And then Tetra no got involved and was like, you know, I'm gonna dump this to the ground. And then eventually curve got involved with their emergency dow. And I think just like remove the pool or something because I said it was like a systemic risk.
01:01:47.544 - 01:02:25.002, Speaker A: So, yeah, it was, it was a bit messy. I think there might be a post mortem someone will post, maybe it's already been posted, but I'm sure someone will post about it. But hopefully that gives you like a little bit of an overview of what happened. And as I said, I am not fully up to speed with it, so I probably can't give an explain like I'm five, but essentially it was just like, I guess, classic defi drama, really, from what I saw. All right, quick drink break and then I'll go on to the next question. All right, one here from I don't even. Who says? The company I work for was founded in a typical centralized framework.
01:02:25.002 - 01:02:56.392, Speaker A: The company is transitioning to a more broad based ownership model as the founder phases out and the current leadership has become interested in some of the decentralized autonomous organization schemes as food for thought as they establish. Home ownership can extend into the future. How ownership, sorry, not home owner ownership can extend into the future. I don't think they will go full tokenized decentralization, but they are interested in enabling more people in the company to participate in its development and direction. Do you have any good resources? I can send them on the mechanisms behind decentralizing ownership and decision making. Poor. There's a lot of resources around Dallas.
01:02:56.392 - 01:03:27.720, Speaker A: I mean, I don't know if there's kind of like the ultimate guide to dows, but I can't even kind of like, begin to tell you how many kind of like blog posts I've seen on daos, how many kind of groups are working on daos, how many people are talking about it, and governance in general. I think. I think. Ask me this question in the Discord channel and I'll link you some things because I just don't have anything right now to send you in front of me. But there's a lot, there's a lot of writings on this. There's a lot of kind of like mechanisms and kind of like thoughts around this. It's chaotic, I'll give you that.
01:03:27.720 - 01:04:17.504, Speaker A: There's no riot or wrong way to do it, there's just a bunch of different experiments playing out right now. But yeah, definitely just ask me this on discord, tag me and I'll kind of like send you a bunch of links because I just don't have them right now. So sorry about that. All right, a question here from go one who asks, the way Olympus Dao works might be revolutionary. Majority of the LP tokens will be held by its DAO, but a small group of people, aka the team, actually control the liquidity, the LP tokens. Isn't this concentration of the tokens centralized centralization and going to be a concern in the long run? So yeah, it is centralized when there is just kind of like a core team and there's no kind of like token voting and there's like a multi sig, but I guess like the plan is to have it controlled by a dao, right? In the longer term. So I would say short term, very centralizing, long term, very, very bullish.
01:04:17.504 - 01:04:56.370, Speaker A: I'm actually incredibly bullish on this concept of protocols owning their own liquidity because it means that there's not a chance of the liquidity being rugged by random people providing liquidity and all of the value, like a lot of the value generated by the actual kind of like liquidity pool, the fees go to the Dow as well. So the Dow is actually generating revenue not just on their own products, but also on providing the liquidity for their own token. And then once it goes to a proper dao model with Token, token voted, token weighted voting, there is kind of like a lot more decentralization to it as well. So I would say long run not to be no concern, as long as they actually transition to a proper Dow. Short term. Sure. Yeah.
01:04:56.370 - 01:05:36.266, Speaker A: There's always the same concerns with centralization that for this as there are in like any other aspect of centralization. All right, a question here from who? Another one here. How do you think these other l one chains perform once or if a bear market actually occurs? As someone who wasn't here during the 2017 2018 crash, I've heard that other ethereum killers back then slowly died and became zombie chains, Nio ICX, etcetera. Do you see something similar happening with other l one s. Something like liquidity exiting these chains also once the liquidity programs end. Or is it different now? So this is a fun question to answer because I honestly have kind of like, I guess like two. I mean, two minds about this.
01:05:36.266 - 01:06:12.284, Speaker A: It's like a 50 50. So you're right in saying that there are a lot of these other l one chains in, I guess, 2017 and even 2018 that garnered a lot of attention but basically amounted to nothing. So you had eos, neo icon, aon wan chain, QTM, Tron, bunch of others, right? And now in the fresh crop that you have these days, completely different. You have BSc, obviously. You have Solana, you have, I'm not even gonna mention Cardano. You have Polkadot. You have avalanche, you have terra, you have, I mean, I'm just scrolling down coingecko.
01:06:12.284 - 01:07:01.118, Speaker A: You have, like, algorand ve chain. I think that ve chain was around in 2017 as well. Funny enough, Cosmos. I don't really consider Cosmos an ethereum killer, but hashgraph, phantom, all these other things, right? Elrond don't even know half of these things these days. I would say that for a lot of them, the same thing's gonna play out that played out for these other l one s, especially as kind of, we get more of these l two chains online, and these l ones literally become, like, totally obsolete. But the thing is, is that when you look at how these l one s valued, it's all narrative, because most people aren't using these things. And for example, the perfect example, and I will mention Cardano here, they didn't have smart contracts until recently, and they still have nothing going on in their chain, right? The smart contracts that they launched are basically useless, but they.
01:07:01.118 - 01:07:26.214, Speaker A: Their network value got up to, what, $100 billion just on pure marketing and memes. And narrative alone had nothing to do with fundamentals. That doesn't actually work in a bear market, because in a bear market, there's not much dumb capital around. There is some here and there. There's not much new capital around or, like, new people in the ecosystem that kind of, like, can be swayed into these sorts of things. So those things get weirded out, because as I was mentioning before, they lose their attention. They lose that kind of attention game.
01:07:26.214 - 01:07:42.580, Speaker A: There's. And they crash really hard. All of the Ethereum killers from back in 2017 are down a lot against ETH. And I mean a lot like 90% plus against ETH. Some of them are down 95% plus. And I know 90% to 95% doesn't sound like a massive kind of, like, difference. It is.
01:07:42.580 - 01:08:03.410, Speaker A: It means it dumped another, dumped 50% again. So it's a huge kind of, like, difference there. But I will say that there are some ecosystems today that have a lot of money in them, right? And they've actually managed to form somewhat of a community, for better or worse. But they have a lot of money. And I. And the obvious ecosystems here is something like Solana. They.
01:08:03.410 - 01:08:28.173, Speaker A: I mean, everyone knows my opinions on Solana at this point, but purely from kind of like a funding perspective, they have enough money to last them a very long time. And they're also trying, I think, with eos. What end? I think eos and Solana are very similar. But the thing about eos is that they didn't try. They took the money, they sold the ETH for bitcoin, and then they just didn't try to do anything with eos. I actually consider eos to be a scam, if I'm being honest. I thought.
01:08:28.173 - 01:08:54.479, Speaker A: I thought it was a scam back then. I think it's a scam now. I think it was literally just used to extract as much value as possible from people then through their race, because they had a year long ICO, they raised a ton of ETH. They sold all that ETH for bitcoin, and now they have, like, 300,000 bitcoin in their treasury or something crazy like that that they're just sitting on. So that was pure value extraction. Whereas with Solana, you know, just use an example here. They're actually trying to get adoption.
01:08:54.479 - 01:09:13.234, Speaker A: They're actually trying to onboard developers and trying to do things, and they have the money to do it. They have backing not only from their own, kind of like the Solana Foundation, Sol tokens that they have. They also have a lot of VC's interested. They also have FTX backing. Obviously. That's a pretty powerful backup right there. And then choose another example.
01:09:13.234 - 01:09:40.935, Speaker A: You have BSc, which has binance backing it. We all know BSc is kind of like, you know, total crap, total centralized. It's just like a casino. But that's what a lot of people want, a lot of people do, a lot of people use. And binance can just keep throwing money at it and kind of like onboarding people into it and keep it going for a long time now. You know what's going to happen to their tokens? Do their tokens actually outperform, continue to outperform ETH over the long run? I don't know. This is purely from kind of like, I guess, the tech narrative perspective.
01:09:40.935 - 01:10:13.878, Speaker A: But the vast majority of these l one s are going to become obsoleted by l two s. And if we do go into a kind of, like, longer term, I wouldn't. I don't know if I'd call it a bear market, but just say we go into a bear market for a year, where the prices of things keep going down, you know, most new people are gone. It's really only the hardcore kind of, like, believers left. Then, yes, they're going to get obliterated. Their value is going to go down really, really hard against USD, and it's going to go down even harder against ETH. I can pretty much say that with 100% confidence, because they lose because of the fact that in a bear market, there is hardly anyone to get attention from.
01:10:13.878 - 01:10:30.800, Speaker A: And a lot of the people who stick around in a bear market are here for, like, the tech. And a lot of these other things don't have interesting tech. A lot of them are literally just clones of the EVM. Right. BSc is an evM, right. It's just an centralized Ethereum phantom. EVM avalanche only has an EVM chain online right now.
01:10:30.800 - 01:10:57.778, Speaker A: There's other ones out there, too. I mean, Tron was a fork of the theorem. It still is a fork of Ethereum. You know, Tron didn't try either. Tron just like a pure scam, too. But when looking at all this stuff in aggregate, I think it's safe to say that holding these l one tokens, kind of like a long term, especially the ones that require new blood to come in and don't actually have any kind of like, good adoption or good tech, in my opinion. I wouldn't do it.
01:10:57.778 - 01:11:42.158, Speaker A: Not investment advice, but I wouldn't do it. I mean, I don't hold any l one token except ETH anyway, but. And I think that if we do go into a bear market, doesn't really matter for ETH, ETH price will go down, of course. Like, it's not going to be immune to that, but eats attention, will not eat, will still have the attention still of the developers, still have the ecosystem, still have the community, that already went through the most brutal bear market in crypto history, where ETH fell 94% more than bitcoin had ever fallen in any of its market cycles, by the way, besides the first one, I think the really early one, and it was extremely brutal, and ETH came back from that, ethereum bounced back from that. Are these l one is going to bounce back from that when, if it inevitably happens, you know, if we go into a bear market? I doubt it. None of the other ones did because they lost the attention. They didn't have money to, and they didn't really care.
01:11:42.158 - 01:12:06.480, Speaker A: They. They kind of like, you know, we're like, oh, we're giving up. We're losing now. So, yeah, I mean, as you can tell, I have a lot of thoughts on this sort of stuff, but I think it's safe to say that, uh, to answer your, your, your, you know, your question kind of like with a TLDR, most of these l one s going to be obsoleted by l two. But also if we go into a bear market, they're going to be, you know, they're going to crash in value, I believe. All right, next question. Yawn the fawn.
01:12:06.480 - 01:13:06.214, Speaker A: Who asks? You can qualify this with not financial advice, but in your l two dominant thesis for 2022 and beyond, does immutable x have an equal seat at the table among l two s? Could you give us just a fun market cap prediction for IMX by end of year 2022? It's not just, I'm going to qualify this with not financial advice, but I am also a series A investor in IMX, so I'm not going to give you any predictions on price or market cap. I'm sorry. I'm not even going to entertain that. But what I will answer is, does this, you know, will immutable x have an equal seat at the table among l two s? I think it will, because the reason why I'm so big on immutable X, reason why I invested in their series A, and the reason why I talk about them a lot is because I of believe NFTs are going to be the front door. I'm not just nFts as like, I mean, NFTs as the broad category. You know, collectibles, music, art, all that sort of stuff, anything. I mean, NFTs apply to anything unique, but I believe that's going to be the biggest onboarding vehicle we will have ever in crypto.
01:13:06.214 - 01:13:34.026, Speaker A: Now, who's got, who has a monopoly on this as an l two? Right now, immutable X does. And there's other l two s that are doing nfts, but immutable X has been specifically built for that NfT market. Okay? And then when you look at the partnerships that they already have, they have bloody TikTok. I mean, they onboarded tick tock. They have play code, which is a huge mobile gaming company conglomerate. They have ESL, the esports league with CS go stuff that they're doing. They have other partnerships that I've probably forgotten now.
01:13:34.026 - 01:13:46.996, Speaker A: And they're going to have. They're going to keep having more. So, yes, 100% immutable X is going to be here for a very long time. They're going to have a lot of success. I believe they already have games building on them. Guild of Guardians Alluvium. They have gods unchained as well that they launched.
01:13:46.996 - 01:14:13.740, Speaker A: The immutable team launched. So if you take all that, I mean, you can tell I'm bullish on the IMX token, right? But the thing is, as I said, the full disclaimer, I bought in at the Series A round. So I'm not going to give you a price prediction or a market cap prediction or anything like that. But I will say that I think that their team is very strong. They obviously have a very great business development team. They're. They're targeting a use case that has an absolutely massive, total addressable market.
01:14:13.740 - 01:14:42.556, Speaker A: And it's still very early days. So I would say that immutable X will be one of those l two s that'll be around for a long time, have a very unique value proposition, and have a lot of growth over the coming years, I believe. All right, couple of questions here from Patrick. First one, a friend of mine and I launched a podcast. We would like to build up our audience. Imagine you need to start all over again and have no connections you can get a boost from. How would you go about building up an audience? So the funny thing is, is when.
01:14:42.556 - 01:14:58.504, Speaker A: So when I started. Well, when we started, me and Eric Connor started our first podcast, the ETH Hub podcast, in late 2018. There was basically no competition. There were no Ethereum focused podcasts. There was no bankless. They. I think bankless was just getting started.
01:14:58.504 - 01:15:14.558, Speaker A: No, I don't even think it was. I think bankless got started in 2019. There was no defiant, there was no defi. Dad. There was nothing focused on Ethereum. There were obviously crypto podcasts, but nothing heavily focused on Ethereum. So it was much easier for us to get kind of like.
01:15:14.558 - 01:15:48.918, Speaker A: I mean, I don't know. I don't know if I'd say it was much easier, but it was easier for us to get kind of like attention and people listening to our podcast and people still listening to our podcast today, obviously. But if I was to start from zero today, I would first accept the fact that it's a lot harder to grow something these days because there's a lot more noise, there's a lot more. There's a lot more going on in the ecosystem. But I would also use that to your advantage in that there's a lot more people in the ecosystem now. So you can get kind of like a lot more eyeballs on your content or a lot more kind of like ears listening to your content. I should say that would have been possible in the past.
01:15:48.918 - 01:16:33.764, Speaker A: So where I would start, I would make sure that I'm present where people, the people are so obviously on Twitter, I would make sure I'm present there. I would leverage my own personal Twitter account, like I, like I did in the past, to grow my other properties. I mean, I've leveraged my personal Twitter account to grow both ETH up and the Daily gwei to where it is today. And that's been the biggest driver of growth for everything that I've done, to be honest, has been Twitter. But I would also make sure to share your podcast wherever is relevant, like on the Ethereum, subreddits, in various discord channels, getting on guests that actually can bring in an audience. Cause I think the most important part of the podcast is the guests that are on, and those guests have their own audiences that can get more kind of like listeners to your podcast as well. So that's kind of like a high level of what I would do.
01:16:33.764 - 01:17:07.880, Speaker A: And then I would monitor the growth of it, too. And if you're not seeing any growth for a little while, or maybe, maybe if you're not seeing any growth for like a month, I would switch up what you're doing. I would try something new because there's no point doing the same thing for six months and seeing no growth because you're just wasting time. And this is kind of my philosophy to everything, to be honest in life. And this is how I've been able to grow, how I've grown. I experiment a lot with different kind of, like, attention kind of, or I guess, like marketing plays, and I, and I see which ones work and see which ones don't. And I did this with my Twitter account.
01:17:07.880 - 01:17:29.826, Speaker A: It's kind of like how I grew to where I am today. I did this with kind of, kind of like the content that I put out. You know, the Daily way started off as an experiment doing my daily newsletter, and then I, and then I did the daily videos. The videos didn't start till like, five months after I started the newsletter, but then the newsletter started getting a lot of traction. People are loving all my updates. I was getting a ton of great feedback on it. And then I was like, well, I don't want to just write about one thing a day.
01:17:29.826 - 01:18:02.426, Speaker A: I want to talk about everything happening in ethereum, and I didn't want to do that as part of kind of like, ether because I figured that I already have the deli gray as a newsletter, so I want to expand that to the, to kind of, like, to a YouTube channel. And obviously, datagray is my own thing, and I do ETH up with Eric Connor. So I did that. I did the YouTube channel, and the YouTube's grown really great. Really great. And people seem to love watching my videos. So now I, and just recently, I've kind of, like, started doing videos on Twitter because I have access to longer videos and kind of, like, doing standalone videos there.
01:18:02.426 - 01:18:43.810, Speaker A: And the first one that I did seem to get, like, a lot of good traction. I'll probably do more in the future, and we'll see how we go from there. So that's the most important thing about building an audience, is experimenting with different ways to get attention and stop and to stop doing what's not working and not just keep repeating it, expecting kind of, like, different results. Cause that is the definition of insanity. But, yeah, as I said, like, I don't just apply that principle to crypto, to building an audience within crypto. I apply it to everything. I mean, I'm currently dieting, trying to lose the weight I put on during COVID and I'm applying that, the same kind of principle to that where I weigh myself once a week and don't, like, leave it to, like, once a month or something like that, because I can see if I'm doing something wrong immediately.
01:18:43.810 - 01:19:30.294, Speaker A: If for some reason, one of the weeks I, I haven't lost the weight that I expected to lose. Expected to lose, I can quickly adjust my diet, quickly adjust the exercise that I'm doing and get back on track. Whereas if I was to wait a whole month, what ends up happening is that if I was doing something wrong for that whole month, I've wasted three weeks, right. Instead of just kind of, like, wasting one week, so to speak. So it's kind of like, I mean, and if you want to, I mean, it's kind of like this thing where it's, like, time management as well, and not getting stuck doing something that isn't working. So. So, yeah, maybe that's just, like, a little bit of a side note to what you were asking, but that's how I've gone about growing my audience and kind of like, and as I said, how I would start today would just be experiment a lot with different kind of, like, attention sinks, but for a podcast, definitely trying to get on guests that have their own audiences because that's a great way to grow a podcast as well.
01:19:30.294 - 01:19:55.946, Speaker A: And then you followed up that question with saying, you know, your podcast has a big focus on how to do yield farming. And you mentioned a couple of times that you do yield farming as well. Where do you look to get an overview about what yield farming opportunities are out there? So it's actually a bit of everywhere right now. There's um, it's actually hard, to be honest. I think a podcast focused on yield farming could actually have some really great appeal. Defy dad used to do a lot of videos. He doesn't do many these days.
01:19:55.946 - 01:20:28.518, Speaker A: I think he's busy with other stuff. I used to use him a lot, but these days I kind of like maybe just kind of look at Discord channels. I mean, the Defi, just the yield farming discord channel and the Defi channels in the, in, in the deli Grey discord and has a lot of great information. I have a group of friends and you know, if they ever come across an opportunity, they kind of like talk about that and shout that out. But I would say that, you know, there are, there are kind of like sites that show you these sort of stuff as well. And there's like aggregators like yearn. But yeah, I would say that like a podcast focused on purely yield farming is, is probably missing at this point.
01:20:28.518 - 01:20:53.830, Speaker A: So that's actually great for you because it means you can essentially get like a lot of attention because you're doing something unique and you're also doing something that allows people to make money. That's what a lot of people are in this ecosystem for. So if you're telling them, hey, you can earn like 10% on your dollars, here's how to do it. They're going to listen to you. Right. Um, but in that, on that point, I would say that you would obviously do well with having like a video. So it wouldn't just be a podcast, it'd be a video and kind of like audio and doing it through a YouTube channel.
01:20:53.830 - 01:21:16.276, Speaker A: Because obviously, obviously people want to follow along. And I would say go watch Defi dad's older videos about yield farming to get an idea of like how he did it. And they're some of his most popular videos as well. So it's definitely got a large market. So you'd probably have a better, you know, probably going to have an easier time growing an audience around something like that. That's for sure. All right, question here from Crea Tiff who asks? Hi Anthony.
01:21:16.276 - 01:21:52.556, Speaker A: Traveling to Melbourne from Europe between December 15 and January 15. Just curious if there will be a community meetup during those times. Um, I haven't decided when I'm going to do the meetup yet. I want to do it when it's warmer because I like going out when it's warmer and usually obviously gets warm between December and January. Um, I'm not sure if it's going to be between those dates, but definitely just keep an eye on the discord channel. I'll keep you updated on it. And for other people, for context here, I've been planning to do a meet up in, in Melbourne in the city for the deli Gwei, whoever can attend, just go to a bar or something like that, because it'd be great just to kind of like catch up with everyone in real life since we've all been locked down for ages.
01:21:52.556 - 01:22:32.496, Speaker A: But yeah, I'll let you guys know on an exact kind of like date and time for that when I, when I decide it myself, to be honest. And your second question, this has probably been asked before. Sorry if it has, but for staking ETH, would you recommend diversifying staked ETH between centralized exchanges and rocket pool? You always tell us to run our own node. Is it possible to also stake our own node? Is that ultimate safe house? If possible. I don't know if diversifying stake really does much. I mean, you know, it depends because like you're paying different fees depending on where you're staking as well. And different kind of like centralized exchanges have different risk profiles and then you have to monitor things and maybe different kind of withdrawal fees and stuff like that.
01:22:32.496 - 01:22:56.896, Speaker A: So it gets a bit murky there. But I would obviously say that when I say you run your own node, I mean running your own validator as well. I think that's what you're kind of alluding to when you ask is it possible to also stake on your node? You have to have a 32 ETH minimum to stake on your own. Stake on your own node. But you can kind of do a hybrid approach with rocket pool. I think they only require 16 ethics. So um, to do it.
01:22:56.896 - 01:23:26.404, Speaker A: So you can look into that as well. But I would say, and you asked about like the ultimate safe house, I guess that's referring to like the ultimate way to stake is staking on your own, um, you know, staking on your own validator, on your own kind of hardware. But that costs 32 ETH minimum to, to stake. So in terms of diversifying your risk, I mean, you probably can by diversifying your stake across like centralized exchanges and rocket pool. But at the same time you're just going to incur extra fees as well. So that's something to look out for cause it might eat into your profit profitability. All right, one here from Dom.
01:23:26.404 - 01:24:00.332, Speaker A: Actually, I'm gonna have a drink. This is a long one. One sec. All right, one here from Dom who asks what does the actual process of living off your ETH bag and or defi look like? I don't mean to pry on your personal finances, so more like the high level stuff I understand you can borrow against your for everyday expenses and get some moderately high ap wise on stock stablecoin farming and stuff. That would be my personal dream someday. But even then, the inherent risk behind all of DeFi and smart contracts would scare me. If that was my main only income.
01:24:00.332 - 01:24:39.360, Speaker A: That is, exploits, flash crashes that liquidate my loans or stablecoin apocalypses, crypto wide blackspawn, et cetera. How does one mitigate that kind of risk enough to sleep peacefully at night? So I'm not going to go into too much detail about my personal finances, but I'm usually pretty transparent about this stuff. And to be totally transparent, I don't live off my ETH bag. My ETH, as a lot of you know by now, is most of it is in staking. But I can't actually access that yield because it's locked, because it's in staking and there's no withdrawals enabled. I'm not staking through a centralized exchange or anything like that. I'm not currently yield farming with the stable coins and I'm not currently borrowing any stable coins to yield farm.
01:24:39.360 - 01:25:08.240, Speaker A: But in the past I was. But the way I'm living off my kind of like, I guess crypto gains right now is that I cashed out a fair chunk of crypto in like April May, and I cashed out enough to last me quite a while. I have other investments that I cash out from time to time. I have a lot of things that vest out to me over time that I also sell off. So that's as far as I'm going to go with that. I'm not going to go into more detail than that, but that's kind of like my position now. For other people who, I mean, for the 99.99%
01:25:08.240 - 01:25:51.814, Speaker A: of people that that doesn't apply to, obviously I'm in a very unique position. The way to live off your kind of like ethanol is to do what you mentioned, you borrow stable coins against it you go and put those stable coins in a yield farm, wherever, like, wherever is going to pay you, kind of like a yield, and wherever is going to give you relatively low risk, and then that's how you kind of, like, pay yourself. And then when you want to pay back the debt, you obviously take your principal out and pay back the debt with it and then pay off any interest that you've accrued there. Because, like, obviously maker charges something like 2%, right, a year. That fluctuates. It's not a fixed rate or anything like that. But on that notes, you mentioned the risks, right? Exploits stable coin depegging, flash crashes.
01:25:51.814 - 01:26:22.840, Speaker A: They're very real risks. And that's. This is partially the reason why I also stopped kind of yield farm is one, I didn't need to, because the risk isn't worth it, but two, I was worried about the risks as well. In saying that there are kind of like, protocols where that I consider to be. To be the least risky, like maker, for example, and die, I consider that to be the least risky. Flash crashes can't liquidate you in maker because there's an hour delay on price updates, on oracle updates, so it's impossible to be liquidated on a flash crash. So you have, like an hour to fix your position.
01:26:22.840 - 01:26:47.326, Speaker A: There are also services to. To automatically fix your position, like Defi Saver, for example, that basically, you know, they work pretty well. From what I've seen. Stablecoin de pegging is definitely a risk. Not much you can do about that for centralized stable coins. Even bigger risk that they're centralized crypto wire. Black Swan, again, not much you can do about that, because the very definition of black Swan is that you don't know what it is until it happens.
01:26:47.326 - 01:27:19.652, Speaker A: So in terms of mitigating the risk and the things you can do is don't borrow too much that you're at risk of liquidation. Say you put ETH into maker, you borrow enough that your liquidation price is like $4,000 for Ethan. Don't do that, because you can get. $4,000 can happen while you're sleeping, right? And if you've got no things like Defi saver or anything like that, you're going to get liquidated. So don't do that. The way I kind of, like, borrow against my ETH is that I keep a liquidation price very, very low, like normally under $1,000. And as the ETH price goes up, I adjust that.
01:27:19.652 - 01:27:50.954, Speaker A: But it's kind of like that loan to value ratio and that health ratio that you have I never cut it close like that? And as I said, you can't get liquidated during a flash crash. But if you're sleeping and the price dumps 20%, which it very well can in the period that you're sleeping, you run the risk of getting kind of liquidated there. And the other way to kind of mitigate it is to take out cover or insurance on your positions. But that's also nuanced. You know, sometimes they may not cover things. They may not cover black swans, things like that. You have to kind of, like, read the fine print there as well.
01:27:50.954 - 01:28:13.446, Speaker A: Same with every kind of, like, insurance that you take out. Right? You've got to read the fine print. But, yeah, generally, my solution is obviously very unique in how I kind of live off my crypto. It is not something that applies to most people. And as I've said before, I'm never selling my ETH either. It's all just going to be in staking eventually, so. And the reason why most of it isn't in staking right now is because I have borrowed funds against my ETH right now, but I'm not using it to yield farm.
01:28:13.446 - 01:28:36.892, Speaker A: I borrowed funds for other things, so. So that's why. Most, like, that's why not all of my ethers in staking. But, yeah, I mean, I think eventually it'll become a thing where I'll live off the staking yields themselves when withdrawals are enabled. But that's probably not going to happen for another kind of, like, probably a year at this point, right, until withdrawals are enabled. So. So, yeah, hopefully that gives you a bit of color around my position.
01:28:36.892 - 01:29:03.094, Speaker A: But again, my position is very, very unique. Most people do not have things that are vesting out to them, such as angel investments and advisory roles. And. And, you know, a lot of people are newer to crypto and don't have things that they've bought early on that they kind of cashed out of. So hopefully that gives you enough color there to kind of, like, get a general idea. All right, one here from Stonep 89, who asks, are you familiar with Fabian? I don't know how to pronounce his surname. Vogelstella's Luxo network.
01:29:03.094 - 01:29:22.978, Speaker A: I've read through their documentation, and it seems like they're working on a fork of Ethereum's proof of stake. My question is, do you know if they're planning on integrating with ETH two or launching a competing. Competing l one? I don't know anything about the project itself. I have heard of it. Um, from what I saw it might be a separate l one. I'm not actually sure what they're trying to do, to be honest. So unfortunately, I can't answer that for you.
01:29:22.978 - 01:30:00.314, Speaker A: But if you ask it again in the Discord channel, in like the general channel, I can probably point you to some resources that I've come across. But, yeah, I haven't actually looked into it myself just yet. All right, one here from copper who asks, thank you, Anthony, for your hard work and dedication. Can you go over again the difference between running an e two validator versus, let's say again, geth full node. Does ETH two help? Help by adding full nodes. So with ETH two, with the beacon chain, there are two pieces of software that people run, validator and a beacon node. The beacon node is equivalent to a geth full node where it doesn't participate in consensus.
01:30:00.314 - 01:30:27.100, Speaker A: It is just a fully validating node. It basically validates the chain, follows the chain, but doesn't actually build blocks and kind of like process transactions and all that. Sorts of sorts of things. Doesn't actively participate in the consensus, whereas a validator does. Right, a validator, an e two validator can. Talks to a beacon node and validates the consensus and builds the blocks and does all that sort of stuff. Whereas the, the geth full node doesn't do that either.
01:30:27.100 - 01:31:15.178, Speaker A: But then the miners can connect to a geth full node and build blocks by, by doing that. So hopefully that kind of gives like a high level of how that works. And I think the point of confusion for a lot of people is that they think that you need 32 ETH to validate the kind of like ETH two chain. You don't, all you need to do is run the beacon node. You don't have to have a validator, you just have to run the beacon node and you can actually validate the chain. And post merge, there's going to be two sets of nodes that you need to run a geth node or an execution layer node, and a consensus layer nodes such as prismatic labs or prism, sorry, I should say lighthouse, stuff like that. And then you could have your, then you'll have your validator that you kind of like that, talks to all of that and runs off of that.
01:31:15.178 - 01:31:46.132, Speaker A: So, yeah, that's the common misconception that I've seen that people think that you need 32 ETH to validate the chain. You don't because you can run the beacon node for free. Well, for free. You have to obviously spend electricity to run it and hardware, but you don't need any ETH to run the beacon node, just like you don't need any ETH to run an ethereum full node as it exists today, or gethful node. So hopefully that answers that question for you. All right, one here from Lucas Kirch Boomer, who says, when data pumps, sir. Oh, man.
01:31:46.132 - 01:32:17.258, Speaker A: I keep promising this and I keep rugging everyone. For those of you who don't know, the daily grade data pump series is a on chain analytics video series that I did for a while, and I haven't done one in I think, like five months now. I've been rugging the community on this. I don't know when I'm going to do another one. I keep trying to find the time and it just kind of slips away from me because the data pump requires a lot more prep than the normal refuel videos do because I need to kind of like go through all the data, load it all up, look through all, look through it all, and kind of like go over. Go over what I'm going to be talking about. So hopefully soon.
01:32:17.258 - 01:32:48.504, Speaker A: I don't really have a date for you, unfortunately. I'm going to try not to keep rugging you guys and get one done soon for you. All right, one here from Danny, who asks, after reading countless articles about the modular blockchain design, there's something that I still don't understand. The data availability part of the volidiums and the volitions. What does it mean to have the data availability on a different chain? Is it a different blockchain than the l one, but using l one validators, it's not a different blockchain. So data availability chains don't come to consensus on the data. This is the major difference.
01:32:48.504 - 01:33:20.284, Speaker A: Meaning that they store the data, but they don't kind of like have a set of validators that basically process and come to consensus on the data that lives there. There. That's what the ethereum l one is for. So I wouldn't consider them to be separate blockchains. I would just consider them to be kind of like separate, I guess, like data layers, so to speak. Right. And to have data availability on a different chain, to have it on something like celestia, which is a data availability chain, so to speak, or kind of like the Polygon avail.
01:33:20.284 - 01:34:04.996, Speaker A: It means that the data isn't being. Isn't coming to. Sorry, isn't part of like the consensus, which means that that data can either be kind of like, withheld from you, it can be censored, it can be corrupted, it can be deleted whereas when it's on kind of like l one, that can't happen because, I mean, it can happen, but it's a lot harder to happen. Like, for example, let's take an example here, because I might be confusing people. Immutable x validium. If immutable decides to delete all of the data that they have that on their kind of like, server that they're running for immutable for immutable x for their validium, then you will not be able to get your funds back on l one. Your funds can't be stolen, but you're not gonna ever get those funds back until that data is made available to you again.
01:34:04.996 - 01:34:48.148, Speaker A: Because the l one chain doesn't actually know the state of that data. And data here doesn't mean like the JPEG for your NFT, for example, data means state and state means user balances. So the l one doesn't actually know what the user balances are in a validium construction because it doesn't have the data on it. Now, you mentioned volitions. That's going to give users the kind of like choice of settling their data on l one or keeping it in kind of like this off chain construction. Now, this is good for things like, say you're a kind of like trader or a trading firm, and you're trading on this validium and kind of like on this validity of this volition. And it's in validium mode because you want to have like really, really cheap, constant kind of like high frequency trades.
01:34:48.148 - 01:35:23.974, Speaker A: And then at the end of the day, right, say at the end of a 24 hours period, you say, well, I'm okay paying on chain kind of like fees right now, or l one fees to kind of like settle out my days worth of trading or the last 24 hours worth of trading. So you would, you would basically take a hybrid approach where for those 24 hours, you're running in validium, storing all the data off chain. It's less secure, of course. But then at the end of those 24 hours, you basically say, okay, well, I'm done. I'm going to switch to volition quickly, put my data on chain, settle out those last 24 hours of transactions, and now I have the full security of l one. And then you just start again. Right.
01:35:23.974 - 01:36:23.736, Speaker A: It's kind of like what already happens in the traditional system where settlements are done every kind of like, you know, it could range from 24 to 48 hours or even 72 hours, right? And that's what we mean when we talk about kind of like ethereum, l one being a settlement layer because that is the final kind of like source of truth and the final source of security. And then you can do everything off chain and then just settle it onto l one. So in those constructions, I think those are going to be very, very popular because there's no point putting every piece of state onto l one for everything you do. Because if you can settle it once a day, then that's fine. And maybe we can talk about like attack scenarios here to illustrate this point further. Say 12 hours into your 24 hours day, something happens and the data is gone, right? The data, the data that you have, it's kind of like being withheld or it's completely gone and then you're like, okay, well, I need to get my funds back. You can because you have the kind of like the data that you posted to l one from the previous day.
01:36:23.736 - 01:37:22.718, Speaker A: But in saying that, that l one data doesn't have those 12 hours of transactions, it just has everything that happened before that. So you'll lose those 12 hours of transactions that you did, but you won't, and you lose all the state changes, but you won't lose everything that came before that, which is really, really powerful, obviously. And that hybrid approach basically means that you can two really, really cheap transactions and just settle once a day. If that's your risk model, your security model that you're happy, happy going with, which I think is really, really cool. So yeah, hopefully that answers your question around how those kind of things work. But, you know, data availability can either be like its own, kind of like change, so to speak, or it can literally just be a piece of, kind of like a data on your pc, for example, in the future, these kind of like validiums or when they're volitions, you'll be able to store the data on your own computer so you don't even have to store it on l one. If you trust yourself to secure your own data on your own computer, then you can store it there and you have the secure, you have the security of your own pc, of your own computer.
01:37:22.718 - 01:38:16.520, Speaker A: And, you know, all you have to do to kind of like if, if for example, the validium goes offline or the volition goes offline, you can basically present your data that you have stored on your local machine to Ethereum, l one, because Ethereum hal one still has the proofs of the transactions posted to it and you can basically post it there and say, hey, I have the data, give me back my funds and you can get your funds back. So that's the amazing thing about the volition construction is that people are going to be able to put their data wherever they want. And because the proofs are still on chain, you can have your data on your own pc, bring it if there's something goes wrong, and get your, and get your funds back. Whereas in a pure validity construction, you can't do that. And you're relying on this data being available to you at all times. And if it's not there, you can't get your funds back because of the fact that it needs the data to get your funds back. But the operator can't steal your funds either, because it doesn't belong to them.
01:38:16.520 - 01:38:49.734, Speaker A: They can't sign the transaction from your private key to get. To get your funds, but they can withhold the data from you, which is obviously not ideal. But as I said before, something like immutable x, that is home to like, nfts that are, you know, worth very little. A lot of people probably won't even care about that. A lot of people won't care about their data being hosted off chain. But there are going to be bigger accounts on there. Say someone holds like millions of dollars of NFTs on immutable, they're going to be like, well, it's worth my, it's worth my money to make sure that I have my own data secured on my own Pc and that I have the data on l one ethereum.
01:38:49.734 - 01:39:22.404, Speaker A: So. So yeah, hopefully that gives you color around that. I actually think the volition construction is one of the most interesting things happening in the l two space, or in, I guess like the scalability space on Ethereum. And I really do think we've only scratched the surface of how we can kind of like store this data. Whether we can do, whether we can store it as part of kind of like these data availability chains, or some kind of like committee, or on your own pc, or even getting people to store it as kind of like a light client proof or something. I mean, there are some crazy wizard moon math you can do on this sort of stuff. It's really awesome.
01:39:22.404 - 01:39:51.216, Speaker A: And, you know, you probably hear it in my voice. This is one of the things I'm most excited about. But yeah, hopefully that answers your question. All right, one here from Midi who says, how do you see taxes playing out long term? I listened to the bankless weekly roll up and they brought up the example of a ten year old picking up a sword with $1,000 and suddenly owing the IR's money. I can see a world where if you want to create a crypto game. You also, you will also need to provide information about all transactions performed in game. I've used the crypto tax software, but I feel they will lag behind.
01:39:51.216 - 01:40:32.036, Speaker A: Not very good with Defi currently and people will get burnt or the IR's will be flooded with so many unpaid taxes they can't possibly come up with tracking funds NFTs from address to address. So it is interesting because taxes vary so much from, you know, jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Even in like the US, state to state varies so much. Country to country also varies a lot. I think the way to play this is that you shouldn't get taxed on things on like airdrops when you get them. So for example, right now, the way it works in Australia and in the US, when you claim your airdrop, you are taxed on that as income. And then any change in price is a capital gains tax when you sell it.
01:40:32.036 - 01:40:59.050, Speaker A: So, for example, if your airdropped $1,000, you owe 30% tax on that. You owe $300 in tax. If that airdrop goes up to $1,500, well, you owe tax on the difference between the tax that you paid on the income. So say you pay that $300, you only have $700 now. Well, say, sorry, say that goes up to $1,000 again because of capital appreciation. Well, now you owe capital gains on that dollar 300 when you sell. When you sell, kind of like the whole portion of it.
01:40:59.050 - 01:41:37.508, Speaker A: I think this is unworkable at scale. I think what should happen is that anything that your airdrop that has economic value should still have a cost basis of zero from the beginning. So what ends up happening is that you're only taxed on it when you sell it as capital gains tax. So this would alleviate the problem of some of a ten year old picking up a sword worth $1,000. Because what ends up happening is that their cost basis for this is zero. And when they, and when they sell it, they basically incur that, that capital gains tax and not an income tax. Now, there are obviously going to be kind of like loopholes here that people are going to exploit and there's obviously going to be a lot more thought that needs to go into this.
01:41:37.508 - 01:42:02.694, Speaker A: But I don't see how this works at scale. As you said. How can you, how is the tax office going to keep up with this? A lot of kids are going to be playing these games like what? You know, what is even the laws for these sorts of things? Like in Australia, you have to be 14 years old and nine months to work in Australia, which means to be. And to kind of, like, actually get an income and to pay tax on that income. And there's obviously tax free thresholds and stuff like that. But I just don't think it's. Yeah, it's workable at scale when it comes to these sorts of things.
01:42:02.694 - 01:42:41.902, Speaker A: So I would say that the most prudent approach would be to change it so that you're not owed, so that any kind of, like, thing that you receive has a cost basis of $0. And only when you dispose of that asset, such as selling it for kind of like fiat, or maybe even kind of like, trading it for another item or something, that you are taxed on the capital appreciation. But even trading it for another item gets murky because, like, there's no way. I mean, if you trade a sword for a shield and they're worth the same amount of. Amount of money, how are you going to pay tax on the kind of, like, capital appreciation of that sword? When you've gotten a shield, you haven't actually gotten fiat or a stable coin or like. Or like, ETH or something. So I would.
01:42:41.902 - 01:43:19.454, Speaker A: I would think that you would need to basically only be taxed on going to a capital asset such as Ethorpe ETH or stablecoin, instead of trading between items. But we'll have to see how that plays out. I'm not holding my breath that the tax office is actually gonna. Well, that any tax office is actually gonna tackle this correctly. But I agree with you that this is gonna be impossible to enforce at scale, especially with the thousands, millions, tens of millions of items that are gonna be coming out that are gonna have economic value. There's gonna have to be something here and new legislation put forward, I believe. All right, four more questions on my list before I jump into the AMA series channel, and then we'll wrap it up.
01:43:19.454 - 01:44:06.842, Speaker A: So one here from Brian Peace, who asks, the idea of signing with Ethereum is really exciting, but would that mean I'd have to carry my ledger around with me all the time? No, I mean, you could. This is the thing. Like, you could use any wallet to sign in with, you know, with Ethereum to any other wallet. But then there's also kind of like. Sorry, to any service, for example, like, you could have, like, a hot wallet that you just used to sign into things, but also has actually should take a step back. I did talk about this project on the Daily Way refuel, where I said this project called Seismo, that basically allows you to have proof. So it uses zero knowledge, proofs to basically say that you, that you kind of like own something or that you kind of like have an NFT or have some governance tokens, but they're not in your current address.
01:44:06.842 - 01:45:02.386, Speaker A: So, for example, I'm going to use my own ens as an example. Say I have sassle ETH and say that's a hot wallet. Say it's not connected to my ledger, which it is right now, by the way, but say I transferred sassle Heath to another address and that was like a hot wallet. Say it was an argent wallet on my phone, for example. Now with size mo, what you can do is, or what I could do was I could actually have a proof sent to me as an NFT to sassle dot ETH that basically says that I have governance tokens in my other cold storage wallet. It doesn't reveal what the wallet is, but, but it gives a kind of like cryptographically guaranteed proof that I have them in that wallet. And then what that can happen from there is that I could actually use my sassle ETH hot wallet to vote on things in kind of like governance, for example, without actually signing from the wallet that the governance tokens belong to because I've kind of like delegated it through this kind of like zero knowledge, nft proof to my hot wallet.
01:45:02.386 - 01:45:31.544, Speaker A: So that's when stuff starts getting really crazy. So the question is, no, you won't have to carry your ledger around once these things kind of like reach maturity. And you don't even have to have to do that today. You can basically have a hot wallet with a little bit of funds in it. But once these other solutions, like seismo, get kind of like further along, that's when it gets like really, really, really exciting. And I think that's when we kind of like level up the sign in with Ethereum stuff. And your second question, you asked about the curve wars and about like Mocci finance or something.
01:45:31.544 - 01:45:55.356, Speaker A: I answered this before, so it's earlier in the video. It'll be timestamps if you're listening to this on YouTube. So definitely go check that out. I think the question came from, let me try and quickly get this up for you. There was someone asking for an explain, like, I'm five, if I remember correctly. Actually, I'll just, it came from act three. So if you just go to the YouTube description, check out the timestamp for act three.
01:45:55.356 - 01:46:17.746, Speaker A: I explained it there for you. All right. A question here from Disco Danson, who asks what would be the cheapest way to produce some nfts using only the Ethereum network. So using Ethereum l one, I mean, there's no cheap way to do this. I'm sorry. Minting nfts is going to cost you a lot on Ethereum l one. If we're talking about l two, immutable x, by far the cheapest way to mint nfts right now.
01:46:17.746 - 01:47:06.824, Speaker A: It's free. You can't get cheaper than free, right? I mean, you can, if someone paid you to do it, then technically that's cheaper, right? So yeah, ethereum l one, there's no cheap way to do it. And if you, I assume by cheap you mean like a dollar at most, right? No, ethereum l one to mint nfts is going to cost you like 50 o, 150, even $200 depending on what you're doing. So definitely not, not any cheap way to do it on l one, on l two, or technically, I guess like not a true l two, but mutable x, that's the place to go. All right, last question here on the sheet is from evil robot who says new to altcoins, what do you make of the GM token? And they're kind of like 10% taxes on trades. Is it a scam or simply NFT royalties model for coins? I don't know about this token specifically. It screams opportunism to me.
01:47:06.824 - 01:47:23.928, Speaker A: It screams that someone saw this and was like, hey, this is a meme, let's make a token out of it. Let's make some money. You know, I don't know, I don't know anything beyond that. So unfortunately I can't answer that. I don't know if it's a good buy or not. I'm not going to give any kind of like investment advice there, but I would say that, I don't know. From what I can see, it just seems very opportunistic.
01:47:23.928 - 01:47:53.432, Speaker A: Unfortunately, this happens a lot in crypto, for better or worse. But yeah, it is what it is. All right, so there are a few questions in the AMA series channel. I answer these and then I'm going to end it there because we're coming up on 2 hours here. So first question from yoons. Hopefully I said that, right? Who asks what is the need for ETH L2s like Polygon when ETH two rolls out? So L2s, and I mean ETH two actually, I'll take a step back here. ETH two describes a set of upgrades coming to Ethereum.
01:47:53.432 - 01:48:20.404, Speaker A: The main upgrades are the merge, where we merge the proof of work chain and the proof of stake chain to become one Ethereum, that is only secured by proof of stake. That's happening next year. Then we have sharding as another major roadmap item. That's happening in 2023, hopefully. And then statelessness is another major roadmap item, which is also maybe happening in 2023. Could be a little bit later. But these are kind of like the main, the main major roadmap items.
01:48:20.404 - 01:48:58.372, Speaker A: These all work to enhance L2s. So Ethereum's roadmap is basically, layer one is working to enhance L2. What that means is that when kind of like proof of stake is introduced, it means that we've got like a better kind of like security layer for these L2s. But we also have like the foundations to introduce sharding. Now, what sharding does and what's being introduced with kind of like the quote unquote e two rollout is data sharding. Now, I was talking about data availability before. Essentially what these data shards do is that they give more capacity for these L2s to put their data on, which brings costs down for l two s and increases their scalability.
01:48:58.372 - 01:49:56.118, Speaker A: So eventually we're going to get to a point where l two s can do millions of transactions per second, and they all live on. They're all secured by the l one. So you can see how like sharding and then statelessness, which allows us to basically increase the block size of ethereum and basically allows us to increase kind of like the capacity of shards and stuff like that, that, that further works to increase the capacity of the, the scalability of L2s. So I would say that L2, ethereum and the ETH two rollout and any L2s, not just polygon, but like any l two s, they all kind of like work in a symbolic relationship with, with, with ethereum. Once kind of like ETH two rollout is, those major roadmap items are rolled out. One here from Ao Miko, who asks, what ranking would you put on the l two s? Like between immutable matic or something completely different. I don't think ranking the ranking the l two s is the right way to think about it because for a few reasons.
01:49:56.118 - 01:50:14.634, Speaker A: First reason, they're all very early. Second reason, they do all do different things. Arbitrarium and optimism. Similar in that they're both optimistic roll ups and they both do EVM compatible. Optimistic roll ups, but they have different ways of doing it. Optimism is EVM equivalent. Arbitrum is EVM compatible.
01:50:14.634 - 01:50:42.400, Speaker A: Arbitrary and optimism are going to have different fees because they're going to have different optimizations on their software. They're going to have different apps. They're going to have different ways of doing fraud arbitration, stuff like that. Then you look at kind of like the specific app chains, like immutable x, which is kind of like a specific kind of thing where they're just doing NFT. So they're not trying to do anything else, right? They're not trying to do defi or anything like that. Just trying to do nFts, Dydx. Just trying to do perpetual exchange.
01:50:42.400 - 01:50:57.716, Speaker A: Loop ring. Loop ring is pretty cool because they have, like, their exchange. They have a payments rail. They have, like, a smart contract wallet. But again, they're not trying to do, like, a generalized approach. Right. Then you have the polygon Pos chain, which is what I'm assuming you're referring to by saying matic.
01:50:57.716 - 01:51:14.784, Speaker A: That's not actually a L2. It's kind of like a hybrid, something called a commit chain. But they're generalized as well. Like, they. You can build whatever you want on there. Then they have polygon Hermes, which right now is a ZK roll up that can do payments, isn't generalized yet, but will be in the future. Then there's other.
01:51:14.784 - 01:51:39.564, Speaker A: I mean, there's plenty of other ones out there, right? Diversify. Again, that's just doing it. Kind of like exchange some defi stuff on there and. Yeah, I mean, so rare. Again, nfts. So I would say that ranking them doesn't make sense because they all do different things. But, yeah, I mean, maybe you could rank the generalized ones over the long term, such as kind of like arbitrary and optimism and some of the other ones coming online, but I think it's too early to tell at this point.
01:51:39.564 - 01:52:20.964, Speaker A: All right, so one here from Apollo Zero X, who asks a bit of a personal question, but do you have any tips for dealing with regret about not getting into crypto sooner? I have a very similar story to you leaving the crypto space in 2013. I left in crypto 2018 and feel like I'm so far behind those who stuck around for the bear market. So, yeah, this is a funny question, because I. Yeah, I mean, for those who don't know, I got into bitcoin in 2013 as my first foray into crypto. I didn't have much money, but I bought a bit of bitcoin, got pretty obsessed with it back then. Ethereum didn't exist, of course, but I got obsessed with it. Wrote it up to, like, what, $1,000? And then it crashed, and I think I ended up selling my bitcoin at like $400 or something wasn't much.
01:52:20.964 - 01:52:49.624, Speaker A: As I said, I think I had, like, two or three of them at that point. So it wasn't much money at all. And then didn't pay attention to crypto till early 2017 when I discovered Ethereum, again, didn't have much money. Bought my first little bit of ETH at $10. Like, I bought, like a few ETH not, not anything substantial. Then by the time I came into more money and saved up a bit more money, ETH was at like $50. So I, you know, I didn't get to buy much ETH at the super, super cheap price of, like $10 or below.
01:52:49.624 - 01:53:19.564, Speaker A: Obviously, $50 is cheap in hindsight. But back then, when I was thinking about it, right, I had seen, like, ETH be $10 in January and then dollar 50 in, like, I think it was March or April. So it kind of, like, went up really quickly. But, and the thing is, and then, you know, in 2018, I kind of, like, stuck around because I was like, you know, I know what happened last time I left this ecosystem. I regret it so much because I missed out on being really early to eat. I missed out on buying ETH the ICO at then buying it a dollar, at a dollar. I missed out on all these other opportunities, blah, blah.
01:53:19.564 - 01:53:38.706, Speaker A: You know, the rest is history. So I stuck around. I actually bought most of my 8th between a 100 and $200. The majority of my 8th was, was bought between that because I had a longer time to buy it in 2019. I had pretty much the whole year to buy it, between 100 and $200, except for a couple months in the middle there. So. And I had a lot more money because I'd been saving.
01:53:38.706 - 01:54:14.504, Speaker A: So I did that. And, yeah, I guess that's the context and history for people who didn't know that. But to answer your question about tips of dealing with kind of, like, regret of not being earlier, the way I dealt with it was that I realized that the ecosystem was still very, very small, still very early, and it still is very small and early today. It is definitely bigger than what it was, obviously. Right. Um, it's, it's definitely further along than what it was when I kind of, like, I was stacking kind of like what I was in 2018 and 2019. But I would say that there's so many opportunities within crypto, regardless.
01:54:14.504 - 01:54:50.144, Speaker A: Um, of kind of like now or back then, and there's so many kind of, like, uh, opportunities for not just like, investing and making gains and things like that, but also getting involved in working within crypto. Every single team that I know of is hiring right now. There's so many opportunities to get involved with, like, a really early stage project, get an equity or token share in that project, and then ride that up. There's. I mean, that that opportunity is available to everyone right now, no matter what your skill set is. So there's that. There's also the opportunity to start something yourself and to grow your own profile, like, I guess, similar to what I did, but, yeah, I mean, the way.
01:54:50.144 - 01:55:18.314, Speaker A: The way I dealt with it was that. And this. This might be getting, I guess, like, I mean, it's not personal. Like, I'm happy to share this, but it gets into, like, non crypto stuff. The way I live my life generally is that I don't live with any regrets. I know that may sound cliche, but I live my life by never looking back in the past and regretting anything that I've done. I look back in the past and reflect on things and reflect on where I've come from and try to stay humble because of that and kind of like, you know, sometimes I look back and I'm like, wow, you know, I've come a long way, personally.
01:55:18.314 - 01:55:54.854, Speaker A: Crypto's come a long way. I'm really happy that I got to ride the kind of train and continue to ride the train, but I never look back on the past and kind of harp on about things that I could have done better or things that I should have done better or anything that I regret. Because for the simple reason that none of us can change the past. And again, I know this is cliche, but when you really think about it and you really come to terms with it, and you realize that the only way, the only thing that we can change is the present, which changes the future. Right? We can't change anything about the past, so there's no point dawdling on it unless you learn from it. The only thing that the past is good for is learning from. And reflecting on the rest is kind of, like, useless.
01:55:54.854 - 01:56:11.390, Speaker A: The rest just makes you go in circles. It makes you depressed. It makes you angry. So, for me, personally, I just don't look at the past very, very often at all from that lens. And I know that's kind of, like maybe an acquired skill. It's something you have to train yourself for. It definitely takes a bit of a different kind of, like, mindset.
01:56:11.390 - 01:56:44.390, Speaker A: It's not something that can just happen overnight, especially if you're someone who always kind of, like, looks back at the past and regrets things. But that's how I personally, I guess, got over it, so to speak. And I mean, the funny thing is, is that some people may think it's easy for me to say that now because of the position that I'm in. But really, I mean, in. In, I guess, like, 2017, even though, like, ETH went up a lot and I didn't buy, I didn't have much ETH back then. So I didn't actually make much money in 2017. And then all the money that all the paper gains that I had made evaporated in 2018.
01:56:44.390 - 01:56:58.680, Speaker A: I didn't sell anything. I just held it. I held it all the way down. No, no. From the top to the bottom, I didn't buy. I stopped buying it, like, $300 ETH in 2017, but still, I held it all the way down. Then once that $300 ETH broke, I was like, wow, okay, now I'm in loss against my ETH.
01:56:58.680 - 01:57:21.874, Speaker A: But I kept holding. I kept my conviction. That made it easier because I had conviction that this thing was going to change the world and this thing was going to be really big. But. But even still, like, up until really, up until late 2020, I did not have a lot of money. In March 2020, the bottom of the bear market, I will. I had, like, low five figures of a portfolio.
01:57:21.874 - 01:57:40.506, Speaker A: I didn't really have much money at all because ETH went back to, like, what, $90. I was majority kind of like ETH. I had, like. And there wasn't really much opportunity, other opportunities to make money at that point. So, yeah, I just. I didn't really have much money at all then, obviously, 2020 happened with. With COVID and stuff, and that was kind of scary, too.
01:57:40.506 - 01:58:09.802, Speaker A: I was still working at set, and I was like, wow, okay, are we gonna be able to kinda, like, raise money to keep our Runway going because we're on early stage startup? What's happening with COVID Very, very scary time for everyone, I think, at least in the initial couple of months there. But then Defi Summer happened, and I wrote a lot of defi up. That was another opportunity that I was able to see. Like, I was always worried because I was like, damn it, you know, it's going up, but I haven't bought enough, and I haven't got enough money. How else am I going to, you know, kind of, like, get to the point where I want to get to? And that's what I did. I kind of, like, played around with Defi Summer. I bet on new things there.
01:58:09.802 - 01:58:30.600, Speaker A: I invested in new things, but I also grew my personal brand as well. And I got really involved. ETH hub was born in the bear market. Late 2018, ETH was launched. I launched the Daily Gwei in mid 2020 when the ecosystem was still tiny, even though the bull market seemed to be coming back. I mean, ETH in mid 2020 was still like $300 or something. And then I launched the YouTube channel as well and things like that.
01:58:30.600 - 01:59:10.300, Speaker A: But all the while I was building up my personal profile, getting involved with things, getting, becoming an advisor to projects. And then I only started angel investing in September of last year because, you know, September, October, because before then, I just didn't have the opportunity to do it. I didn't have the money to do it. And then it kind of, like, snowballed from there. So I would say that kind of like they were dealing with the regret of not getting into crypto sooner is by realizing that there's so much opportunity left. There's so much kind of like, there's so much kind of, like, opportunity left, both financially from the investment side of things, but also socially. And we're still, I know it's, again, I know it's a kind of meme, but we're so early, so, so early still.
01:59:10.300 - 01:59:43.004, Speaker A: Guys, like, the, the market valuations can get ahead of where the tech is, and they normally do, like, very much so. But the thing is, is that you have an opportunity to be part of a movement, to be part of a revolution that is the biggest in human history. I truly believe this. It is bigger than the Internet, is bigger than the industrial revolution. It is bigger than anything else in history because it not only touches technology, it touches money. And reinventing money is not something that we have done in humanity for a very long time. Like, money has always been kind of like this, more of the same, and more of kind of like the same thing.
01:59:43.004 - 02:00:18.566, Speaker A: Essentially controlled and especially over the last hundred years with fear, just like complete garbage. Now we have a chance to basically have a free market for money, have a free economy, free and open economy, completely open source worldwide, global sentiment, layer secure. No one can tamper with it centrally. And, you know, and to think that we're at like, kind of like the late stages of this is prosperous. We are in the earliest stages of this. There's so much left to build, so much left to do, so much money left to make if you know what to invest in, if you place your cards right. So much social capital left to left to kind of like, obtain so many, so much things you can do for yourself.
02:00:18.566 - 02:00:40.570, Speaker A: You can change your entire life by getting involved with this ecosystem, even. Even today, working for these early stage companies, working for these Daos, getting involved as much as you can, and all it takes is your own decision. You don't, you know, you got no one else. No one else is responsible for this. It's your own personal decision. And that's a decision that I made in early 2018 to stick around. And it changed my whole life in more ways than I ever even imagined.
02:00:40.570 - 02:01:08.154, Speaker A: So I would say that's how I kind of, like, deal with it. And to be honest, I don't even think about it anymore because of where I am today. There's no point thinking about it. No point dawdling on the past, no point dawdling on things that you regret. You can't change it. You got to just always keep moving forward, and that's how you do it. So, yeah, I know that got, like, really deep into the weeds and really personal there, but one of my goals with the Daily Gwei and with what I do is to inspire other people to follow the path that I took and to forge their own path as well, and to change their lives with ethereum and crypto more generally.
02:01:08.154 - 02:01:43.250, Speaker A: And if I can help just one person change their life, I I've done my job right. I've done what I've set out to do, and there's been a lot of people that message me over time that I. That I helped them a lot, and that's what I really appreciate, and that's what keeps me going. So, yeah, hopefully that kind of, like, gives you an answer to your question, but also adds a bit more color there for. For you to kind of, like, have a think about. All right, one here from Benny, who asks, regarding e commerce, do you see the future of the checkout process is just connecting your wallet, metamask or whatever, and signing and approving a transaction. Is there a good solution that you know of for this? Now, the current crypto checkout solutions are a bit fragmented.
02:01:43.250 - 02:02:11.138, Speaker A: Lastly, do you think l two s will take over this space? Um, I guess, like, to answer your last question first, I do think l two s are going to be where all this kind of, like, commerce stuff happens. Um, and I do think it's just going to be very, very simple. Kind of like signing and approving transactions. Uh, it's going to be all abstracted away from the end user. It's going to be literally the way it is today with centralized payment processors. Uh, so, yeah, I envision that that's just the way it's going, because it can't work any other way at scale. Like, you can't expect someone to go jump through all these hoops at scale because they just won't.
02:02:11.138 - 02:03:04.674, Speaker A: It's just because we're early still. There's a lot of kind of like, um, hiccups with it, but there will be an l two or multiple l two s, that kind of scale. This as pure payments and commerce infrastructure, and I believe that everything will be obstructed away. All right, next question from Tim Gabe here, who asks, what have you done in order to put yourself in the position to take part in early investment rounds for projects like IMX, Zksync, et cetera? I can see how your position as a domain expert influencer helps a lot, but do you have any actionable, actionable tips on what one would look to invest time into in order to be able to take part in early stage angel investments within crypto? I mean, you kind of like, sort of alluded to it there. The way you get access to these early stage deals is by adding value as an angel investor is not by adding value through money, but it's by adding value through social capital. So obviously, I have a lot of social capital, right? I have a lot of Twitter followers. I have a lot of people that listen to me and watch my stuff.
02:03:04.674 - 02:03:29.278, Speaker A: I have a big audience. I have a big reach. If I say something, if I kind of like, put a spotlight on something, there's a lot of people that are going to hear about it. But I also have experience with marketing community building brands, building things from zero. Have a lot of network in this space, have a lot of connections in this space. And that's why I'm brought on to kind of like, um, these projects. So that would be what you need to get to if you wanted to partake as an angel investor in things.
02:03:29.278 - 02:04:06.104, Speaker A: Um, and the second requirement would be that, unfortunately, you need to have a net worth of a million dollars or more to actually invest in these things because of accredited investor laws. So there's, those are the two parts to it. But I mean, uh, the, the thing is, is that you can have that net worth but not have the social capital, and it's not going to get you far because as I said, when you're an angel investor, they aren't looking for your money, they're looking for your alignment and for your help on things that they're kind of like the VC's can't give them. And what VC's can't give these projects that I can is massive. Reach massive network. Massive. Kind of like VC's have their own network, but I have like a very crypto native, Ethereum native network, obviously.
02:04:06.104 - 02:05:04.292, Speaker A: You know, I'm, I hate tuning my own horn, but I pretty sure I'm the most well known person in the Ethereum ecosystem besides like Vitalik and like obviously like there's others out there as well, like Ryan David and DC investor. I mean there's a few of us, right. But I would say like I am definitely up there as a top, as one of the most well known people and that's another reason why I'm brought on. And I also have like a lot of experience growing things from zero marketing community experience, a lot of reach through Ethub daily way, of course, stuff like that. So in terms of like actionable things that you can do, I mean, I can't, it's hard to say. But I would say that just like you need to build up your personal brand, you need to build up your connections, your network, that would probably be the easiest thing to do. But I would, as I mentioned, like the reason why, you know, I'm brought on as an angel is because I like, I have a big name in the ecosystem and to get to where I am, it took a long time, it took many years.
02:05:04.292 - 02:05:42.262, Speaker A: It's not an easy path, but if you want to go down that path, you can. It's just gonna take a while. Unfortunately, it's, it doesn't happen overnight, that's for sure. All right, last one here from pepperoni and then I'll end the AMA for tonight. So do you think there could be other applications for blockchain other than Defi and NFT gaming? Is it possible to use blockchain as a database for anything web two or not? So I would say that the web3 movement is kind of like about. I mean, web3 is kind of like a catch all term right now, but let's talk about something like decentralized social media that's not going to run on a blockchain. It just doesn't make sense for it to run on a blockchain.
02:05:42.262 - 02:06:23.130, Speaker A: What will be stored on a blockchain will be the state. So the state being user accounts, user actions, stuff like that, you know, basically the, the user profile and all that sort of stuff. But the actual kind of like website and the actions and kind of like the features and everything, they're not going to be stored on a blockchain because it's going to be too cost prohibitive to do that. I mean, especially on ethereum l one. But they could be stored on something like a validium, for example, where it's very, very cheap to kind of like just put your proofs on chain and then store all your data off chain. I'm like a volidium construction would make sense. But like, beyond decentralized social media, there's tons of other uses of blockchain.
02:06:23.130 - 02:06:51.708, Speaker A: I mean, people are looking at it for supply chain stuff. There's enterprise stuff, there's kind of like privacy protocols as well that can kind of work there. But, you know, I think that we've only really scratched the surface of the use cases of this technology. I think that the new technology coming out in terms of like the L2s and the scaling tech will actually dictate what other apps get built. I'm very much looking forward to seeing what apps get built here. Excuse me, sorry. Very, very much looking forward to seeing what other use cases and apps that we come up with.
02:06:51.708 - 02:07:36.372, Speaker A: But I think for now, you know, Defi NFTs covers a lot of it and is what works right now. But then, you know, in the future, decentralized social media, you know, that web3 stuff, daos, supply chain stuff, enterprise stuff, that's going to play a bigger role as we scale, I believe. All right, I think that's going to be it for this AMA, everyone, unless anyone's got any final last questions, I'll give it 10 seconds and then I'll just end it there. All right, well, I think that's it for today, so thank you, everyone, for listening to the AMA. As I said, this has been recorded. You can check this out on YouTube within 24 hours. If you came in late, it'll be timestamped.
02:07:36.372 - 02:07:44.324, Speaker A: You'll be able to go and listen to everything there. The next one will be held in two weeks from today. But on that note, I'm going to end it. So thank everyone. I'll see you in the Discord channel.
