00:00:03.840 - 00:00:27.622, Speaker A: All right, hello, everyone. I'm really excited for this panel. Today. We have an amazing group of people to talk about what I think is going to be one of the driving forces that shapes how blockchains evolve, which is Mev. So, before we get started, I just wanted to ask each of you to maybe give a little background about yourselves and introduce yourself. Yeah, starting here.
00:00:27.718 - 00:00:43.034, Speaker B: Awesome. So, I'm the founder of DFLO, which is a protocol that's building decentralized order flow auctions. Spent a ton of time thinking about Mev, so I'm pretty stoked for this talk. And prior to this, I was a quant researcher at an HFT firm.
00:00:44.534 - 00:00:56.294, Speaker C: My name is Lucas Bruder. I'm the co founder and CEO of Geolabs. We're building high performance meb infrastructure for Solana, help Solana scale to the next billion users.
00:00:56.834 - 00:01:10.814, Speaker D: Hi, I'm Eugene Chen. I'm the co founder at Ellipsis Labs. We're building a new limit order book, decentralized exchange protocol on Solana. Previously, I used to do Mev research focused on PBS, on Ethereum.
00:01:13.114 - 00:02:01.794, Speaker A: All right, so today we're going to cover some of the thorniest questions in Mev, and we're going to get into the weeds of it. So we're assuming the audience has some context about what this is. Otherwise, there's a lot of resources online to learn a little bit more. But the first question I wanted to ask each of you is, what do you think of the various tactics being taken by l one's and l two s across the ecosystem to try and reduce, or potentially, in their words, eliminate Mev? Do you think it's possible? Do you think there's positive or negative externalities? Examples of this include the stance that arbitrum has taken around how the sequencer works or how osmosis randomizes transactions within a block.
00:02:02.894 - 00:02:38.634, Speaker B: Yeah, I'll start. So, I guess in terms of directional things like, I think l one s and l two s should definitely try and eliminate Mev to the extent that it's possible. I think eliminate is maybe a little bit of an overloaded term. I think what generally people have come to somewhat of a consensus on is that you can sort of redistribute and move MeV around, but you can't necessarily just, like, get rid of it because it's just a human. It's just a human problem. Like, you know, contention for state is essentially something that it boils down to.
00:02:40.454 - 00:03:56.714, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that, you know, the FIFO and the fair seek and swing things are kind of interesting. I think they have some negative externalities from spam, and it kind of turns into this like high frequency trading game that we see in traditional finance. I think that my take is that we should try to minimize it through applications and try to minimize users exposure to MeV through aggregators and things like Nitesh is working on at DFLO, and for everything else, it should be efficiently extracted through state auctions. So on Ethereum, PBS and flashbots is working on suave now, which will be very interesting. You kind of have like the highest payer bidding for state. I think that makes the most sense to me on Solana, where on Ethereum you're bidding for the entire block on Solana, because of the way the account model works, you can actually have auctions for individual pieces of state, which seems to be the most efficient way to extract the Meva on there.
00:03:57.254 - 00:05:06.924, Speaker D: Yeah. When we see some of these FIFO mechanisms proposed, you often see them coming from teams running protocols that are completely centralized, where you do have full control over the ordering. I don't think FIFO transaction ordering is really possible in a decentralized, permissionless validator world compared to something like optimism. Arbitrum, which run completely single sequencer centralized, they can go for those sorts of options. At the end of the day, MEV extraction, efficient extraction, is going to be the most economically efficient outcome for the network itself. And I think it's up to DeFi protocols and other applications that are built on chain to build them in a way that is MEV aware, where the MEV surface that's exposed is as small as possible, and then it's up to the underlying l one to come up with an MEV policy that's both economically robust and able to redistribute the proceeds of MEV auctions back to the appropriate stakeholders, whether that's the end users or the validators or the stakers.
00:05:09.344 - 00:06:11.084, Speaker A: Yeah, just to chime in on that a little bit more, like, I think that these methods being used to try and reduce or eliminate MEV have a lot of negative externalities, specifically centralized sequencer. It's like, well, you know, might as well trade on NYSE. Like, what are we doing here? I think, you know, what's the point of all of this? You need permissionless validation of blocks, and if you have permissionless validation of blocks, you can't enforce FIFO, like you said. And then I think MeV is inescapable because time doesn't stop between blocks. And so, you know, things are going to happen in the world, and someone is going to make a trading profit off of that thing happening. And, you know, doing things like randomizing transactions within the block just actually incentivizes censorship, where the valid, the validator can say, only the MEV searcher's transaction will enter the block, and I won't let anyone else's transaction in because they're getting randomized in order with within the block. So generally, I think it's unavoidable.
00:06:12.104 - 00:06:50.264, Speaker B: I would just add one thing to that, where I agree that time doesn't stop, and therefore, MEV is something you can't really stop. But there are other, I guess, technologies that can contribute. And I think probably the biggest set of technologies is privacy preserving technologies, which do actually a lot in terms of, I guess, revealing and hiding the right information at the right time. And that sort of coalesces into MEV being reduced at certain stages for very specific applications. I think a general solution is probably not really possible.
00:06:51.204 - 00:07:41.942, Speaker D: Yeah, there's a lot of interesting things happening here in the cosmos ecosystem. I'm not sure how familiar this crowd is with them, but like Nitesh mentioned having some sort of threshold encryption on transactions. This is what Penumbra zone is working on in Cosmos, where Defi trades are not revealed to the validator creating the block. They're only revealed in the consensus mechanism. And this makes a ton of sense. It makes it very difficult to front run and censor for the validator. And then there's some other interesting things happening where if you have an app chain, say you have a uniswap chain on cosmos, it doesn't really matter that your liquidity providers are getting mebbed, as long as you still have a robust MeV option.
00:07:41.942 - 00:07:56.594, Speaker D: Because if that value is getting returned to the l, one token in this case would be the app chain token. You can just redistribute those profits to the auction revenue to the LP's who are losing the money there.
00:07:58.414 - 00:08:38.114, Speaker C: Yeah, I think every however you extract Meb, there's always trade offs associated with it. I think it'll be very interesting to see how it evolves on Solana just because it's such a high performance chain. Like, I'm sure a lot of us were watching the fire dancer talk earlier. So if we start to, depending on the way that we try to hide MEV or handle MeV on Solana, it could potentially impact the performance of the chain. So it'll be really interesting to see how Mev kind of evolves on Solana.
00:08:40.254 - 00:09:39.194, Speaker A: All right, so the next topic I wanted to cover with you guys is around centralization and how MeV can contribute to it. There's been a lot of talk about how MEV leads to validators wanting to co locate with the block builder in order to get the lowest latency and have potentially the highest amount of MEV that they can earn. There's also a really fantastic blog post written by Vitalik called Endgame, which talks about cross chain MeV leading to centralization of validation between various blockchains, where you would have Solana nodes running on the same box as an ETH node, as an osmosis node, as an aptos node, as, you know, whatever else, to maximize the possibilities of cross chain MeV. How do you think this will evolve? Like, will MeV be a centralizing force for all blockchains forever?
00:09:41.154 - 00:10:33.644, Speaker B: Yeah, I'll kick us off again on this. I think to answer that question specifically, MeV is already a centralized enforce on proof of stake networks. And I think the catalyst for what makes me a centralized enforce on these networks is private order flow. Essentially, it's sort of a self fulfilling prophecy where blockbuilders that dominate, tend to dominate recursively and become resource starving entities to other blockbuilders. And essentially this boils down to a situation where there's like a centralized choke point on the network. And so I think part of your question was also, like, what does a solution to this look like? And I think the canonical solution here is decentralization of private order flow, which is something, you know, we think is really important and what we're working on.
00:10:36.344 - 00:11:18.024, Speaker C: Yeah, I think. I think about centralization on like, two fronts. There's kind of like the validator searcher centralization, which I don't think will be the best long term solution. I don't think that an MEV searcher will be able to build the best block, given the data. So, you know, could be a combination of arbitrage, statistical arbitrage, liquidations, NFT. I don't think that any one person will be able to do all that and make the most money for stakers. So that's kind of why we're building this kind of decentralized way to have multiple participants participate in block building.
00:11:18.024 - 00:12:01.204, Speaker C: I think the other point about centralization is the location centralization. So on Solana, there's a lot of stake in Frankfurt and Amsterdam, which causes a lot of searchers to kind of go to that region to participate, and then you have kind of more steak going there. So that's something that we're working on a lot at Jito to kind of move stake out of Europe. And I think that l one s need to think about these like latency very hard so we don't end up with validators all in the same data center. That data center going offline and causing the network to essentially halt.
00:12:02.984 - 00:13:16.848, Speaker D: Yeah, I think I agree with these guys that Mev is naturally very centralizing. And I think this is a theme we see all across the ecosystem, where decentralization is often trading off against economic efficiency. And so you need to push for decentralization wherever you can. And I think we see the, just earlier this week we saw some of the benefits of decentralization, where if a data center suddenly kicks off a bunch of your nodes, is your blockchain going to be robust to that? And because only 20% of the stake was on Hetzner, Solana was able to keep running through that. And in a world where the stake is much more centralized, that might not be the case with MEV, assuming you have no infrastructure for extraction whatsoever. It's very centralizing, because validators that can more efficiently extract MEb, which is a high skill game, they're going to be able to offer better returns to their stakers, so they're going to be able to accumulate more and more stake weight, which is obviously pretty centralizing to the network. There's many other forms in which MEV causes centralization.
00:13:16.848 - 00:14:32.694, Speaker D: Even when you have democratic access to MEv extraction infrastructure, such as Cheeto in Ethereum. Today, a lot of people in the MEV world are worried about centralization caused by latency and advantages. And this is in a world with twelve second blocks, where if you're a block builder on Ethereum and you get to see just a little bit more of the mempool than someone else, or, you know, the fair price on binance just a little bit better than another blockbuilder, you're going to be able to build a slightly more efficient block. And these effects are much more pronounced in Solana, where block times are significantly faster than 12 seconds. And especially when you cut up a block into smaller slices. These forces are very real. At the end of the day, we're not going to be able to depend on the benevolence of a few centralized actors to maintain decentralization for the sake of the network, we need robust economic systems that mean that decentralization is actually the most efficient outcome, or no one is incentivized to defect and centralize.
00:14:34.394 - 00:15:08.206, Speaker A: Do you think that proof of stake can be that economic motivation where stakers realize it is not in their best interest or the network's best interest to have all of the validators centralized in the same data center, or other types of centralization around blockbuilders, etcetera. Stakers actually force the decentralization because that's maybe short term economically irrational because they could earn a higher yield, but long term economically rational because the network is more resilient and more useful.
00:15:08.390 - 00:15:32.754, Speaker D: I think this is possible, but it's a little bit dangerous because it's really the largest stakers who are going to be incentivized to spread their stake geographically. A smaller staker is going to rationally conclude that they have no effect on the total decentralization of the network. And so if you're relying on the benevolence of large stakers here, I think you're still running into some issues on decentralization.
00:15:33.174 - 00:16:29.154, Speaker C: I think stake pools are pretty popular on Solana, and there's reference bots that are available that let state pools move stake around depending on some criteria, one of which is you have like the ASN centralization or location centralization. And I think stake pools are really good about kind of handling this for the user so that they don't necessarily need to know how to decentralize it. They kind of trust the stake pool to do it for them. But ultimately, the nice thing about proof of stake is that if you don't like what a validator is doing, or you think that you can go earn more money elsewhere, or you don't like what this validator is doing with MeV, then you can just de stake and move it in like two days.
00:16:30.574 - 00:17:03.434, Speaker B: I think it's fun to be optimistic that stakers will be sort of moral about not going to these toxic validator nodes on the network. But I think the right approach is for us to design a system where we have economic incentives that prevent that. And I think Lucas is right. Stake pools is a good example of that. Doing things like completely decentralized state space auctions and order flow auctions is how we avoid that sort of killing crypto.
00:17:04.934 - 00:17:46.454, Speaker A: Got it. So on that same note, I wanted to ask you all about the various types of malicious mev that exist in the world. Everyone has heard of these sandwich attacks, which are basically a front running attack, where someone sees a transaction in the mempool and they try and front run that transaction. What do you think is the long term equilibrium here? Will the validators that facilitate malicious MeV be the winners because they earn slightly more yield, and people will stake to them and so they continue to accrue more yield, or will there be a different equilibrium, maybe where stakers are exercising more discretion in order to protect the users of the network?
00:17:47.754 - 00:18:48.340, Speaker C: I think stakers will probably go to where the highest yield is at, assuming that the validators like not totally messing with the network, like doing time banded attacks, changing history, things like that. I think as these systems evolve, we can't continue to let people get sandwiched on chain. And I think that better app design and having apps consider what they expose their users to. With respect to Mev, it will play a very important role in removing how much it happens. Like if you go on like Orca or something and you set your slippage to 10%, it will warn you that you're going to get front run, or you could get front run. So I think, like, apps need to handle that more, and I think users will go to where the highest stake is. But as I said earlier, like, stakers can move their stake wherever they want.
00:18:48.340 - 00:18:53.264, Speaker C: So I guess we'll see what happens on the long time horizon.
00:18:54.204 - 00:19:55.424, Speaker D: I think it's going to be tough to ever come to a consensus on what forms of MeV are malicious and what forms are benign. For example, a lot of people feel like front running attacks that result in a worse fill for the user sending the transaction are malicious. Well, what about passive lp in a pool getting arbitrage against, is that malicious? Is that benign? Should stakers move their stake away from validators who are allowing those types of trades? I don't think it's very clear. I think Lucas is right. At the end of the day, a lot of this has to come down to application design. If you're designing a front end for some trading protocol and you're not showing big red warning lights when users typing in 50% slippage, I think it's kind of on you. When it comes to these transaction generated MeV, for example, an oracle update, front runnable Dex trade.
00:19:55.424 - 00:20:50.774, Speaker D: I think it's very possible that the equilibrium here is we end up with order flow auctions, where this is going to happen completely upstream of the protocol itself. So these transactions are never going to reach the Solana validators. And so Solana validators are not going to have any economic interest in them. And instead, as a user, you're going to send your transaction to some private RPC. This is going to happen completely off chain, and that service is going to auction off your order flow to independent searchers. And so instead of the revenue from the auction going to the validators and to the stakers is just going to go back to the user. And so in this way, instead of searchers competing to give the user the worst bill, they're actually going to be competing to give the user the best fill by way of bidding for the right to mev the transaction.
00:20:52.154 - 00:21:35.504, Speaker B: Yeah, I also agree with Lucas in terms of stakers will go where the yield is. It's just, you know, it's sort of up to us to create like the community to create incentive systems that economically reward stakers more than handshake deals between people you know, or people who know each other can reward those. So like we just got to get to a point where who, you know, isn't an edge anymore in things like financial applications, nfts, just everything. And once we get there, I'm optimistic that stakers will go to the place that is least toxic in terms of validator nodes.
00:21:36.844 - 00:22:00.464, Speaker A: Got it. What are some more things that you think apps can be doing to more intelligently design to reduce harmful mev to their users? You mentioned a couple big red warning signs when you put your slippage for 50% on the handpool or order flow auctions, which make a lot of sense. Do any other ideas come to mind?
00:22:01.244 - 00:23:01.352, Speaker C: Yeah, I think like aggregators are really good about reducing mev. You know, they essentially leave almost no arb after the user's order is finished. Which means that the users, it could have exposed mev and a searcher or validator could have taken it, but the user is getting more money, money back. I think one thing that I'd like to see is if you're aping into some coin and you set the slippage super high, having that reset on you after you kind of ape into it, but you are seeing like orca uniswap sushiswap on ethereum have warnings about high slippage. So I think users need to be aware. I think that you have to kind of lean on the Dapps to do it for users right now. And I think we should keep doing that.
00:23:01.352 - 00:23:06.764, Speaker C: Where dapps are warning users about exposure to Mev.
00:23:07.304 - 00:24:52.894, Speaker D: Yeah, I think Mev aware protocol design is very dependent on the particular application. One example here from the Ethereum world where there was just like a strong improvement made to a protocol is with Euler finance, with these traditional borrow lend protocols like AaVE, like Solend for example, when a position is allowed to be liquidated, there's a fixed liquidator surplus that's paid to a liquidator or MeV bot to take on the debt, to take on the, to basically pay back the borrow from a user that's getting liquidated. And Euler finance instead essentially encodes an auction into their own protocol. And so less of the surplus is going to the validators and more of it is staying in the hands of the user. So this is a pretty big step function improvement, and I think it highlights a general design pattern that can make sense for some, but not all, protocol developers, which is throwing a multi block auction implicitly into your protocol. Obviously, it does not work for opportunities that are exposed as sort of in a sort of step function way where if you want to have an auction, you're going to have to have it outside of the protocol, like in a Jito auction, for example. But this is just one example of how a protocol is going to be designed to be more MEV aware, which is going to be protecting their users, essentially letting less of the MEV make it all the way to the validator level, trying to keep it within the complex of the protocol and its users.
00:24:55.394 - 00:25:32.284, Speaker B: I think the key here is to have a system where a lot of this stuff isn't possible. For example, like a big red warning sign when you set your slippage to 50. I mean, it's nice, but it's treating the symptom, not the disease. And in my opinion, I think we get 95% of the way there by just having, for this sort of problem order flow that is accessible not through handshake deals, but just through permissionless auctions. Yeah, that's my takeaway, is treat the disease, not the symptom, for a lot of this stuff.
00:25:33.224 - 00:26:05.414, Speaker A: Got it. All right, so we have time for one last question for you all. And Eugene, you mentioned a point earlier that I thought was really interesting. You talked about how AMm app chains can redistribute mev to LP's, basically. And so I guess I want to start with you. What do you think are the fairest ways to distribute meV? Who should get paid? Is it like the LP's and amms? Is it the layer one token stakers? Is it the RPC endpoints? Who should get paid?
00:26:05.994 - 00:27:09.122, Speaker D: I think should is a very. You know, this world is doing a lot of work in this question. At the end of the day, I think it's going to be the entities that have the economic bargaining power who are going to get to decide where the MEB goes. For example, in the current world, on Ethereum or on Solana, the users really have no say where the MEV goes, because once their transaction hits the mempool, once their transaction hits the validator, they've lost all control over it, and they can take back this control by auctioning off their order flow privately before it gets to the validator layer. With app chain in particular, I think the protocol designer ends up with a lot of freedom as far as designing rebate type mechanisms. And at the end of the day today, it seems like LP's are pretty okay. Amm Lp's seem pretty okay with just like losing money on Uniswap, it's like on the order of hundreds of millions of dollars per year, they just lose money and they keep providing liquidity.
00:27:09.122 - 00:27:49.794, Speaker D: So maybe the market there is saying that Amm LP's don't need to get paid. And if you're at uniswap and you're collecting that MEV revenue, you can kind of do whatever you want with it. If you end up in a more competitive world where some LP's are getting rebated and others are not, then I think you might see some movement in terms of where people are willing to provide liquidity. And so I think you kind of just have to let the market decide, because there's multiple redistribution mechanisms that all make sense and that are all fair, or at least not provably unfair. So I tend to answer, yeah, let the market decide here.
00:27:51.494 - 00:28:25.634, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that mev should be distributed to the users in the community. So ideally that would be through proper app design and trying to minimize me be exposed there. But for everything else, I think it should be distributed it to stakers and validators. For the l one, that was really important to us when we were working on Geo, and something that we built from the start was being able have the ability for validators to share MeV with their stakers. So anyone can kind of participate in the system.
00:28:27.094 - 00:29:04.374, Speaker B: Yeah, I think the right answer here is that it just depends on what the application is and who the users are. Like, if it's two quant prop firms that are battling it out on some decentralized order book, Mev should probably go to whoever's facilitating that exchange. But if it's like a retail trader who's opening up a wallet and trying to swap, the MEV shouldn't go to the validator or blockbuilder. I think it should go back to the retail trader. It's a simple sort of intuitive action they're trying to do. It shouldn't be so complicated to just make a swap, you know?
00:29:05.034 - 00:29:10.994, Speaker A: Got it. Well, awesome. Thank you everyone for joining us, and thank you to the panelists for sharing the knowledge.
