00:00:00.330 - 00:00:21.870, Speaker A: What about cryptographic primitives? Whether it's just the cryptography side, on the ZK side for helping training models with private data, or just even the economic value of like tokens or nfts, do you see those playing a role? As things get more driven by AI, and AI generated content becomes a thing and more bot traffic happens on the Internet.
00:00:24.890 - 00:01:12.980, Speaker B: It so one just maybe correction, or I think, way to maybe modify the frame. I see this kind of frame thrown around, which implies that once we all have our respective AI agents, total Internet traffic will multiply by ten x or more. I'm pretty sure that's wrong. Bot traffic is already today the substantial majority of the Internet for sure. And if you ask your AI agent to go do things for you, it's because you have some sort of intent. So either you would have done it yourself, or because the amount of time would have taken is high and asking the AI agent takes 4 seconds. You now increase total Internet consumption like it's just an arbitrage in your own time.
00:01:12.980 - 00:02:17.670, Speaker B: So those bot requests will increase versus humans. I think that's right, but I'm skeptical that the relative ratios are particularly large relative to the status quo. Bots are already most of the Internet. So I just think it's important to note that the total nature of Sybil and bots on the Internet, I don't think that math is changing in a very strong way, in aggregate, at least not within a three to five year horizon. I mean, look, in 15 years, like, who knows? But in the near ish term, I'm skeptical. In terms of, again, this got the world coin theory is like, you can prove who you are on the Internet, that you're a human. There seems to be this very anti bot narrative emerging, obviously led to kind of by Twitter here being the most aggressive, and then to a lesser extent by all content providers on the Internet, the Reddits, the shutterstocks, the AP News of the world and stuff, I generally am confused.
00:02:17.670 - 00:02:55.250, Speaker B: You want bots to scrape your website, because that's fundamentally discovery. Now, if people are retaking your content without attribution, I think that's a problem. But so long as there's attribution, I think that's net good. Obviously, Chad GBT V one doesn't do attribution, but they're not stupid, they're working on it. Anthropic, I believe now with Claude supports attribution, and a lot of other people are working on attribution, so it doesn't seem intractable. And so once you get to the point where you're pretty confident in attribution. To me, this is all just Google.
00:02:55.250 - 00:03:31.582, Speaker B: Again, it's fair use of taking text out of whatever the website is and rendering it with the link. We, we actually have all of the counterfactuals of this experiment as well. If you follow strategy. He's covered this over the last like four or five years. There's been a handful of countries. I think Spain was one, I think Australia was one, Canada may have been one more recently, where the government's like, google evil, stealing revenue from the publishers and newspapers and stuff bad, and have all made the exact. And they go to Google and they're like, google, you have to pay back a percentage of the ads of those searches back to the publishers or whatever.
00:03:31.582 - 00:04:04.460, Speaker B: And Google says no. And then they say, if you want us to stop indexing you, we can stop indexing you and you want to appear in our search results. And every time this has happened two or three times now, within 48 hours, all of the news publishers are like, oh my God, no, we'll play by your rules because all their traffic goes away. And so it's like, okay, we know what the counterfactual is to this experiment. It's been run at fairly large scale across multiple cultures. So I don't really have a problem. I don't think bots are a problem.
00:04:04.460 - 00:04:29.042, Speaker B: The human attribution thing is most interesting for verifying a piece of content is in fact a person. Yes. Also, potentially it can improve efficiency in the server of like, instead of a bunch of bots playing dumb games of scraping HTML. If you know it's a person, you can show the HTML. And if it's not a person, just give them a JSON feed. Maybe that's net more server and bandwidth efficient than not. I don't know.
00:04:29.042 - 00:04:44.280, Speaker B: But I'm skeptical that the Internet is so broken. And if only we have this way to fix it and I'll be better now, I'm like, no, it works. And we can continue to make small tweaks and adjust total kind of traffic and processing flows over.
00:04:45.290 - 00:05:26.840, Speaker A: Right, right. It just reminds me of when that infamous day when Fortnite turned on bots and the game was never the same, just felt so desolate. And they did it to increase engagement because people were winning more games when they killed bots, because they could modulate the bots intelligence based on how good the player was, based on how many games they've won, and so on and so forth. So I guess maybe the fear just comes from that meta being possible now with the rise of AI and the Internet and separate from that, just even getting a spam call from an AI generated voice that sounds like a relative or something like that, these will definitely be problems. I think that'll increase in scope pretty soon.
00:05:27.610 - 00:06:10.080, Speaker B: Yeah, but I think you just have two different things. I would loosely say there's AI that's doing somewhere on the spectrum of misrepresentation to malice, to fraud, which is like the phone call representing your uncle kind of a thing. And then there's like the benign version, which is like the Fortnite example you gave. And those are not comparable in my mind. One is definitively bad, there's no pro case there, and the other is obviously very gray and subjective and obviously epic. Thought very hard about this and figuring out how to make it work or not. Obviously that's their prerogative to do so.
00:06:10.080 - 00:06:19.460, Speaker B: But that's brilliant. You can just leave Fortnite and go to the next one that doesn't have the bots. Capitalism will naturally solve that problem. So that doesn't really concern me.
