00:00:00.440 - 00:00:39.974, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gui refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano, and today's the 7 May 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So wanted to talk a little bit about the markets to get today's episode started. So as you all have probably seen, if you know, frequent coingecko or Coinmarketcap or any of those coin tracking sites, there are a lot of coins and tokens going up considerably in value that many people thought were dead. Right, dead or dinosaur coins or, you know, some people calling this a dinosaur season because they're all going up in value now. I was kind of like wondering like why are these things going up in value? These are, these are dead projects.
00:00:39.974 - 00:01:27.314, Speaker A: No one's using them. They were like 2017 fan favorites as well, which is, which was odd. So I did some digging and really, I mean, it was quite obvious once I found the reason, but essentially Robin Hood has this on their website where they have, I think it's like seven current crypto available here for cryptocurrencies available here for trading, that being BTC, bitcoin cash, Bitcoin SV, Dogecoin, ETH, Ethereum classic and litecoin. Now if you look at the right hand image here, you can see that Ethereum classic is up 300% over the last week. And it's like, okay, why? Like, I don't know anyone using Ethereum classic, their network metrics, you know, basically very, very low. They've been 51% attacked multiple times. So, you know, why is it up this much in? It really is because it's just on Robin Hood.
00:01:27.314 - 00:02:12.160, Speaker A: Robin Hood is an extremely popular retail investing app. It's even more popular than crypto exchanges are. And you know, obviously there's a lot of Robin Hood users that came in recently because of their JME stuff that happened, the game stop stock and all the kind of like new drop news and drama surrounding that. But also people are buying a theorem classic because they think it's a cheaper Ethereum and it makes zero sense. But this is kind of like, you know, that bell curve meme you've seen this is middle of the bell curve thinking people will buy this stuff because they just truly believe that ethereum classic is just the cheaper version of Ethereum. Now, I mean, I can understand that if you're totally new to the ecosystem, it's not exactly explained to you what Ethereum classic is. You, you know, just it's got Ethereum in the name so you might think, oh, well, okay, it must have something to do with Ethereum.
00:02:12.160 - 00:02:27.636, Speaker A: Same for bitcoin cash. Same for bitcoin SV, obviously. Dogecoin, I've spoken enough about that. Don't have to say anything there. And litecoin, which I like to call the cockroach of the crypto ecosystem because it just refuses to die. But, I mean, I don't really have any ill will towards litecoin. I just think it's pointless.
00:02:27.636 - 00:03:13.738, Speaker A: And yeah, it really does refuse to die. But then if we move down the list here and we see the list of assets that Robinhood doesn't support for trading but has net, has market data for, there's just a bunch of 2017 era coins that it just makes no sense. Like, when I saw this list, I'm like, how do they come up with this list? It must be kind of like a leftover from 2017 2018, because they have assets like bitcoin gold Dash, Neo Qtum, or Qtum. Assume it's Qtum, you know, ripple and Stella and whatever else here. So I look at that, and then I looked at Coingecko and some of the top performers this week are QTM, Omisego or OMG network. Right. Bitcoin, cash, lisk dash, and then a bunch of others below that.
00:03:13.738 - 00:03:34.394, Speaker A: That's not in my screenshot here. So that explains that. And because I was just really puzzled. Like, I actually, I wasn't too puzzled by Ethereum. Classy, because it's on Coinbase as well. And I know there's a lot of people buying it because of Ethereum, but I was puzzled by QTM and I've been puzzled by EOS as well. And I was really puzzled by bitcoin, cash and dash and things like that.
00:03:34.394 - 00:04:11.968, Speaker A: So this, this basically explains it. So I wrote a newsletter today about this as well, where I basically gave, like a, an overview of, like, why this is happening. And it's happening because of, of, partly because of Robin Hood, but because there's a ton of retail investors coming into this ecosystem now, and they don't know one thing from the other. This ecosystem, or at least coins and tokens to them, are literally just wrappers around marketing and narratives. They've probably seen these narratives on Facebook or on YouTube or on TikTok, which obviously we didn't have in 2017 and we have now. And tick tock's absolutely massive. So they see these narratives and, and kind of marketing speak and they think to themselves, okay, well, this must be crypto, right? And they don't know any better.
00:04:11.968 - 00:04:30.992, Speaker A: Because they're new to the ecosystem. And I think that's fine because, like, when we were all new, like, I'm sure we, you know, I know. I, like, back in 2013, I definitely came into, into bitcoin because I sourced money to be made. Like, I was not coming in for the tech. Like, I'll freely admit that. And a lot of people do that. And I think most people come into this ecosystem to, to make money first.
00:04:30.992 - 00:05:12.854, Speaker A: And that's totally fine. I'm not here to moralize and tell you what you should or shouldn't be doing or why you should be in this ecosystem. But that comes with the flip side of having to watch all this crap pump up and, you know, random people that you don't know outperform you. You know, you may have been fundamentals based investing for four years and you're getting outperformed by these quote unquote apes or, like, retail investors coming in and, you know, buying things like, you know, Ethereum classic, QTM, doge, whatever. So don't be disheartened by it. The thing that just gets me down is that a lot of these marketing and narratives are like, you know, fake marketing, scammy marketing, and it's allowed to, like, proliferate with no checks and balances at all. And I'm not inviting government regulation or anything like that.
00:05:12.854 - 00:05:45.938, Speaker A: But if you just go on YouTube, I mean, there's so much crap on there. Like, it's really bad. And it's actual scams, too. I don't know if you've seen, if you go to YouTube, sometimes there'll be a live stream, a channel playing, like a live stream, and it'll be like a pre recorded video from another kind of, like, channel. Like, I saw one of Bankless's interview of Hayden Adams the other day, and the channel was like, faking as if, like, Hayden Adams was doing this live interview. And then obviously they have links to their scam in the YouTube description. So there's a lot of that going on, and then there's a lot of fake marketing and narratives around these platforms.
00:05:45.938 - 00:06:22.478, Speaker A: Like people saying, you know, Ethereum classic is going to basically get new, new life when ETH one merges into ETH two, because all the miners are going to go to Ethereum classic. It's like, I mean, okay, maybe some of them will, but not all of them will. There's other coins they can mine. And at the same time, why is miners coming to the coin bullish? Like, they're just gonna dump, like, the coins on you I don't know. But anyway, and then things like Q term, which I hadn't heard about until since 2017, right? Until I saw it pumping up. And then even things like Verge and I mean, I'm not gonna go through all of these, but it's just the same thing, the same tune playing out. 2021 is 2017 on steroids.
00:06:22.478 - 00:06:53.714, Speaker A: I had hoped that there'd be a little bit of maturity in the ecosystem by now, but there doesn't seem to be. But in saying that, it seems that we have two separate markets now where Ethan BTC seem to be attracting a lot of institutional capital and the rest of the markets is attracting a lot of retail investor capital. So I think, and then this is why I think that, you know, it's going to be one. I mean, I. I've kind of said before that I don't think we're going to have a two year bear market again, but I apply that to ETH, right. And maybe to bitcoin as well. I don't apply it to all this other stuff.
00:06:53.714 - 00:07:44.154, Speaker A: Like all this other stuff can easily fall 90 plus percent in a down market because they're the first assets people sell off because they know that they're worthless, right. At least the smarter people that have been in the ecosystem for a while that are just trading this stuff, the traders know, they're like, you know, they're just trading momentum from retail investors and they're going to take all the money off the table. Once the market turns south on these things, the first thing they're going to sell, whether they go into ETH or BTC or USD, it's going to be those three. Three things. So when I say that I don't think it's going to be another two year bear market, I apply that to Ethan bitcoin, pretty much only the other things, even Defi tokens, not going to be spared. It's all about what people offload first, and that's what's going to happen there. But anyway, there's one other kind of like Twitter put out today in the same vein here, where I said there's only one person that I know in real life who's new to crypto and is actually interested in learning about the tech and using the products.
00:07:44.154 - 00:08:04.348, Speaker A: Everyone else just asked me about shitcoins or scams and whether they should buy into it or not. It's just depressing, to be honest. And it is. I mean, it's depressing. I understand it, but it's still depressing, because when I talk about these things in real life. I want to talk about the tech, I don't want to talk about random shitcoin XYZ and like, whether you should ape into it or not. Like, I'm not going to tell people what to buy and what not to buy.
00:08:04.348 - 00:08:43.665, Speaker A: If I tell them not to buy it because I know it's a scam and then it goes up ten x, which it typically does, then they're going to be like, well, bro, why did you tell me not to buy it? It's gone up ten x. So I really just stay away from, from that sort of stuff there. But yeah, I mean, it's just really disheartening because, I mean, as I said, there's only one person that I know and he's great to chat to and I really enjoy like, you know, educating him on this sort of stuff and, and answering his questions. And I know he's like really interested in the tech side of stuff, but, you know, everyone else I talk to just seems to just be like, wow, you know, there's so much money to be made. I want to, you know, buy into all this stuff. And as I said, I get that, but it's like, it's definitely not something that I want to be talking about. And I, I think, you know, there's a lot of discord channels like this too.
00:08:43.665 - 00:09:32.364, Speaker A: We were discussing it in the daily Grey Discord channel today where we said, you know, the Daily Grey channel is not very speculative at all. We talk a lot about the tech and I'm hoping we can keep it that way because that's just not what I want to invite into my life, I guess. Like I, I don't want to respect the pump on all this kind of stuff, so to speak. So, yeah, I'll leave it at that for now because there's one other thread here that I've been asked to cover over the last few days, and it's just thread from a guy named John. And a lot of you may have seen this, it was very popular. It got, you know, 16,000 likes, three and a half thousand retweets. And it's basically John kind of talking about how working in crypto is over romanticized and it's, it's basically, you know, marketed or advertised as a thing that's like this grand thing that's like rosy and, you know, always awesome and things like that.
00:09:32.364 - 00:10:08.150, Speaker A: Now, John sured I'm not going to read through the whole thing, but if you read through his thread, literally all of his points, or at least most of them, apply to startups in general. It's not just unique to crypto. And that's why I actually think this thread is kind of, kind of trash, if I'm being honest. Because he describes the problems well, I would say, but he basically has like, blinders on where he thinks that for some reason that this only applies to crypto. Now I've worked in both a very corporate job and a startup. When I was working at set and then before that I was working for a telco company in Australia. They were very, very different.
00:10:08.150 - 00:10:34.236, Speaker A: In the telco company, there are different problems. Right, sorry. In the, in the corporate company, there are different problems. You are basically a cog in the machine. You, you know, there's lots of toxicity depending on management. You know, you don't really feel like you're making any impact and you, and you really do feel like you're just, you're just there kind of like doing kind of like monkey work at the end of the day. And this doesn't happen at every corporation, but the bigger the corporation, the more bureaucracy, the harder it is to really get anything kind of done.
00:10:34.236 - 00:10:59.450, Speaker A: Startups are the complete opposite. When you join a startup, it's very different. You have a lot of agency, you have a lot of impact. If you're joining a startup with less than ten employees, then really you're 10% of the company if there's ten employees. So your impact is outsized and you basically get to steer the direction of some things. Your feedback is valued. You have a direct line to the founder, CEO, the executives.
00:10:59.450 - 00:11:35.356, Speaker A: Right. You have a direct line into all of them and you can talk to them as if they were just your normal co workers and stuff like that. So from that point of view, you know, startups are very, very different. And, you know, startups come with a lot of, a lot of headaches as well. So where in the corporate world you may think that it's a safe job because like, it's a very big company and, you know, they make, you know, they're profitable, they're making lots of money and you're, you're, you know, it's a lot harder for you to lose your job in a startup. It's kind of like much riskier because you're building new products and new things and new services that may or may not get adoption. Right.
00:11:35.356 - 00:12:24.668, Speaker A: And you're starting a lot of the time you're starting from, from basically zero. You know, first time founders who have maybe no name behind them, no experience behind them, are even in an even riskier position because of that as well. So all of these points I think that Jon brings up in this thread about like, you know, doing different things, building communities, working with VC's, I guess, like working with the law and the end regulations and stuff like that. That all applies to startups now. It like startups generally. So never where John actually has some, I guess, like okay points. I know I said the thread collectively was a bit trash, but I think where he has some okay points is that he was talking about like, governance and crypto, building a community, the token price and things like that.
00:12:24.668 - 00:13:09.904, Speaker A: What I think happens in crypto is that you still have the startups, right? You still have the startup companies, the startup culture, all that sort of stuff. But when you have a token involved, it amplifies all the good and all the bad. When the tokens going up, everyone loves you. Your community is on the moon, right? Your community is absolutely, you know, in love with your product, is using it, your TVL is exploding, your volumes are exploding, it's all well and good. Now, inevitably, the coin is not just going to go up forever, it's going to go down at some point. So what ends up happening is that when the coin's going down, and depending on how much it goes down, your community starts to turn toxic, right? And the toxic community starts dominating your kind of like teams mental space. It starts dominating your social platforms, it starts dominating your forums and your governance process and things like that, depending on how bad it gets.
00:13:09.904 - 00:13:52.454, Speaker A: That's where the really tough times come in. And I think that, you know, to, to John's point here is that that's, that's kind of like the why I think people over romanticize it is because, like, you can look into a, I guess, like a crypto product and be like, you know, everything's amazing when the number's going up, because I actually, you know, as an example here, I remember back to yearn and when that launched with Wifi, everyone loved yearn, right? Because the Wi Fi token was absolutely exploding. Everyone loved Andre. They thought he could do no wrong. They were like, how is this guy shipping something every week? And, you know, inevitably, the Wi Fi price crashed, like very, very hard. I think it went down like 80, 90% or something from, from the top. And then yearn fell out of favor with a lot of people.
00:13:52.454 - 00:14:19.242, Speaker A: They hated it. They hated Andre. You know, they basically turned very sour on the project. And then it took them a few months to. They kept building, but it took them a few months to get back in community favor. They're nowhere near what they were in terms of, like, I guess, the amount of people interested in it and the Wi Fi tokens, not like, exploding in value like it used to be. But I think that, you know, projects go through this all the time and it just amplifies all the negative and positives of a startup at the end of the day.
00:14:19.242 - 00:14:41.924, Speaker A: So, yeah, I guess, like, that's just like, my TLDR on this thread. And, like, I guess, you know, my perspective here. Like, I mean, I can, I can probably add a little bit more here about my time at set and, like, working with a startup, it's not great. It's not. I mean, I wouldn't say it's not great, but it's not like, sorry, it's not great all the time. It's not bad all the time. It's like middle, right? You have some really good moments.
00:14:41.924 - 00:15:27.028, Speaker A: You have some really, you know, really high moments. You have times when you're launching a major product and people are using it and you're getting all this coverage and people talking about it and it feels really good. Then there are low times where you've built a product and maybe no one's using it and no one's really talking about it, and there's competitors coming online and you're watching them get more kind of activity than you are and you get, you know, you get kind of depressing, depressed about it and then, you know, you keep working because you really believe in what you're building. But, you know, there are bad times, but if you really think about it, that's just life. Like, I don't, I don't really understand Jon's point of this thread where he basically illuminates, I guess, like he tries to illuminate what actually happens in startups in general, but in the end, he just really illuminates what happens in life. There are good times and bad times. That is, that is the point of this thing.
00:15:27.028 - 00:15:54.068, Speaker A: And, you know, depending on what you're doing, you know, there are, there can be really shitty times or they could be really good times. And as I said, when token price is going up, times are good. When token price is going down, times are bad. This is like crypto 101 or markets 101. You know, the bear market for Ethereum was, was pretty shitty, right? Ethereum was, was hated in 2018 and 2019 by a lot of people because ETH was just falling down so much. It was getting derided by so many people. So many people lost interest because the price was going down.
00:15:54.068 - 00:16:20.208, Speaker A: And now the price has gone up so much. Everyone loves a theory, right? And inevitably, if the price goes down and stays down for quite a while, I'm sure there'll be people that don't like Ethereum again and will lose lots of community members. That's just how crypto works. So I don't think that you should jump into a crypto job thinking that it's going to solve every problem that you have in your life and it's going to give you eternal happiness. But I don't think you should assume that about anything in life. That's just not how it works. Like, there's going to be ups and downs.
00:16:20.208 - 00:17:03.394, Speaker A: You have to learn to deal with them right, as you, as you go through life. And obviously, I'm not like a life coach here or trying to give you any kind of like, I guess, self help advice, but just generally I, when I see these kind of things, I'm just like, you know, talking about it as if it just applies to crypto, just doesn't go, go over well with me. But anyway, those are my opinions on that there. I'll move on from that for now. I do suggest going and reading the thread. As I say, he does have some good points in here, but, you know, just, just kind of looking at it, at it in a vacuum and looking at it as it just applies to crypto, I think, is really just like going the wrong way about it. So the Ethereum foundation announced today that their executive, I guess, director, ar.
00:17:03.394 - 00:17:42.932, Speaker A: Executive director, yeah, at the Ethereum foundation, is heading up a new Ethereum foundation fellowship program, which is essentially, as you, as you can see, a fellowship program for the Ethereum ecosystem here. So she goes over essentially kind of like the Ethereum Foundation's role in this initiative and kind of like what they'll be doing with that. And the EF Fellowship program has, I guess, like different kind of chapters and different continents here. So obviously North America, South America, you have Africa here and Asia over here. No australian representation. That's a bit sad. But I mean, it's not unexpected, given Australia is just like this weird little island, you know, weird little continent that everyone forgets about.
00:17:42.932 - 00:18:24.110, Speaker A: But anyway, so what the Ethereum foundation fellowship program is, it's a pilot program that has been launched by initiative called Next Billion. Sorry, a team called Next Billion, which is a team at the EF that focuses on seeking opportunities in emerging economies. Okay, well, that explains why Australia is not listed here, because Australia is not an emerging economy. So I'm assuming that these people will be definitely going obviously, obviously spending time in emerging economies like Africa, South America and kind of Asia here and things like that. So that's really cool to see. So, yeah, these are the people that are basically heading it up here. So you can read more about them and their backgrounds here if you want.
00:18:24.110 - 00:19:06.304, Speaker A: And you can stay informed by signing up here now, I think, I guess, like, what I wanted to talk about with this is that when you kind of look at crypto and look at Ethereum, look at like everything that we're building here, really. We're not just building it for the first world. Right. Like, really the people who get the most out of access to financial services is going to be these developing countries and, and third world countries that just do not have access to the traditional finance system that we have that we kind of like, you know, we think is really bad. It's 100 times or a thousand times less efficient than, than the crypto ecosystem and Defi and all that sort of stuff, but at least we have access to it. A lot of these developing kind of economies and third world countries don't have access to this. They don't, they don't get to have access to a bank.
00:19:06.304 - 00:19:36.184, Speaker A: Right. They don't get to have access to mortgages and things like that and, and their economies are unstable. So I think that this technology is, is definitely going to benefit them the most because a lot of these, I guess, like, countries and a lot of these regions have Internet access. And that's all you need with, for Ethereum, you just need Internet access. You get yourself an Ethereum wallet and then you have access to the entire Ethereum network. Now, of course, fees are high, and right now Ethereum is definitely not for these emerging economies. But obviously, we're working on that with L2 and sort of stuff like that as well.
00:19:36.184 - 00:20:07.782, Speaker A: So I won't, I won't go into that, obviously, because I've spoken about that a lot already. But I think it's really great for the Ethereum foundation to be doing programs like this. As I mentioned the other day, they have an over a billion dollar war chest to pluck from. So they definitely have the capital to, to kind of like work on these initiatives. And hopefully they work with local governments as well to kind of like, get the ball rolling here. So, yeah, kudos to the EF for launching this program. So Hayden Adams is basically pumping out some, I guess, like tweets about uni v three lately, which is really, really cool.
00:20:07.782 - 00:20:34.138, Speaker A: So this tweet here shows that it, there's only $21 million of liquidity in the USDC USDT pool. And you can currently sell $13 million of USDT for USDC with only 0.25% slippage. Now, obviously, there's been a lot of debate around uniswap v three versus curve. What's more efficient is uni v three, the curve killer, blah, blah, blah. I mean, I don't think it is. And I think curve is working on their v two, as I've mentioned before.
00:20:34.138 - 00:21:06.864, Speaker A: But it's still cool to see that there's, you know, some really great capital efficiency already coming out of uni v three. And as Hayden has in his other tweet here, it's only been, I mean, it's been more than 24 hours since launch now. I think it's been maybe 36, 48 hours, something like that. But basically in the first 24 hours, the 24 hours volume was $150 million with only $300 million of TvL. So the volume TVL efficiency is at 50%. And you can see here, compared to v two, there's been 24 hours volumes of 1.1 billion, 8.1
00:21:06.864 - 00:21:53.804, Speaker A: billion TvL, and only a volume TVL ratio of 13%, efficiency ratio of 13% here. So already the capital efficiency is rearing itself its head here. I think this is, as I've said before in the past, this is going to be the major theme of v three, that capital efficiency from the concentrated liquidity feature that they have. And I really can't wait to see the liquidity, sorry, the TVL grow here for other pairs and for the liquidity to grow alongside it. So really exciting things coming out of v three here. So speaking of amms, sushi Swap announced that they have started a liquidity mining program on Polygon here. So these rewards will obviously be used to bootstrap liquidity for, for all of the products, not only their sushi swap product, but also Kashi Bento and Miso on, on Polygon.
00:21:53.804 - 00:22:20.324, Speaker A: So if you're a Polygon user and you've been using it because the fees on Ethereum have been too high for you, definitely get involved with this, you can earn some sushi rewards. I think the liquidity mining on Polygon right now for various products is actually quite ludicrous. I know Arvair's got one as well. It's quite high because there's matic rewards on ave too. So yeah, if you're interested in that sort of stuff, definitely go check it out. There's more information in this blog post here, of course, that'll be linked in the YouTube description. So you can go check it out below.
00:22:20.324 - 00:23:21.588, Speaker A: So Alex van DER Sam, one of the original team members of Ethereum here, worked at the Ethereum foundation as early as 2014, put out a tweet where he basically shared some pictures of what the Ethereum Genesis launch event looked like in 2015. So it looked really cool, right? Like, you look at this, just a bunch of hackers, right, getting together to build Ethereum, a platform that they think that they thought was going to change the world. And it has, right? I really do believe it has. Now, a lot of these people here have gone on to, to do other things, right? You can see in the corner there, Vlad, Vlad Zamfia, I don't think he works at the Ethereum foundation anymore. He's definitely, maybe he does, but he's been kind of like, I guess, like outside the ecosystem a bit and working on other things. In the middle there, you can see Gavin Wood, who was obviously the founder of Parody and now working on Polkadot and all that web3 foundation stuff there. And there's a bunch of other people, I won't name them all, but, you know, a lot of these people essentially have stayed in the ecosystem but, but moved on to other projects, whether that be in the ethereum ecosystem or outside of it.
00:23:21.588 - 00:24:02.574, Speaker A: So that's, that's cool to see. You know, you can see here, Gavin hacking away here and then here, just another picture there. Now what this tweet was actually in reply to, it was, quote, tweeting the dfinity kind of like launch, launch here, where they've got like a gif of showing the stage of how dfinity is going to launch. And it's basically some, like, super, kind of like, I guess, high, high. I guess. God, the words escaping me right now, basically, super high production launch event where they've got like, a stage set up with cameras all around and, like, fancy chairs and things like that. And, you know, I'm not gonna say that I think Dfinity is trash or anything like that, but Dfinity's marketing has been, like, really aggressive.
00:24:02.574 - 00:24:33.320, Speaker A: Like super aggressive. I'm sure you've all seen that video that has, like 200 million views on it, on you on Twitter, of kind of like just this really aggressive marketing going on. Paid marketing, too, of like unit of them saying dfinity is going to change the world, right? It's going to be like the new Internet computer and all this sort of stuff. I don't know if it's going to be that or not, right? I don't know too much about their tech. All I've ever heard from them is marketing speak and, like, pretty aggressive marketing speak. And they've delayed their launch for years now, but apparently they're launching soon. So I guess we'll see how that pans out.
00:24:33.320 - 00:25:10.064, Speaker A: But the stark contrast between this high production on stage, fancy chair launch event and this kind of, like, group of hackers who were just like, you know, launching it and believing that they would change the world. And hardly anyone knew about Ethereum back then. There was no, as far as I know, there was no aggressive marketing campaigns and things like that. There was just a bunch of really, you know, ambitious hackers wanting to launch this thing. So just a bit of a stark difference there and something to, I guess, reminiscent. Like, I wasn't around, obviously I wasn't in this photo, but I wasn't around the Ethereum ecosystem back then. But these photos are oddly nostalgic, right? I kind of look at these and I'm just like, that was Ethereum, right? That was Ethereum in the beginning.
00:25:10.064 - 00:25:49.918, Speaker A: And, yeah, just a little bit of nostalgia for something I didn't experience. It's a bit weird. Right. So speaking of overhyped things in the crypto ecosystem, I just wanted to quickly touch on this because this, this speaks to what I was talking about at the start about market movements and hype and marketing and narratives. So I was on the Chia website last night because apparently this new crypto launched and I was going through the FAQ and essentially they have a kind of a question here which says, what is Chia? And they have a sentence or a couple of sentences here in the paragraph that says Chia is the first enterprise grade digital money. Chia is used using the first new Nakamoto consensus algorithm since bitcoin. It's called proof of space and time.
00:25:49.918 - 00:26:10.300, Speaker A: It was created by Bram Cohen, the best network protocol engineer alive and the inventor of BitTorrent. I mean, I'm impressed that they've been able to fit in so much bullshit into one. Into one paragraph here, right? And I'll just straight up say it's bullshit. What is. What is enterprise grade digital money? Like, what? What is that? Like, I don't even define that for me. Right. It is not.
00:26:10.300 - 00:26:46.986, Speaker A: It is not anything. It's marketing speak, right? And then they're saying they're using the first new Nakamoto consensus algorithm since bitcoin. I mean, yeah, okay, maybe they've got a new algorithm, but. And then, you know, they've called it proof of space and time. And as far as I know, from looking into it briefly, it's a hardware arms race where the more hardware you have, the better, you know, rewards you get and all this sort of stuff and, and kind of like it centralizes because of that. I haven't looked too deeply into that, but again, just something weird there. And then, you know, we'll say, they're saying here it was created by this guy called Bram Cohen and they're claiming that he is the best network protocol engineer alive and the inventor of BitTorrent.
00:26:46.986 - 00:27:32.770, Speaker A: He is the inventor of BitTorrent, but he's not the best network protocol engineer alive. That statement right there is, honestly, I mean, I consider that scam marketing, to be honest. Like, you can't claim he's the best network protocol engineer alive without anything to back that up at all. Just because he invented BitTorrent doesn't mean he's the best network. Like, have you, have you met every single network protocol engineer in the world? Right? Have you, have you kind of compared their intelligence or compared their kind of prowess against Bram Cohen? So yeah, as I said, I'm surprised and amazed and, and very kind of like impressed that they were able to fit so much bullshit marketing speak into one paragraph. And this goes back to what I was saying before. Much of the crypto ecosystem is marketing narratives, scam marketing pumping, you know, just bullshit upon bullshit.
00:27:32.770 - 00:28:10.150, Speaker A: I don't care if I'm swearing right. It really is that and I think, you know, it gets my point across really well here. So yeah, if you see lots of this stuff and you see these kind of claims, claims of like grand things going on within these projects, I would kind of look at that and be like, be very skeptical of it at the end of the day here. So yeah, I'll leave it at that for now. I don't know too much about Chia as a project, but when I see this kind of speak, I just stay away from these projects to be honest. Because to me, yeah, okay, maybe you can make money on it, speculating on it, but it's not something that I want to spend my time in. I don't want to spend my time with projects that say stuff like this in there in their kind of, it's not even, this isn't even like their marketing material, this is the FAQ.
00:28:10.150 - 00:29:05.960, Speaker A: So yeah, I mean, to me it just looks like a very kind of pumpy marketing kind of speak here and I personally am not a fan of that. So the last thing I wanted to talk about, and this has a bit to do with the markets as well so this isn't, I guess, like specific to crypto, but you'll see headlines like this and people will say, oh, this is good for crypto. So I wanted to explain why. Now this then a new report came out today that was basically the jobs report in the US that showed that the US added only 266,000 jobs in April when the expected job, new jobs being added was 1 million. So obviously this is, you know, incredibly under underperforming what that people thought it would be, and unemployment rose to 6.1%. Now, why this is ironically bullish for crypto is because when the economy is weak, interest rates stay low. Now, you don't want interest rates to rise because when interest rates rise, people go risk off because treasury yields rise.
00:29:05.960 - 00:29:38.992, Speaker A: So what that means is that investors can get like a higher yield on these treasury bonds and it's a very safe yield, rather than plowing into these kind of like more speculative things like crypto and tech stocks that may not be giving a yield or a dividend or anything like that. So low interest rates are really good for capital markets as well. In it as well because of the fact that money is cheap. Right? You know, people can just borrow as much money as they want, like, and basically pay essentially nothing for it. And that kind of like, boost that puts money to the, into the economy. And on top of that, the money printer goes, bruh. Right? Like, more money gets printed.
00:29:38.992 - 00:30:10.384, Speaker A: So, yeah, if you want something that's good for crypto, this is it. Unfortunately, a weak economy apparently is good for crypto. Right? Who would have thought that? It's kind of counterintuitive, but when you think about it and get like, get into the weeds of it, it makes sense. But that's just how the fiat based economy works and has worked for hundreds of years, or at least maybe 100 years in the US. But, yeah. So just a little bit of an explanation there. If you see people talking about this today on Twitter, or in general on Twitter, I think that, as I said, it's counterintuitive, but makes sense when you dig into the reasons why.
00:30:10.384 - 00:30:21.724, Speaker A: Alright, that's it for today's episode, everyone. Thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone.
