00:00:00.090 - 00:00:29.762, Speaker A: Alright, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Before we jump in, quick disclaimer. The views expressed by my co hosts today are their personal views and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve.
00:00:29.762 - 00:01:32.386, Speaker A: This is the first interview episode of season five, the end game for Liquid Staking. Today we're going to be joined by Hasu. Hasu is a special guest on Bell Curve at this point. It's a fun callback for those of you who watch the mev season, where Hasu was my co host today, we're going to get him on the other side of the mic talking about one of his other favorite topics outside of mev, which is Liquid Staking. Hasu has been acting as a strategic advisor for Lido for a period of time. And not only has great sort of high level framings on the space for Liquid Staking, but in this conversation, we got to get into some of the nitty gritty with him. So in the kickoff episode of this season, miles and I introduced some of the big themes that we want to get a sense of this season, which is how is the market structure for Liquid Staking going to develop? What are Hasu's thoughts around the self limiting debate, which is this idea that if a protocol like Lido gets a very dominant percentage of the market share, should it actually cap itself? We also talked about the impact of restaking and how that intersects and this sort of coopetitive co optition relationship in between protocols like Lido and protocols like Eigen layer.
00:01:32.386 - 00:02:11.862, Speaker A: Now, not only did we get some great high level frameworks for how we should think about this, and Hasu went deep into the history of Lido and how it developed from a first principle standpoint, we also got into some of the more nitty gritty, sort of tactical ways that these protocols actually develop and think about things. In particular, I want you guys to pay attention to the section where we discuss the role of decentralization and how it actually acts as an offensive tool for protocols like Lido. So this was a really, really great conversation. I hope you guys enjoyed as much as Miles and I did. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. You got me and my co host Miles here, and today we're joined by Hasu, the special guest, I think, of Bell Curve at this point. Got him back on the other side of the mic.
00:02:11.862 - 00:02:12.774, Speaker A: Hasu, welcome back.
00:02:12.812 - 00:02:15.590, Speaker B: Hey, Mike. It's good to be back. It's been a while.
00:02:15.660 - 00:02:56.606, Speaker A: So this is going to be a ton of to be. Last season we talked about mev, which is a subject that I know is near and dear to your heart and then I think we're going to be going down the road here on another subject that's near and dear to your heart which is liquid staking. So we're recording this on July 6. We're deep in the heart of a bear market and it seems like liquid staking is one of the few areas in Crypto which is really taking off. As of today, I'm looking at the TVL of Lido, which has just eclipsed 14 billion. That's more than Maker and Ave, the next two largest by TVL on ethereum combined. So I think we could just start at a high level for this talk and just what is behind the rapid growth and adoption of liquid staking.
00:02:56.606 - 00:03:02.610, Speaker A: And then maybe we can get into kind of a state of the union and how to carve out what are the major buckets of different types of providers.
00:03:02.690 - 00:03:59.030, Speaker B: Sure. So I think the reason that liquid staking protocols have risen to the top of the TVL leaderboard, if you will, I think it's. In the past, lending markets used to occupy that position because it's a place where people park their assets in order to get some additional rewards on their assets from lending them, for example. But we are seeing in the bear market not very much demand to borrow and so not very much interest that you can earn from putting your assets into lending Markets, frankly. And so that's why I think overall, the TVL of Lending Markets has been on the decline. We are seeing that in MakerDAO in particular. So die outstanding has gone down from 10 billion to four point something billion.
00:03:59.030 - 00:05:03.834, Speaker B: The TVL inside Maker has declined even more. So now a lot more of the die outstanding is backed by stablecoins or other forms of stable collateral such as treasury bills that are held in off chain trusts. And on the other hand, we have seen the rise of proof of stake. So obviously ethereum went from proof of work to proof of stake and that allowed users to now secure the network by staking their ETH. And we are seeing an increasing demand to participate in that. So for one users can earn inflation rewards from Ethereum but they can also earn mev and transaction fees and in spite of the bear market these rewards have actually been quite consistent much more so than what you can get from lending your coins. The other thing that I would point out is that withdrawals have now been enabled from the beacon chain.
00:05:03.834 - 00:05:57.130, Speaker B: So proof of stake in general has been derisked quite a lot. So my thesis has been for a while that we would see more and more Eve being staked as a result of that. Because it's as close to I don't want to say risk free because it's not risk free. But it's as close as it gets, basically, to the kind of risk free rate of crypto which is just staking your ETH, which is kind of the most secure and most decentralized asset on the protocol layer in order to secure the network. And if you run your own node and you do a good job, or if you delegate that to a staking pool or a staking protocol, then that's a pretty good it's a low return, kind of low risk way of using that asset.
00:05:57.210 - 00:06:51.342, Speaker A: One thing I'd be curious to get your perspective on hasu is this sort of recursive leverage trade that people run using a liquid staking token like Steeth. So the idea being that you stake your ETH, you get Steeth in return, you turn around to a borrow lending protocol like Aave, you borrow more ETH and you kind of rinse and repeat and in that way sort of lever yourself up. I guess there's kind of a spectrum of healthy sort of capital efficiency and wanting to not lose too much opportunity cost by staking, maybe that's the really healthy way of doing it. And then you've got this extremely recursive leverage trade that you can run being on the not so healthy way of doing it. So I guess how much of the market is driven by that more degen sort of activity? And where do you sort of fall on the spectrum of not to put some sort of value on trading, but is this a particularly good use of liquid staking versus maybe excess speculation? Kind of.
00:06:51.396 - 00:07:52.770, Speaker B: So the first thing that I would say is that this kind of looping is not no longer possible today because you can no longer borrow ETH on lending markets for cheaper than you can stake it for. And that's what you would expect in an efficient market. So there's kind of zero arbitrage anymore. That used to be different in the past, in particular before it was possible to withdraw actually e from the beacon chain. And so someone who was holding staked ETH or some other liquid staking token, they were incurring, basically a risk on the price of that moving against their ETH in some form. And they could get liquidated on their position if they were using the liquid staking token as a collateral to borrow ETH. And then the liquid staking token falls in value, then obviously you can be liquidated.
00:07:52.770 - 00:09:09.014, Speaker B: And because people were looping a lot of times, the leverage was very high and so there was definitely a concern of kind of discascating liquidations there. You are asking whether this is a useful feature of liquid staking tokens. I mean, I would definitely say so. We can go into how liquid staking is different from other forms of staking in a moment, but the ability for users to get liquidity on their tokens and to use that liquidity for whatever they want is definitely a feature of the system. And likewise, I think it's good for people who put their ETH into lending markets because as a result of this, the rate that they could earn on their ETH was driven up to the staking rate, basically of what they could have earned from staking as well. And so you could say people who are not comfortable maybe staking their ETH but only putting it in the lending market, so they were participating just the same from the staking yield in that way, which it basically further democratized access to staking through lending markets.
00:09:09.062 - 00:09:47.240, Speaker A: So let's get into I'd love to get your perspective on what is a state of the union of liquid staking providers look like, and maybe we could actually we talked quite a bit about Lido in the first episode, actually, but I realized that we never really gave quite an overview of the history of the protocol and how it functions today. And I know you act as a strategic advisor to the protocol, so maybe we could actually start with sort of lido and get your sense of the overview of maybe wherever you want to start, either the history of the protocol or what you're sort of focused on today. And then maybe we can go and sort of carve out the existing state of the market structure and then try to poke at guesses at how it's going to develop.
00:09:47.710 - 00:11:12.286, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. So, small knit, I'm an advisor to the Dao student, which is the union of the token holders that basically vote on decisions for what the protocol should do. So lido, the protocol was conceived a few years ago, before the beacon chain was even live. And back then there was only one form of staking I would say really known from other blockchains, which is you delegate your either you stake yourself or you delegate your coins to a professional node operator. Some blockchains had in protocol forms of delegation that kind of made it cheaper, more accessible and also more secure because the node operator didn't have custody of the coins. But Ethereum chose a different route in particular. They were going with this kind of isolated blockchain that would run in parallel, which was called the beacon chain, right? And that kind of ran its own, you could call it an incentivized testnet for multiple years before eventually the proof of work kind of consensus was then stripped out for this beacon chain consensus layer.
00:11:12.286 - 00:12:00.190, Speaker B: And that's still how it works. And I would still say this is one of the most impressive technical feats in kind of the history of technology. It's a way that the engine of this plane was kind of swapped in mid flight. I still like this analogy very much because it's so fitting. I mean, Ethereum didn't miss any blocks as a result of this and it's an absolute technical marble the way that this worked. So when it was clear that Ethereum would move to proof of stake, then of course it was obvious that users would want to stake and they would want to participate in securing the protocol. And however you had several problems in Ethereum.
00:12:00.190 - 00:12:32.140, Speaker B: One was in order to run a validator you needed 32 eve. That was the minimum at the time. It had already been lowered from I don't know what the number was before, maybe in a tune of to several hundred eve. That was when Ethereum was cheaper, still much cheaper than it is today. Then they lowered it to 32 eve. But even at the time when the beacon chain came out, that was maybe $60,000 or something. So it was a very substantial amount that not many people had.
00:12:32.140 - 00:13:12.358, Speaker B: So needing to stake in increments of 32 e was one big problem. The second big problem was that people had to lock up their stake on the beacon chain. And the beacon chain was expected to run for at least two to three years, maybe longer, before withdrawals would eventually be enabled. And as we saw, that estimate turned out to be pretty accurate. So I think it took around three years between launch of the beacon chain and withdrawals going live. So I'm not 100% sure. But it was also clear that people would want liquidity on their stake.
00:13:12.358 - 00:14:07.066, Speaker B: So either two outcomes, either people could not get liquidity and then the number of people who would be willing to stake would be much smaller. Basically only people who would be comfortable locking up their ETH for many years with an uncertain outcome if they will ever get it back. Or people can receive, we sometimes call it a voucher that represents this e that they stake on the beaten chain and then they can find another seller, sorry, they can find another buyer for that and they can sell it. And we now call it a liquid staking token. And the third problem was that Ethereum did not have this native ability that we talked about to delegate to a node operator. So you could find Ethereum did have one feature. It had separate validator key and withdrawal key.
00:14:07.066 - 00:15:29.960, Speaker B: So the party who could withdraw the tokens could be different from the party who was using the coins with their validator on the beacon chain. But it wasn't trustless. Basically you needed to find someone, sign a legal contract, needed to do kind of your own sourcing and so on. And there wasn't any way to just select someone from a list of node operators or say I want to withdraw my tokens now. And so you had these multiple problems and I think it became pretty clear that there would be a new form that a protocol that would solve all of these problems would be quite dominant over anything that existed at the time. Right? So when I look now where the kind of differentiation lines, let's call them that are drawn then you still have this, what we now call liquid staking versus non liquid staking. So liquid staking is just when you receive a voucher that represents this eve that is being staked by a note operator, and you can take it and you can use it somewhere, you can trade out of it, you can use it in aave and maker and so on.
00:15:29.960 - 00:16:57.874, Speaker B: And the non liquid ones are just if you give, for example, your money to an exchange and they stake it for you and they put rewards in your wallet every month. This is another very common form. I think coinbase has a double digit market share using that model in staking right now, because it's very easy. So that's the other big category then, I think custodial versus noncustodial is a pretty big one. I think there's a pretty big overlap, I would say, between liquid and non custodial, non liquid and custodial because they fit very well. And then finally there's retail versus institutional. So it's more about which customer segments are you speaking to? I think that lido, the protocol initially, I think its value proposition, it spoke particularly to kind of ethereum native users who wanted to self custody because it was a non custodial protocol, who wanted to use their coins in DeFi because it was liquid, right? And who weren't institutions, because institutions weren't in DeFi at the time.
00:16:57.874 - 00:17:55.470, Speaker B: So I think that's where lido got its start. But we have, over time, also seen other protocols come around that focus more on, for example, ease of use. So like the whole custodial liquid staking, its big benefit is that you just don't have to self custody. So if I'm a user, most users in crypto never leave their centralized exchange account. They never withdraw a coin to ethereum still. And so there's a huge number of users who you only reach if you have a custodial offering and you make it like one click from their existing exchange wallet. So it was very natural, I think, for coinbase, for kraken, for binance, and these other platforms to roll out their own staking offerings in a custodial way.
00:17:55.470 - 00:19:10.102, Speaker B: And I think I still remember that I had a huge concern personally that these exchanges would capture most of the stake by the time that withdrawals would even go live. Why? Because a custodial staking is so much simpler than noncustodial staking for users. But the main reason was kind of the liquidity, because if you're on an exchange, then you can very easily make staking liquid in the sense that you allow users to trade out of these staked validators. And I really expected exchanges to go very heavy on liquid staking because they could allow people to trade out of it. They could allow it to be used as collateral. And it didn't really happen that way, which kind of made me very surprised. So binance had a stake in coinbase for the longest time, didn't kraken didn't I would still love to talk to an exchange executive and understand why they didn't do it, what was the exact concern.
00:19:10.102 - 00:19:58.502, Speaker B: But it would have been, I mean, I expected them to do it, and I think it would have been the right play. And had they done it, then I don't know where we would be today, frankly, because it would have been such a compelling offering. I think that it basically becomes a very big risk that eventually kind of 60, 70, 80% of ethereum validators are run by like two to three large exchanges. So I think into that concern then, lido was born to present basically a counterweight, like a non custodial staking protocol that has some of the same benefits, which is very easy to use and it's liquid so that people don't have to stake with exchanges.
00:19:58.566 - 00:20:44.934, Speaker C: I think that makes sense, and I think you kind of are pointing out three different user personas here. The first being maybe an institutional user or somebody on an exchange that either wants the convenience of one click from an exchange or they want the compliance requirements of an institution. Then you have basically everybody in the middle that uses Lido. And then on the other end of the spectrum, you might have self stakers that mint rocket pool ETH. Right? And how do you view the growth of know, I guess the first bucket and the third bucket relative to Lido's core users right now? And then how do you think about extending support for those types of users from your seat in Lido?
00:20:44.982 - 00:20:58.270, Speaker B: That's a very good is. Do you know where exactly they are in terms of market share right now, in terms of broad size, kind of the more institutional focused segment?
00:21:00.050 - 00:21:49.434, Speaker C: CBE, which is interesting because it is retail only, has grown, I think to roughly about 10% market share of liquid staking. I believe rocket pool is kind of around the same range in CBE. It's notable that they've done this in the face of 2.5 x the fee rate right, that Lido charges. So definitely tells you something about the users there and their preferences. I'm curious to know how you guys are thinking about positioning Lido Alta to capture some of that market. Maybe this is users that were previously sticking with Kraken, right, traditionally and now have withdrawn, or maybe they're users that were just waiting for withdrawals to come off the sidelines.
00:21:49.434 - 00:21:53.566, Speaker C: And I'm curious to just hear how you think about the growth prospects of.
00:21:53.588 - 00:22:14.162, Speaker B: Either side of the think. And if I'm totally honest, I don't strongly understand who uses CBE, because as you were saying, it's so much more expensive with but you still have to self custody it if you want to use all the assets on chain.
00:22:14.306 - 00:22:19.494, Speaker C: I don't actually think you have to self custody it. I think you can mint it and then hold it in your Coinbase account.
00:22:19.612 - 00:23:42.500, Speaker B: Okay, so people just hold it as a stand in for regular coinbase staking. So it was basically okay, so it's almost like they cannibalized the existing product in a way and just called it CVE. Okay, that would make sense because if all of the CVE was held on chain then I would actually argue that Lido is already kind of a superset of that functionality. But if you have to custody it, then I would have to say I think the way to access this market would be by offering alternative custodial products a by existing exchanges listing staked ETH so people can buy staked ETH and hold it on an exchange or a wallet. I think that would be one and the second would be through more traditional asset management channels. So if I can hold stake ETH in my Fidelity account and my Vanguard account and so on, then that is probably a competitive channel kind of to these existing exchanges that speaks to a very similar, maybe even a little less sophisticated group of users but that is again bigger than the previous. That's what I would say about that.
00:23:42.500 - 00:25:04.960, Speaker B: In terms of rocket pool, I think that solo stakers so individuals who run their own nodes and let's say, who kind of run fewer than, I don't know, 100 validators, I think that they are a really important backbone of ethereum decentralization and rocket pool to their credit has been around much longer than Lido as well. So they launched later than Lido. Lido was the first protocol to market by, I think, a decent margin. But the rocket pool, as an idea and kind of the team behind it, had been at work for a long time. And I think the reason that they were launching later was because they were set on a very specific model where users can basically like solo node orators can divide their stake and they can put 50% of their own. Stake and they can borrow 50% of a user's stake and then they can stake that together and they can secure that in addition with rocket pool token bond or kind of a collateral, I think is a better term. Right.
00:25:04.960 - 00:27:28.730, Speaker B: And this has the benefit that it's actually trustless, it's at least more trustless. So there are some caveats that we don't have to go into but it is definitely more trustless than other protocols that exist today and so it's very important for ethereum that these solo it's almost like leveraging kind of this backbone in order to give them more stake in a sense, right? And this makes definitely ethereum more decentralized and this is the same values that Lido has as well. I think the two protocols had different priorities, if you will, because Lido focused on this or the Lido dao focused on what they saw as a huge and possibly existential risk for ethereum which is a small number of exchanges capturing a majority of the ethereum stake by the time the proof of stake would go live. And I think that was a very real and very big risk and it is still a big risk today even though many people don't want to talk about it. I was looking actually last year and we will get into this. I think it was last year when there was the self limiting debate about lido and there was a lot of lido had one month where there was very bad, like a series of very bad kind of consecutive press, where there was the Three Arrows kind of for selling their stack of stake ETH and then celsius and there was Terra Luna. And at the same time, there were kind of people on social media arguing, lido is getting too big and they should think about self limiting, right? And at that time Lido had almost no new inflow of stake also because the staked ETH was trading at a discount it was a bit cheaper than ETH, right? And so somebody wanted to stake they were just buying from the market instead of staking.
00:27:28.730 - 00:28:57.582, Speaker B: And you could see that over 90% of people who were staking people were still staking. But over 90% of it was going to coinvest in finance into the custodial pockets. And these were entities who are not transparent at all about how much share they have in staking and what is their infrastructure like, where is it located, and they don't care about client diversity or decentralization and so on. So I thought that was interesting. Anyway, I think the reason why I talked why we got sidetracked to this so Lido and Rocket Pool I think are ideologically very similar protocols that are starting from slightly different points and I think they are moving towards the same point which is in the case of Lido. There was recently a version two of Lido that included the idea of a Staking router, which is a more modular architecture for adding basically different Staking modules that represent kind of different lists of node operators or different configurations. Of node operators.
00:28:57.582 - 00:30:09.614, Speaker B: And what this allows is for Lido to not just distribute the stake to a permissioned list of node operators but for anyone to write new modules and send them to the Dao to consider. And then the Dao approves. Same way that MakerDAO or Aave, for example, approves a new form of collateral. Then Lido Dao can approve a new staking module. And that can and will include things like permissionless staking that has a collateral. Attached to it, for example, or Staking that uses distributed validator technology where, for example, professional node operators and individual node operators are working side by side and have this kind of consensus protocol overlay and are working together to make blocks on the beaten chain. And so I think I would expect in the next year Lido to move from currently I think 35 node operators to hundreds, if not thousands of node operators as a result of this.
00:30:09.614 - 00:32:10.978, Speaker B: Infrastructure and at the same time you are seeing rocket pool has long kind of hit the scaling limit of their approach which is if you need all of the notorbiters to over collateralize any customer eve that they take both with their own eve, but also with an additional and I think it used to be something I don't want to say something wrong in the range of like 10% additional collateral in the form of the RPL token, then it is very expensive and it doesn't scale. And so I think they hit the scaling limit and what they are doing now is they are trying to reduce this collateral and they are also whitelisting entities that is allowed to stake without a collateral, such as Coinbase, by the way, which is interesting. And so I think that over the next year or two, I think you can expect these protocols to move more towards look more and more alike in that sense. So I think a rocket pool, it will have more permission, not operators who are professional and who have an off chain reputation at stake and so on and that will allow them to meet more of the user demand and Lido at the same time it will have more ways also to support permissionless. Staking and that is the group you were talking about, right? The solo operator who's really passionate about running their own hardware and who just wants to get a form of leverage basically on that, or the user who wants to stake but they want to stake specifically with a solo operator and not with a professional node operator.
00:32:11.154 - 00:32:33.958, Speaker A: Because I want to dig deeply into this with you, hasu, but before we do, I just want to bookend the conversation about market structure and maybe add one tiny bit of context there and then ask you a specific question before we get into this, which your to your. I thought you made a really great point about at the height it was May of last year, actually, when this debate started taking off and Vasly made his post in the forum and actually vitalik.
00:32:33.974 - 00:32:34.106, Speaker C: Right.
00:32:34.128 - 00:33:44.782, Speaker A: So it's not know random people on Twitter. This was Vitalik himself proposing some sort of limit to, you know, the sort of paradox that you pointed out was very interesting that at the same time this debate was kicking off, it was actually coinbase and binance that were getting inflows. And originally part of the reason why lido was so supported was because I think like you, many were concerned that these centralized custodial based offerings would take up an enormous amount of the stake and Ethereum would lose some of its sovereignty, so to speak. But I think the reason why people are a little bit concerned about Lido today and we can get into whether or not that's valid is because of this perceived dynamic of a winner take all market for liquid staking or staking in general. And I think I want to kind of just ask you the question directly about how you see this market structure evolving. Do you agree that it's a winner take all or winner take most market structure? And maybe if you could get into some. Of the dynamics that make this liquid staking in particular, what are some of the returns to scale? We talked a little bit about this offline, but if you could explicitly outline what those are and then say whether or not you agree with that and then we can kind of get into this self limiting debate.
00:33:44.846 - 00:34:55.900, Speaker B: Yeah, so I would say I'm definitely in the camp who thinks that liquid staking, and by extension staking in general has a very large network effect and return to scale. And so it's very likely, in my opinion, that the outcome will be very centralized. I think centralized is the wrong word, but it will be concentrated. Why is that the case? So, first of all, I think liquid staking is a much superior solution to regular staking because it's basically a superset of that. So you can have liquid staking is like regular staking, but you also have liquidity which is purely beneficial and then it is in addition to that, also noncustodial and that allows it to be held in different ways. Right? So a noncustodial asset you can hold in custody, but a custodial asset you cannot hold in self custody. Right? So in many ways it's purely better in every dimension because you can turn a noncustodial asset into custodial one if you want.
00:34:55.900 - 00:36:34.700, Speaker B: And for that reason I think that the market share of liquid staking over a regular staking will approach 100% over a long enough period of time. And so we only have to think about liquid staking. So liquid staking in general, I mean, what is so special about liquid staking? It is that you get this voucher that represents the ETH that is being staked and you can use it, you get liquidity. And as we know, liquidity begets liquidity and people want to use or they get the most value out of using the staking token that has already the most acceptance that they can use in the most places, such as lending markets, exchanges, that has the deepest liquidity and that has the highest brand recognition and so on, right? It is really like to the degree that a token is used as money, it behaves like money, it has the same network effects as money. And so if we are talking about kind of a liquid staking protocol for a token that's not used as money, then these effects will be much lower. Right? Because then if people hold it anyway and they don't use the liquidity effect, then it doesn't matter. But for a token like ETH that people use very actively and many people treat it as a form of internet money, then the network effect is as a result very big.
00:36:34.700 - 00:37:28.490, Speaker B: So that would be the first point. And one thing maybe to add back last year people were actually saying look at Stablecoins as an example for why this network effect is not actually that big and look what happened one year later. All of this like Tether is exploding in size and all of the other stable coins are collapsing. I think this is a good example, I think, why people shouldn't judge prematurely kind of what the outcome will be of a particular market. Because at the end of the day, Network Effect almost always wins. There can be a path dependency and it can take a few years. But I think that when it comes to money then Network Effect is just super strong and at the end it will succeed.
00:37:28.490 - 00:38:59.990, Speaker B: So that's one Network Effect, I think brand, I mean, we touched on this slightly. I think brand is just extremely important. I think as a user most people are inclined to stake with what is already the largest provider and the oldest provider, by the way. And so if you're both then that's a pretty big position to be in because staking is something that requires a lot of trust. You are basically putting your money into a box and you are leaving it there for years if not decades. And this requires basically a lot of trust in the operator and that's exactly what a brand gives you, right? A brand is basically it reduces uncertainty about the future and so that's so important. And then there's this idea that running or like, getting a when there's already some established kind of staking protocols, liquid staking protocols that have built these integrations and this liquidity so there's almost like a minimum that you need to get to a minimum size that you need to get to to be even anywhere near in the conversation.
00:38:59.990 - 00:40:15.730, Speaker B: And so in the beginning I think you can think about these in terms of fixed costs. So if you wanted to break into liquid staking today, you have to spend multiple billion, billions of dollars probably in that range, right? And so I think it is just very hard to spend that amount of money as a smaller protocol. And so the bigger you are, the less kind of the effect of the fixed costs is hurting the revenue. And there's one final thing that I would say actually this is a thought that's kind of more new in my mind. I haven't really verbalized it before, but all of the criticism, not all of the criticism, but many of the criticism against Lido is completely correct. Like the concern that things can go wrong if most of the eve would be in one protocol and that protocol is not part of the ethereum core protocol and it has some governance layer, for example. And Lido is taking aggressive steps to decentralize the protocol and the governance.
00:40:15.730 - 00:41:31.978, Speaker B: And one of them is this idea of dual governance where so Danny Ryan, we will get to this. He has basically voiced the concern. Yes, Lido is not one entity, it consists of many entities but under extreme conditions the incentives could play out in a way that these many entities behave as one entity and then they do something that's bad for the users of ethereum. So that is his concern. Right? And what Lido can do or is doing about that is introducing the idea of dual governance, which basically says for anything that Lido wants to change, that Lido Dao wants to change about Lido, the protocol, by voting on it, the staked e folders can actually just veto the change. And so you get this filter where bad changes can no longer pass through because they would not be in the interest of the staked e folders. Right? And I think the bigger the protocol, the more staked e folders basically have to be convinced that a particular change is good for the protocol so that it can pass.
00:41:31.978 - 00:42:06.340, Speaker B: Right? And so you actually get this herd immunity from being in a bigger protocol where there's more people watching the governance and more people have to vote, have to kind of be in favor of any changes for these changes to come into effect. And so for me, this is definitely an argument for why I would use a protocol where there's more checks and balances and the more people use it, the more people can spot anything that goes wrong.
00:42:06.710 - 00:43:11.786, Speaker A: It's a really good point and I agree with you on all of that stuff. And the reason why I just wanted to interject that is I think many people agree with that point of view that it's a winner take all protocol. So people get a little bit worried about the amount of influence that a protocol like Lido has. Because the general thinking is this protocol seems pretty unstoppable at this point. And just to get more specific, to go back, if we rewind the clock to May of last year, I kind of mentioned that it wasn't just some random pushback on Twitter. It was originally kicked off by superfiz who openly wondered about the first staking provider to public commit themselves to not limiting, basically keeping their stake to lower than 22% of validators on chain vitalik, retweeted that and said, speculative take, we should legitimize price gouging by top stake pool providers. Like if a stake pool controls greater than 15%, it should be accepted and even expected for the pool to keep increasing its fee rate until it goes back down below 15%.
00:43:11.786 - 00:43:59.522, Speaker A: That all led to an actual governance proposal in Lido that was initiated by Vasli, one of the co founders basically voicing the idea should we effectively self limit, and eventually it was voted that they shouldn't do that. But I would love to get your perspective on the self limiting debate anyway. It's kind of an interesting philosophical question, which is maybe a cousin of the should billionaires exist question, which is getting bandied around outside of our corners, but is it a good thing to be from, frankly, just a capitalist encouraging, entrepreneur standpoint? It is a good thing to limit the growth of some of these protocols and then maybe we can get into some of the specific ways that Lido is choosing to limit itself. What, you were just alluding to the staking router and dual governance?
00:43:59.586 - 00:45:17.934, Speaker B: Really good question and I think last year it was a very pivotal time for the staking market in general and for Lido as well. So I think, first of all, I have to say that many of the concerns that people like Superfiz and Danny and Vitalik have had and made the whole today about one staking protocol growing to a particular size, these are definitely warranted. And so, for example, Lido, the protocol, the smart contracts are still upgradable by governance, for example. And so governance could vote, for example, to change something about the smart contract to the point that it would be detrimental for Stakers or for node operators or for Ethereum itself. And so that is definitely a concern. There could also be bugs in one of these smart contracts that could have a negative effect. For example, Eve could be frozen.
00:45:17.934 - 00:46:57.140, Speaker B: So I don't know how it would not, you know, super technical, but I think that in general, when someone says, well, if there's a huge amount of TVL in one protocol, and it's like doing one of the core functions of ethereum, which is moving the beacon chain, you know, this could have a spillover effect on the security of the whole system. I think they are completely right. So that's the one perspective. The other perspective is what do you think is the structural outcome of competition in the liquid staking market? And I am starting from the position that size is dangerous and has responsibility in order to manage all the risks that come with it. But I'm also coming from the perspective that exchanges were and still are in the best position to capture a lot of stake and become very influential players in the staking market and that the dynamics of liquid staking drive towards a winner take most outcome. And when you combine these things then you kind of get into the mindset that you can't really choose for there to be ten staking protocols that all have 10%. I mean, you can dream about it, but it's not going to happen.
00:46:57.140 - 00:48:26.560, Speaker B: You have to be pragmatic. And what being pragmatic means is you try to make the best liquid staking protocol win and you make that most as decentralized and as aligned with the underlying base protocol as it can possibly be. And so I would say that is the summary of my position. I started from the point that I thought this is the liquid staking industry, this is very clearly going to have one big winner and there's nothing that can be done about this. You can tweet as much as you want, you won't change that outcome. I didn't even know all of the players involved and I just thought, well, what can we do from here? Like how can we salvage this situation? And I saw Lido being I saw Lido as a protocol that was in a good position to fight the exchanges and that I also saw as culturally very aligned with ethereum, having much of the same values and goals and having a very clear commitment to transparency and to decentralization and to constant self improvement. And I thought, yeah, this is something that I want to support with my time and with my money as well.
00:48:26.560 - 00:49:23.882, Speaker B: And that was the position that I was in. And when the self limiting debate came up, which, I mean, I thought, yeah, this is definitely going to be kind of a problem at some point. So it wasn't exactly a surprise then. Lido has a grants committee that's called Lego and so it has a budget and people can give grants. And the way that Lido protocol works is there's the Dao and the Dao basically decides the direction and the strategy of the protocol. And so it turns out that whether Lido should self limit or not is a pretty big part of what the strategy should be. And so it was very clear that this decision cannot be made without asking the Dao for their opinion.
00:49:23.882 - 00:50:36.770, Speaker B: And so Vasily did what I think is exactly the right thing. So as a member of Lego, he looked for someone who can write what we call a Swiss booklet because in Switzerland they have these ideas of the referendum and people can vote. It's kind of a form of direct democracy. People can vote. And they publish these small booklets that basically say, if you believe in these things, then you should be in favor and if you believe in these things, then you should be in favor of the other option. And they are written by an independent committee, usually of experts on the topic, and they are basically a form of voter education and lowering the cost for them to come to a decision that would be good for everyone. Right? There was someone in the Cosmos system who had in the past written such booklets for governance decisions in Cosmos and I believe Vasili thought that this would be a great thing to also try in Lido.
00:50:36.770 - 00:52:01.202, Speaker B: And then he reached out and he asked, sasha is the name of the author of that post and he agreed. And he didn't hold any LDO at the time. I don't know if he does now. But yeah, he wrote this unbiased analysis and I thought actually it almost reminded me of Vitalik's writing style because Vitalik is incredibly good at representing both views of an argument. For example, when he wrote this post about the bitcoin maximalist argument that he published on April 1 and all of the maximalists were saying, this is an endorsement of bitcoin maximalism. So it almost reminded me of that in a sense, because it really had a full list of arguments for why you should be in favor of self limiting and why you should be against self limiting and I could read this and say yeah, this is like why we shouldn't self limit. And somebody who was in favor can read this and say yeah, this is exactly why we should self limit because exactly like it isolates the assumptions that different people have and the different lenses through which they view reality that then lead them to come to voting A or B at the end of the day.
00:52:01.202 - 00:53:08.774, Speaker B: Right, and so I thought that this was actually a pivotal moment for line of governance because it illustrates how the Dao should work. When there's a major decision, then you should ask token holders for what to do and you should try to make the decision for them as easy as possible. Lido token holders did end up voting against self limiting because I think at the end of the mean, of course there's a self interest but also I think they were swayed more by the arguments against because I think people working on Lido or investing in Lido. I think they are kind know, in a sense agreeing with the idea that the Staking market has these tendencies of being winnertech most and that it is very important for a decentralized protocol to win and so on and yeah. So that's why we saw, I think, the outcome that we did, and that is the track that the Dow has been on since then.
00:53:08.892 - 00:54:42.390, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that's a great overview and it strikes me that I think a lot of folks on either side of the argument are actually very aligned at different stages but a lot of this comes down to sequencing. Right? And I think everybody was more or less aligned that Lido needed training wheels in the early days in order to create an offering that was competitive to the centralized exchanges. Right, and I think everybody can somewhat agree, most people can agree that if there is a winner take all, winner take all, winner liquid staking protocol, then it should be more or less as hard to change as ethereum itself and the ability to stake with it should be as permissionless with native staking. Right, and I think the disagreement here really came down to where Lido should be at its stage of growth and in the eyes of some folks in the ethereum community had already mitigated this risk of centralized exchange capture but yet hadn't gone far enough to take off the training wheels. Right, and I'm curious to just hear if you agree with that sort of overview and also curious to hear where you think Lido is today with things like dual governance coming in, the staking router coming in and early conversations about ossifying parts of the protocol so that governance cannot upgrade them.
00:54:42.460 - 00:55:47.914, Speaker B: Yeah, I think this is a really good, I think, observation. I can't speak for everybody who's on the side of Lido should self limit, but I think a fair amount of people would say that if Lido had was much even more decentralized than it is today, then they would feel comfortable with the higher market share, for example. And so they can point to particular things and say, that's why I'm in favor of self limiting today, but I may not be in the future. I was missing a bit of nuance on that topic. I think also it felt very tribal, which is never good, because then it felt more like I'm supporting rival protocol X and that's why I'm actually making the stink against Lido. But anyway, so you're totally right. Like, Lido in the past year had even more training wheels on than it does today.
00:55:47.914 - 00:56:29.770, Speaker B: So in particular, not, I believe, at the time, so I don't know when it happened, but I believe at the time, at least part of the validators were still controlled by the original multi SIG committee. And that was simply because back when Lido started, it wasn't possible for a smart contract to control a Veldetta on the beacon chain. And so you had to control it with an EOA. And the way that you did this was with a multi SEC. That was the only way to do it. And when it became possible, Lido switched to smart contract custody. The smart contract was controlled by Aragon governance.
00:56:29.770 - 00:58:07.650, Speaker B: So when it was possible, then Lido switched, they rotated the EOA controlled keys, and then the Voltisec has been retired since then, so they have made further steps towards decentralization. However, the degree to which we call it Ossification, right, the degree to which this is possible is not just limited by the amount of how much Lido Dao wants to work on this or how much resources it can allocate, but it's also severely constrained by the underlying base layer. And so, for example, while the ethereum, for example, withdrawals wasn't finalized from the beacon chain, it was actually impossible for Lido to make any Ossifying steps in the protocol side. So I think these are definitely like these timing concerns. I think what I'm driving it is this is very nuanced. You need to unlock certain Ossification on the layer below, so you can unlock Ossification on the layer above, which is the staking layer. And at the same time, what you cannot control is the demand for staking that comes in, which is actually like unbound from this.
00:58:07.650 - 00:59:30.962, Speaker B: And when you say that, for example, a decentralized protocol, and I use decentralized now here, it's not where it wants to be, but it's way more decentralized than, let's say, coinbase and finance, and you say, well, it can't grow above, let's say, 20%, because it doesn't have feature XYZ. And then you look at the top two exchanges and they don't have any of the same constraint. It just doesn't make any sense. And so, yes, I think that decentralization is incredibly important. A lot of the roadmap that the Livodao has laid out for the future of the protocol is centered around decentralization and it has been now for a long time. And that is because decentralization for many systems, it can be seen as a form of sacrifice, right? Like in Unisop, for example, you sacrifice a lot by having to run your system on Ethereum in a smart contract, you know, it's very inefficient kind of curve design and like the the cost of liquidity is very high. And if you could do essentially limit order book, then you could support professional market makers and it would be way better.
00:59:30.962 - 01:00:16.450, Speaker B: So something around these lines, but in Staking protocols, this does not apply. The thing that it does is very simple and the more decentralized you can make it, the better it gets, because it's so much about neutrality and trust. And this is why for Lido, decentralization is not a sacrifice of anything. It's extremely good. And for that is the number one priority in the sense that it's not a defensive move. Decentralization for Lido is offense, if you will. So that's why it is the number one priority.
01:00:16.450 - 01:01:09.906, Speaker B: I'm planning to post some suggestions over the next month. So that lays out some of my thinking and my role as strategic advisor for what the Dao should do. And that includes two things in particular. One is taking steps to decentralize the governance, very specific steps. So I personally see dual governance shipping that I see that as the number one priority because that already derisks so much about what can go wrong in governance. And the second thing is getting the Staking router going. So basically increasing the note operator set.
01:01:09.906 - 01:02:28.070, Speaker B: Because when you have a permissionless staking module and you have a DVT module and you can get the note operator set from 35 to 350, I think that also alleviates, I think, a lot of concerns. And it's not just that these two things will make an impact on their own. It's very similar to how in Ethereum, if you go back a few years, there was a general attitude they will never ship proof of stake, they will never ship scaling and so on, right? It's just like a project that just makes eternal promises and doesn't deliver anything. And with Lido, it's not at all like that. But I think there's always an element of the more of your roadmap you have already shipped, the higher the confidence and the momentum that the rest of the roadmap will be delivered as well. And I think this trust is just very important. And so yeah, I think for that reason, I think that's where Lido stands right now in terms of the decentralization roadmap.
01:02:28.070 - 01:02:34.030, Speaker B: And I think those are the things that Dao should do next.
01:02:34.180 - 01:03:23.194, Speaker C: Yeah, that's a great yeah. With the Staking router and DVT, you're moving towards permissionless validator sets. Right. With dual governance. You basically have an interim solution to mitigate governance attack risks before these contracts can actually be made immutable or Ossified. I am curious to get your opinion on a hypothetical end state where this is the ideal end state where the happy path for Lido, where it is winner take all market structure and you have executed on this decentralization roadmap which functions will be impossible for the know not to ossify completely. And I think about whether it's how to distribute deposits across these different validator sets.
01:03:23.194 - 01:03:46.950, Speaker C: I think about fees as well as it's going to be a tough decision to ossify a contract like withdrawals where if you maybe ossify too soon, you could have a catastrophic situation. And so I'm curious to hear in that end state what will be left for the Dow to really control. In particular, will there be pressure to ossify fees?
01:03:48.170 - 01:05:40.700, Speaker B: Yeah, so I think the question like what is going to be left is a little similar in spirit to a question that I sometimes also hear in order for what should ethereum do about liquid staking and should they make an in protocol liquid staking solution? And if you squint, the two questions are actually the same because we're also asking, well, how can Lido be Ossified so much that it basically becomes a part of the ethereum protocol and you realize that there is actually like, let's say ethereum would put liquid staking into the protocol today and there's two problems still remaining. One is the stake is not fungible. So every validator would create its own liquid staking token and you don't have any of the liquidity aggregation effect that actually makes liquid staking so effective. And the second thing is, if you want to have the liquidity aggregation, then somebody needs to pick what node operators are receiving the stake. And if you want to be very simple about this, then you can say, well, just let the stakeholders decide. And then there's a list and people sort it by the name that they trust or the amount of revenue that they can generate doing that. I think then basically what happens is the competition between not operators it becomes concentrated in one at most two dimensions and that is actually extremely centralizing for the underlying note operator set.
01:05:40.700 - 01:06:41.466, Speaker B: Because basically the stake goes to the parties that have the best brand, it goes to parties that take the most risk or it goes to the parties that have the lowest cost of capital or kind of where the stake is secured in the safest jurisdiction. And proof of work is a good example. What happens if you let the kind of free market, quote unquote for validation play out. It used to be mining used to be entirely in China because that's where the hardware makers were and the energy was the cheapest. And now it's almost entirely in the US. Because all of the mining companies are now public because that's what gives you the lowest cost of capital. So you would get basically a very similar outcome in staking if you just follow the incentives.
01:06:41.466 - 01:08:48.438, Speaker B: And that is why actually, I think one of the huge values that Lido has or the Dao has for Ethereum today is exerting some amount of governance over what a good node operator set should look like. So, for example, Lido has quotas for geographical decentralization for what amount of stake is allowed to be on any particular continent in any particular jurisdiction? How much is allowed to be controlled by one legal entity? How much is allowed to be run with a particular combination of different clients in order to drive client diversity? How much is allowed to be run in a cloud hosted setup versus an on premise setup and different things like that. And so, due to this governance over the node operator set, ethereum today has actually a much in many ways better node operator set than it would have otherwise. And so I think what this answer kind of hints to is that some amount of governance over the node operator set will always be necessary because you need to match the demand for delegating stake with the demand for staking actually like running these validators. And you need to do this in a way that satisfies the objectives of the underlying network, which is Ethereum. And so at the very minimum, I think the Dao has to vote and it can do this very infrequently, but it has to vote on the objective functions of the node operator set. And I think beyond that you can ossify almost everything.
01:08:48.438 - 01:09:08.298, Speaker B: But I think this particular part will probably always require some amount of fine tuning. It can be infrequent and it should have the full buy in of the stakers. And so I think this is a realistic place for Lido to get to.
01:09:08.384 - 01:10:03.254, Speaker A: I want to just draw a line under the point that you made before about decentralization, not anting antithetically to the product, but actually being offense. It's a core part of the value proposition of the product and I would sort of draw a comparison in between Lido and a couple. Ethereum is very picky about what it takes into the actual protocol. It doesn't like to have an opinion about a lot of stuff and it outsources actually very critical functionality of the protocol. Lido could be an example of that, flashbots could actually be an example of that, right? Ethereum outsources its block building and I think actually eigen layer or restaking protocols have the potential to be that as well. And I think it just bears repeating that that I hadn't really made that connection until you just said what you said. But those are very interesting group of protocols that do very core functionality for Ethereum.
01:10:03.254 - 01:10:50.102, Speaker A: And the example might be miles is what we talked about in our first episode, but it could be something like utilities, it could be something like the banking system or things that are very close to the metal or the social contract or infrastructure of life. What I. Want to make sure that we've at least got time to touch on a little bit is this idea of restaking. And I know you have a little bit mixed feelings on restaking. We're going to be talking to Sriram later in the season as well and sort of hear from the horse's mouth. But one of the ideas that I wanted to because I've heard you talk about the principal agent problem and that definitely plays when it comes to liquid staking in general. And I think you might add on an additional layer or potential risk of principal agent problem when it comes to restaking.
01:10:50.102 - 01:11:00.286, Speaker A: So can you just give us the high level of how you think about the interaction or intersection in between restaking and liquid staking that we can poke out in a bit?
01:11:00.308 - 01:12:02.660, Speaker B: So restaking is the idea that Ethereum's Validator set is an important asset or like a valuable asset in itself. And you can leverage the set to perform other activities by having these validators opt into additional slashing conditions. Rather they opt into performing additional activities and they can then be held accountable by opting also into additional slashing conditions. And so a few use cases for that have been put forward. I think they go from you can run kind of protocol, ethereum validators, also providing data availability for example, also sequencing layer two roll ups. They could provide Oracles bring prices on chain. I think these are just three examples of what you could do with this.
01:12:02.660 - 01:12:50.690, Speaker B: I think it definitely has its place in terms of narrative. It feels just a little overheated right now and I think you can basically see this. When Eigenve launched, the contracts filled up with stake right away. But there's no one on the other side who actually wants to use these services and would pay for it. And I think we're quite a bit away from actually seeing any revenue generating activities from this. And yeah, I think when it does, of course it will become important. But I think, yeah, we will have to see.
01:12:50.690 - 01:13:39.902, Speaker B: And on the other side of that, we talked about the competition between staking protocols. So definitely all staking protocols compete on providing rewards to the user. And you don't have to be the best one. I think you can always boost your rewards by taking more risk, which is not desirable. So it's about having a good ratio of risk and reward. But to the degree that restaking will drive rewards to node operators, then the stakers will want to participate in these rewards. And a protocol that uses restaking, it will improve its differentiation in the staking market very clearly.
01:13:39.902 - 01:14:58.342, Speaker B: So I can tell you restaking is something that all of the staking protocols definitely have on their radar right today. There are two ways of doing it, I think. One is Eigen layer. They can take what is already kind of a staking token and stake that and then kind of use that or the staking pool itself, they can implement Eigen layer or another restaking protocol, right? And so I think this is another strategic questions that DAOs behind these or the operating companies behind these liquid staking protocols have to think about in terms of timeline. My personal timeline is probably between one and two years away of becoming a serious differentiator in the staking market. So that's why I'm personally more focused on executing the decentralization roadmap. I think that's more important today than anything that can boost the rewards for stakers.
01:14:58.486 - 01:15:27.158, Speaker A: So in terms you just laid out a really interesting relationship in between. There's sort of a co optition relationship between something like Lido and something like Eigen Layer, right? And I think a big question of that is who's ultimately upstream of whom and who has the relationship with the user. Is that roughly how you view it as well? Or maybe talk a little bit about that dynamic and if they have the potential to be more friendly and complementary, or if it ends up being a struggle to who has the user relationship.
01:15:27.324 - 01:16:59.774, Speaker B: I think that's a good way of thinking about mean today. They are clearly very complementary, right? Because liquid staking protocols want higher rewards. And what a protocol like Eigen layer wants is access to node operators and users. And this is what the liquid staking protocols have. So it's a perfect match in many ways, assuming that there's demand to use the liquid stacking protocol and that's where it hinges today. So I think they've been incredibly successful at bootstrapping the meme that there will be a lot of demand, but whether there will also be real demand to fill that expectation, I think that's to be seen to the degree that they can, I think the relationship can be very complementary. I think it is possible that a restaking protocol will eventually also look into well, how can we integrate vertically and start running our own staking protocol? Or a staking protocol might eventually say well, why don't we internalize some of the restaking? But I'm not so constructive on these moves personally and that's for a few reasons.
01:16:59.774 - 01:18:04.390, Speaker B: I think one is that protocols in general, and this actually goes to what you said about field smiles and I realized now that I didn't answer your question directly. Protocols, I think the thing about protocol, decentralized protocols is they can get much bigger than anyone thinks they do. And if you think you know how big they can get, they can get ten times bigger. That's my perspective. And they will probably have very small margins. And when you have a situation like that, you have a protocol that has very slim margins, there's very little to gain from internalizing that and vertically integrating, you're better off just collaborating, especially if it's in a market where kind of customization you don't need to control the whole user experience. And I think crypto is actually a pretty good example of that, you can have a pretty good user experience just from composing with other smart contracts.
01:18:04.390 - 01:19:02.390, Speaker B: And the second thing is it is related to the particular strategy that Lido Dao has or operates, and that is to become a neutral middleware I e. Kind of a very thin protocol actually. The things that Lido Dao should do should be minimized as much as possible. And so the protocol must have an incredibly small, what I would call management surface, because that surface is what then that Dao ultimately has to manage. Right? And that's why I, as an advisor of Lido, I'm very very against any form of vertical integration. And when somebody says shouldn't we do XY? I'm like no, forget about it, don't do vertical integration. It is not right for Lido.
01:19:02.390 - 01:19:54.474, Speaker B: Like Lido should be as thin as possible and as neutral as possible. You don't want to manage anything, you don't want any complexity. And that's how you need to play in the staking market if you want to survive. And it's not even about winning, because if you don't win, then you don't survive. That is the nature of the staking market because I don't think there's an equilibrium where you can have 20% market share or 30% market share, right? This is why I'm so against self limiting, because if Lido doesn't keep growing, then it first stagnate and then it will die. And I think this is true for all liquid staking protocols. And so that's why I'm very pro collaboration and trustless interfaces between these protocols and I'm very anti vertical integration and that's why I'm also very pro.
01:19:54.474 - 01:21:00.122, Speaker B: And now we finally get to the fee question. So I don't think that one concern that people have about protocols that get very big or companies that get very big, that they gain outsized bargaining power over their users, over their suppliers. And then what happens is they start increasing the prices. Like Apple taking 30% fee from the app store, which you can argue today. It's clearly okay for them to do it because people can still not leave and get the same value elsewhere for cheaper. But I think one promise from decentralized protocols is that they cannot behave in this way, that the value that they can extract, that they can capture is actually limited at a much smaller size. So I think definitely fees should be kept.
01:21:00.122 - 01:22:13.174, Speaker B: I'm not even sure that they should be subject to management at all. I think Lido could have an internal fee market the same way that Ethereum has an internal fee market today. Ethereum is not opinionated about how much gas should cost on a given day, right? It only defines what is the supply of it, for example, that is allowed. And I think Lido will get to a similar point where the fee that the users pay and that the node operators receive is simply set by supply and demand. And as long as the node operators adhere to the objective function that is very, very infrequently set by the Dow for what the node operator set should look like, then the price discovery between these two parties can be left to the free market, basically. And the Dow should have no ability to jack up the prices and say this is how much users should pay and this is how much not a weather should receive. I don't think it should have that ability at all.
01:22:13.174 - 01:22:41.850, Speaker B: I think that the fee that they can get, that they can take, it should be small and it should be fixed because this is what gets both users and not operators and all of the protocols and integrations and so on that are building on top. It gives them all of the confidence that they need to treat this as really kind of long term reliable and immutable infrastructure.
01:22:42.010 - 01:23:55.330, Speaker C: Yeah, and I think that makes sense. And I think there is an obvious concern about the demand side fees and lido's ability to rack those up to Apple Store like rates once it has a monopoly. But I do think experimentation on the supply side fee split between the protocol and its validators could actually be interesting to explore in making the protocol healthier. My gut sense is that the largest validators of the lido set right now, the chorus ones of the world, P to P's, would actually take a smaller commission than 5% in order to receive larger deposits. But as you're trying to bootstrap say, these permissionless validator sets via the staking router, they're going to need more than 5% potentially, or maybe whatever that revenue that you higher rake for the largest validators could be used to bootstrap their collateral. Right. So I am thinking from your strategy seat, how do you view because that's an example of maybe not being super thin, right? You can be very active but towards a healthier outcome.
01:23:55.490 - 01:24:54.470, Speaker B: That's why I think a staking module should have the ability to set their own fees, basically and then there can be competition between different modules. So you're totally right, I think especially like if you imagine from here that the price of ethereum increases by ten x, it's not impossible. Right? And then what is the margin of the average node operator? Like 97% maybe. So the cost for them of actually running the hardware and the infrastructure is very small compared to the fee that they are then getting. And it's very clear that this is not the market equilibrium, nor is it optimal for users or for lightning. And so I think in that case it's very good for the protocol to have a price discovery on what is actually the cost of providing the service of running validators. And it can also work in the other direction.
01:24:54.470 - 01:25:58.874, Speaker B: Right. So if ETH were to go again to $100, then lido must also be secure. Right? And it can't all of a sudden be that node operators are not incentivized anymore to perform their services because there is a fixed cost to running to running these node operators and maybe if ETH is 10% then the equilibrium for node operators on the beacon chain is actually like 2% of the network. I don't know. It's possible in either case it should be possible that node operators also can increase their fees if their cost goes up or their revenue goes down. And another example of this would be like a bonded note operator who's permissionless and who puts up some of their own collateral but doesn't have a reputation at least at first. They should mean I will participate in Lido but someone needs to pay me for this cost of capital that I'm incurring because otherwise I couldn't be competitive.
01:25:58.874 - 01:26:23.350, Speaker B: This would not be profitable for me and so they should ask for a higher fee. And so I think it's very important for that reason. And I think it's part of the vision also for the staking router that different modules can set their own fees and then there's competition between modules and there's price discovery on what the best supply side fee should be.
01:26:23.420 - 01:26:44.874, Speaker A: Hasu, unfortunately we could keep talking. It's the mark of a good conversation that we had about five topics we didn't even get to here. We could keep going on forever here. But you've already been really generous with your time and just really appreciate you having you back on Bell Curve here. So hafsu, this has been a ton of fun. You've given us a lot to think about and really teed up a lot of the questions that we wanted to ask for this entire season.
01:26:44.922 - 01:27:03.362, Speaker B: Yeah, hopefully not the last time. I'm really looking forward towards the rest of the season. I think you have definitely a knack for topic selection. First app chains and then mev and then liquid staking. I think you're definitely at the frontier where it's most interesting.
01:27:03.496 - 01:27:17.814, Speaker A: Thanks sir, I appreciate that. All right, well, Miles and I will try to do the subject justice and yeah, thanks again for your time. All right Miles, what an episode. There so many great thoughts from Hasif. It's almost tough to digest and figure out where to know.
01:27:17.852 - 01:27:32.102, Speaker C: I know, I think we covered a lot of what we covered on the first intro pod but just a click deeper and really interesting to hear the perspective of somebody sitting in his seat as the strategic advisor, the Lido dao.
01:27:32.166 - 01:28:30.090, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree with you. I think one of my takeaways, the question of market structure was in my opinion answered about as directly as you're ever going to get it done. I think Hasu explained a lot of the ways and he was thinking about some of the network effects and returns to scale of a liquid stake and token issuer similarly to how we were. So I thought the discussion started to get really interesting when we started to talk about he thought about it exactly the same way that we did, which was he drew out these two sort of principles, frankly, of DAOs and decentralization that we talked about a couple of seasons ago. But it's kind of these two ideas, which is one, Lido sits in this very interesting camp of DAOs where it's very close to the base metal infrastructure of Ethereum. It's basically Ethereum deciding to outsource a core function of the Ethereum protocol itself. And so decentralization is I love the way he phrased it as being offense instead of defense.
01:28:30.090 - 01:29:02.026, Speaker A: And then the other thing that is on the roadmap for Lido and sort of indicative of how they think about it is limiting the surface area of what the Dow does. I thought that was fascinating and there are a couple of ways to go about this. Part of it is ossifying core parts of the protocol, but then it's sort of a mentality of limiting itself to whether that be operating on Ethereum or not, vertically integrating or whatever it is. It's just a very interesting perspective. I don't know what takeaways you had from that.
01:29:02.128 - 01:29:44.678, Speaker C: I couldn't agree more. I think we kind of wound back the clock before Lido existed and just thinking from first principles, his conclusion was that there will be a winner take all of this market. And so the best thing we can be doing right now is making sure that whatever the winner is, is as decentralized as possible and the best version and the healthiest version of the network as possible. And I think the sequencing of the decentralizing the protocol is very important. Right, because those training wheels were necessary to compete with decentralized exchanges. But to your point, now decentralization is now a growth unlock for them. Right.
01:29:44.678 - 01:30:43.654, Speaker C: Whereas with more typical protocol Dows that are building more applications, user facing applications, rather than something that could be considered infrastructure of Ethereum itself, right? That same sort of decentralization actually is a growth hindrance at times. And so now it's at the stage of, okay, we have gotten the early lead, now it's time to execute on the decentralization roadmap as a growth unlock. Right. What's going to get Lido from 30% market share to 70% market share? Well, it's going to be getting all the stakeholders of the network comfortable with their winner take all market position. And to do that, you need to basically start making the protocol as hard to change as Ethereum itself, but being very strategic in your decisions and maybe even interim solutions like this dual governance dynamic.
01:30:43.702 - 01:31:23.718, Speaker A: Yeah, we didn't get too deep into dual governance and Steeth our next episode, we're going to be diving into the nitty gritty of how that all works. I did think one core idea to call out was I've always thought one of the most elegant parts of Ethereum's design is how it's tackled fee markets. I think the way that it works in Ethereum is a really elegant solution. You're starting to see solana where there was a fixed fee, potentially a move more in the direction of fee markets. I had never really thought of the staking module for Lido introducing the possibility of a local liquid staking sort of fee market. I thought that was such an interesting takeaway and that hadn't even occurred to me. So I thought that's a very cool point.
01:31:23.804 - 01:32:22.710, Speaker C: Yeah, I think it's interesting to hear that the last part of the protocol that probably will always need some sort of Dow involvement is the curation of these validator sets and also how deposits are distributed across them. I thought his point around, okay, well, what if you just let the stakers decide? Wouldn't that be the best possible way for the network? Well, problem with that is that it actually would end up with a less decentralized set because stakers natural incentive is to go with the validators that they know well they're not going to lose their stake. Right. And so again, this curation is something that Lido has been criticized for, but turning it on its head going forward, once there is permissionless sets, that curation is going to be necessary in order to actually bootstrap deposits for those new permissionless sets.
01:32:22.790 - 01:33:33.918, Speaker A: Yeah, it was a super interesting point. It kind of got me thinking, Miles, I didn't want to ask, I never like asking about questions like what's the potential return for something like this? But I'm increasingly starting to see this connection in between to use let me use a really high level, non specific metaphor, but then try to get a little bit more concrete with it is these sort of levels of different corporations in America and the function they do and how critical it is to sort of human fabric and the social initially, you know, Utilities was the example that we used. But I think you could largely actually lump defense. You could lump banking services, you could lump health care. These things that you can't really just leave totally to the free market. There has to be some degree of regulation and then the impact that that has on returns of those various industries and highly regulated industries, they tend to be more predictable, there's less upside because you couldn't, for instance, for the example that you used, you couldn't implement, know, surge pricing for heat, for instance. That would be an extremely unpopular thing to, but it's because it's regulated.
01:33:33.918 - 01:34:30.194, Speaker A: It's much more dependable and predictable and hasu the way he described this primitive of lido as a liquid staking provider, it almost takes it one step further and you're isolating. By limiting the surface area and making so much of this just ossified smart contracts, you are limiting the surface area, you're increasing the tam, but you are decreasing probably the rake that you take there as well. So all in all, I think what this ends up looking like is kind of an annuity. Something like an annuity, right. A very large total addressable market winner take most with non punitive fees. So what you're left with is sort of this stream of income and then I guess it just depends on how much that stream of income is bid up or down. But you could sort of look back at historical periods of time.
01:34:30.194 - 01:34:42.582, Speaker A: Even in the US at various times annuities have been in, they've been out. But that's kind of the framework that I'm starting to look at a lot of these protocols as. I'm curious what you think.
01:34:42.636 - 01:35:43.660, Speaker C: For me it's still a we'll see because as I was kind of alluding to, I think that if you were to take a super active role in trying to drive revenue to these protocols, you could actually do so in a way that you could increase the rake without necessarily increasing the rate. From the perspective of the user right now, basically lido fees are set at 10% for the user and that 10% is split between equally between the Dow and its validators. And I think there's some very interesting kind of auction dynamics or market dynamics you could introduce to how that 10% is split up among validators in the Dow. And I think that the protocol could actually increase its rake if it wanted to by taking a higher cut and giving the largest validators a lower cut. And that is more of a kind of a capitalist sort of approach here, right?
01:35:44.030 - 01:36:32.182, Speaker A: It is. But just not to interrupt, but I mean how much can you really do that it's 5% or something right now you could move that a couple hundred basis points. There's no opportunity to go from a 30% to a 50% sort of gross margin. The point I was just trying to make is that there's the opportunity to exert some influence leverage on your supply side. And maybe you can increase your rake a couple of hundred basis points. But there's no opportunity to the sort of flip side of not vertically integrating, not trying to reinvest those gains and trying to be a very small surface area sort of flat credibly neutral protocol is you don't have any opportunity to go from a 30% to 50% gross margin kind of thing or invest in all these new and exciting business lines. I think that's the flip side of that sort of point I was trying to illustrate.
01:36:32.246 - 01:37:06.418, Speaker C: I think that's fair. I do think that the returns could look a lot better than an annuity if we end up with this small margins. But in a winner take all end market structure that's going to be very valuable. Right, but I in general agree. I think it's definitely a very different approach than a typical business given what dynamics are required to kind of get that winner take all market share.
01:37:06.504 - 01:37:39.710, Speaker A: And actually to that point, I think Hasu is absolutely right in just saying that everyone tends to understate the market size here. If I'm not 100% sold on the idea of ethereum as money. But it might just be one of those things where reasoning, by analogy, is inherently imperfect. People use ethereum for money like things today. They probably will in the future. I increasingly think a helpful metaphor to understand the relationship between ethereum and Steeth, for instance, is dollars and stake dollars, which is bonds. And if you look at the global market size for US.
01:37:39.710 - 01:37:59.762, Speaker A: Dollars versus us. Treasuries, it actually is about one to one. And the market for Treasuries is larger than the market for dollars because there's more demand for yield bearing money compared to non yield bearing money. So it's a very fair point. We are probably drastically underestimating how big this market is ultimately going to be.
01:37:59.816 - 01:38:30.910, Speaker C: Yeah, and despite Treasuries not being necessarily fungible, there's plenty of liquidity for those markets and ETFs. Maybe the only counterpoint there that I could make is that Steeth is completely fungible, whereas a lot of US. Treasuries are not. And so maybe it's a stronger network effect there and it's maybe less than one to one and more swings in the way of the yield bearing asset. But I think you could be right as well.
01:38:30.980 - 01:39:00.854, Speaker A: You never know. It's tough to really gauge this stuff out. And then last thing we sort of ended the talk. Talking about restaking. Hasu was not super bullish on that. I think his primary point there was just that there's not an enormous amount of demand for on the demand side of a two sided marketplace like Eigen layer. There's actually an enormous amount of people that want to restake their staked ETH, but there's not an enormous amount of node operators that want to run hardware for XYZ random chain.
01:39:00.854 - 01:39:26.078, Speaker A: And for that reason, he wasn't super bullish on it. I did think it was interesting to call out the sort of cooperation dynamic in between Lido and Eigen layer. And I do think it goes back to our original app chain thesis point of who has the relationship with the customer and who's upstream of who, because there's a natural push to vertically integrate there between those two providers.
01:39:26.174 - 01:39:54.074, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that's interesting. I think there's kind of two parts of the supply side for restaking. It's the stakers, especially liquid stakers, who are not running hardware. Then there's the validators that they've delegated their stake to. And I think the stakers would love this idea of additional yield. The validators are saying, well, actually, that marginal yield comes at a significant additional cost for me, whereas for the stakers it's no additional cost. Right.
01:39:54.074 - 01:40:13.774, Speaker C: But what will be interesting to see is just how much demand there is from these roll ups sequencer sets, oracles, Bridges, and at what point this is secure enough to get some of the larger players here and not just the ones that are looking for a narrative to kind of latch on to.
01:40:13.812 - 01:40:49.114, Speaker A: Right. It was interesting. I think the one thing. It's almost a philosophical answer, and I'm glad some of our responses were more tactically oriented in sort of history of liquid staking, but I think it's a question worth posing of is it a good thing to limit like ethereum? And I would at this point be more in the camp of I think there are more creative solutions to implement than some sort of cap. I don't think it's a great message to send to entrepreneurs. There's actually sort of a rich history of monopolies, frankly. We could do a whole podcast on the histories of monopolies and antitrust and things like that.
01:40:49.114 - 01:41:27.702, Speaker A: But starting with Rockefeller, probably even before, there's this rich history of entrepreneurs coming into an early stage, very wily up and down sort of market and actually helping to tame it with the form of monopoly. And then there are sort of natural undermining effects that lead to more diversification later on. John Rockefeller and what he did with Standard Oil is actually a really good example of that, where it was a boom bust industry that was impossible to make any returns in. He came in, standardized everything, and then the monopoly sort of gave birth to one of the largest industries in the world. And there may be something that we could learn in crypto from doing that.
01:41:27.836 - 01:41:28.920, Speaker C: I think so.
01:41:29.370 - 01:42:01.834, Speaker A: All right, Miles, this next episode is going to be really good. We've mentioned this a couple of times now, but we're actually going to be talking to Izzy from the Lido team who's in charge of their Node operations. So he's the perfect guy to be talking to about nitty gritty questions around the Staking module dual governance and how they think about decentralizing themselves. You all could tell today that that's an enormous part, not just of kind of a technicality of trying to align and seem decentralized. It's actually a core part of the value proposition for these liquid staking protocols, and it's how they go on offense. So I think that'll be a great conversation.
01:42:01.962 - 01:42:11.890, Speaker C: Yeah. Really looking forward to it. It was a blast charge its backup.
