00:00:04.000 - 00:00:27.998, Speaker A: So my name is Mike. I'd like to tell you a little bit about sling, which, like, truly is only possible on Solana. Like, there's literally no way that you could build this without Solana. And I'll tell you a little bit about myself. I'm a tinkerer. I'm a builder. I've been, like, building things on the Internet since I was dropped out of high school when I was 15 and just started building stuff.
00:00:27.998 - 00:01:21.154, Speaker A: My last job was at a bank called Monzo. And one of my colleagues is here in the front row right here. And before that I was at Facebook, where I led a bunch of product teams at Facebook, building ads, product there, sharing product. And everything I'm going to talk about today is a combination of those two things of building social software for billions of people and building, like, a bank, building a financial product. And I want to tell you a story about how we got here. How I got here and got to the point of building sling. And it starts about two years ago when, you know, like, a lot of people, I had gone and bought bitcoin, like, you know, ten years ago or whatever, but I hadn't really gotten into really understanding crypto and really understanding the blockchain and tinkering with it myself.
00:01:21.154 - 00:01:54.474, Speaker A: And I decided that I must be missing something, right? So I went and started playing around with stuff. I started listening to, like, the Andreessen crypto startup school, you know, videos and all that kind of stuff. And I really, like, I went in hook, line and sinker. I was like, this is incredible. Like having, you know, having built a bank with traditional fiat money, this is wild stuff. And I just found religion. And it really felt like I wrote this substack post a couple years ago.
00:01:54.474 - 00:02:47.942, Speaker A: This place reminds me so much of south by Southwest back in 2005 or whatever, when everybody is really excited about web two and all these new APIs and how the web is going to become more distributed and social media is going to take over. And I particularly got really excited about self sovereign identity. And I decided that I wanted to build an identity wallet and let people log in with their own identity, prove who they are and that they are over 18 or have the right to reside somewhere without disclosing anything else about them. I got incredibly excited about this idea and started building it, but then couldn't really figure out how to grow it. And I wanted to build something that has a big impact on the world. And around this time, my friend Sam sent me a note and asked me if I wanted to join a dao to buy some land in Montana. And he was like, I know you're getting into crypto.
00:02:47.942 - 00:03:09.294, Speaker A: I know you're trying this stuff out. This is a great way to learn. And I was like, why not? Let's do it. And so I had to go and fill out this wildly long KYc form. I can't even tell you how long it took. It was like ten pages, the last ten places I've lived, all this kind of stuff. And at the bottom of the form is a Solana wallet address.
00:03:09.294 - 00:03:56.544, Speaker A: And in order to get money to that Solana Wallet address, I had to move money from my UK bank account to Coinbase, where I had to fill out another KYC form and do all sorts of crazy stuff. And then from there, I had to transfer the USDC into Fantom, and then I had to transfer it to this random string of letters and numbers. And meanwhile, I'm messaging him and I'm like, is this you? Like, am I being scammed right now? Is there a man in the middle attack? Is this real? And he's like, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's really my address, right? And I'm like, okay, all right, fine. And I just took a deep breath. I didn't send a test transaction, I just sent the money. And a second later he sends me a message. Like, literally a second later he's like, I got it.
00:03:56.544 - 00:04:28.418, Speaker A: And this kind of blew my mind because I moved $10,000 from London to San Francisco instantly and for free. I mean, basically for free. It costs less than a penny, right? And when you think about this, in contrast to the way that most people do this today, it's not like twice as good. It's ten times better. It's 100 times better. So this is the leading, you know, international transfer company. I took a screenshot on Saturday of just moving $100.
00:04:28.418 - 00:05:11.660, Speaker A: You know, it's expensive and it's slow. I took the screenshot on Saturday and it's like, well, you're not going to get your money until Monday. And they're the best, by the way. Like, everybody else is more expensive, slower. I mean, look at how much PayPal charges for this. And so when you think about it, when you have that experience of moving money like this on Solana with a stablecoin and it's instant and free, and then you look at this, you're like, well, why doesn't the whole world work this way? And actually, when you think about it, every other digital good that we interact with on a regular basis has been transformed over the last 30 years. You know, when I was a kid, you had to go to the record store and, like, buy a CD for $20.
00:05:11.660 - 00:05:53.232, Speaker A: You know, if you had $40 in your pocket, you could buy two CDs, and it's a physical artifact that you take home and you put in the CD player, and you're like, all right, I guess this is what I have now. And if I don't like it, it's too bad. And then itunes came out, and from home, for $0.99, you could just buy any song you wanted, right? And now everybody here has an app in their pocket that gives them instant access to every song ever recorded for a subscription fee. And so you have to ask yourself, like, if this is possible with money. Now, this, by the way, is the Montana land. I've got four nfts in my phantom wallet that I bought with an instant transfer of value from London to San Francisco.
00:05:53.232 - 00:07:00.368, Speaker A: And everything just worked. And so you have to ask yourself, if that is now technically possible, why is it not just the mainstream activity? Why doesn't everyone just do this? And I started talking to a bunch of friends about this and a bunch of people I'd worked with and said, you know, all of the things that are wrong about this project process, we know how to fix. Like, as a group, you know, we're good designers, compliance people, engineers, payments people. You know, between all of these folks, like, we know how to build a better version of this. And you ask yourself the question, should we do it? Should we build it? And the answer started to become yes. But then you have to ask yourself, like, why, if we're going to dedicate, like, the next 510 years of our lives to this, there has to be a really good reason. And, you know, once you see what Solana and stablecoins are capable of, you hit this point where you imagine what the world would be like if this were mainstream, if money worked this way, if anybody in the world could transact with anyone else instantly and basically for free.
00:07:00.368 - 00:07:43.628, Speaker A: And you have to imagine, like, the economic growth that would come from that, the increase in personal freedom that would come from that. If you can live in a place, irrespective of where you were born, where you live, where your bank account is, whether or not you have a bank account, and you can do work for somebody in another country who can pay you instantly, that must be transformative. And then if you can transact with everyone else around, like, this is truly transformative stuff. And once you realize that this is possible today, I think you just reach this conclusion that it has to happen. It has to be built. And so we decided to do it. We decided to build it, and we developed some principles for the product that we were going to build.
00:07:43.628 - 00:08:14.924, Speaker A: So we said, first of all, you have to be able to pay anyone anywhere instantly, and it should be really easy. Like, anybody should be able to do it. You shouldn't have to worry about going through all of these weird flows and expose network addresses and all this kind of stuff. It has to be something that anyone can use. You put it in their hand and they can just go, and it should be almost free. I wish this said free, but it's like, almost impossible to build a payments product totally for free. At some point, you have to interact with the fiat world.
00:08:14.924 - 00:08:49.162, Speaker A: That costs money. Even gas just costs on Solana costs a little bit of money. So almost free feels like the right phrase here. Not $6 to move 100, but a little bit. And we came up with a name, recall it sling, which is, you know, it just has this very nice, evocative thing. I can just, like, sling you cash, right? And then we came up with some principles for how we were going to build it, how it was going to work. And, you know, these, I think, are just as important as the benefits that we offer people who use the product.
00:08:49.162 - 00:09:18.204, Speaker A: So the first one is, you own your own money. One of the beautiful things about blockchain technology is that you can build really for the first time, right. You can build a great self custody experience where it is truly your money. It's not on deposit with another institution, it's not partially lent out. It's yours, and you own it, and you control it. And it's fully portable, which means that if you're not happy with us, you can take your wallet somewhere else. And that is an incredibly powerful thing.
00:09:18.204 - 00:09:54.480, Speaker A: It's like a beautiful thing to just do for people to build a product that allows them to take their money and go to some other app, whatever, instantly. But it's also liberating for the people building the app, because if you think about it, one of the biggest complaints that people have about PayPal, for example, is they froze my account. I was in Panama, and they froze my account. I can't get access to my money. There are very good reasons why they do that, to control fraud, to do this, that and the other thing. But it is possible to build a product with a self custody infrastructure where instead of freezing somebody's money, maybe you don't offer access to an offer. Amp right, then.
00:09:54.480 - 00:10:25.024, Speaker A: But you say, these are your keys, you can take them somewhere else if you want. It's just a better experience, better for people. We also decided that we wanted to build a rich client in a thin server. And this is really important. One of the companies and products that I admire most out there is WhatsApp. They were able to build an amazing thing with a very small number of people because they have a very small server that has almost no moving parts. When you send a message with WhatsApp, it goes to the server, and it's only on the server long enough for it to get delivered to the client.
00:10:25.024 - 00:11:10.146, Speaker A: And that is an incredibly powerful idea that allows them to operate much smaller infrastructure, fewer engineers, smaller team. It's an incredibly powerful idea. And with a blockchain, with Solana, you can do this. We've built so much into the client where the client is talking directly to the blockchain, and finally, the blockchain is the ledger. Everything happens on the blockchain. And this is very important, because if you're trying to build a global payments product, traditionally the traditional way, you have to build custodial ledgers in every single country in which you operate, which is extraordinarily expensive, extraordinarily difficult. But if you're doing it on a blockchain, you have one ledger, and it's in the cloud, and you don't even have to build it yourself.
00:11:10.146 - 00:11:36.462, Speaker A: It's like magic. So with that, I'd like to show you what we built. So the first bit is signup. It's fast, it's easy. Sling is a self custodial wallet, but you don't have to remember any seed phrases or anything like that. We do KyC at the front door so that everything later can be totally seamless. And your keys are backed up to the cloud with a service called Evervault.
00:11:36.462 - 00:11:57.354, Speaker A: We never have access to your key. We can't do anything with your wallet without your permission. Once you've signed up the home screen. Honestly, looks like any other web. Two wallet, whatever. It's very straightforward. I think the only thing here that really reveals its crypto nature is a little USDC under the fiat balance.
00:11:57.354 - 00:12:35.328, Speaker A: Very simple. Then adding money, you just tap. If you've got Apple Pay or Google Pay set up on your phone, you put in a fiat amount, and I think this is really critical. And then you just do Apple Pay, and the money lands in your wallet in, like, a second, and that transaction is done. There you go. We abstract currency away so you can change the display currency of your app whenever you want. It's in USDC underneath, but you can decide to display your balance in australian dollars or euros or whatever you want.
00:12:35.328 - 00:13:16.582, Speaker A: And for the g seven currencies, I think we'll use specific stable coins for each one of them. So a euro stable, a canadian stable, et cetera. In other countries, us dollar exposure is a feature, and this is infrastructurally how this works. So you've got a bunch of self custody wallets that all transact with each other. We run this kind of giant hot wallet controller in the middle, and then we connect to real time payment systems in every country in which we have on and off ramps. So that could be like a card network. Aft transactions, account, funding transactions on debit card rails, Oct transactions, outgoing transactions on debit card rails.
00:13:16.582 - 00:13:51.618, Speaker A: It could be M Pesa, it could be faster payments, it doesn't really matter. And that's what that server is doing. It's basically taking a payment in from fiat and then turning it into USD. And then to send money to somebody, you just search for their name, you find them. We turn KYC into a feature so we have blue check marks to tell you that the person you're sending to really has that name. And you can look at their profile and see that we verified their id, it's their real name, it's their photo. Blue checkmarks mean something on sling, and I think that that's incredibly important.
00:13:51.618 - 00:14:23.436, Speaker A: And then you can send in whatever currency you want. You don't have to do any math on the exchange rate or anything like that. We do it all for you. And if you want to send to somebody who is not on sling, that's really easy too. Remember I said pay anyone, anywhere. You can just send money on a link and we'll create a one time use self custodial wallet with the key in the URL. And you can WhatsApp it to somebody, you can imessage it to somebody, it doesn't really matter.
00:14:23.436 - 00:15:04.164, Speaker A: It's kind of like cash. And once they get it, it's really easy for them to off ramp. Super straightforward. You receive the link, you click withdraw to bank, choose what country you're in, put in your name, and if you're in the Netherlands, your iban, if you're in the UK, your sort code and account number. If you're in the US, your debit card number, you confirm and it's done. And those transactions generally are, it's probably safe to say, a minute. Every once in a while they take five minutes, often they take even less.
00:15:04.164 - 00:15:42.550, Speaker A: And with that in mind, withdrawing. Also super straightforward. Again, you put a value to withdraw in fiat. It uses exactly the same rails. The money will be in your account incredibly quickly. And with that in mind, I'd love to show you, like, live sling, like a live transaction. The other day I did a self transfer between my first republic account in California to my Monzo account in the UK.
00:15:42.550 - 00:16:06.228, Speaker A: I moved 100 pounds, and I'd love to just show you that happened. So I put in 100 pounds. Now this is going to come out of. I'm going to choose my first republic account here. It's figuring out the right amount of dollars to withdraw from my first republic account for 100 pounds. And that'll take just a second. The balance updates in real time.
00:16:06.228 - 00:16:44.744, Speaker A: And now I'm going to withdraw 100 pounds and I'm going to choose Monzo. And now you can see me get a little impatient. It takes a few seconds, and I'm like, oh, why haven't I gotten it yet? I kind of refresh a little bit. I know, check the news a little bit. Check my notifications. There it is. 52 seconds from adding the money to sling to withdrawing.
00:16:44.744 - 00:17:15.038, Speaker A: And it doesn't cost us $6 either. It's pretty cheap. So sling. Right now we're live with ramps, working in about 30 countries. So that's the UK, most of western Europe, a lot of the United States, no New York and Florida yet. But they're coming end of the year, beginning of next year. And our goal is to be truly global.
00:17:15.038 - 00:17:40.318, Speaker A: Like, we want you to be able to send money to anyone in the world. It doesn't matter where they are. It doesn't matter if they're next to you or 3000 miles away. And, you know, surprisingly, we have a lot of people using it domestically. Like, there are a lot of countries where in order to send somebody money, you have to exchange an account number with somebody. There's no venmo, there's nothing like that. And so the conversation goes something like this, like, I owe you $10.
00:17:40.318 - 00:18:16.890, Speaker A: What's your sort code and account number? And then they send you two numbers and you have to separately copy and paste them in your banking app. You have to go through five screens in order to, you know, it's not a scam, like all this kind of shit. And then at the end, then you get to send them the money. That's a lot of work to send somebody $10. And so we're actually finding people are using this domestically in a bunch of countries to pay the taxi driver, to pay the babysitter, all of that sort of thing as well. Which is right in line with what we want to build. We want to build an app, which is like the money button on your phone where you know that you can send to anyone, and it's just going to work.
00:18:16.890 - 00:19:10.338, Speaker A: And right now, we've got this bit of Western Europe, North America, but we're working on integrations for Canada, for most of Latin America, sub saharan Africa, Australia, a bunch of Asia. And the really amazing thing about Solana, and really, truly the reason why this is only possible on Solana, is, first of all, we don't need to go into a new country. We don't need to find a partner who's going to custody the fiat money for us. We don't need to find somebody who will help us build a custodial subledger. We don't need to do all of this stuff, and we don't have to do really, really deep, crazy integrations. We can just get payments up and running, like the same kind of payments that you need in order to sell a t shirt. You know, obviously, there's regulatory stuff that needs to be done.
00:19:10.338 - 00:19:59.180, Speaker A: But again, because we're non custodial, because of the nature of the way that this product works, it's a lot less regulatory consideration than it would be if we were doing this the traditional way. And because at Solana, the transactions are basically instant, and they're basically free. And it's just, we live in an amazing moment right now where it, again, feels a lot like 2005, 2006, where you could see all of this stuff happening, all this stuff coming, and it hasn't quite gotten there. It's not quite mainstream yet, but it's inevitable. Like, once you can move money from California to London in 50 seconds, basically for free, it's obviously going to happen. It is obviously going to work. And when that's also possible in Kenya and that's also possible in Hong Kong, and it's also possible in Australia and Argentina.
00:19:59.180 - 00:20:17.814, Speaker A: This is going to happen, and it's a really beautiful moment where we just have this privilege of building the future. Solana's amazing. This has been great. Thank you for the time. We're invite only at the moment, but, you know, give it a shot. You can use a code. Thank you very much.
