00:00:04.170 - 00:01:12.126, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. The Financial Action Task Force Unveils finalized crypto guidance On Thursday, the Financial Action Task Force, or FADF, a global anti money laundering watchdog, published its finalized guidance for regulating the crypto industry. The draft of this guidance, published last spring, veered in the direction of expanding rule that traditionally apply to transactions involving financial intermediaries, to peer to peer transactions, and even to wallets managed by individuals or so called self hosted wallets. Several crypto lawyers and advocate groups, such as Coinscenter and Jake Shravinsky, found that the finalized guidance appears to be better in some respects than the draft, but otherwise is too vague. What effect this will have in practice remains to be seen, since Thursday's publication is merely guidance, not law. Member countries decide whether or not they choose to implement the FATF recommended guidelines. As a reminder, the FATF is the organization that advocates applying the travel rule to virtual asset service providers, or VASPs, such as crypto exchanges and money transmitters to collect and report information on parties participating in transactions.
00:01:12.126 - 00:02:09.190, Speaker A: Last spring's, draft guidance could have required such reporting from those facilitating or governing transfers, such as miners and validators. Now the requirement applies to persons with quote control of VAS or virtual assets. It also does not put such obligations on crypto protocol developers. Most importantly, it no longer applies the travel rule to transactions that occur between a business and a self hosted wallet. For decentralized applications, VAS reporting requirements are unclear, especially for developers or anyone with quote control or sufficient influence in the DeFi arrangements. The FATF appears to believe that many heads of decentralized protocols would fall under the VASP definition. Quote It seems quite common for DeFi arrangements to call themselves decentralized when they actually include a person with control or sufficient influence, and jurisdictions should apply the VASP definition without respect to self description, said the guidance.
00:02:09.190 - 00:02:52.930, Speaker A: On Twitter, Miller Whitehouse Levine, policy director at DeFi Education Fund, wrote, quote, TLDR, it's not great. My initial read is that the Fatiff sees a world in which permissionless and decentralized systems are at best suppressed from the guidance. It seems that the Fatif is having trouble coping with the fact that DeFi eliminates those intermediaries. Mark Boyron, dYdX's general counsel, tweeted that the Fat of recommendations are, quote, so bad that it makes the infrastructure bill look reasonable. Only permission to DeFi is allowed. An intermediary must be inserted to serve as a VASP. The global impact of these recommendations is an attempted kill shot at DeFi.
00:02:52.930 - 00:03:45.410, Speaker A: Mastercard is building out Crypto Payment rails Mastercard is partnering with BACT, a crypto payments firm, to enable cryptocurrency services for its partners across the US. Through Mastercard's Crypto as a service platform, any Mastercard partner, be it a merchant, bank or fintech, will soon have the ability to let consumers buy, sell and hold digital assets through custodial. Wallets powered by backed Mastercard is also integrating crypto into its loyalty program Mastercard. Adding support for Web Three payment rails could lead to a significant expansion of users interacting with cryptocurrency. According to CNBC, Mastercard has relationships with over 20,000 financial institutions and supports 2.8 billion credit cards. Shares of the recently listed backed, which announced a similar partnership with Fiserv this week, jumped 234% on Monday, coinciding with the Mastercard press release.
00:03:45.410 - 00:04:27.890, Speaker A: Speaking of crypto adoption, according to Bloomberg, the Houston Firefighters Relief and Retirement Fund invested $25 million in a bitcoin and ether, becoming one of, if not the first public pension plan that has done so in the US. The fund holds over $4 billion in assets. On Wednesday, bitcoin dropped below $60,000. El Salvador President Nayubu Kelly announced that country quote, bought the dip to the tune of 420. BTC. Two banks signed up to become the first US. Institutions to offer bitcoin trading through a platform designed by Q Two Holdings and New York Digital Investment Group, or Nidig, allowing customers to purchase, hold and sell bitcoin in their banking apps.
00:04:27.890 - 00:05:24.530, Speaker A: And finally, according to an SEC filing, Tesla might start accepting bitcoin as payment again and even hinted that it could accept other cryptos as well. The SEC is not ready for a leveraged bitcoin ETF. The second bitcoin Futures ETF managed by Valkyrie, listed last Friday, bringing in $80 million during its first trading day under the ticker BTF on Nasdaq. Since then, Valkyrie filed to offer a 1.25 X leveraged bitcoin ETF. However, according to the Wall Street Journal, on Thursday, the SEC instructed one ETF provider not to proceed with its leveraged product, indicating that it will not approve Valkyrie's leveraged bitcoin Futures ETF Direction An ETF issuer also got creative with the Bitcoin Futures ETF filing. On Tuesday, the company filed its Direction Bitcoin Strategy Bear ETF, which will maintain short exposure to bitcoin futures contracts on CME.
00:05:24.530 - 00:06:23.110, Speaker A: Quote the fund will generally maintain its short exposure to bitcoin futures during periods in which the value of bitcoin is flat or declining, as well as during periods in which the value of bitcoin is rising, the filing said. While it remains to be seen whether the SEC approves direction's ETF, it appears a third Bitcoin Futures ETF is set to list the Vanek Bitcoin Strategy ETF is, quote, ready for launch, according to Bloomberg's Eric Baltunis, who expects the fund to start trading Friday when this podcast publishes. Baltunis also noted that a glut of bitcoin ETFs filed for registration. He tweeted quote there's still 40 plus bitcoin ETFs in registration. We'll probably hit 50 by Thanksgiving. Cream Finance's Third Exploit in less than a Year Cream Finance, a DFI money market and lending service, lost $130,000,000 worth of crypto tokens on Wednesday, making it the third worst DFI hack in history, according to Rect. Pexhield Inc.
00:06:23.110 - 00:06:56.306, Speaker A: Initially identified the exploit as a flash loan attack. Based on Etherscan records, it appears the hacker interacted with 69 different tokens and paid only 9.16 ETH to pull off the heist. Muddit Gupta a blockchain security researcher posited that the hacker was two people most likely DFI devs working from a shared account. Notably, this is not the first time Cream Finance has suffered a flash loan attack. The DFI protocol was additionally exploited for $37.5 million in February and $18.8
00:06:56.306 - 00:07:19.250, Speaker A: million in August. Based on data from the block. This brings the total amount of funds stolen from DFI protocols to over $500 million. FDIC chair thinks banks could one day hold crypto assets. Jelena McWilliams, chair of the federal deposit insurance corporation, believes that regulators should be looking into how U. S. Banks might hold digital assets for themselves and their clients.
00:07:19.250 - 00:07:59.666, Speaker A: The FDIC chair spoke at Money 2020 in Las Vegas on Monday, where she explained her regulatory approach to crypto assets. Mcmilliams said that her job, quote, is to provide clear rules of the road to let crypto innovation flourish in the US. Just like it did with the Internet. According to her speech, the FDIC plans to issue a series of policy statements on how existing rules and policies apply to crypto assets in the coming months. McWilliams says the FDIC is working with the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Controller of Currency. In a quote, crypto sprint to best coordinate policies for banks in the crypto space. The FDIC chair stated that crypto assets belong on bank balance sheets, as reported by Reuters.
00:07:59.666 - 00:09:03.530, Speaker A: Quote at some point in time, we're going to tackle how and under what circumstances banks can hold them on their balance sheets, said McWilliams. Crypto Trading Tanked Robinhood's Q Three On Tuesday, Robinhood, the popular trading platform, revealed its Q Three earnings report, which showed that crypto revenue dipped almost $200 million compared to the second quarter. According to the report, crypto revenue fell to $51 million, marking a 78% collapse from its $233,000,000 in Q Two. The lack of crypto revenue left its mark on Robin Hood's total revenue, which hit only $365,000,000 in Q Three after topping $550,000,000 in Q Two. The CFTC is looking into a decentralized prediction market. According to Bloomberg, this Commodity Futures Exchange Commission, or CFTC, is investigating Polymarket, a prediction market based DAP that allows users to predict outcomes of future events. Bloomberg reports the regulator is, quote, investigating whether Polymarket is letting customers improperly trade swaps or binary options and if it should be registered with the agency.
00:09:03.530 - 00:10:01.862, Speaker A: As of now, the DAP has not been accused of wrongdoing. Quote Polymarket is firmly committed to complying with applicable laws and regulations and to providing information to regulators that will assist them with any inquiry, a Polygon spokeswoman told Bloomberg. Speaking of the CFTC, it appears that Acting Chair Roston Benham is making moves to add crypto to the CFTC's purview. On Wednesday, Benham asked to become the primary cop on the crypto regulatory beat. During an appearance before the Senate Agriculture Committee, Benham added, quote Market transactions that are taking place right now are a huge part of the risk that digital assets pose. He went on to request a more robust, quote, regulatory structure for both securities and commodities. Benham's words come during the same week that SEC Chair Gary Gensler, who has been lobbying for more regulatory control over crypto, took aim at DeFi quote there's a lot of lending going on, there's a lot of trading going on, and without protections, I fear that it's going to end poorly, said Gensler.
00:10:01.862 - 00:10:43.802, Speaker A: In the past, he has said that most of the crypto assets he's seen are securities, which furthers the turf war between the CFTC and the SEC. Time for fun bits. Holy shib. One man's meme is another man's billions. Shiba eno, which trades under the ticker shib shot into the top ten coins by market capitalization this week, at one point flipping its memetic forefather dogecoin. According to data from Coin Gecko, the meme token is up roughly 150% on the week, with a market cap of $40 billion, which is markedly larger than Deutsche Bank at $27 billion. With the rise of Shib comes massive wealth, especially for one investor who might have pulled off the greatest individual trade of all time.
00:10:43.802 - 00:11:15.650, Speaker A: As tweeted by morningbrew, someone somewhere believed in Shib last August and bought roughly $8,000 worth of tokens. Fast forward to today. Those tokens are now worth $5.7 billion, good for a 71,249,000% return in just over a year. All right, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Doe and TerraForm Labs, be sure to check out the links in the show notes. Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin without from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch and Dan Eel Ness.
00:11:15.650 - 00:11:16.370, Speaker A: Thanks for listening.
