00:00:06.080 - 00:01:34.525, Speaker A: Hi Marco here from Bridge. Bridge is an API platform for payments using stablecoins. Stablecoin Orchestration enables developers to easily go from a US dollar or Euro into any stablecoin and back from a stablecoin back to fia. So Euro to USDC or converting USDT to USD or USDT on Tron to USDC on Solana and from the perspective of payments this year in B2B we'll see over $4 trillion of cross border money movement go on chain. From the consumer perspective across the global south there are tens of millions of users choosing to receive their earnings and to manage their savings on chain in various different stablecoin based wallets. Today we're announcing not just the ability to earn and save and manage in stablecoins but also to be able to spend via a card that spends directly from that stablecoin balance everywhere that cards are accepted, which enables an everyday real world use case for stablecoins. We're making this announcement together in collaboration with the Squads Labs team who you'll hear from in a little bit right here.
00:01:34.525 - 00:02:33.411, Speaker A: But meanwhile I get to showcase a little bit of the user experience. So users on the Fuse Wallet will be able to natively within the wallet create a card account. They'll go through a very simple terms of service and KYC process and it's worth noting that in this experience this is a self custody card product. Users will maintain control over their assets. This is enabled via a card balance that is delegated from the Fuse Wallet main account and controlled via some daily spend limits, all enabled via the SQUATS Protocol Smart account. From there it's a beautiful modern day card experience where users will be able to see their number, set a daily spending limit, see recent transactions and manage the whole history of card spend all natively within the app. And of course the card will be usable over Apple Pay.
00:02:33.411 - 00:02:58.745, Speaker A: So this is a card that works on in person card present transactions and ecommerce just like any other card. If this is interesting to you, and I hope it is, check out the Fuse Wallet and you can reach out to us anytime for any questions at SalesRidge XYZ and we will be around here. So looking forward to chatting with you. Thank you.
