00:00:13.210 - 00:00:53.518, Speaker A: Hi everyone, I'm Noorajanashia and this is Sahil. We're from Defi Zap. We're going to talk a little bit about some zaps. So first, you know, let's start by taking a look at the current state of know. Defi is difficult to use. It takes several transactions to get to certain endpoints in Defi, which to me personally is a pet peeve. So when I know I need to get to a certain endpoint and I have three transactions line up, I have to wait for one to finish in order to initiate the next one.
00:00:53.518 - 00:02:00.100, Speaker A: So I think because of this, some true composability has been largely unexplored in our space. So what is defi zap? Defi Zap helps you deploy capital to interesting opportunities in DeFi in one click, abstracting a lot of the transactions that go on the back. So for users, it's fast to use, it saves you time, it's easy for you to grasp the concepts. For builders, it's really simple to integrate, and they're not adding on an extra layer of smart contract security risk. So when you're using Defi zap, you're minting the same exact liquidity provision tokens, or leverage tracking position tokens. It's the same thing as you using the underlying platforms manually by yourself. So where did Defi's app come from? Just a quick history about us.
00:02:00.100 - 00:02:43.140, Speaker A: So I started myself making Defi tutorials back in the summer. Like Defi Zap was never end goal for me. I never like, oh, I'm going to start defi Zap. When I started making DeFi tutorials, like Defi Zap was born and raised from user feedback. So based on that feedback, I hacked up Defi strategies, which was like using no code tools. It was like an educational trading simulator, which helped users see what kind of returns they would get on certain positions in DeFi. So it's kind of like test driving these products without actually putting real money behind it.
00:02:43.140 - 00:03:52.310, Speaker A: And from there we had a survey which basically told us everything was pointing to building DFI's app. So on October eigth, I just reached out in Kyber's Discord channel, looking for help. They had a virtual hackathon going on, so it was a perfect opportunity to get started. Within 20 days, we had our first Zap deployed on the main net and we ended up winning the virtual hackathon from Kyber, which obviously gave us a push to keep building. So December 9, we had a beta launch where we introduced a lot more zaps, specifically around pooling opportunities on Uniswap. It's one of the things we saw our users having a hard time doing. So, in order to provide liquidity on Uniswap, you need to come in with two tokens, and we basically abstract a lot of the calculations that go in the background.
00:03:52.310 - 00:04:34.482, Speaker A: So, so far, we had 8500 eth deployed into DFI through zaps via around 1600 zaps, saving end users around 165 hours. So these are some cool starting points for DFI zap. So how it works. At first, you start out by answering a few simple multiple choice questions. This helps you filter out some of the zaps we have available, because we realize launching more and more zaps. Now, if you go on the Explorer Zaps page, there's a lot of zaps there. So it's getting hard to filter them.
00:04:34.482 - 00:05:32.962, Speaker A: So this survey helps you kind of filter the top three ones that you might find useful based on your investment profile. So, once you go through the survey and you're pointed to a zap, for example, this chai unit pool one, all you have to do is input how much eth you'd like to add in liquidity. And basically, as you can see here, what defi zap does in the background specifically for this chai pool is pretty cool. Eliminates four on chain transactions. So going from ETH, the first thing we do is we convert half of your ETH to Dai. And we're not doing it directly to chi, because you would experience pretty big slippage if you were doing it directly within the Uniswap pool. So after getting Dai, we wrap it into chi using their smart contracts, and finally add the liquidity of the chai and the leftover ETH into the pool.
00:05:32.962 - 00:06:26.470, Speaker A: So as the end result, you are getting chai pool liquidity tracking tokens back to your wallet. So today, we released a new thing. It's general Unipools app. So right now, all the Unipools apps we've had available, it was all based on, basically, it was limited to the options we had available on our website. With this general Unipool, you are able to get into any pool that's available in Uniswap in one click. So it's kind of like providing this layer for builders to start initiating these one click entry points into pools through this general Unipol contract. And now Sahil is going to talk a little bit about how you actually integrate.
00:06:28.250 - 00:07:04.850, Speaker B: So, my name is Suhail, I'm an engineer at Defi's app, and I'm just going to talk briefly about how you would integrate our contracts into your adapt. It's really easy. Basically all you need is the address and the ABI. We have the addresses available there as well as the abIs. This is available on our GitHub page. And you can go to this website, you can download the ABI and the address. And the way you'd actually implement it for developers anyway is to use web3 js or ethers js.
00:07:04.850 - 00:07:56.050, Speaker B: And basically what you have to do is instantiate our contract. This part here is the meat and potatoes, though. I'm using the Seth address here. This is for the Seth Uni pool. But we could actually use any Unipol, sorry, any Uniswap address. So for example, if you had a. So for example, if you have a personal token on Uniswap and you'd like to add liquidity, or you'd like your friends to add liquidity, you can just substitute this address with whatever you want, as long as it's available on Uniswap.
00:07:56.050 - 00:08:48.146, Speaker B: But this code Snippet basically summarizes how you would implement Defy's app into your own application. You can use our general contract, our general Unipol contract, which is this contract here. It's called the Unipol general, and that'll let you get into any Uniswap pool at all. We also have general contracts for removing liquidity from those pools, and also for entering what we call leveraged positions, leveraged liquidity positions, which adds liquidity to Uniswap and then goes two x long on Ethereum. So these are all general contracts. You can use these with any token as long as it's available on uniswap. And actually for this contract here, you can leverage long for any token that's available on Fulcrum.
00:08:48.146 - 00:09:58.060, Speaker B: So that's believe, Chainlink, KNC, all those tokens. The only thing you'll need to do is to substitute the addressing here. So if you were to implement this today, you could copy and paste this code, as long as you have an address for the user right here. And this can be any address. So it could be some other user's address, it could be the current user's address, it could be a random address if you really feel generous. So substitute the Seth address, put in their address, send off the transaction, and then your UI, your front end or your backend or whatever can handle the events that occur afterwards, like potential rejections or successful transactions. But I'm more than happy to whip up an API for you guys, if you need an HTTP API, so we have some integrations right now through Seb at Defi Snap, who asked us to whip up a quick API for him for specific information he needed about some of these pools, and we were able to do that for him.
00:09:58.060 - 00:10:14.000, Speaker B: So if you have any projects that you're interested in integrating and you need more help, or you need some custom contract work done, or you need a custom API, just join us on Discord. My name is at cryptonomic and I'd be happy to help you. Whatever you need.
00:10:16.450 - 00:11:06.854, Speaker A: Yeah, now I'm just going to talk a little bit about the people who have already integrated us. So it includes some UI solutions like pools. FYI, Defi Snap, frontier Wallet, who actually launched a native mobile zap support today. I earned that finance, if you guys haven't heard about this, it's a really cool tool. Basically what we've built for iearn finance is like a floor for a pool aggregator. So this product is using zaps in the background to rebalance your positions from pool to pool, finding the best yield. And there's a couple of other solutions that we are working with currently, especially excited about things like adding additional pooling opportunities into zaps.
00:11:06.854 - 00:11:11.970, Speaker A: So right now you can only get into pools on Uniswap, but there's.
00:11:14.790 - 00:11:15.106, Speaker B: A.
00:11:15.128 - 00:12:09.462, Speaker A: Couple of other products that are launching with a similar model for automated market making, specifically balancer curve and calorie. So what you can build with defi zap today, first of all, you can create venmo like experiences. So each zap has an ENS registered under it. So you could literally become, say, a liquidity provider in the Seth pool by depositing ETH directly to Sethunipool, defisap eth. And what you're going to get back are those liquidity tracking tokens. And you could do this, you could set up an ENS for any pool. So with this general unipool contract, you can know maybe you're going to list a token on Uniswap, maybe your personal token that you want to encourage adding liquidity to.
00:12:09.462 - 00:12:54.382, Speaker A: So what you could do is you could create an EnS then for your own pool that you're going to launch on Uniswap and essentially provide this easy onboarding for new users. Pool bridging is something we're pretty excited about. So right now we have zap ins, zap outs. So if you want to switch pools, what you'll need to do is zap in first, then zap out, and then zap into a different pool so if you're always staying in ETH, that's easy. But when you're removing liquidity from Uniswap, you're also getting back the same way. Two different tokens. So you need to reshuffle them for the next pool.
00:12:54.382 - 00:13:37.170, Speaker A: And we'll allow you to do that. You could build something that allows you to do that in one click, of course. And then pool bridging doesn't have to stay within uniswap. You could switch a pool into balancer pool or into curve pool. Other ones I'm pretty excited about would be like insured apps. So what you could do is essentially think of it as buying prepaid insurance from Nexus and then selling it in thesis through zaps to the end user. So they just check off a mark that says, hey, I want all the underlying contracts that the zap is going to touch covered by Nexus financial Nexus mutual.
00:13:37.170 - 00:14:07.110, Speaker A: Yeah, I guess I'll just take some questions, if you guys have any questions. And yeah, like Sahil said, if you guys have any problems or additional questions, you could always reach us on our discord. We're always there. So. Yeah, thank you, everyone.
