00:00:00.400 - 00:00:17.966, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sosano. And today's the 13 August 2021. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So just wanted to give a quick shout out here to crypto wife. She made me a little sassle themed penguin today.
00:00:17.966 - 00:00:45.102, Speaker A: Now, I guess a lot of you will have seen kind of like the penguins or the pudgy penguins on Twitter over the last, I guess, week or so. It hasn't been very long, but everyone changing their profile pictures to these penguins that are part of this kind of profile picture collection. Obviously, this isn't like part of that collection, but this is a special custom made one from cryptowife here. So it's just, it's so cute, right? Look how cute it is. It's so wholesome. So I guess that, yeah. Thank you, crypto wife, for making this, making this one for me.
00:00:45.102 - 00:01:12.502, Speaker A: I've changed my profile picture to it as well. And she even minted an NFT and sent me the NFT at Sassle E. So I even got like ownership of it as well, which is really, really cool. And she also made like an edit here of, you know, the, the penguin sitting in kind of like my study here, which I think is pretty, pretty cool and pretty cute. And, you know, I think I've covered crypto wife before on the refill. She's made a few different memes and I've rt'd a few of them before. I think she's made memes out of me as well.
00:01:12.502 - 00:01:46.072, Speaker A: Like, yeah, me and Eric here when Eric took a Twitter break and a few other ones around here. So she's definitely a good follow for, for these sorts of things and a very talented artist as well. So, I mean, I highly recommend giving her a follow and kind of like following along with what she's doing in her work here. It's really, really awesome. So, yeah, thanks again, crypto wife for these cute little, little penguin profile picture. All right, so more drama surrounding Jack again on Twitter today. And I'm not going to talk too much about the drama itself, but I want to talk about kind of, I guess, others plans to build a decentralized social media protocol.
00:01:46.072 - 00:02:32.312, Speaker A: Now, I'll start with just like what the drama stemmed from. Basically it stemmed from Jack essentially saying that or replying to a tweet where this, this person st, said this is one thing that feels like would benefit the ETH ecosystem way more than it benefits Twitter. And that was quote, tweeting a tweet from this brand in person, saying, every account on Twitter should have a wallet address for storing nfts. And then Jack said, agreed. So he was agreeing with the fact that this would benefit the ETH ecosystem more than Twitter. But then he goes on to say, however, every account on Twitter being able to link to a lightning wallet, you know, would be, would be better, right? Would, would benefit Twitter more, you know, and obviously bitcoin as well. Now, I looked at this and I thought, okay, well, this isn't like anything new or anything surprising, obviously.
00:02:32.312 - 00:03:10.618, Speaker A: You know, Jack is a massive bitcoin fanatic and he loves lightning and all that sort of stuff. But then Stani, quote, tweeted him and said, every account on average social media protocol, you will be able to bring your Ethereum wallet and your own audience. Now, for those who don't know, are there announced plans to build a social media protocol? About a month ago, I believe there was coverage of it in decrypt, and I've written about it in today's newsletter as well. But essentially, what I kind of focused on in the newsletter was this idea of a decentralized social media protocol. This is something that has been tried in the past and in my opinion, has, has failed. And I think I've spoken about this on the refuel. It's failed for a number of different reasons in my eyes.
00:03:10.618 - 00:03:55.728, Speaker A: Like, one of them being that it felt kind of like these platforms were built as social media first, and then just like, they tacked on crypto as like a secondary thing, and they tacked on decentralization just as kind of like a marketing gimmick. And were they really decentralized? You know, who knows? But I don't think there's been an attempt yet to make something that is like a fully scalable, uh, web3 ethereum, kind of native, uh, social media protocol. And I, I gave a few ideas in the newsletter today about what this would kind of look like. Uh, you know, and the biggest thing is, basically, for it to actually work, it would need to be on a L2. It obviously can't be on layer one. For those of you who may have been around for a while, there actually was a decentralized Twitter protocol called Peep ETH that was on layer one, Ethereum, back in. I mean, it's, it's very old now, back in like the one way day.
00:03:55.728 - 00:04:38.870, Speaker A: So even back then, it was too expensive to do this on chain, and it wasn't a good use of resources either. So that kind of like, failed to take off. So you would definitely need to keep user state, user balances, things like their wallet and everything on L2, but you could have the things like the front end, you know, and stuff like that, and kind of like storage for images on, you know, ipfs or r weave or filecoin. So you can use these other kind of like networks that are purpose built for this, to kind of like bring together the whole system. But for the most secure things like user state and balances and stuff like that, you would definitely want to have that on L2. And you want to have that L2 secured by, by Ethereum. And the next thing would obviously be, it needs to be fully web3 enabled.
00:04:38.870 - 00:05:11.076, Speaker A: To sign up for the social media kind of like platform, you basically just sign in. With Ethereum, there's no like username and password. Your Ethereum wallet, your public key is your kind of like login credentials to get in. And you can carry that with you anywhere, right like this. And you basically can access it from any kind of like wallet that has basically compatibility with it, whether that be a hardware wallet or a software wallet or a mobile wallet or whatever, or an extension. It doesn't matter what it is, it can access it. It also needs to allow people to customize their own experience.
00:05:11.076 - 00:05:58.262, Speaker A: So the actual kind of like the protocol itself will be decentralized, but people will be able to build their own front ends on it. Sort of like how I spoke the other day about how with Uniswap, the protocol, the smart contracts that live on ethereum are decentralized, but then there's all these kind of like centralized front ends that sit, sit around there, and some decentralized ones. Now, obviously the one that Uniswap labs runs is centralized, and they've exercised that power where they've censored a few tokens and stuff like that. But that's okay. The fact that you have a choice of what front end to use and the fact that the smart contracts are going to be open and permissionless and anyone can build on them is the whole point. You're basically creating like a defi app, but for social media in terms of like the openness and the permissionlessness of the smart contracts. Next up would be payments infrastructure.
00:05:58.262 - 00:06:37.062, Speaker A: It needs to be embedded directly into the user experience on, in the protocol, not on the front ends. The front ends can talk to it, but it needs to be built into the protocol itself. It cannot be something that's tacked on. It needs to be as part of the smart contract logic and the payments infrastructure can be obviously on L2. It can be things like tipping, or it can be just like full blown payments for buying and selling things or whatever you want to do with that kind of infrastructure there. Next up, people should be able to be able to interact with their nfts. Could you imagine setting your profile picture as an NFT that you actually own and you prove ownership of it because it's directly embedded into the protocol? That would be really, really cool.
00:06:37.062 - 00:07:29.116, Speaker A: And also being able to just show off your nfts in general would be obviously very appealing to a lot of different users and things like that. And then next up would be there should be native defi integration built in. So obviously you have the payments infrastructure, but you should also be able to do defi stuff directly from this social media account. Like, could you imagine on Twitter right now if I was to kind of like have a button here that says, you know, tips tiny, that would be part of the payments infrastructure. Or if I go to my profile, I can kind of like have my own tab that no one else can can that no one else really can see. It's just something that I've customized for myself, showing all my current defi activity and then being able to do a bunch of different defi things in there and monitoring stuff with dashboards? You could imagine, you know, lots of different things from this, but directly embedded into the protocol itself, not just like an afterthought or attack on or whatever. And then finally, you should have your handle tied to your ens.
00:07:29.116 - 00:08:01.620, Speaker A: So I have the assassle ETH kind of like ens name. That should be my handle on the social media protocol. When I sign in with my sassle ETH ethereum address, that is my handle. That is what people see me as. And people know that, you know, and people know that that's my Ethereum address and can interact with that directly on the protocol with, with the various front ends. So I guess like the TRDI is that to build a decentralized social media protocol that works, you need scale, which we do have now with L2s on ethereum. You know, a lot of you will have seen that Reddit is scaling their community points with an instantiation of arbitrum.
00:08:01.620 - 00:08:32.172, Speaker A: So they're actually going to build their own arbitrum layer to not use the, the arbitram one network, which is fine because they're still going to be secured by Ethereum. And secondly, you need to build all of these crypto native features first, right directly into the smart contract into the protocol. They cannot be just simple add ons, because that is not. And it can't just be like a gimmick of decentralization. It has to be built from the ground up with decentralization and crypto native features in mind. So that's kind of like how I would build it. I'm not sure you know exactly the exact details of what aave is doing.
00:08:32.172 - 00:09:27.774, Speaker A: I know that there's at least 20 people working on it right now, which is, which is crazy, because Aave is, you know, they're a defi company, right? They're not a social media protocol company, but it seems like they're branching out and want to do a lot more than just what they're doing with Aave, which is, which is awesome. I mean, they have the bankroll to do it. They have all the support they want. I mean, a lot of people want this to happen because at the end of the day, I don't want to be at the mercy of Jack and what he thinks should, should be Twitter should be at the end of the day, because I think Twitter and others kind of social media platforms should be totally open. It should be customizable and should be able to, people should be able to do what they want on them. But right now, Jack is acting as a gatekeeper. I mean, he started doing it with the bitcoin kind of hashtag where the bitcoin emoji is next to next to the bitcoin hashtag, whereas there's not one for Ethereum, you know, and he's openly hostile towards Ethereum, and he's even saying stuff like, you know, basically saying we're not going to integrate an Ethereum wallet, but we're going to integrate a lightning wallet because we think that's a better use of resources.
00:09:27.774 - 00:10:08.328, Speaker A: And I actually said something about it here where I put out a tweet, where I said, what if Twitter integrated both an Ethereum wallet and a lightning network wallet and let the users decide which one they wanted to use? Because at the end of the day, users are going to use what they get the most utility out of. And I said, I think we all know which one would see the most usage and it wouldn't even be close, honestly. And I just think that would be the better path. But obviously, Jack has his own invested interests and his own kind of like, agenda here, which is exactly why we, we need kind of, I guess, like a decentralized social media protocol. So I'm cautiously optimistic. I know that I've been bearish on them before, but I think if anyone could pull it off, it's the other team. So we're going to have to see how that plays out.
00:10:08.328 - 00:11:05.660, Speaker A: But I'm sure there's, there's plenty of other teams working on this, but from all the kind of things that I've seen in the past, they've failed. And I think that they've failed because of the fact that they just tacked on these features rather than building something from the ground up as crypto native, you know, Ethereum first kind of features in there, so going to be very interested to see how that kind of plays out there. And then, I mean, again, with the drama around Jack, like DC investor put out a tweet today saying, you know, jack, maximally doubling down against the theory will become one of the biggest miscalculations in web history. There is a huge opportunity for social networks and other websites ready to embrace Ethereum Web three, not lightning wallets, linked your account, which no one cares about. And he's obviously directly calling out Jack here. And then Jack replied, saying, I'm focused on a native currency for the Internet, that is all. And then I replied, why did Twitter issue nfts on ethereum then if he's only focused on this? I mean, it's a bunch of lapping here, but essentially, you know, Dmitri Buterin, Vitalik's dad, quote, tweeted Jack, saying, you know, Internet is not static HTML websites.
00:11:05.660 - 00:11:38.674, Speaker A: It's alive and messy with JavaScript, et cetera. Its currency will not be something static either. The dynamic dynam dynamism of Ethereum makes it much more suitable candidate to be the native currency of the Internet. And I completely agree with Dimitri here. I mean, the fact that I don't want to bash bitcoin too much, but I just don't see how bitcoin can be the native currency for the Internet when it's so static. I mean, and the lightning network has so many inherent flaws that it basically inherits from bitcoin. I just do not see how this, this is going to be how bitcoin is going to be the native currency of the Internet.
00:11:38.674 - 00:12:18.944, Speaker A: I believe Ethereum is going to be the native currency of the Internet. I be sorry, ETH, and I believe ethereum, the network, is going to be the new Internet. I believe that we're going to be able to build all these decentralized kind of protocols on top of ethereum, or using Ethereum as kind of like a security layer, essentially, and then building it on L2 or other kind of like networks to tap into it. And things like that. I just think that, I mean, Dimitri puts it well here, like, bitcoin is HTML, ethereum is JavaScript, and for those who don't know, HTML websites were considered web one and JavaScript was considered web two, or at least the start of web two. And that's why we have all of the kind of like fancy websites that we know and love today. And we're not just stuck with like static HTML websites.
00:12:18.944 - 00:12:42.782, Speaker A: Um, we have all the interactions and everything like that. So that's exactly kind of like what I view bitcoin and Ethereum as. Bitcoin is those static HTML websites. Ethereum is JavaScript, which allows us to do so much more with this technology than we would have with bitcoin. But anyway, I'm going to end the kind of like conversation there on those points. There's a lot more to get through. Uh, actually, I've got one more tweet here from Mike that is a co founder of Rainbow.
00:12:42.782 - 00:13:25.176, Speaker A: He basically tweeted out a teaser, I think, of something. They're working on saying something like this for ETH profiles where you can kind of see this is kind of like a Twitter like interface where you've got like your ens name in the handle there, and then you have like a bunch of like, you know, NFT showcase going on, links to different things. I mean, you know, very, I guess, like, and very Ethereum native kind of stuff going on here. So I guess that's something that I would love to see in a decentralized social media. But, yeah, we're going to have to see how that shakes out. But good to see there's people working on this and I guess this is just something that could be a front end into decentralized Twitter. You could use rainbow as your front end to interact with those smart contracts.
00:13:25.176 - 00:14:03.226, Speaker A: So I think that could be really, really, really cool. All right, so arbitrum, there was an exclusive in coindesk saying that Chainlink have, has become available on the arbitrum one network. Now, as far as I know, this was the most critical piece of infrastructure that arbitram needed before they were able to go live. And I know this because I'm, I mean, I know this because I'm assuming this because at the end of the day, a lot of the protocols on arbitram rely on oracles. And without an Oracle network live and working, such as Chainlink, which is obviously the leading Oracle provider, I mean, there really isn't no competition. I believe. Um, you know, a lot of these apps wouldn't have actually been able to go live.
00:14:03.226 - 00:14:35.222, Speaker A: So I think the fact that the Oracle, that chain link is now live and available on the Albatrum one network means that they are launching very, very, very soon. Obviously that they say they're going to launch in August, but I wouldn't be surprised to see them launch even today, maybe, I don't know, or next week rather than later in August. But yeah, I mean, this was the, I think the last blocker for them. And the fact that it's live now is incredibly awesome to see. And I just, I mean, at this point, just counting down the hours. I mean, I don't know what I'm counting down to, but like every hour that goes by, I'm just like, oh my God. Come on.
00:14:35.222 - 00:15:01.356, Speaker A: Come on, Albuquerque. Come on. Launch. Launch. So, yeah, I'm going to be interesting to interested to see how that launch goes, of course. So Seb from Zappa put out a tweet today saying that Zappa has decided not to go forward with their decision to add fees. Now, I spoke about this yesterday and actually said that I didn't think that it was a big deal that they were adding fees, but they've gone kind of like a step, a step further here and basically said, well, you know, we've listened to the community.
00:15:01.356 - 00:16:09.464, Speaker A: We know that you guys have an issue with it. So we're actually going to not implement fees at this, at this time. And the reasoning that they kind of like gave was that they wanted to show users that the way they're monetizing is not by selling user data, because some users asked like, you know, are you going to sell all our data? Is that how you're going to make money? Because right now you're, you know, kind of like VC backed, but once that money runs out, how are you going to sustain the platform and things like that? And the integrating fees was one, one part of it. But then, you know, Seb, quote, tweeted, posted a tweet that he, a link to a tweet that he had tweeted out about a month ago now saying that, you know, after doing one month of gamification and having 100,000 plus nfts minted on Zappa, Seb said he can safely say that we are vastly underestimated the impact nfts can have in novel defi business models. Um, League of Legends made billions of dollars purely through skins that have zero resale value. So essentially what he's saying here is that there are other ways Zappa can monetize without having to institute fees on the protocol, which I think makes a lot of sense. And then he goes on to say that, you know, most importantly, if they do reintroduce a fee in the future, they believe that the community should be the ones guiding that decision.
00:16:09.464 - 00:16:28.982, Speaker A: Is this an alpha leak? I don't know. Is this hinting at a token? Right. Community should be the ones guiding that decision. How do you do that? You do that with a dao. And what the daos have, they have tokens. Now, obviously, I've said a lot of times before that I'm a seed investor in Zappa, but I have no idea if there's going to be a token or not. I do not have any alpha there that I don't.
00:16:28.982 - 00:17:07.835, Speaker A: I mean, I speak to them regularly about, like, the product and things like that, but I haven't spoken to them about a token before. So I don't know. But I'm just following my rule that every single protocol that, you know, that has anything to do with crypto, every single project that has anything to do with crypto is going to have a token. So, yeah, maybe that's a little bit of an alpha leak there. We'll have to see how that shakes out. But I commend them on this decision, even though I didn't see a big deal with these fees. I'm glad that they're listening to community feedback and actually, you know, retracting this decision, it shows a lot of character, and it shows, I guess, like an aligned mission here that they have with the rest of their community to keep growing Zappa, to make sure that, you know, they can do what's in the community's best interest and they.
00:17:07.835 - 00:17:34.343, Speaker A: They can monetize in various different ways. I think they're going to ramp up their gamification stuff. They're teasing season two of the NFT stuff going on. So I'm really looking forward to seeing what they come up with there. So, Cl, everyone's favorite cat on Twitter, at least my favorite cat on Twitter posted this interesting tweet where he said, crypto isn't just building an alternative financial system. There's so many different career paths and communities with their own culture. It's more like an alternative reality.
00:17:34.343 - 00:18:00.614, Speaker A: I mean, it is, right? Like, we talk about this thing like a metaverse, but at the end of the day, we're creating something that's. That's very, very much detached from the current reality that we experience in real life. Right? Think about it. The alternative financial system, defi, is vastly different to the traditional one. It it doesn't even need the traditional finance system to function. For defi to function, it is already a closed loop system if you use the tools that exist in that loop. Right.
00:18:00.614 - 00:18:41.990, Speaker A: Obviously for stable coins like USDC and USDT, for onboarding via fiat, we still need the traditional system. But if you were to be paid in like the dai currency, for example, and or be paid in ETH, then you are using a fully kind of closed loop system where you don't need to access these traditional finance kind of tools. So really, I mean, we're already there and it really is like kind of an alternative reality in that sense. But also things like NFTs, a lot of this stuff is definitely being done outside of the traditional kind of collectible and art space and all that sort of stuff. The culture is, I mean, the culture is purely online, digital culture. Like, I haven't. This kind of culture only leaks into the real world at kind of things like Ethereum conferences, for example.
00:18:41.990 - 00:19:23.834, Speaker A: But you know, pretty much all of it is online on Twitter, on other social media platforms, you know, in discords, in telegrams, all that sort of stuff. And, and obviously the NFT world is leading the charge there as well. So, yeah, I thought, I just thought this was an interesting tweet because we do talk about the metaverse a lot of, as an ecosystem, I don't think anyone really knows what the word means or can. Like, I don't think there's a kind of an agreed upon definition, but if I had to pick one, it would be, you know, it's an alternative reality to what we've experienced in kind of like meat space. And I think it's just going to keep getting, you know, wilder and weirder and wackier because of that. And I, I just think that this was kind of like an interesting kind of flow into that. So, yeah, I guess like great tweet cl if you're watching the refuel today.
00:19:23.834 - 00:20:18.764, Speaker A: So Dune analytics has announced that they've raised 8 million, an $8 million series a led by Us V, aka aka Union Square Ventures, with participation from a bunch of other investors such as Redpoint VC, Multicoren Capital and Dragonfly Capital. Now, I'm a seed investor in doing just a disclaimer there, but I mean, I love doing absolutely. I mean, I was using dude for long before I was a seed investor in it and, and, you know, I was promoting them on Twitter and things like that. And I use doom pretty much every day to keep up to date with all of the different metrics going on on chain, you know, there's 1559 dashboards, there's decentralized exchange dashboards, there's dashboards for basically everything. And it's really, really awesome to see the community that they've built. There's basically hundreds of different kind of, like, dune wizards, as I like to call them, that essentially make these custom dashboards to follow along with any kind of, like, on chain data that you'd like to see. And what they're going to be doing with this money is expanding to more chains and layers.
00:20:18.764 - 00:20:52.430, Speaker A: So different kind of like blockchains, of course, and different layers, you know, optimism arbitrary, all of the favorite ones we all know and love. And I think that's obviously very, very smart because a lot of the data coming out of Ethereum, you know, I mean, the data coming out of Ethereum is just one part of the story. As we move to, like, L2s and side chains and stuff like that, you're going to need a way to track that. So, you know, Dune, doing this and expanding the support here is just like a natural step for them, I think. But, yeah, congrats on the raise here. Dune. Obviously, I love the product and obviously, like, I'm happy that I was able to support in the seed round.
00:20:52.430 - 00:21:34.644, Speaker A: And they've gone on to a series a here. So, yeah, congrats to them on this raise. So some more 1559 talk today. Alex from Nansen put out this tweet that said AIP 1559 adoption is now at 20%, up from 5% last week. Now, this is, of course, because metamask began rolling out their 1559 integration, and more people are using 1559 style transactions now. So you can see in the chart here, basically the steady growth, you know, it spikes at times due to various different reasons, you know, bots and kind of like, things like that. And, you know, different people doing different transactions, I guess, like during the more kind of like heated periods or maybe during NFT drops and stuff like that.
00:21:34.644 - 00:22:07.732, Speaker A: Definitely a bunch of different reasons for that. But, you know, I expect this to keep, you know, keep increasing pretty rapidly over the coming weeks as more and more wallets add support for it. I mean, even grid added support support to their lattice one hardware wallet, which is the first hardware wallet to fully support 1559 transactions. So I've talked about the lattice one before on the refuel. If you don't have one, definitely go check them out. It's not. I mean, some people have, we're talking about this in the Discord Channel, saying that the lattice one is an awesome hardware wallet, but it's not kind of like as portable as something like a ledger.
00:22:07.732 - 00:22:36.078, Speaker A: Right. And it's not, and it's not kind of like made for that. It's definitely made for the home, um, you know, for keeping it on your desk and being able to do super secure transactions, being able to see on the screen, like, what you're actually signing when you're doing a transaction. So, I mean, I love, I love the lattice one and everything they've got going on there. But yeah, it's a valid criticism that it's not very portable, but at the same time, it's not really designed for that. But the fact that they're very fast to shoot features is what is one reason why I love them so much. And you can see, you know, the first hybrid wallet to support 1559 style transactions.
00:22:36.078 - 00:23:09.974, Speaker A: So definitely go check that out. Another 1559 tweet coming in here from block native, where they've basically done a little bit of analysis on kind of, I guess, what the mempool data has been showing them. Now, for those who don't know, block native build themselves as masters of the ethereum mempool, and they definitely are. They have a lot of tools that focused on the mempool and they do a lot of work around here. They posted a bunch of different literature around this if you want to go check it out, it's on their blog. But essentially you can see here in this chart the proportion of the transaction type. So this is definitely showing a similar thing to what Nansen was showing before.
00:23:09.974 - 00:23:41.318, Speaker A: What Alex from Nansen was showing before. You can see here the type two transactions which are the 1559 style has been increasing gradually over time. Type zero obviously getting less and less there as well. And then you can see base fee averages and how they kind of like spike over time, whether that be because of like NFT drops and stuff like that. Count of transaction types here, 1559 obviously making a dent there, and count of type two transactions. You know, the trend is all the same here. So great little thread here from block native if you want to go check it out.
00:23:41.318 - 00:24:09.550, Speaker A: They dive a little bit deeper into this. So definitely go check it out. It'll be a linked in the YouTube description for you to do so. So Ludens is teasing a new fully on chain JRPG auto auto chess combat in redacted. So this is a game they seem to be building here. Other they say the possibilities are endless. Selling on chain strategies, you can script your squad in solidity, renting creatures, daos, paying mercenary contracts for protections, et cetera.
00:24:09.550 - 00:24:55.516, Speaker A: We are going to eat axie with open source software and interoperability. So, bit of competition here, but I mean, I've been monitoring a lot of these games lately and I think it's, it's something that I really want to see happen. And I've talked about this before on the refuel where I've said that there's a game called, there's a bunch of games that let you basically build up your empire, your city, um, things like, uh, I mean, the names are escaping me right now, but basically simi, uh, city simula, uh, simulators that allow you to do this. But they don't have crypto features embedded into them. So what if we do put crypto features on them? What if they were like stakes, uh, like monetary stakes and uh, kind of like monetary rewards for these sorts of things. And we've seen the popularity of something like this with, uh, axie infinity with the play to earn model and other sort of models of games out there. Um, so there's just another one that's kind of like being teased here.
00:24:55.516 - 00:25:31.742, Speaker A: And I, you know, I said, let me in because I really want to play this. I really want to see what this is all about. So, you know, even though it may look, I guess, like, you know, very indie, I think that's the special part about crypto and about kind of like a theorem. It's all indie, grassroots and, you know, these, these sorts of things are definitely appealing because you get to basically build your base out, kind of like, you know, beat other people. Kind of like what dark forest is doing as well to compete with other people for, for planets and stuff in dark forest. So I think we're going to see a lot more of these fully on chain kind of like games that allow you to earn money because it's just a no brainer at the end of the day, I believe. So, yeah.
00:25:31.742 - 00:26:11.878, Speaker A: I'll link this in the YouTube description. You can go check it out and maybe follow this account as well if this interests you. All right, so finally, just a shout out here. If you're interested and passionate about Ethereum, L2 optimum and optimistic roll ups and would like to work with a world class team, you can apply to optimism PBC here. So actually, for those who don't know what PBC means, it actually stands for public goods corporation or public public goods funding. I can't remember exactly what the b stands for, but public goods corporation is essentially what it is. And they're trying to basically build public infrastructure that acts as like a public good and essentially kind of give that value back to the ecosystem.
00:26:11.878 - 00:26:39.782, Speaker A: I know there was a bunch of drama that I spoke about yesterday with optimism. One thing I didn't mention on there was that currently, optimism is running the only block producer, which they call sequences, to run their L2 network, and they're generating fees on there. They're actually generating a lot of fees on there, but they've committed to giving all of that back to the community. They're not going to take any of that for themselves. They're going to give that all back to public goods. I think they're generating like, 30, $40,000 a day in just, like, network fees. So, you know, they're really living up to their name here.
00:26:39.782 - 00:27:04.210, Speaker A: So I just wanted to give, like, a little bit of a plug there because I forgot to mention it yesterday. But, yeah, if you're interested in working with optimism, they have a bunch of different roles here, ranging from DevOps engineers to geth engineer to product designers, to even an executive assistant. So if you're interested in that, definitely go check it out. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up.
00:27:04.210 - 00:27:09.914, Speaker A: Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
