00:00:24.100 - 00:00:45.696, Speaker A: Welcome, bankless Nation, to this edition of STate of the Nation. Today I'm without my fearless partner, Ryan. He is gone on vacation. The AI is powered down. Yet like all episodes on bankless, we persist nonetheless. Today on the show, we're bringing on Hayden Adams because he's going to be the second time he's ever been on bankless and the first time that we've ever done a live stream with him. And Uniswap just announced something.
00:00:45.696 - 00:01:06.324, Speaker A: If you go search the interwebs, that announcement just came out. They announced something, and it does indeed include the word airdrop. But no, it is not the uni token. So we're going to go into all those details. Here's a small hint. There's no coincidence that's happening during the week of NFT NYC. So we're going to talk about everything that's going on over on the Uniswap lab side of things.
00:01:06.324 - 00:01:55.120, Speaker A: And also, I just want to pick his brain as an OG DFI founder that built something really, really cool in the 2019 2020 bear market that exploded in 2021. I want to pick his brain about how he's feeling in the world of crypto at this present moment and what he's thinking about. But of course, we're going to dive down the rabbit hole of what the hell is up with what's going on over there at Uniswap Labs and what they're up to over there because they're doing something cool. It might change, might surprise a few of the listeners who are tapping into this live stream right now. And thank you for all the listeners who are tapping into live stream. Make sure to like and subscribe because that is how you get notified of all the alpha and watch all the cool stuff that's going on around the bankless nation and around the crypto universe. This, of course, is the state of the nation comes at you every Tuesday, where we cover the news and weekly events and news cycle events that go on in this crazy world that we call crypto.
00:01:55.120 - 00:03:06.840, Speaker A: And before I ask myself what the state of the nation is, because Ryan's not here to ask it for me, we got to talk about one of our friends and sponsors notional, because if you are feeling frustrated by the chaos of the crypto markets, perhaps a fixed APY DeFi money market. DeFi, the thing that didn't break in the last two weeks or so where everything centralized broke, Defi did not. And you can go to bankless TC slash notional with a capital n to borrow or lend and get a fixed rate Apy. So whether you want to borrow ether or lend ether or borrow USCC or lend USCC, notional will give you a fixed rate that you can count on with the auditability and transparency and dependability of DeFi, unlike all of its CFI counterparts that collapsed in the last two weeks or so. Guys, I got to ask myself, what is the state of the nation? Because the state of the nation is we are back on the frontier. Uniswap the beloved Defi app Uniswap labs going in a slightly different direction this week in the world of DeFi and getting into something perhaps a little bit unexpected. And you guys probably have hinted or gotten the hint that since it's going on during NFT NYC, it might be something NFT based.
00:03:06.840 - 00:03:38.292, Speaker A: And so we are back on the frontier. We are in the bear market, we are in the build market, and people are expanding their products and expanding their horizons into new frontiers. And so David, what is the state of the nation? The state of the nation is we are back on the frontier. So guys, I'm going to go get Hayden Adams. We're going to bring him live right after we get to some of these fantastic sponsors that make the show possible. Rocket pool is your friendly, decentralized Ethereum staking protocol. You can stake your eth with rocket pool and get our eth in return, allowing you to stake your ETH and use it in DFI at the same time.
00:03:38.292 - 00:04:13.004, Speaker A: You can get 4% on your eth by staking it with rocket pool, but you can get even more by running a node. Rocket pool is the only staking provider that allows anyone to permissionlessly join their network of validating nodes. Running a rocket pool node is easier to set up than running a solo node, and you only need 16 e to get started. Why would you do this? You get an extra 15% staking commission on the pooled ETH, so your API is boosted. So if you're bullish east staking, you can increase your API and get some extra tokens by adding your node to the decentralized rocket pool network, which currently has over 1000 independent validators. It's yield farming, but with Ethereum nodes you can get started@rocketpool.net and also join the rocket pool community in their discord.
00:04:13.004 - 00:05:11.724, Speaker A: You can find me hanging out there sometimes in the chat, so I'll see you there. Ave is the leading decentralized liquidity protocol and now Ave V three is here. Ave V three has powerful new features to enable you to get the most out of DFI, including isolation mode, which allows for many more markets to be launched with more exotic collateral types, and also efficiency mode, which allows for higher loan to value ratios and of course, portals, allowing users to port their AAVE position across all of the networks that AAVE operates on like polygon, phantom, avalanche, arbitrum optimism and harmony the beautiful thing about AAVE is that it's completely open source, decentralized, and governed by its community, enabling a truly bankless future for us all. To get your first cryptocolateralized loan, get started@ave.com. That's aave.com. And also check out the Ave protocol governance forums to see what more than 100,000 Dow members are all robbing about at governance ave.com. Arbitrum is an ethereum layer, two scaling solution that's going to completely change how we use DFI and NFts.
00:05:11.724 - 00:05:51.872, Speaker A: Over 300 projects have already deployed to arbitrum, and the DFI and NFT ecosystems are growing rapidly. Some of the coolest and newest NFT collections have chosen arbitrum as their home. All the while, DFI protocols continue to see increased usage and liquidity. Using arbitram has never been easier, especially with the ability to deposit directly into arbitrum through all the exchanges, including binance, FTX, Huobi, and crypto.com. Once inside, you'll notice arbitram increases ethereum speed by orders of magnitude for a fraction of the cost of the average gas fee. If you're a developer who wants low gas fees and instant transactions for your users, visit Arbitram IO slash developer to start building your DaP on Arbitrum. If you're a dgen, many of your favorite dapps on Ethereum are already on arbitrum, with many moving over every day.
00:05:51.872 - 00:06:35.952, Speaker A: Go to bridge Arbitrum IO now to start bridging over your Eth and other tokens in order to experience defi nfts in the way it was always meant to be. Fast, cheap, secure, and friction free. All right, bankless nation, I am pleased to bring back on Hayden Adams, the inventor of the Uniswap protocol and CEO of Uniswap Labs. Like many of us, Hayden got into the crypto industry by being convinced by one of his friends to get into crypto. So he does the ritual rite of passage by buying the top of 2017 and wrote it all the way down. And then during the bear market, instead of leaving this industry, Hayden did something cool, which was invented Uniswap. Hayden has been on the podcast just once before, and now he's back to debut something pretty damn cool.
00:06:35.952 - 00:07:20.236, Speaker A: Hayden, welcome back to the show, my man. How'd you like that? Course, of course. And before we get into the detail and the alpha and the announcement that's coming out of Uniswap Labs, I just want to do, like, a quick feelings check in, just because I think that's kind of what everyone's really looking for. Ether price, bitcoin price, crypto prices stabilized. We're not for at least seven days, so maybe we're feeling a little bit good, but a lot of people are overall down bad. And this was both your and I, like I said, the rite of passage into the crypto world for us. So as somebody who has been through the bear market and bought the top of 2017 and wrote it all the way down, overall, just feelings check in.
00:07:20.236 - 00:07:21.550, Speaker A: How are you feeling right now.
00:07:27.370 - 00:08:07.778, Speaker B: Is down in the markets. But I'd say that, I guess the way that I view it is markets go up and down really fast, but they sort of still oscillate around this fundamental value that's being built. And what's been so exciting is over the past three years, since the last time around, there's just been this steady progress of new projects and value that's being built and developed. And so I think that we saw this last time around with the ICO boom, where there was this massive amount. Everything went up a huge amount, and everything went down a huge amount. But out of all of that was some new fundamental technologies that were being built and developed. Even like the early icos funded a lot of the early work into DFI.
00:08:07.778 - 00:09:27.278, Speaker B: And then out of the 2018 bear market, we had all these different projects, Makerdao, Uniswap, compound, that were built and launched, and that helped set the stage for the next round of new projects. Maybe the thing that's most different this time around is that there does seem to be, it used to be that crypto, the thing that affected the crypto market was always things that were happening in crypto. And I think something that's a little bit different this time around is that there does seem to be some element of macro effects as well, where crypto now has maybe grown to be big enough that it's affected by things that happen around it in the world. But to me, something that's really exciting about these times, one way that I think about it, is that any project can do well when everything is rampant speculation and when everything is up. And then I think what happens in the bear markets is the projects that do well are the projects that have the most fundamental value and real use case. And so I think bear markets are real time for discovering what is really working, what just seemed like it was working and wasn't actually working. And out of that, we'll be able to develop the next set of use cases and the next set of projects that will set the stage for web three in the future.
00:09:27.444 - 00:09:38.580, Speaker A: And judging by how Uniswap Labs is making announcements and just knowing you as a person doesn't really sound like you're going anywhere during this bear market. You're going to stick it out and wait until the next bull run.
00:09:39.990 - 00:10:19.630, Speaker B: Yeah, it's pretty funny because a lot of people are new to the space and so definitely people will reach out and be like, are you okay? For us, we're building for the long term. We're here because we see the fundamental value and promise of this technology. And I think we're still very much in the early days of the projects and the value that we built. So we're definitely not going anywhere. We definitely have a lot that we're working on, some things being announced today, some other things probably being announced later this summer. So we have a lot going on. Our team has grown a huge amount.
00:10:19.630 - 00:10:37.106, Speaker B: When we launched V three, we were about twelve people. So when we launched V one, it was one person. V two was four people. V three was twelve people. And today we're about, well, post the announcement today about 85. So our team has grown a lot. We're parallel processing some stuff.
00:10:37.106 - 00:10:44.502, Speaker B: Yeah, we're really pumped and excited. You can see this is our Soho office. You can see a lot of people here hanging out, having a good time. Yeah.
00:10:44.556 - 00:10:57.420, Speaker A: Wow, that's pretty damn good growth. Does that 85 number as crypto prices go down? Does that 85 number of heads that you have to employ, does that number scare you or are you feeling good about that?
00:10:58.750 - 00:11:28.070, Speaker B: I think that we're feeling quite good about our positioning today. I'd say that we didn't grow too fast and we're definitely slowing down a little bit now. We had a big growth spurt, but we had a lot we wanted to build and we're working on right now. And so we definitely have plenty of Runway to build through the bear market and we're probably not going to grow to like 300. We're going to slow down our hiring for sure. But yeah, no issues on our end there.
00:11:28.220 - 00:11:59.450, Speaker A: Slow down the hiring, but not end the hiring. I love the sound of that uniswap. Still hiring some people here and there. One thing that as listeners have paid attention, I have made my way over to New York, Williamsburg. And so I actually got to take a peek around the office a week ago. That's where we chatted, and I got a little bit about the details that we're about to release today. And so from my perspective of things, this is just the first of a number of things that is being worked on at Uniswap Labs that we're about to get into that announcement shortly.
00:11:59.450 - 00:12:11.074, Speaker A: But just from my perspective, Uniswap Labs is going in a handful of different directions, not just one different direction. And let's actually talk about Uniswap Labs. You want to say something?
00:12:11.112 - 00:12:30.214, Speaker B: Go for it. I'd say that we are working on a number of different things at once, but it's always sort of a clear, unified vision and mission and something that we're working towards. And I'd say as the different pieces come out, it will sort of start to come together. Cool.
00:12:30.252 - 00:13:03.874, Speaker A: So we're getting some breadcrumbs, we're getting some puzzle pieces. We're going to unveil the first puzzle piece today. And over time, as more and more puzzle pieces become clear, we're going to be able to map them together and see what the hell is going on over at Uniswap Labs. And the last topic I want to get through before we actually talk about I'm teasing the hell out of the bankless nation right now. The last topic I want to get to before we get to the actual information that got released is swap Labs versus Uniswap protocol. Can you explain the difference between these two things? Who is leading the progress of the Uniswap the protocol, and who is leading the progress of Uniswap Labs? Because you've said a lot of we. Right.
00:13:03.874 - 00:13:17.350, Speaker A: Uniswap started at one person, and then Uniswap V two started at four people. Uniswap V three had twelve people, and now you're at 80 people. You said we a lot. Who's we, and how do we think about the differences between Uniswap Labs and Uniswap protocol?
00:13:18.650 - 00:14:04.702, Speaker B: That's a really good question, and I hope we'll be very clarifying. So Uniswap Labs is a company. We're a software development company, product development company. And the Uniswap protocol is a decentralized protocol for exchanging tokens on Ethereum and other EVM chains. So much the way that the Ethereum foundation or consensus does not unilaterally control the Ethereum network. The Uniswap protocol is decentralized. We're kind of like the Satoshi or the Vitalik of the Uniswap protocol, in that, I mean, myself and other people at the company helped create the protocol, but it's highly decentralized.
00:14:04.702 - 00:15:21.150, Speaker B: It runs on its own, piggybacks off the decentralization of Ethereum and other blockchains, and allows people to trade tokens with each other, peer to peer. There's, of course, also the Uni token and the Uniswap governance system. So way back in Defi summer, one of the ideas and values that came out was community ownership and community participation, and giving communities and early participants almost like a say, and part of the direction of decentralized platforms and projects. And so the Uni token and Uniswap governance system is really meant to be a system that exists around the Uniswap protocol, governing the Uniswap protocol and overseeing its direction. And maybe even when we speak about decentralization, there's a lot of different types of decentralization. To me, the most decentralized thing is something that is automated and autonomous and can run on its own without any governance required. And so that's why the vast majority of the info, protocols, functionality and functions don't require any active governance.
00:15:21.150 - 00:16:41.738, Speaker B: And so people can add liquidity and trade against each other, and there's no sort of unilateral ability for governance to prevent that or to control that. But when it comes to future growth and development and funding an ecosystem of projects around it, I'd say that the next tier of decentralization is broader distribution and ownership. And so when we did that, the original Uni airdrop, a big part of that was giving a lot of ownership to the early community members and users. And so now there's further decentralization of that part of things. So Uniswap Labs, and then out of the Uniswap governance system, we've had a whole bunch of separate independent teams and projects spin up with direct funding from the governance system and that report back to the governance system. So the most popular, or I say, like the most successful initiative probably to come out of governance, although there's been a whole bunch, is probably Uniswap grants program, which is led by Ken, who before used to lead the Ethereum foundation grants program, was actually funny story about Ken. He was on the grants committee that helped get Uniswap its original grant from the Ethereum foundation back in 2018.
00:16:41.738 - 00:18:19.878, Speaker B: And so now he's leading the Uniswap grants program since he put a proposal directly to the token holders and governance system and received some funding. And since then, he's allocated out to, they just put out a retrospective, I believe, 120 different projects in the ecosystem, teams all around the world that are all building different interfaces, education tools, liquidity strategies, all these different things built on top of the Uniswap protocol. So Uniswap Labs, and you can almost imagine, if you look at the Ethereum ecosystem, the role of governance is similar to almost like the role of the Ethereum foundation within Ethereum and then Uniswap Labs is actually a little bit more of something that looks like a little bit more like consensus, in that consensus also has core development contributors and teams. But in addition, consensus is building a whole bunch of products that are built on top of Ethereum, that are valuable for the Ethereum ecosystem, mutually beneficial. Right? They succeed if Ethereum succeeds, but Ethereum also succeeds with the addition of their products such as Infuria, Metamask and all that. And so very similarly, Uniswap Labs, the company, we have some smart contract developers, but in addition, we are also building a number of products on top of within the broader web three ecosystem that we think are really important to the growth of the ecosystem. I can pause there if you have follow up questions, can keep going, but that's kind of a rough breakdown.
00:18:19.878 - 00:18:20.234, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:18:20.272 - 00:18:26.570, Speaker A: Right. So we got the Uniswap foundation, which bankless listeners will remember we once ran.
00:18:27.070 - 00:18:30.106, Speaker B: Uniswap governance and grant programs. Right?
00:18:30.288 - 00:18:47.778, Speaker A: Excuse me, Uniswap, yes, right. The governance system, the Uni grants and all that stuff. Bankless listeners will once upon a time remember the Uniswap ad that we ran on bankless. And we got that through the Uniswap Grants foundation. Or is it grants Foundation. Grants. Grants program.
00:18:47.778 - 00:18:48.354, Speaker A: Grants program.
00:18:48.392 - 00:18:53.282, Speaker B: It's a grants program. Grants program. They submit governance proposals directly to the governance system.
00:18:53.416 - 00:19:21.674, Speaker A: Right. And that's how the Uniswap ad came on bankless. But we didn't go to Uniswap labs for that. We went to Uniswap grants for that. And that was answered by the Uni token holders. The Uniswap lab side of things kind of seems like a product software layer on top of Uniswap in the same way that you alluded to. Consensus is like a product layer on top of Ethereum, but there isn't actually like one core consensus product.
00:19:21.674 - 00:19:36.130, Speaker A: There are many, many products that are built by consensus around the Ethereum ecosystem. And same. Could I extrapolate that to Uniswap labs too, as in there are many many products being built by Uniswap Labs that will surround Uniswap. The protocol. How do you feel about this distinction?
00:19:36.950 - 00:20:26.094, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's right. With the added like, I'd say that Uniswap Labs is our primary product today is the Uniswap web app, which is the most popular interface. It does around 20% of trading through the protocol, and another 80% is done either directly with the smart contracts, by arbitragers, by bots, by other interfaces. So that's our primary product today, and it primarily serves as an on ramp and gateway to the protocol. But I think that moving forward, Unisoft Labs is really excited. Maybe one way I approach even what we work on and what we build, what we want to do is we're not working on DFI or web three or Ethereum just for its own sake. We're doing it because we want to add value to the world.
00:20:26.094 - 00:21:38.930, Speaker B: We want to build things that people can use, that improve their lives. That's really like something that we anchor in everything that we do, is what we're working on something that will be better for society? Will it be something that will be useful to users? And historically, the vast majority of our work was on these initial protocol versions, and there's still a lot of protocol development and research and stuff that we want to think about. But I think that even when you look at the state of Uniswap today, the Uniswap protocol has something like 70% to 80% market share in decentralized exchange. And very few people will say like the core blocker, to further growth of web three and DFI is efficiency of the Unisoft protocol. Right. The core blocker is the difficulty onboarding, the difficulties in the user experience, people not feeling like they understand the use cases or how they can apply it to their daily life. All the things that connect these core underlying protocols, which I think are extraordinarily valuable and useful to their daily life.
00:21:38.930 - 00:21:55.054, Speaker B: And so I think that a lot of what we're working on today, especially as we've grown as a team, is things that take Uniswap and other web three protocols and make it more useful and accessible, easier to use, because that's what we're working towards.
00:21:55.092 - 00:21:55.246, Speaker A: Right?
00:21:55.268 - 00:22:28.770, Speaker B: That's the point of all of it. There's no point in anything we're working on if no one uses it. And so we're looking at serving both, like a consumer user audience, everyday people who want to use web three, as well as a developer audience, making it easier to build on top of Uniswap and other protocols, as well as a professional trading audience. So there's a lot of different people, all of whom have various pain points and struggles when it comes to using this stuff. And so we're really excited to build a whole suite of products and tools that will make it a lot more accessible.
00:22:28.930 - 00:23:04.290, Speaker A: Right. So the answer I've just heard is that you think that there is a ton of latent potential in the Uniswap V three code, the Uniswap V three software that's on ethereum, and that in order to unlock that full potential, we need some web two styled or just like software layers on top of the Uniswap V three code that is built for so many different use cases. You listed a few just like retail access, like professional tradings, and all these other use cases that can be built out of the protocol around with other utilities as well. Would that be a good summary?
00:23:05.590 - 00:23:47.566, Speaker B: Yeah, basically Unisoft V three, but also Ethereum and web three more broadly. I'd say that not 100% of everything we'll ever do in the future will be entirely on unisoft v three. I think that there's, like, a lot of other sort of ways that we can add value to the ecosystem. For what it's worth, it's not our first time that we've done even a simple example is like the token list project that we released a while, which today is like, the canonical way that people create lists of ERC 20 tokens. It's a small thing, but it's like a contribution to the ecosystem. And there's a lot of different ways that we see ourselves adding a value to web three more broadly as well, in addition to making unlocking the value of the UFO protocol.
00:23:47.678 - 00:24:00.600, Speaker A: Okay, I think I have definitely teased the bankless nation enough. We've provided definitely enough context. So, Hayden, let's go ahead and go right into this actual announcement. Give me the deets. Give me the deets, my man. What's the alpha? What happened? What did Uniswap release? What's going on?
00:24:01.290 - 00:24:47.730, Speaker B: Yeah, so I'm going to start with saying that today the world of ERC 20 tokens and nfts are almost viewed as, like, two separate ecosystems. People think of it like the NFT community, the web three community, the D five community. It's viewed as these two separate things. But in my view, we need to start with just ERC 20 token. The thing that excites me about ERC 20 tokens is that they represent digital ownership. And there's almost like the file format for digital value or something. And to me, nfts represent the same thing, right? It's just two different types of ownership, and they're both really powerful.
00:24:47.730 - 00:25:28.260, Speaker B: And the ideas of ownership is really important to me. I think that there's so much value that exists in the world that to me is almost like potential value. It's like people, the value of a community or the value of something someone creates. But because of the way that value exists today, in that it's very difficult to create a new asset, it's very difficult to interact with new assets. And if you create some new asset, you have to sort of create an entire financial system for it. And different asset classes have completely different infrastructure. I guess I'm still teasing, but I think that's okay.
00:25:28.260 - 00:26:01.546, Speaker B: So different asset classes have completely different infrastructure. And if you want to build like a new asset, you have to kind of figure out where does it fit in. Some types of assets don't have any infrastructure at all. Right. And so to me, what's so exciting about ERC 20 tokens is that they help unlock the ability to create new assets, represent ownership with the Uniswap protocol, create markets for that ownership. You might own something, but if you can't sell it, you can't exchange it. Do you really own it? Not really.
00:26:01.546 - 00:26:59.454, Speaker B: That value is all like locked up Fortzworth. Our mission statement at Uniswap Lab is unlock universal ownership in exchange, which I don't think we've ever really, we've teased that, but I don't know if we've ever said in that way. Universal to me means for everyone and everything in a standard way. Ownership to me, like so much wealth in the world, accrues to people who own things and people who are able to create and represent the ownership of things. And historically, I think that a lot of value has accrued, disproportionate to people who have early access to owning something. And so unlocking sort of a more universal form of ownership and exchange to me will help lower barriers of entry to creation of value, to creation of wealth, and ultimately create a more fair and equitable world. And that's what I'm working towards, and that's what our company, and it doesn't just come from me.
00:26:59.454 - 00:27:33.530, Speaker B: It was like a very long process across our entire team to get to that mission statement, to our values. Okay, I think I've teasing it up with that in mind. NFTs are a big part of digital ownership. A lot of value can't easily be divided. And that's where nfts come in. And I think we're only in the very early days of them and we're very early in the days of just like the interplay between Eric 20 tokens and NFTs. So that's why we're so incredibly excited to announce that Uniswap Labs has acquired Genie.
00:27:33.530 - 00:28:21.820, Speaker B: Genie, for people who don't know, is the first NFT marketplace aggregator. So I think most people know about Opensea and other NFT marketplaces that let you buy and sell and discover nfts. Genie basically lets you buy and sell and discover NFTs across all the different marketplaces. So in addition to openc looks rare, Coinbase Nft wearable, all the different NFT marketplaces. And so we acquired their team. There were a team around 15 people. They're going to be joining us and we're going to be working on unifying our two products and building in a full NFT experience directly into the Unison web app.
00:28:21.820 - 00:28:43.178, Speaker B: I think in parallel we're going to be working to improve the experience for all our existing users, token holders, people who want to trade tokens and access liquidity pools and work towards a much more unified experience across the two and essentially become a marketplace for all digital value as opposed to just ERC 20 tokens.
00:28:43.354 - 00:29:26.720, Speaker A: And so Hayden, you didn't just see what I was just showing on the screen, but I was just showing the genie front end. You weren't able to see that in Zoom. And so the viewers were able to get a tease for that. And so I think going back to the statement, the vision of Uniswap Labs of just like democratizing ownership and access, what you're saying is that Uniswap Labs doesn't care about the form factor of ownership. It just thinks that ERC 20s, ERC 720 ones, ERC one one five five s, it doesn't matter if it's just a token that you own. Unisoft Labs is focused on democratizing access to ownership and into using its genie by acquiring it to spread that power all across the Internet. Is that kind of the high level summary here?
00:29:27.970 - 00:30:11.950, Speaker B: That is said perfectly, probably better than I said it. And I'll add that we as a team are bringing a huge amount of expertise and knowledge from the ERC 20 space. I think the NFT space is, while it's been around for a while, is still a little bit younger in its earlier stages than the D five space, both of which are pretty new things. And it's also not our first foray into nfts, for what it's worth. Unisox, we got one here. Unisox was a project we launched in spring 2019 and was, I think, the first instance of NFT liquidity pools. Basically nfts that are backed by real world assets, in this case, physical socks.
00:30:11.950 - 00:31:03.420, Speaker B: And in nfts that can be kind of exchanged for ERC 20 tokens, I think some people might realize they're on a bank list. The Unisox has been around for a long time and is also one of the first instances of crypto fashion. And then, in addition, at the Uniswap V three launch, we had two things that came out for nfts. One was the Uniswap V three launch video. We launched as an NFT with people pleaser, and that actually spawned pleaser, Dow, and a whole bunch of things that came out of that. And then the Uniswap V three LP positions were also NFTs and were basically the first or one of the first instances of on chain generative SVG art. And so I think that we're definitely bringing with us a lot of experience in the smart contract space.
00:31:03.420 - 00:31:33.138, Speaker B: A lot of kind of. I think we're also known for just being very rigorous about making the user experience as simple and safe feeling as possible. I think a lot of people, at least to me, have come up and told me in the past that Uniswap was, like, the first time that for them, crypto or web free felt, like, usable. And so we're trying to bring everything we brought to your c 20 space and bring it with us to the NFT space. So we're really excited. GM gift?
00:31:33.234 - 00:32:04.062, Speaker A: GM. GM. Yeah, I'm about to play a video, but just real quick. When Uniswap launched V one, it was groundbreaking because we were all used to order book exchanges. And now going back and looking at Uniswap V one, like fast forwarding four years or three years, or however long it's been, three years, looking back at uniswap V one, where it was only eth pairs, there was no concentrated liquidity. Now it seems so primitive, and I'm wondering if we're seeing that same. Not to call your baby primitive, Hayden, it's made great strides.
00:32:04.062 - 00:33:13.938, Speaker A: But now I'm wondering if we're kind of on that same trajectory with nfts, because nfts are also in very much need of liquidity and more liquidity tooling. And so I want you to think about that question while I play this cool, awesome promo bid that you guys threw to me a little bit before the show. That kind of will help, I think, illustrate uniswap and nfts in the intersection of these things. Podcast listeners, sorry, you're going to just hear the music, but here we go. Uniswap. I can't remember the URL. It just auto populates in my browser.
00:33:13.938 - 00:33:26.220, Speaker A: But the main uniswap front end owned by the labs. And so eventually, not only am I going to go to the Uniswap page to swap my ERC 20 tokens, but also to swap my nfts. Is that kind of the idea?
00:33:27.870 - 00:34:01.618, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly. I think that's just a starting point. And also by eventually, I think you should think, like fairly soon. I don't want to promise a date, but it's definitely not something that we're expecting to take an extraordinarily long time. I think that the first starting point is basically going to be adding a new tab, actually, potentially two new tabs. But we can talk about people who are diligent watching the video might have seen there are other new tabs as well. But adding a new tab for nfts, you can explore nfts across all the marketplaces.
00:34:01.618 - 00:34:21.338, Speaker B: You'll be able to buy them from directly within the site. You'll be able to list them as well, bid on them. So yeah, you hope for people who want to come into the space, buy an NFT. You don't want to think about which marketplace has the liquidity that you want. So you can come straight to beautiful, beautiful.
00:34:21.424 - 00:34:47.618, Speaker A: Now, Hayden, there is an airdrop in this conversation, and so I want to pick your brain on that. But before we do that, that is just perfect tease to tell the bankless nation about. There's an airdrop coming. So we're going to talk about that in the second half of the show, right after we get to some of these fantastic sponsors that make the show possible. There is a brand new staking feature in the Ledger live app. Today we all like staking the assets that we're bullish on. And now you can stake seven different coins inside the Ledger live app.
00:34:47.618 - 00:35:35.970, Speaker A: Cosmos, Polkadot Tron algorithm, Pezos Solana, and of course, Ethereum. With Ledger Live, you can take money from your bank account, buy your most bullish crypto asset and stake that asset to its network all inside the Ledger Live app through a partnership with Figment, Ledger also lets you choose which validator you want to stake your assets with. And Ledger is running its own validating nodes, offering a convenient way to participate in network validation, and it even comes with slashing insurance. Ledger Live is truly becoming the battle station for the bankless world. So go download Ledger live. If you have a ledger already, you probably already have it and get started securely staking your crypto assets the layer two era is upon us Ethereum's layer two ecosystem is growing every day and we need bridges to be fast and efficient in order to live a layer two life. Across is the fastest, cheapest and most secure crosschain bridge with across.
00:35:35.970 - 00:36:29.798, Speaker A: You don't have to worry about the long wait times or high fees to get your assets to the chain of your choice. Assets are bridged and available for use almost instantaneously. Across bridges are powered by UMA's optimistic oracle to securely transfer tokens from layer two back to Ethereum, a token proposal is being deliberated as we speak in the across forum, where community members will decide on the token distribution. You can have your part of across the story by joining the discord and becoming a cofounder and helping to design the fair fair launch of across if you want to bridge your assets quickly and securely, go to accrop to to bridge your assets between Ethereum, optimism, arbitrum, or Boba networks the era of proof of stake is upon us and Lido is bringing proof of stake to everyone. Lido is a decentralized staking protocol that allows users to stake their proof of stake assets using Lido's distributed network of nodes. Don't choose between staking your assets or using them as collateral in Defi. With Lido, you can have both.
00:36:29.798 - 00:37:03.600, Speaker A: Using Lido, you can stake any amount of your ETH to the Lido validating network and receive ST ETH in return. Ses can be traded, used as collateral for lending and borrowing, or leveraged on your favorite DeFi protocols. All this without giving up your ETH to centralized staking services or exchanges. Lido now supports Solana, Kusama and Polygon staking. Whatever your preferred proof of stake asset is, Lido is here to take away the complexities of staking while enabling you to get liquidity on your stake. If you want to stake your ETH, Sol or matic and get liquidity on your stake, go to Lido fi to get started. That's Lido fi to get started.
00:37:03.600 - 00:37:12.210, Speaker A: All right, bankless nation, we are back for the second half of the show. Hayden, there's an airdrop coming. Can you talk about the details of the airdrop associated with Genie?
00:37:14.330 - 00:38:20.982, Speaker B: I can lightly talk about the details. So yes, one airdrop and you guys definitely succeeded in teasing that one. So I'd say something that we even actually saw recently with other acquisitions that have happened, I think that a lot of early supporters and community members, we talked about this earlier, even on the show, is that the idea of rewarding and sharing with the early community members and participants in projects, and so in acquiring the genie team, we didn't want to leave the genie community and users behind. And so we're going to be doing, as part of the acquisition, we allocated a bunch of money to basically airdrop to historical genie users. So the airdrop is going to be in USDC. I think it's going to be, everyone who've used Genie more than once is going to get at least some USDC. And then they had an NFT that they had released a while ago and some people who own their NFts.
00:38:20.982 - 00:38:43.738, Speaker B: We'll get a little bit more, but full details will be announced soon. You can't farm this airdrop. We checkpointed it before we made the decision to do it, just like with the uni launch, and so no way to farm it, but all the early users of Uni will be rewarded and sharing the value.
00:38:43.924 - 00:38:59.430, Speaker A: So this is the first airdrop that I've heard that is of a stablecoin rather than like a brand new native token. So there's literally just not a valueless governance token being airdropped straight up like cash. Can you talk about a little bit about that choice?
00:39:00.730 - 00:39:46.790, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that historical genie users can choose what they want to do if they want to cash it out to their bank account, if they want to buy eth, to reimburse for the gas that they spent in the early days, if they want to buy uni, if they want to, whatever they want to do, they can do it. And so I think it's just about giving the recipients a choice. It definitely made some of the accounting easier in terms of on our end. And yeah, we really just wanted to reward the early genie users and then they can choose because there's no, the genie protocol is more of a routing protocol, it's not a liquidity protocol itself. And they didn't have their own token, so doing it in USDC seemed to make the most sense.
00:39:46.940 - 00:39:56.520, Speaker A: But why do an airdrop at all? If this was like a private acquisition of Uniswap Labs from another private company, why pay the community any money at all?
00:39:57.930 - 00:40:42.760, Speaker B: Because, again, where did the value in Genie come from? How did Genie get to where it was? It was because of its early users, its early community members and supporters. And so when we acquired Genie, we wanted to reward the early users and supporters of Genie rather than obviously the Genie team members and founder and stuff were rewarded. But we also wanted to make sure that some of the value was set aside for the early community members who used it as well. And if they come along and become Uniswap NFT community members, then we're very happy and would love to have them.
00:40:44.090 - 00:40:51.690, Speaker A: I'm going to go ahead and guess you're not able to answer this question, but I'm going to go ahead and ask it anyways. Is there still the possibility of a genie token on the table?
00:40:54.270 - 00:41:05.770, Speaker B: I think that is highly unlikely. So I don't think people should speculate on that. That is highly, highly unlikely.
00:41:05.850 - 00:41:32.790, Speaker A: Okay, so you said you've acquired not just Genie the product, but also the team. I think you alluded to like twelve people. Now that they are a part of Uniswap, it's more like 1515. Okay, well, congratulations to all them. I think joining Uniswap Labs is pretty awesome opportunity, especially if you guys are growing all your resources. Are you a CEO of Uniswap Labs, having them pivot what they are doing at all, or are they just going to continue doing exactly the same thing that they were doing prior?
00:41:34.650 - 00:42:27.190, Speaker B: Yeah, so we're fully integrating and merging our teams. And by the way, I just want to shout out, working with them on this acquisition over the past month or two has been really great to work with them. We wouldn't have done it if we hadn't clearly aligned on the vision and the values and the mission throughout all of it. Their founder, Scott and the rest of their team has been really awesome to work with. So their whole team is now working towards what we're calling the unification. Soon it will all be one unified team, and that's really basically merging the two products. So building their features and functionality directly into the Uniswap web app.
00:42:27.190 - 00:42:49.406, Speaker B: And that's where we're going to start. And so there's definitely some work to do to get to that and to get to sort of feature parity with them today in our experience. But then from there, we're going to work together on a unified roadmap across tokens and nfts. There's going to be one team and we're going to work towards a vision for the app.
00:42:49.588 - 00:43:18.620, Speaker A: Well, as somebody who always ends up going to Uniswap to swap my tokens and then kind of gets confused as to where I should go to swap my nfts I'm excited to have that kind of all put into the same space. I'm also interested to see how the pricing dynamics work out. And it's also, I think, important to note that genie is not an NFT marketplace, it's an NFT marketplace aggregator. And so that hopefully should just add just quality of life improvements, but also perhaps pricing optimizations too as well. Would you say that's a fair take?
00:43:20.270 - 00:43:53.220, Speaker B: I think that we're really excited to take all of our knowledge and experience when it comes to trade routing and aggregation, routing and trade execution smart contracts and really optimize and improve on what already exists in the NFT space. So I think that, yeah, there's definitely a lot know and beyond that, getting to a world where you can swap any token for any NFT, sell any NFT for any token, and have it be a really seamless experience. So yeah, I think that's definitely something to look forward to.
00:43:54.630 - 00:44:12.410, Speaker A: What else can we glean from this? I don't think anyone woke up this morning thinking that Uniswap Labs was going to acquire an NFT marketplace aggregator. So like what lesson should we learn from this is like what else Uniswap Labs is getting up to? What else is going on in the future roadmap of Uniswap labs?
00:44:13.710 - 00:44:59.290, Speaker B: Yeah, I don't know if I can make more than one announcement today, but I guess what I'll say is that, and I don't know if I can leak all the alpha, but I guess first off, there's a lot coming for our existing users as well. There's a lot we're going to do to kind of improve the experience. And we really want to sort of a lot of people, as you said, use both NFTs and ERC 20 tokens. And we want to really work to support both of our user types as well as start to better support again, our early days were all about the protocol. Today we're all about making it more accessible. And so I think historically, I guess this is some alpha. I'd say historically the Uniswap web app has done a really good job splitting the difference between a lot of different types of users.
00:44:59.290 - 00:46:24.274, Speaker B: What I mean by that is like creating new token pairs, like providing liquidity with a lot of capital efficiency, providing liquidity with little capital efficiency, swapping tokens, day trading. There's like a lot of different users for the Uniswap web app. And I think part of is it because there's this really simple, easy experience. But I think that something that I've started to feel really strongly as well as the rest of our team, is that by kind of continuing to try to split the difference, we're almost not going simple enough for the new users and we don't have enough features or information for the more advanced, complex users. And so I think that what we're really interested in doing is making sure that we're building not just support our consumers, our swappers, our NFT users, but also our lps, the liquidity providers, the professional traders, and just make sure that we're building things for everyone and improving the experience for everyone. And so I guess maybe something to glean is that there's a lot more coming both across all of that as well as developers and few other things that we think about is just like, again, maybe even further out when I'm thinking like years out. To me, just the world of web three.
00:46:24.274 - 00:47:28.534, Speaker B: To me, web three is like the next iteration of the Internet, right? The Internet democratized information and access to information and the ability to spread share information. And it did a lot of it on the backs of standardized information sharing protocols, smtp for emails and HTTPs for websites and even like whatever the stuff is behind. I forget what the wiki standard is. But anyway, there's all these different protocols and primitive people to put together to build the Internet. And to me, web three is about adding in ownership across different forms of value, exchange across different forms of value, and a whole economy built directly into the Internet. And I guess some other thoughts I have here are like, first off, that's what we're working towards. But then I think that to bring it to the values that we have, again, the Internet can be used for good and for bad.
00:47:28.534 - 00:48:19.210, Speaker B: But I think everyone knows that the Internet has been democratizing in many ways and has increased access to information. And so I think similarly, we want to build towards the positive use cases of web three. I think ultimately the same way that the Internet was very community oriented, very social culture is really important. These are all immensely important to web three. And I think that you're going to start to see convergence today. There's a lot of separation between the social platforms, the cultural centers and the financial institutions. And I think here we're going to start to see culture and ownership.
00:48:19.210 - 00:49:16.300, Speaker B: And so here we're going to start to see ownership and value brought much closer to culture and social interaction. And it's all going to kind of swirl together and we're really excited for it. And I think that there's a lot going beyond this initial vision and what we're working towards in the short term, there's a lot in the long term we can do to start to make ownership and value a lot more accessible, a lot more culturally present and relevant and a lot more social community oriented. That to me is like a really exciting frontier. And to be honest, having fungible and non fungible value feels like an important, having both of those feel like a really important stepping stone to getting into this broader world of cool things that are going to be built. And they're not all going to be built by us. They're going to be built by a whole world and community.
00:49:16.300 - 00:50:19.134, Speaker B: There's a lot of something that we didn't really touch on is like competition and competitors. And the thing I'll say that there is so much value to be built, we don't necessarily view what we're doing here as strictly to the extent that it's competitive with something, it might still really be positive, some for what it's worth. That was one of the biggest takeaways for me from the whole sushi saga is that I think it was ultimately very positive, some with uniswap, and ultimately a lot of value came to uniswap from it. And I think similarly we're going to see that in the NFT space, while there's a lot of different teams and they're going to all have different users and maybe even be competing or not competing in general, it's going to be really positive sound. There's going to be a huge amount of value that's going to get built out of all of it. And there's just like a lot of value and cool things to go around. And so we're really excited to also just collaborate really closely with other people in the NFT community and world and build towards a better future.
00:50:19.332 - 00:51:10.318, Speaker A: I think if there's one thing that I really took away from this interview, Hayden, is that there is so much left to do that a lot of people aren't really paying attention to. A lot of opportunity on the table for teams that you might not have expected previously to seize. I did not have on my 2022 bingo card Uniswap Labs acquiring an NFT marketplace aggregator. But after you've explained it to me, it totally makes sense, especially in the context of democratizing asset ownership. And so, Hayden, I am excited to see what else Uniswap Labs has up its sleeve and also really just what the whole entire industry has up its sleeve as well. It seems to be that the bear market really presents a lot of surface area for growth and opportunity for the people that are willing to take it. So Hayden, next time Uniswap Labs does something cool, you make sure to hit me up and we will bring you back on to talk about it then.
00:51:10.318 - 00:51:11.934, Speaker A: Thanks for coming on, my man.
00:51:12.132 - 00:51:16.162, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks so much. Thanks so much for having me. It's been really great talking to you.
00:51:16.296 - 00:51:45.130, Speaker A: And so we will get all the links for checking airdrops and claiming airdrops into the show notes shortly after this. So thank you everyone for tuning into this special episode of me flying solo. But I got Hayden Adams here to do it with me. So thank you everyone for tuning in. Make sure to like and subscribe because it's where you get all the alpha, it's where all the companies come and release all their announcements, especially if it's got an airdrop involved. And so if you have an airdrop coming your way, you make sure to hit up bank list because we'll do a show on it. Risk and disclaimers for everyone.
00:51:45.130 - 00:51:59.720, Speaker A: Of course, ETH is risky. Crypto is risky. NFT yield aggregators are probably, or not yield aggregators, marketplace aggregators are probably risky too. At some way or another you can lose what you put in. We are headed west. We're on the frontier. It's not for everyone, of course, but.
