00:00:00.200 - 00:00:25.674, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the daily Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano. Today's the 2 January 2023. That's right guys, 2023, a new year. Hope you all had a good New Year's party. Or maybe you just stayed home or, you know, whatever you were doing right? Maybe if you're a trader you weren't having too much fun as the markets weren't doing anything. But, but yeah, hope you guys had a great start to the new year so far.
00:00:25.674 - 00:01:09.538, Speaker A: I gotta remember to say 2023 whenever I say the date at the beginning of the podcast. Now, I remember last year for the first couple of weeks I was getting a bit confused there. But anyway, moving on to the news from the weekend. So Balaji here on Twitter asked the question, what are you bullish on for 2023? And Vitalik replied, of course, with reaching the basic roll up scaling milestone. In my roadmap diagram that means EIP 4844 rolled out and roll ups partially taking off training wheels, at least to stage one as described here. Any links to an Ethereum magician post? Now I've talked about ERP 48 44 a lot and the surge generally a lot on the refuel. But what I haven't really talked too much about is these kind of training wheels that roll ups have.
00:01:09.538 - 00:01:38.882, Speaker A: Like we all know that right now, roll ups are rather centralized. They have these training wheels, whether they be multi sigs to control upgrades on the network or control the assets. We'll have custody over the assets or technical custody. I shouldn't say literal custody, I should say technical custody because the, the multi Sig exists for the bridge and it exists for the whole protocol. But basically these things aren't in their final state. They have centralized sequences and validators and all that stuff there. Now there was a post on the Ethereum Magicians forum that I highlighted when Vitalik put it out back in November.
00:01:38.882 - 00:02:28.274, Speaker A: So not too long ago now, basically talking about the different stages of roll up decentralization, and there's three main stages he called out here. Now he's hoping to see roll ups taking off their training wheels, at least to stage one as described in this post. So basically he wants to see stage zero for at least some of the roll ups going to stage one from stage zero. Now, stage stage zero is basically the, I guess, alpha beta stage of these roll ups where they can be fully centralized and maybe they don't even have active fraud proofs, but then you go to stage one which is called the limited training wheel stage, which I'll let you guys read through here. I'll link this in the YouTube description, but yeah, that's something that not a lot of people focus on. They'll focus on 48 44 when it comes to roll ups. But decentralizing the roll ups themselves is, I guess, arguably more important than, than scaling them, really.
00:02:28.274 - 00:03:38.024, Speaker A: I mean, scaling them is all well and good, but at the end of the day, if the roll ups remain centralized, then we don't even need to post data to Ethereum, right? We can just use a volydium, for example, a hybrid where we post data off chain. The whole point of a roll up is that it can actually be fully decentralized and we can have the data stored on chain rather than stored as part of some data availability committee that leads to centralization concerns. So. So yeah, that's why I say it's arguably more important than 48 44, because it doesn't matter if we have cheap data, sorry, cheap data fees on layer one ethereum for roll ups if the roll ups themselves are just centralized, and it defeats the whole purpose of being a roll up if you're just going to stay centralized. Right? So, I mean, I would suggest reading this Ethereum magicians post from Vitalik, if you haven't yet, and even if you have, maybe give you a refresher on it, because I personally would love to see, you know, especially this year, these roll ups, especially the more mature ones like arbitrum and optimism, begin to roll out into stage one and hopefully stage two, which is no training wheels, maybe next year or even later in this year. So, yeah, that's what Vitalik is most excited about for 2023. Now, speaking of ERP, 48 44, that is the mate, one of the major upgrades coming to Ethereum this year.
00:03:38.024 - 00:04:21.347, Speaker A: The other one, of course, is beacon chain withdrawals, which I have talked about at length on the refuel. But there is one thing that I don't think I've talked about too much before, and I said in this tweet here, you know, I believe that beacon chain withdrawals are actually going to lead to more ETH being staked, not less, which is contrary to the popular belief. Then, as that is, as soon as people can withdraw their ETH stake, there's going to be this mass unlock of stake. Now I'm not saying that there won't be people, you know, withdrawing their stake or unlocking their stake to sell, especially if they've been staking for quite a while, but there are, there are many nuances here. So the first nuance is that there is rewards, right? And then there is the actual stake. So there's the 32 ETH stake, which everyone obviously needs to spin up. You know, each validator needs to collateralize itself with so that it can begin earning rewards.
00:04:21.347 - 00:04:45.491, Speaker A: Then there are two types of rewards. There are consensus layer rewards and execution layer rewards. The execution layer rewards are already available to stakers because they come from the execution layer side of things. So they come from tips and MeV rewards as well as part of the flashbots network, I should say the MeV boost network. So. And the consensus layer rewards are the ones that are currently inaccessible. They're the ones that accrue based on attestations, block proposals and sync committees.
00:04:45.491 - 00:05:20.116, Speaker A: And they accrue to the validator on the consensus layer side, which will be able to be accessed once bitcoin chain withdrawals are enabled. And of course once withdrawals are enabled, you'll also be able to exit your validator and withdraw your stake to sell it, or maybe to restake with another service or whatever else like that. Great reshuffling that I've spoken about before. So there is a lot of nuance here. And you've also got to look at the market price as well. I mean, when ETH, a lot of the ETH being staked, actually I've seen a chart that says a lot of the ethnic that was staked, maybe even over 50% of it was staked when the ETH price was higher. When the ETH price was around $2,000 or more.
00:05:20.116 - 00:06:11.484, Speaker A: Now does that mean people are going to withdraw and sell at a loss because they, you know, just want to get out of their estate, they made a mistake there? Or does that mean that people are going to continue staking because they don't want to sell at a loss? And then you've also got the LSD side of things where a lot of people can actually exit their ETH stake if they want to. Right now, yes, they may take a small haircut due to the discounts of these LSD's, but they can exit because they can sell their ste for their retreat or their cb e or they be ETH, right, and exit the their staking position like that. Obviously the ETH hasn't exited the beacon chain, it's just the position that the user had. But that could lead to that eat staying in the beacon chain because the user exited. That's that LSD to the market which has bought the LSD, right. There's always a buyer there for that. And if there isn't much of a discount, then there won't be much of an arbitrage there between the market price of the LSD and the baking chain itself.
00:06:11.484 - 00:06:37.780, Speaker A: So logically, we won't actually see much stake withdrawn because of that. And then on top of that, you have like the withdrawal queue, which means that only a certain number of ETH and certain number of validators can withdraw per day. Right, which limits the, the amount that can come out and limits the amount of sell pressure that can be from that as well. And then you have the other side of things. So that's, that's all the unlock slash, sell slash, you know, restake side of things. And there's a lot of nuance there, as I explained. But then you also have the demand side.
00:06:37.780 - 00:07:04.896, Speaker A: So why is more ETH going to be staked when withdrawals are enabled? Well, why do I believe this? And not that. I'm not saying it's guaranteed to happen. Why do I believe this? Well, the major reason is that it's a de risking event, right? Once withdrawals are enabled, people can be like, okay, well, I can stake my ETH now and I have the option to withdraw it at any time. And I don't have to take a discount either. I can withdraw it directly from the beacon chain. Even if you have an LSD asset, you can withdraw that from the beacon chain. There's no need to go to the market and take a discount on it.
00:07:04.896 - 00:07:37.344, Speaker A: And the market itself is going to become a lot more liquid and a lot better at pricing this because it'll be able to close that arbitrage loop with the beacon chain if it goes out of sync, whether there's a discount or a premium on the assets there. So I think that that's going to lead to a lot more ETH being staked. And I think that right now we're at, what, 15 million ETH staked or something like that. I think we're going to see that go, go higher. 2025, 30 million or so. And I've spoken about how there is a, I guess, discussion right now about imposing a limit on how much active stake there can be. So, and it's a balancing act as well with the rewards.
00:07:37.344 - 00:08:19.700, Speaker A: Like, the rewards become not worth it or too little once there's too much estate, and then we kind of plateau there, which I think is fine. It's by design of the protocol that may change in the future that, you know, the, the, I guess, like policy that dictates that might, may change in the future. I haven't seen any proposals for that yet, but there obviously is always ongoing research and development when it comes to that sort of stuff. But that's the main reason why I believe that more ETH will be staked, because it's a massive de risking event for the entire industry, not just for solar stakers, but for, obviously LSD's, for institutional stakers. For these exchanges that offer staking, it just completes that arbitrage loop. It completes the staking loop that I've talked about a lot on the refill before. And I think that that's going to be, you know, a big deal, obviously.
00:08:19.700 - 00:09:04.528, Speaker A: And I really do think that that will offset any kind of selling pressure that will come from people, you know, unstaking their ETH in order to sell it. Now, in saying that we can kind of guarantee that there is going to be a rather large chunk of the consensus layer rewards probably being sold off to cover taxes. Now, it depends because it's very hard because people can cover their taxes through other means. They don't have to sell their ETH. Maybe they don't want to sell their ETH and they'll just happy to pay the taxes that they owe with money they already have, or maybe they sell another asset to pay those taxes. It's complex when you think about every individual is different here, but you could make a rather, I guess like rough assumption that some percentage of the consensus layer rewards are going to be sold because of the tax obligations there. It's got nothing to do with people wanting to take profit, it's just the tax obligations.
00:09:04.528 - 00:09:41.434, Speaker A: So we can do napkin math here and say that if a million 8th worth of rewards has accrued since the beacon chain went live on the consensus layer side, which I don't know if it's a million. I think it might actually be a million because I believe it's been, what, two years since the beacon chain went live, and then by the time withdrawals go live, it could be around a million ETH. I have to check my math on these, but give or take 100,000 ETH. But for the sake of argument, let's just say it's a million ethics. Let's just say at most 50% of that needs to get sold to cover taxes. I think that's on the, I guess like very, very aggressive side of things. I don't think it's going to be 50%, but that's 500,000 ETH that would be sold.
00:09:41.434 - 00:10:14.076, Speaker A: Now, is it going to be sold all at once? I don't think so. And even if it is sold, I guess, over a period of a few months, is that a lot? I mean, yes, it's a large chunk of ETH, but it just depends on what the markets like. Are we, you know, is there a lot of demand offsetting that? Are we back in a mini bull market, for example, or is there some kind of demand spike? How much ETH is getting staked and locked up because of that de risking event? So all of these are open questions. All of these are things that people love to use to paint narratives in either direction. At the end of the day, it's impossible to know. You have to make a lot of assumptions. Nothing has been done like this before.
00:10:14.076 - 00:10:55.988, Speaker A: There's no precedent for this. And there are going to be people, as I said, selling you a narrative on either side of the spectrum. I'm not going to tell you if whether withdrawals are going to be bullish or bearish for the ETH price. All I'm telling you is that I believe that more ETH will be staked, not less. Now, will that happen immediately? Probably not that we'll probably see a short term reduction in total ETH stake, but I believe, you know, shortly after that, maybe within a few months, we're going to see that the all time high ETH stakes continue to accrue from there. So, yeah, no idea what it means for the ETH price itself. But when it comes to the amount of ETH being staked in the beacon chain, I do have a strong belief that we're going to see more, at least a couple of months, or at least a few months after the beacon chain withdrawals are enabled there.
00:10:55.988 - 00:11:42.612, Speaker A: Now, one last note here before I move on, someone asked, you know, what's up with the range of fear reduction for. With ERP 4844? Because I've commonly quoted that 4844 will bring with it a ten to 100 times reduction in roll up fees for users. You know, why such a large range? Well, a few of the reasons, from my understanding. It's obviously hard to predict what the cost reduction will be for each roll up, so we have to estimate it for now will depend on how each roll up uses the new blob transaction type, so they have to integrate this themselves. Some roll ups may take a couple of months to integrate it, so 48, 44 may ship, and then the roll up team will be like, okay, well, we're not going to ship our implementation or we're not going to be compatible with 4844 until maybe two months after or a month after it goes live. And then also not all the roll ups are created equal. There'll be differences between ZK roll ups and optimistic roll ups.
00:11:42.612 - 00:12:02.350, Speaker A: There'll be differences between ZK VMs and non ZkVM ZK roll ups. Right. So there are a lot of nuance there as well. But anyway, going to move on from that one to a thread from Proto Lambda, which I recommend. I mean, this is one of the best threads I've ever read, to be honest. Like I can't recommend it highly enough. And it's.
00:12:02.350 - 00:12:31.454, Speaker A: He starts off by saying, my crypto predictions for 2023, mostly about ETH related tech. Just for fun, let's see if next year is as full of surprises as this year was. And he wrote this on December 31. So next year being this year now. But highly, highly, highly recommend giving this a read. You should even just pause the video right now and go give this thread a read, because it is going to give you probably the best summary of what to expect in 2023 from the Ethereum core protocol ecosystem. I think it's just a really great thread, and it's quite lengthy as well.
00:12:31.454 - 00:13:15.804, Speaker A: It's. How many tweets is it? It's about 24 tweets here, and they're all great prediction. Now, for those of you who don't know who Proto Lambda is, well, he's a longtime Ethereum researcher. He is half of proto dank sharding proto part is him, right? He came up with half of it. And he now works at the optimism labs team on optimism, of course. So someone to take very seriously when it comes to Ethereum core protocol development and things surrounding that I should, I highly recommend going and giving this thread a read. And he's also got a tweet here, which I wanted to highlight, which is his second tweet in this thread, which he basically, he believes that there's going to be a lot of ICO treasuries that, that still have ETH left over from when I seize were big that are going to stake their ETH because of withdrawals being enabled.
00:13:15.804 - 00:13:53.774, Speaker A: Now this is a perfect, uh, example of what I was talking about before, the ICO treasuries. If they're using ETH to fund development of their project, then they're going to want their ETH to be liquid, right? They're going to want to be able to sell that ETH whenever they want to. Well, if they stake it, they can't do that right now. And they, and if they stake it the most of the rewards that they earned won't be able to be unlocked because their consensus layer rewards. But when withdrawals are enabled, they'll be able to basically have their expenses covered by the consensus layer and execution layer rewards together and they can withdraw that. And then they, then if they need to and they run into a snag or they need more money, they can withdraw some of their stake as well because the, the bigger chain withdrawals are there. But now they can't do that.
00:13:53.774 - 00:14:34.628, Speaker A: So just from the icos staking their ETH and from other big players staking their ETH, such as consensus, for example, maybe Joe Lubin wants to stake his ETH and then be able to fund consensus off the. Off the rewards from staking that ETH. That alone represents a lot of ETH and that would easily, I believe, if all of it was staked, or at least most of it would offset that worst case scenario of half a million ETH being sold to cover taxes, which I don't think is going to happen, to be honest, because I'm, I'm obviously erring on the side of aggression there. But even still, like, that's another variable to play into this. So, yeah, when thinking about it like that, I think, you know, you got yourself some good data to go off. Yeah. But anyway, I'll link Proto Lambda's thread in the YouTube description below.
00:14:34.628 - 00:15:06.360, Speaker A: You can go check it out for yourself. All right, so Tony has updated his Mevboost Pix website to include a chart that now displays the block building market over time. So you can see here, if I scroll down, what is a total slot share, cumulative for builders? Yes, here it is. So you can see over time, what the builder market has looked like. Well, it looks a lot healthier than it once did. Right, look, look at the builders. Look at the builder market here at 80% was vanilla builders, which was obviously solo stakers.
00:15:06.360 - 00:15:40.776, Speaker A: Right? But then you had the purple here, which was flashbots. Now, we want to kind of exclude the blue, because if we include the blue, that includes solid stakers and that includes people that weren't using MeV Boost. And obviously that's come down a lot because most of the networks using MeV Boost now. But if we take a. Take vanilla builders away, flashbots accounted for a large portion of the builders and so did this yellow here, which is, I guess, like yellow orange, which is blocks route. Now, as you can see, over time, that got a lot healthier and you can see that it's basically equal across the top, what, four builders. And then you have a long tail of builders, which are slowly gaining market share as well.
00:15:40.776 - 00:16:22.018, Speaker A: And the reason why this is important is because we want, you know, obviously a more healthy, decentralized mev boost builder ecosystem, but also from a censorship resistance perspective, it helps the network as well. So just wanted to highlight that from Tony, who shared this today on the Mevboost Peaks website, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. All right, we have a tweet here from Laozoo. Hopefully that's how I say your name, which is a tweet thread on an article about that they wrote on current Ethereum and the details of the Shanghai upgrade. So you can go give this blog post a read. Laozoo works at scroll in R and D department. They've done a bunch of threads around Ethereum and L2s and all that good stuff before, along with blog posts.
00:16:22.018 - 00:17:18.622, Speaker A: Well, this blog post will give you an overview of the main things coming in Shanghai, such as beacon chain withdrawals, EOF, ERP 4844 and possibly other eips and the roadmap and timeline. So if you are interested in diving deeper into those things that I have talked about on the refill before, definitely go check out this blog post. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Alright, so January 1 marked one year since the protocol guild was unveiled unveiled, which is, and the protocol guild is an experimental new funding tool which provides recruitment, retention and reward mechanisms for core protocol contributors. And today being the 1 January, that experiment received $10 million in donations and has distributed $5 million to core protocol contributors. It really is amazing how quickly the core, the protocol guild was able to get stood up, get money in and start distributing it to core contributors. And as I said when they first announced this, I remember covering this on January 1 of 2022, this was a pilot.
00:17:18.622 - 00:18:04.356, Speaker A: This wasn't actually the full thing. This was just to test out the idea to see if it worked, see if they could get some money in and start paying core protocol contributors. And they did. And as I've spoken about before, the protocol guild is like a union for core developers. It really is showing that core developers and researchers are coming together and basically, and community members are coming together, creating this new thing called the protocol guild and funding themselves via that, instead of relying on funding from places like the Ethereum foundation and potentially like consensus and other companies. The goal is that the protocol guild can always pay out to core protocol contributors, even if there's other these other companies stop giving money to core protocol contributors, which I think is really, really awesome. But yeah, congrats to the protocol guild on one year since being unveiled.
00:18:04.356 - 00:18:38.460, Speaker A: Here's to another year of amazing protocol contributor contributing. All right, so I've been talking about Nethermind a bunch on the refuel over the last few months, and mainly because they've been gaining a lot of market share on the network. Well, in the start of 2022, Nethermind was at 2% of the network and they've ended 2022 at 11.6%, which is awesome to see. This is client diversity in action, guys. It's really great to see that Nethermind has come such a long way in just twelve months and they are such a big part of the network now, representing 11.6% rather than 2%.
00:18:38.460 - 00:19:03.042, Speaker A: And they are second only to geth. Now, of course, Geth still has a big lead here at 70%, but it's looking a lot healthier. You have Nethermind, Aragon and Baesu. Nethermind and Aragon are about the same, 11.44 for Aragon, 11.63 for Nethermind a percentage, and Baesu at 6.4%. So just a great thing to say that the client diversity is improving on the execution layer side of things and great to see that nevermind has grown so well in 2022.
00:19:03.042 - 00:19:28.724, Speaker A: I hope to see them grow even further in 2023. We don't want Geth to be over 50%. We want them to. Yeah, at least be under 50%. I mean the threshold is technically 66% as that, you know, finality threshold there, but definitely want it under 50%. Hopefully we can get there this year. Moving on from that, FLCL who is in, a developer at Nethermind put out a tweet saying sinking in ERP 4844, Devnet v three and pair with prism.
00:19:28.724 - 00:19:58.900, Speaker A: The next aim is to try to run with Lodestar and lighthouse. I bet it will go smoothly and you can see a picture of a terminal window window here. So Devnet's continue obviously for 48 44. I would expect some test nets to be spun up around this, maybe not, not this month, but maybe next month, maybe the month after. Obviously we know that it's not coming with the Shanghai upgrade, which hopefully we're going to see in March. And I believe the Shanghai test net should be spun up this month. Some of the short lived ones, maybe some shadow forks as well to go along with it.
00:19:58.900 - 00:20:29.896, Speaker A: But great to see development continue on 4844 here. Oval network reflected on their 2022 and DVT technology in general, distributed validate validator technology and Oval was another team that had a great 2022. They've had a bunch of testnets go live. They've had a bunch of pilot programs play out. One of the biggest ones with Lido and their Charon DVT middleware was launched. They also have a roadmap that you can go check out. I mean, this thread is packed full of information for you to go check out, which I'll link in the YouTube description below.
00:20:29.896 - 00:21:09.700, Speaker A: But I believe Opal is going to have a really great year this year because of withdrawals being enabled. It makes a lot more sense to start using this technology because that's another thing. And this is speaking to my point earlier about beacon chain withdrawals. The really cool thing about this is that there are certain players that can migrate their validator infrastructure to use oval once withdrawals become enabled, and it's a lot easier for them to kind of do this and to rotate things around if they want to do it, rotate keys and all that sorts of stuff. So we're going to be seeing, I bet, an uptick in the oval network kind of adoption this year. I'm really, really looking forward to seeing that. Obviously some of you will know I'm an investor in Oval, so just a disclosure there.
00:21:09.700 - 00:21:38.132, Speaker A: But yeah, I think they're going to be doing a great work this year. Arbitrum put together a thread on their recap of 2022 as well, recapping all the growth that they had. As you can see, their growth has been amazing and I've gone through this before, so I won't bore you again with the details, but just wanted to hide the threads so you can go check it out for yourself. It's not just me saying that L2 is a growing amazingly and that arbitram is growing really well. There is data to back this up. There is data on Doon analytics. This isn't just arbitrary and putting out bias data.
00:21:38.132 - 00:22:07.656, Speaker A: You can go check it out on Doonata leaks for yourself, which is linked in this thread, which of course I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, we have an update here from fire who says that they've Firefox users can now use the fire extension. Now, I've talked about the fire extension a bunch on the refuel before. It's the extension that basically shows you more detail about your transaction. Talks to Metamask. Traditionally you've only been able to use it with, I believe, chrome and maybe even chromium based browsers. But now you can use it with Firefox.
00:22:07.656 - 00:22:40.220, Speaker A: And I know there are a lot of Firefox users out there. I may change to Firefox soon myself, actually, because Chrome, unfortunately, I believe they're getting rid of ad blockers this year. Chrome just eats so much ram. It actually has gotten so much worse. It's insane that it's gotten worse, but it has. So I may be coming be a Firefox user relatively soon, and I'm glad to see that fire is supporting them because I love using fire myself on when I'm using kind of on chain stuff with metamask and things like that. So yeah, go check out fire if you haven't yet.
00:22:40.220 - 00:23:16.196, Speaker A: It's now available for you on Firefox. All right, so I've left a few minutes here to talk about this last thing. That was my last tweet, I think, of 2022, where I said my advice to people who are trying to figure out what to focus on full time in crypto get involved with Ethereum's L2 ecosystem. I strongly believe it offers the best return on investment from a social, economical and career path perspective. You won't regret it. Now, I should have said financial instead of economical, but I guess the point still stands. The Ethereum L2 ecosystem I know I've said this so many times, but it's still so young.
00:23:16.196 - 00:23:50.050, Speaker A: There is so much opportunity, no matter what team you join at this point, they're all early stage, they're all seeing growth, they're all part of the Ethereum ecosystem, and the whole Ethereum community is trying their best to raise them up, trying their best to get people to adopt them. And we're seeing real adoption happen. The Alt L1 thesis is severely wounded. I wouldn't say it's dead, because nothing ever dies, really, in crypto. As I've said before there, it's a very rare occasion for something to die. But right now they're severely wounded. A lot of the alts l one s will fade into obscurity like they always have.
00:23:50.050 - 00:24:14.902, Speaker A: And I just still strongly believe that the L1s in general aren't going to make it, really. I strongly believe that. I strongly believe Ethereum as a settlement layer will make it, obviously. And Ethereum's L2 ecosystem is where the majority of user growth, at least sustainable user growth, is going to be going forward. So while it's still in its nascent stage, your best bet is to join that team. And now there was a bunch of reply join those teams. Now.
00:24:14.902 - 00:25:04.282, Speaker A: There's a bunch of replies to my tweet here that you can go through yourself, but every team is pretty much hiring at this point, you can go check that out for yourself. But it's not just the L2 teams themselves. It's also the projects building on these L2s or building around these L2s, whether that be DeFi projects or NFT projects or middleware like infrastructure projects. Anything involved in that area, I still think is going to give you a lot of return of on investments from those perspective, from those perspectives that I mentioned before. But in saying that the L2 teams themselves are probably going to give you the most return on investment, now, does that mean every L2 team is going to succeed? No. As you, I've said before, and I'll say it again, the, on the generalized L2 front, I don't believe there's going to be that many winners, or at least big winners on the app specific L2s. There's probably going to be a lot of winners there.
00:25:04.282 - 00:25:32.026, Speaker A: But you kind of limit yourself then, because you're not really working on a L2 specifically, you're working on an app with a L2 attached to it, so to speak. Right. So something like a dy DX. Whereas if you're working on a L2 itself, like arbitrary optimism, then you're working on the core protocol infrastructure, you're working on a grander thing and a more generalized thing. But yeah, as I said, like, there aren't going to be that many winners there. There are a lot of, there's a lot of competition already, right? There's. I'm not going to name all of them.
00:25:32.026 - 00:26:05.270, Speaker A: I've arbitrary optimism, you know, Polygon Scroll, Starkware, you know, Tyco. There's more coming out every day. Consensus is CKVM, but not all of them are going to win. And by win, I mean like get a lot of market share, just like we have very few layer ones with a lot of market share, and it's basically Ethereum, BSc, and TRon. And the only reason why Tron has any, has a majority of its market share is because Justin sun uses it as his personal chain. Right. Other than that, most of the other chains don't have much activity on them, and they maybe did in the bull market, but now in bear market, it's not sustainable.
00:26:05.270 - 00:26:31.656, Speaker A: That's why I always say sustainable activity is where you want to be looking at things and what you want to be judging these things based on. And well, through 2022, the L2s have continued to grow. That's real organic growth that's happening. Yes. You know, a lot, a lot of it, or, I mean, some of it maybe a lot of it. I wouldn't say most of it, but there are, there is a healthy chunk of it, of airdrop farming, especially for the networks that don't have tokens yet. But in saying that, I still believe there's a lot of organic activity happening there.
00:26:31.656 - 00:27:15.760, Speaker A: I see a lot of organic communities forming around these things, especially stuff like nfts. So there is real activity and user growth happening there. So if you are interested in getting involved with crypto full time, there's probably no better team to join than a L2 team. As I said, you can check out the replies here for that, for, I guess, like links to people or I guess teams looking for people to hire. But yeah, I'm gonna leave that one. That's one last thing I want to talk about while I've got a few minutes left. And the markets, because it's always funny to me, the markets in the new year, in January, if you look at the chart, and I had a friend point this out to me, you know, a few months ago and I looked at it myself, but he really pointed out to me, draw the lines on it.
00:27:15.760 - 00:27:52.796, Speaker A: And he goes, look, the start of the year is usually, you know, most of the time a good year for the markets, especially if it's come off a bad year. And I'm like, okay, that's all well and fine, but if you go through history, that doesn't mean that the market activity at the start of the year is going to hold to the rest of the year. Like, just because something we have, you know, a positive q one, for example, doesn't mean we're going to have a positive q two and q three and q four. So if you see the market recovering really well, say you see ETH go to two k and you're like, yes, the bull market's back on. I said it before and I'll say it again, the bull market is not back on. If it goes to two k, that's not how it works. Go look at the 2019 chart.
00:27:52.796 - 00:28:29.736, Speaker A: ETH went from eighty dollars to three hundred and sixty dollars, back to like $100 or around that. So that can happen again. So don't fool yourself or delude yourself into thinking that just because ETH goes up to 2000 or 2500 that the bull market's back, it doesn't mean that at all. It can retrace, and more than likely might retrace simply because of the fact that people will be taking profits. They'll be like, oh, I don't believe in this rally. I'm going to sell into this and then obviously come back down and then you do the reaccumulation again and all that good stuff there. But I just want to put out that warning as we begin the year that the markets are going to be funny this year.
00:28:29.736 - 00:28:49.336, Speaker A: I think because last year we had like a brutal down market. It was the worst year for the stock market in a long, long time. And markets are forward looking. So even if we go into this recession that everyone's been talking about, even if the economy looks weak, that doesn't necessarily mean the markets are going to be weak. But that also doesn't mean the bull market's back. So just stay grounded in reality. Don't get ahead of yourself.
00:28:49.336 - 00:29:09.524, Speaker A: Don't fomo, you know, always the golden rules there, and I think you'll do fine. But I think at this stage of the, I guess, like, market. Cause we've been in the bear market for a year now. Everyone listening to the refuel is in it for the tech. So I don't think you guys are going to get too ahead of yourself. But I always think it's worth reiterating that, especially when I've got a few minutes left at the end of the episode. But on that note, that's going to be it for today.
00:29:09.524 - 00:29:17.644, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
