00:00:00.250 - 00:00:45.354, Speaker A: What is liquidity net? To answer this question, I want to first talk about liquidity, price and token reserves. How to visualize liquidity and the amount of tokens between a price range as the price changes let's say that we have the curve x times y equals l square. We have the current price p and some price range p of A and p of B. And here is the concentrated liquidity curve between p of A and P of B. We can visual this liquidity between the price p of A and p of B as following. On the horizontal axis, we map the ticks T of a corresponding to p of A and t of B corresponding to P of B. Since the current price p is between p of A and P of B, we can represent this as the current tick being between t of A and t of B.
00:00:45.354 - 00:01:23.206, Speaker A: On the vertical axis we map the liquidity. So this graph says that between the prices P of A and p of B there is a liquidity of L. Let's see how the amount of token changes in this liquidity as the price changes from P of A to P of B. Let's start with the simple cases when the current price is equal to p of B and when the current price is equal to P of A. And later we will look at the case when the current price is between p of A and p of B. And we also say that token zero is equal to x and token one is equal to Y. When the current price p is equal to P of B, then liquidity is all in token Y.
00:01:23.206 - 00:01:57.966, Speaker A: To see why this is, let's look at our concentrated liquidity curve. When the current price p is equal to P of B. On the curve that represents the real amount of tokens, we have p equal to P of B and on the real reserves curve we have p of B equal to here. To get to this point, token zero would have decreased and token one would have increased. And at the point of p of B we will have all of our tokens in token one and the amount of token zero will be equal to zero. Let's visualize this on the liquidity to tick graph. So here we have our ticks.
00:01:57.966 - 00:02:47.474, Speaker A: The current price p is equal to p of B, so the current tick will be equal to T of B. The liquidity between t of A and t of b is equal to L, and the amount of tokens inside this liquidity will all be in token one. And we can see this from the graph that when the price is equal to p of b, the amount of token zero is equal to zero over here and all of the liquidity will be in token one. Similarly, when the current price p is equal to p of A, then liquidity will be all in token zero. Here we have the graph again, and the current price p is equal to p of A. For the price to get to this point, token one would have decreased and token zero would have increased to get to this point p of A. And at this point we can see that the amount of token one is equal to zero.
00:02:47.474 - 00:03:28.538, Speaker A: So the liquidity is all in token zero. We can also visualize this on the liquidity to tick graph as following the current price p. So the current tick is equal to t of A, the liquidity is equal to l, and the liquidity consists of all token zero and none of token one. How about when the current price is between p of A and p of b? Then liquidity is both in token zero and token one. Let's visualize the amount of token zero and token one. When the current price P is between p of A and p of B, at the current price p, the amount of token zero will be over here, and the amount of token one will be over here. Let's visualize this on the liquidity to tick graph.
00:03:28.538 - 00:04:05.046, Speaker A: Here we have t of A. Here we have t of B, and the current tick will be somewhere between t of A and T of B over here. We will have our liquidity somewhere over here. And how about the amount of token zero and the amount of token one? Well, to figure this out, let's see what happens when the current price P moves up to P of B. For this to happen, we would need this much amount of token zero. So on this graph, when the current price P moves up to P of B, we would need token zero on this side. And likewise, let's see what happens when the current price P moves down to P of A.
00:04:05.046 - 00:04:21.530, Speaker A: For this to happen, we would need token one to go from here all the way to zero, and on this liquidity to tick graph, we will have this tick go all the way to the left to t of A. And for this to happen, we will need token one on the left side of the current tick.
