00:00:01.770 - 00:02:05.960, Speaker A: Hello everyone, my name is Kiril, I'm the lead backend engineer in one inch and recently we came up with an idea to build a new Defi primitive and we hope that this new standard will extend the current and future tokens functionality and utility. So basically, token plugins is ERC 20 based extension that allows holders of any token LB token and everything that is tokenized to plug into some smart contract and extend the logic of the ERC based tokens. It's easier to create such plugins and connect your token to the standard. So you just need to inherit your token from ERC 20 plugins and if your token is already existed, then you just need to create a wrapper over it and that's it. After that arbitrary person deploys permissionlessly plugin as a smart contract and any wallet like holder can connect this plugin to his own token and this plugin will track the balances update and the participation is the participation is risk free. So if you connect the plugin to your token like the token that you own, this plugin doesn't have any access to that transfer, approve, mint or burn functionality. That means that storage cannot be overrided by this plugin and it's risk free.
00:02:05.960 - 00:02:53.598, Speaker A: Also, plugins development is permissionless. So anyone can create their own smart contract and promote this smart contract and ask everybody to participate in it. And moreover, you can use not only one plugin for your account, you can connect multiple plugins. The only one limitation is number of plugins. So the plugin looks like this. This is just the function that records the balances. There are three arguments from two amount and this addresses from and to can be zero addresses.
00:02:53.598 - 00:04:11.386, Speaker A: So if you trigger this function when you transfer your token and another person is not connected to the plugin, then you will receive zero address and you can write the logic according to your thoughts about those who are not participating in this plugin. And at the current moment we developed two plugins. The first one is farming plugin. So right now to participate in liquidity mining, you need to provide your LP token to an external smart contract. You need to trust this contract, you need to check audits and it's a bit complicated for the normal users and is not very safe with the farming plugin. You as the user can just connect the farming plugin to your token to your LP token and you will automatically participate in the farming. And the guy who created an LP token, the protocol, they should extend their C 20 plugins functionality.
00:04:11.386 - 00:05:34.450, Speaker A: Moreover, with the current farming you can participate only in one farming because you need to lock your LP token in the farming contract. With the token plugins you can connect like 1234, even five different farming contracts with the same LP token and get incentivization from different sources. The second one is on chain delegation plugin. This plugin allows to trade the delegated balance. It's useful for government stuff, it's useful for voting when you want to approve your balance for another person that can use these votes to vote from your name and this system right now working on production with one inch staking about almost one year ago we released intent centric orders called one inch fusion. And this scheme has their resolvers. The resolvers is a program which executes orders on chain.
00:05:34.450 - 00:06:27.800, Speaker A: And to be stable the system should have not more than ten resolvers. And this can be achieved through delegating pod. On this scheme. It's a power pod. So the holder of ST one each connects power pod and he can delegate his balance to the resolver in order for resolver to keep in the top ten and execute orders. And at the same time resolvers should incentivize delegators for their action and they can deploy connect a multifarming pod that will be automatically connected to the all delegators who already delegated to the resolver and the system. Like not so complex and working.
00:06:27.800 - 00:07:03.980, Speaker A: And we hope that on upcoming Ethereum Istanbul hackathon hackers will create build new token plugins. And even more interesting than farming core delegation. So here is the core code. Yes, it's cannibal and there is only 100 lines of code for the token plugins and you can check it and try to build something. Thank you. So maybe any questions?
