00:00:00.320 - 00:00:38.588, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 15 October 2021. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So a pretty big announcement today about bitcoin, actually not about Ethereum, but I still think it affects Ethereum and like the ETH markets, of course. But basically it was announced, I think, on the Bloomberg terminal first, that the bitcoin futures ETF has been said not to face SEC opposition, which means that the SEC isn't going to deny this ETF. They're basically going to allow it to go forward, which means that we're going to be getting our first, I think, bitcoin futures ETF next week, maybe.
00:00:38.588 - 00:01:20.286, Speaker A: Now, I've kind of talked about this before and how I think that the futures ETF is okay. But I think if, you know, if the prices are going to go up because of the ETF hype, it's more just going to be like the narrative and the marketing around it, not so much the substance, because the futures ETF is actually subpar to the spot ETF. So the difference is that with the futures one, it's a derivative. So the, there's not actually BTC being kind of like bought from the market and held and custodied in kind of like wherever they kind of custody it. It's actually just, I guess, people speculating via futures now, whereas a spot one would actually buy BTC on the market. So obviously it's a lot better, takes supply out of circulation. But I still think, you know, futures can definitely have a, have a big effect on the spot markets.
00:01:20.286 - 00:01:57.006, Speaker A: We've seen this with like the CME kind of bitcoin futures, and it's also going to allow people to kind of like buy into this product instead of something like GBTC, which is considered an inferior product, I think. Um, and then, you know, the spot bitcoin ats will eventually come as well. So I don't have any doubt about that. And, you know, people were saying, I also saw some people asking today, you know, is ETH going to get an ETF? I mean, of course, guys like, I mean, bitcoin is not the only game in town anymore. It hasn't been for, for a very long time. And ETH already has, like, futures on the CME, which is actually a prerequisite to getting an ETF. So I expect the ETH ETF to come, you know, sooner rather than later.
00:01:57.006 - 00:02:20.626, Speaker A: I'm not sure when you know, we might not get it till, I would say we probably not going to get it till next year at some point. And it just depends on the market, too. Like if the market go, you know, turn sour for quite a while, there may not really be an appetite for any of these companies to have ETH ETF's until the market heats up again. So it's, it's hard to tell. But next up is definitely Ethan. I think that this is just good for the space in general. It's going to bring a lot more attention from the institutional investors.
00:02:20.626 - 00:02:51.352, Speaker A: It's going to bring a lot more legitimacy to the crypto asset class as a whole. And we saw the markets react to the, this today. Obviously, BTC went up, you know, pretty hard on the news of this. It touched about 60k, came back down a little bit. ETH is hovering around, you know, 3800 ish, I guess, right now. And, you know, all time highs are in sight for both bitcoin and ETH. And I think, you know, bitcoin might probably, you know, it'll probably get its all time high first given that it has this ETF kind of like tailwinds behind it, but ETH will be very, very quickly behind it.
00:02:51.352 - 00:03:27.608, Speaker A: Like, I think within days, ETH would reach its all time high because everyone would be like, well, if bitcoin reached it, what's stopping Ethan reaching it? Right. Just from pure psych, market psychology standpoint, that makes a lot of sense to me. So, yeah, it's been a long time coming because I think the ETF has been spoken about since like the 2013 bull market, actually. And obviously, back then, the industry was very, very different to what it is today. Not just bitcoin as an asset, as an industry, but just crypto as a whole. And back then, really, the big, the largest exchange was MT. Gox, which obviously ended up kind of like get going under because there was a lot of shady stuff going on there.
00:03:27.608 - 00:04:03.246, Speaker A: And they still kind of like fallout from that happening to this day. But these days, you have so many exchanges, right? You have so many ways to trade kind of like crypto and bitcoin and all these sorts of stuff. You have obviously, the CME futures, you have more structured institutional products. So it makes a lot more sense for an ETF to be approved at this point in time. The asset class, or at least bitcoin as an asset, is mature. I think ETH is pretty much up there as well. Nothing else is really at that maturity level yet in terms of wide adoption on exchanges, having the futures having the kind of good liquidity profile and having the, I guess, blessing of these regulators that it's not a security and things like that.
00:04:03.246 - 00:04:37.054, Speaker A: So yeah, it's going to happen soon beneath ETF, but I guess, like it's great to see BTC finally getting one after seven or eight years at this point, right? It's been a very, very long time coming. All right, another major update, and this one for Ethereum this time over the last 24 hours. What was that? The new merge testnet named pythos or pithos. I guess it's Pythos is now live. So there's an explorer at Pythos, Dash explorer, ETH, DevOps IO and instructions to join on the GitHub here. So the merge is coming, guys. Like this is my new kind of catchphrase that I'm going to be using for quite a while.
00:04:37.054 - 00:05:02.050, Speaker A: The merge is coming in the little panda emoji. For those of you wondering what the emoji is in my Twitter handle, like if I go to my profile, you can see the panda here. It's, it's to represent the merge. Like I'm sure refuel kind of like listeners and watchers obviously already know that, but I had someone ask me the other day, so I just wanted to kind of clarify that that's, that's kind of like about the merge. And obviously you have the bat, bat emoji and the kind of like speaker emoji. Ultrasound money. Right.
00:05:02.050 - 00:05:24.262, Speaker A: So ultrasound money and the merge here. But this is really cool. I remember I mentioned this, I think earlier in the week and maybe late last week that there was going to be a new merge test now and this is public. You can join if you want to. You just have to go to this GitHub, follow the instructions and you'll be able to join it. So really, really cool to see that. I mean, as I said, like after the interoperability event and after the Devnet's there that we're going to start spinning up test nets.
00:05:24.262 - 00:05:46.514, Speaker A: These kind of testnets are probably not going to be the like long lived ones or anything like that. They're going to be ones that just get kind of like at the early stage ones. But still, it's amazing that this is happening. It's October. Like, I mean, we've still got all the time of November, December, January, February, March. Like if we wanted to get it late Q one early Q 220 22. There's plenty of time to test all these things, plenty of time for people to work on it.
00:05:46.514 - 00:06:30.172, Speaker A: The merge is very, very close now, guys. It's super exciting for me, honestly, that we're so close to it, but I'm not going to, I guess, like go on about the merge again. I've spoken about that a lot lately. There's another thing that I wanted to talk about, which is what I wrote today's newsletter about. I basically put out this tweet today where I said, imagine missing the entire paradigm shift that is modular blockchains and zero knowledge technology because some VC's shield you a quote unquote Ethereum killer. Now, I've spoken about modular blockchains too much on the refuel, I think, lately, so I'm not going to talk about the tech side of it. What I wanted to talk about here was more on the kind of like social side and how investors, VC's funds, people in general, tend to miss paradigm shifts within industries, not just within crypto, but just generally.
00:06:30.172 - 00:07:21.568, Speaker A: Because when you look at kind of like what's been happening over the last, I guess, few years within crypto, it's very hard to readjust your mindset and to kind of like, I guess, see these things if you're, if you're not in the right position to see them. So, for example, I think everyone outside of the ethereum ecosystem right now is not going to be able to see this. They're not going to be able to see why modular blockchains are revolutionary, why zero knowledge technology is revolutionary until much later on in the kind of like adoption cycle of these things. So I would say probably it's going to be another maybe couple of years before the maybe. Maybe it's not that long because this industry moves fast. But still it can be long on the social, social layer until it kind of becomes like this mass thing where everyone's talking about it, where everyone's like, okay, well, the l one monolithic blockchains don't really make sense. We're just going to focus on the L2s and kind of like the modular design.
00:07:21.568 - 00:08:02.548, Speaker A: And of course, once these l two s have tokens, it's going to change their narrative even more because at the end of the day, people love to chase the money side of it, especially the big name investors. And not all the VC's are the same. There's a lot of VC's out there who are actually investing in this new, in this kind of like new paradigm of modular blockchains. And there's a lot of individuals doing it as well. But there are also a lot of VC's and funds out there that will push things in the short to medium term because they want to be able to kind of, I get, like, I guess, like dump their bags, so to speak. And the funny thing is, is that a lot of them are buying BTC or ETH with their profits. They're, they're not necessarily going to cash, and they're really using them as a vehicle to, to kind of, like, stack more of their preferred asset.
00:08:02.548 - 00:08:28.506, Speaker A: And it's not just them, it's also the traders and things like that. That's why I've always said the number one rule, don't follow the traders. And what they're doing, if they're showing you a new coin, like every few days, you're their exit liquidity. You are not getting any alpha from them. They've already filled long, long ago, and they're just trying to push a narrative. So definitely, I mean, I don't give investment advice, but that's just general kind of like life advice. You're literally a lemming if you're following these people, just following, you know, lemming, following off, following someone off a cliff.
00:08:28.506 - 00:09:02.748, Speaker A: That's literally what you're doing, at least in my opinion here. And, you know, there's actually proof of this. What's funny is that the company behind EOS, which was this kind of, like, super hyped up layer one chain from 2018, the original monolithic blockchain, basically very similar architecture to Solana today in terms of, like, being a depos super node chain, having, you know, a very small handful of nodes, hard coded. 21 has the consensus validators. Solana today has like, 19 or something like that. It's not hard coded, but 19 have more. More than 33% of the stake there.
00:09:02.748 - 00:09:42.980, Speaker A: Sorry. Have at least 33% of the stake, which means they can halt the network. But anyway, what block one ended up doing with all the ETH that they raised in their kind of, like, ico sale, they didn't buy eos tokens with that ETH, or they didn't kind of, like, use that ETH to fund the development of the project. They bought BTC with it. So after raising $4 billion, allegedly, I think a lot of that was kind of like wash trading, because the ICO went for a year and you were able to actually sell the token on the open market so you could buy it from the ICO, sell it on the open market, and there was kind of an arbitrage opportunity there. So I think there was a lot of wash trading going on. Um, but they sold pretty much all of their ETH.
00:09:42.980 - 00:10:05.160, Speaker A: For BTC. And now they have a massive BTC war chest, I think hundreds of thousands of BTC. And ERC is a completely failed project. And they didn't even try to be honest. They didn't even use their war chest to do this. Um, so there's a lot of these chains out there, there's a lot of investors that are involved with these ecosystems that are doing that, that are taking their profits to BTC or ETH at the end of the day. And I think that it's, it's quite gross.
00:10:05.160 - 00:10:35.058, Speaker A: Right. And this is why I tend to tend to warn against people following people into things, especially when these kind of, like, funds get into rounds. Much, sorry, getting to the coin or token much earlier than you will like, much, much earlier. And, you know, by the time it hits market, the valuation's already in the multi billions. But they invested when the valuation was like 100 million or less. And basically, yes, maybe they have vesting, but, but still, there are ways around that for the bigger players. They can kind of hedge their positions and things like that.
00:10:35.058 - 00:11:22.760, Speaker A: So for the casual retail investor, it doesn't pay really to follow people. I don't, I don't follow these kind of like, big, big people into things. But I mean, you know, there, that there are exceptions to the rule where if you followed kind of like, funds into things, you made a lot of money. There's no denying that a lot of the early buyers of kind of like, Solana last year have made a lot of money because you could buy it for a couple of dollars or a dollar or whatever last year, and if you held it till now, you made, I think, 150 x or something like that on your money. So, yeah, I mean, there's still profit to be had here, but normally when, you know, it gets up to, like, the mania phase and, like, everyone's shilling it, I don't know, I just feel like it's not a really great time to jump into these things. But that's from the kind of investment perspective, from the technology perspective, I just think that there's a lot of vested interests in these layer ones now. I'm kind of like, trying to get them to succeed because there's a lot of money floating around.
00:11:22.760 - 00:11:54.132, Speaker A: There's a lot of people kind of betting their not, not the careers, but like, betting kind of like their social kind of like alignment on it and everything like that. And they're gonna, I guess, like, just tune out this modular blockchain stuff for a while until it just is too much for them to handle. And then a few of them will make pivots, a few of them will change their, their minds. A lot of this happened with Ethereum, actually. So all throughout, kind of like the bear market, there are a lot of people who basically said that Ethereum was dead, it was a failed project. All these other kind of glare ones are gonna kill it and all these sorts of things. And the Ethereum killer term basically came from there.
00:11:54.132 - 00:12:33.440, Speaker A: As I said, eos was a major one, but there were a lot of other as well. Um, but that all ended up being bullshit. And now the same people who were saying those things are actually embracing Ethereum, investing in its ecosystem, which I, it's kind of like a pet, pet peeve for me. I really hate how some of the people who really spread a lot of fight about Ethereum are now kind of like pretty active within the Ethereum community and actually getting access to various kind of like investment deals. It kind of like annoys me pretty, pretty heavily because at the end of the day, there are plenty of people within the Ethereum ecosystem that are really great actors. They don't get access to this stuff and, you know, never lost hope and basically have, have stuck with ethereum for the long term. And it just, it kind of sucks, right? But it is what it is.
00:12:33.440 - 00:13:24.188, Speaker A: There's unfortunately not much to do there, but, you know, I still think the same is going to happen with the modular blockchain kind of paradigm and the L2s. Is that all the people that have been fighting L2s for the last year or two saying that, oh, it breaks composability, it's too complicated, it's, it's stupid. It's actually going to be like a multi chain world and, or there's going to be this chain that does everything at layer one. No, I think over the next couple of years we're going to see people pivot pretty heavily when they see the writing on the wall, especially when it comes to zero knowledge, kind of like technology, like ZK roll ups and stuff like that. The scalability gains are just too intense, the technology is just too amazing for people to ignore it. And that information gap's going to close. I mean, as I said, as I said before, Polynya pioneered it, right? They guys, I guess like pioneered the term, the terminology, the education around it.
00:13:24.188 - 00:13:52.574, Speaker A: I'm carrying the message as far as I can. Bankless guys are as well. And you're going to see more and more people kind of talking about this as time goes on and more and more people kind of like shift the narrative as well and realize that this is a paradigm shift. It doesn't happen often within crypto, but, you know, it truly happened. Like, everyone calls everything a paradigm shift. But right now I think that there's only been so I think in history there's only been a few paradigm shifts. I think that bitcoin started, it obviously was a very big paradigm shift.
00:13:52.574 - 00:14:18.390, Speaker A: Ethereum next, because it came and introduced kind of like smart contracts, after that was defi. Definitely a huge paradigm shift. Took finance from zero to one. Nfts, I would argue as well, daos and kind of like other stuff I don't think have had their, their kind of like paradigm shift moment just yet. Maybe they will eventually, but not yet. But then L2 stuff like roll ups. Definitely a paradigm shift when it comes to scaling and modular blockchains and how that all glues together.
00:14:18.390 - 00:14:51.936, Speaker A: So hasn't been many of them in crypto before, but I would, I would say that and proof of stake as well, I think, is a major paradigm shift too. But yeah, there haven't been, hasn't been many of that through the years and they don't come often. That's why I get so excited when I see a new one because I try my best not to assign kind of like too much weight to, to kind of like things that people are showing as a paradigm shift but aren't really. But when I see one that I actually truly believe in, like the modular blockchain architecture, I go as hard as I can on it. As you guys have noticed on the refuel. It's all I've been able to talk about for the last couple months, but you'll be hearing a lot more about that. But anyway, I'm going to leave it at that.
00:14:51.936 - 00:15:19.868, Speaker A: I've got a lot more to get through today. So the Polygon Pos chain has hit the 100 million unique address milestone. So this is huge. I mean, it's funny, like disclosure, I'm an advisor to Polygon, but it's funny because people have been fighting polygon like they fight Ethereum, where they're like, oh, you know, the pos chain is useless. It's not a real L2, it's just a side chain, whatever, blah, blah, blah. But I mean, it just keeps growing. They have so much growth, not just with kind of like on the unique address front, but on the active addresses.
00:15:19.868 - 00:15:53.606, Speaker A: NFTs, they got a lot of NFt activity on there. They've got a lot of defi activity on there. I'm going to talk about something that went live on there, actually, today, which is pretty exciting. And it's acted as a really, really great way to keep people within the ethereum ecosystem instead of going to kind of like these other more hostile kind of side chains, these EVM side chains. And it's worked to give people the Ethereum experience with cheap fees. Now, I know that it doesn't have the, you know, ethereum security and decentralization, of course, but it at least has kind of like Ethereum social layer. Now, of course, Polygon isn't just the pos chain, right.
00:15:53.606 - 00:16:42.672, Speaker A: They have a bunch of other solutions, uh, hermes, and they're working on other ZK stuff. So, um, you know, all that stuff is really exciting, but I mean, it's just great to see that the pos chain is still giving people that, that kind of like, can't afford Ethereum l one fees, a way to experience, uh, have a similar experience to Ethereum l one without that, without the high fees there. But yeah, so very important to kind of like realize what it is and what it isn't. And I'm just really, really happy to see that. But I guess the next thing on Polygon that I want to talk about that I alluded to, was that there is a project that launched on the pos chain called Tesseract, which is the first project that has come from yearns, the Wi Fi combinator, I guess like yearns little, kind of, um, little incubator. Um, and as I said, their new new early stage incubator. And it leverages the expertise amassed at yearn to bring the best yields to a wider audience.
00:16:42.672 - 00:17:45.202, Speaker A: So tesseract finance is basically a fork of yearn from, from, from what I understand, but like a friendly fork where it's kind of like, let's launch kind of this thing on Polygon, let's put some, some different branding on it, and let's bring the kind of like yearn experience to polygon, which is awesome because, you know, when it comes to, to products like yearn that offer kind of like a yield on stable coins, like yield chases. If you don't, if you don't, if you only have like $1,000 or less, doing this on layer one is not going to work for you. You're going to spend $50 to $100 just to get into this. And if you're earning 10% on your stable coins, well, it's going to take you a whole year just to make your gas fees back, right? Six months to a year just to make those gas fees back. If you're spending $50 to $100 whereas on, on, um, on on on like on polygon where the fees are obviously dirt cheap, it's going to be basically maybe a dot, a couple dollars, not even, not even a couple of dollars in fees, probably much less than that. So it enables much less kind of like capital to earn a yield as well. And obviously, as I said before, it is different to Ethereum because it's the pos chain, it's a side chain.
00:17:45.202 - 00:18:25.914, Speaker A: But still, I mean what would you guys rather that like people go to these competitor networks and get, you know, and those networks that are, that are truly, really, really crappy and you know, totally kind of like centralized and, and not friendly to Ethereum and have no plans of becoming like an l two. All going on the POS chain where the devs have kind of signaled that they would love the POS chain to turn into a roll up one day or at least migrate people to it, to a roll up that's, that's fully secured by aetherium. So. And you know, you're also supporting against the Polygon team which are building L2s on a theorem as well. So cool to see this. You can go check out this blog post. It'll be linked in the YouTube description and you know, to get all the details of what's happening there.
00:18:25.914 - 00:19:09.082, Speaker A: So another kind of like release out of the Ethereum name service today. So they've released a new metadata service for EnS names with a major refresh of the NFT images and metadata. This allows a much wider range of data to be displayed, including enabling the user to have some control over it for their name. So you know, you may have seen in this screenshot here how basically all the Ens name kind of like nfts were just like this jpeg with like a name and a blue background behind like the ENS branding behind it. Now you, you can basically have more control over it. You can actually have like your crypto punk in the background as you can see here, Nick ETH in the foreground, crypto punk in the background. And you know, you can, you can use kind of basically any, any NFT I think, to do this, which is really cool.
00:19:09.082 - 00:19:44.718, Speaker A: And you can do this with emojis as well, which is, which is awesome. So I mean this is great. This is kind of like the things that people may not get like too excited about, but it's like a massive quality of kind of life, quality of service, life improvement for people, you know, with, with their nes names and you know, it's actually been really encouraging to see how much attention Ens has gotten lately and how much goodwill they seem to have. It's just such. I mean, I've mentioned this before, it's just such a, like, core Ethereum protocol and project, and it's just so Ethereum. Like, it's quintessential Ethereum at the end of the day, and they're just shipping updates like, like crazy. They're doing a lot of stuff.
00:19:44.718 - 00:20:18.564, Speaker A: Obviously, we're signing with Ethereum. There's just so much happening in the Ens kind of like, ecosystem that I'm, I'm, I'm super excited about it, but I'm also really excited about this as well. I haven't actually set my NFT as my avatar yet, but I should. Maybe my, one of my profile pictures that I've kind of rotated through should be my NFT avatar. Definitely got to get on that probably after I record this, but yeah, really, really cool. And I think this also supports l two s as well, or it will in the future. You can see here, like, optimism L2, and kind of like they mentioned here that with our upcoming l two options for records and top domains.
00:20:18.564 - 00:20:58.164, Speaker A: So, yeah, cool to see them thinking about l two s as well. So Trent van amps has put together a new dune analytics dashboard that shows how much type two transactions save under 1559 or ERP 1559. Now, as I've mentioned before, type two transactions are basically ERP 1559 style transactions. And currently, I guess when I looked at the dashboard, I think it's like 52% of all transactions are type two. So there's still a lot that aren't, and especially on exchanges. And that's what Trent is basically kind of talking about here. He's saying that exchanges and wallets, you and your users, lose ETH by not upgrading to 1559 style transactions because they are overpaying by using legacy transactions.
00:20:58.164 - 00:21:37.306, Speaker A: Because what happens is that in the legacy transaction, ETH is still burnt, of course, but you don't get the refund. So if you actually set, like, too high of a gas fee, you don't actually get the refund back like you do with EIP 1559 style transactions. So you essentially overpay for your transaction when using type one transact. Sorry, I should say type zero transactions. So, yeah, this dashboard is just meant to help people kind of like, visualize this and help get more and more exchanges and wallets on board to save their users. Ethan, I remember I mentioned the other day, Coinbase put out a blog post saying how much they had saved. I think they saved like 9% on average for kind of like withdrawals from their exchange by using 1559 style transactions.
00:21:37.306 - 00:22:09.012, Speaker A: That's actually a massive saving for Coinbase. Right? Because Coinbase trend Coinbase on, I guess, like, processes so many of these transactions for their users, and they pass these savings on to their users as well. Well, so really, really awesome to, to see that. And great for of Trent to put together this dashboard. Definitely go check it out and encourage your favorite exchange and wallet to enable 1559 style transactions if they aren't yet. And to tell if they are aren't. You could actually go like, to a transaction that you've done, um, and kind of like you're on Etherscan and it'll tell you if it's like a type zero or type two.
00:22:09.012 - 00:22:46.260, Speaker A: If it's a type two, it's a 1559 style transaction. It's all good. If it's type zero, well, it means they're still using legacy transactions. You should definitely encourage them to upgrade. All right, so what we've all been waiting for, hop protocol now supports ETH for arbitram. So now you can basically, I think not just for arbitrary, but also for kind of like other networks here, but essentially you can now, as you can see in the image above, you can go, you can basically go from ETH mainnet to Arbitrum and you get ETH on either side. Or we like, it doesn't just go like, you know, you, you kind of like set, send ETH in and then you get wrapped ETH on the other end.
00:22:46.260 - 00:23:29.252, Speaker A: You get ETH or you send wrapped ethan and you get wrapped ETH on the other end, which is really cool. Kind of like removes that kind of like intermediate step of having to wrap and unwrap ethanol, that sort of stuff there. So, yeah, this has been a long time coming, I've been talking about over the last couple of weeks, but it's finally live, which is awesome. So, yeah, if you're interested in kind of like getting kind of like fast deposits and withdrawals into, into and out of arbitrum, definitely check out hop and you'll be able to do so there. And, you know, I guess, like, I got a bit of time here, so I wanted to talk about bridges more generally, just for a sec. Um, there's been a lot of discussion about bridges, and I've linked to some blog posts in the daily grade discord channel before that. I suggest people, um, people read, but I do want to reiterate that not all bridges are created equal.
00:23:29.252 - 00:24:09.362, Speaker A: And then when we talk about bridges, I was actually talking to someone about this today, um, on, on a call. The term bridge is actually, uh, misleading to an extent, because when you think of a bridge, right? You think of like a real life bridge. When you cross that bridge, you're, you know, you start in one position and you end up in another. Whereas with a lot of bridges within kind of like the crypto ecosystem, your funds are actually just locked in a smart contract. Your funds don't, don't kind of like leave that network or, and bridge over to another one. For a perfect example here, when you go to the polygon pos chain, your funds on Ethereum aren't like, you know, kind of like deleted on Ethereum. They are put into this, kind of like, uh, into this smart contract.
00:24:09.362 - 00:25:00.402, Speaker A: And then the smart contract is controlled by a multi sig, five of seven multisig, and then those assets accredited to you on the polygon pos chain. Now, if for some reason that multi seq was to become compromised or there was like a bug in it or whatever, though, the funds on the pos chain would cease to be worth anything because of the fact that they, the assets kind of like backing it, so to speak, was still on Ethereum, still in that, that kind of like, smart contract. So bridge, you know, is really kind of like a misleading term for a lot of these sorts of things. There are actual bridges, some of these things where they actually do kind of like lock the tokens on the parent chain and kind of like mint them on another chain. And the only way to unlock them is for the end user to do it themselves. There's no kind of like, smart contract. There's no, sorry, there's no, like, smart contract with the multisig or anything like that.
00:25:00.402 - 00:25:46.466, Speaker A: There's just kind of like the user having to lock and unlock on either end, but even still, like, it's technically not. Not kind of like the same kind of like bridging that we're used to, or at least that we know of in real life, where essentially, like, you exist at the start of the bridge. Then when you cross the bridge, you exist at the end of the bridge. You know, it's not like you lock yourself at the start of the bridge and, like, clone yourself to the, to the end of the bridge, and then you can, you can kind of, like, at the start of the bridge, you can't move until you kind of unlock yourself. But maybe something happens where someone just pushes you over and you've moved, right? Like maybe there's an exploit in one of these kind of like bridging contracts and, and something, and that means that kind of like those funds is kind of like where that they're secured. So it's important to keep those things in mind. And as I said, there's a few blog posts that discuss this.
00:25:46.466 - 00:26:27.856, Speaker A: I can't remember the exact names, name of them, but I'm sure if you search, like, crypto bridge protocols or Ethereum bridge protocols, you'll be able to come up with this, the kind of like reading material on this. Or you can hop into the Discord channel and I'll, and I'll link it to, you can just ask me there. But yeah, it's very, very important to kind of like, realize the differences between them because not only for, I guess, like decentralization, but mostly for security, because you really want to know where your funds are at all times. You don't want to have to kind of be like, oh, and I bridged across the polygon. But wait, why do my funds kind of, like, why are my funds gone? Like, what happened? And you don't even realize that the funds actually were gone on the Ethereum main chain. So, and this doesn't just apply to polygon. I'm just using them as an example.
00:26:27.856 - 00:27:15.026, Speaker A: It applies to everything, everything that you bridge in and out of all the other chains, all the other EVM side chains, L2s as well. Like, if for some reason the bridge contract on the L2 is a multi sig or it's kind of like upgradable, which I think, I'm not sure if the bridges are, but a lot of these l two s are upgradable. Well, then you're going to have the kind of like, risks there, of course. So I always, like, kind of like reminding people of the risks no matter what, what it is, whether it's like bridging or just defi generally or anything really within crypto, because I don't, I don't think enough people do. And we see kind of like projects exploited all the time, bugs in code all the time that lead to massive losses. So this isn't just a hypothetical, this is reality. And I don't want to scare people off from using these sorts of tools, but you definitely don't want to kind of like, use them blindly.
00:27:15.026 - 00:27:51.306, Speaker A: You want to be aware of the risks and be comfortable with them so that you can have, like, a better experience here. But yeah, I guess that that's just a bit more color on bridges. The last thing to talk about was that there's a new version of Go Ethereum geth version 1.10.10 is five now out. It fixes a few annoyances in the last version found right after the release, which is why they also didn't announce that last version. So if you're running the go a theorem clock, go Ethereum or geth full node clients, definitely go download the latest version of it and update your, your client software here. But I think on that note, I'm probably going to end today's video there.
00:27:51.306 - 00:28:17.244, Speaker A: Actually, I will give a reminder that the daily way Ama is tomorrow in the Discord Channel. I said it was tomorrow yesterday, but it's actually tomorrow being Saturday at 11:00 p.m. Australian eastern daylight time, whatever time that is for you. I believe it is very early morning us time. So east coast and west coast and central time, like just all around really early morning. And for Europe it's kind of like afternoon. And obviously for Asia, it is going to be evening.
00:28:17.244 - 00:28:44.312, Speaker A: I think there. I think there's actually going to be another daylight savings change that happens this coming weekend, like on the Sunday for, for the US. So it's actually going to push it back even further. So I'm thinking of maybe kind of like rejigging the time of the AMA to kind of like be basically either 1212 to 14 hours, kind of like before. Like before. So it'd be like 12:00 p.m. Australian eastern daylight time instead of 11:00 p.m.
00:28:44.312 - 00:29:10.060, Speaker A: But I'm going to have to work that out because I want to be able to make it accessible for people to kind of like come onto the AMA in real time. But at the same time, you can ask your questions in the AMA series channel and I'll answer them. And the whole thing's recorded anyway, so maybe it's not a big deal. But yeah, I'm going to try and work around that because, you know, every six months, kind of like daylight savings changes, always screws up the timing of everything, unfortunately. But yeah, I'm going to leave it at that for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:29:10.060 - 00:29:19.644, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Oh, tomorrow on the AMA. If you're joining tomorrow. If not, next week's refuel. Thanks, everyone.
