00:00:00.200 - 00:00:25.742, Speaker A: Fractionalized equity, which was seen as awful. The federal institutions at the time tried to ban that and resist that. That eventually went on to become our stock market. The Dow, the Nasdaq, 401 ks, modern financial system, greatest wealth creation for individuals. It's like our initial reaction from federal regulators and government institutions was to try to ban the company. The limited liability company, fractionalize equity. Who needs it? We already have property rights.
00:00:25.742 - 00:00:30.534, Speaker A: The same arguments you hear. We tried to ban that. That didn't work much to our systems benefit.
00:00:31.114 - 00:01:05.570, Speaker B: This episode is brought to you by carbon. Carbon is a new dex on Ethereum that makes concentrated liquidity super easy. With Carbon Lp's can now automate your liquidity strategy with custom on chain limit and range orders, all from a beautiful UI. Check out Carbon today for unprecedented control over your liquidity. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Empire. I woke up this morning, my wife looked at me, she said, you're in a really good mood today. I said, yeah, I get to record a history podcast with Josh Rosenthal.
00:01:05.570 - 00:02:02.968, Speaker B: So I'm very excited about this. Today, we are going to take a break from a lot of the noise, right? A lot of the surface level conversations around price action and regulatory mechanisms and what typically powers your crypto news feed. And I'd like to with Josh here, this might be a longer episode. Take a step back and highlight kind of how we got here. And I'm not talking since ETH launched in 2015 or Bitcoin launched in 2009. I am talking several hundred years, how we got here. And specifically what I'd like to try to do in this conversation is look at this specific subject of crypto in a historical context and put it in the light of this fight between institutional hegemony and decentralized generations and the experience of the participants, both from in times of the Renaissance to the American Revolution to today, right, in 2023.
00:02:02.968 - 00:02:39.600, Speaker B: And I think we'll be talking about some kind of crazy historical things here. And I'd invite you to suspend your thoughts of what you think crypto is and what we're doing here. An 18 month bear market, get that out of your head. And I think if we do our job right, hopefully the conclusion and the takeaway here is that in the long run, Optimus went out on the long enough time horizon and that we are fighting for something much bigger than yourself here. And I don't think that's aspirational thinking, and I think Josh agrees with that. But I think we can kind of back up that claim with some, some historical precedents. So, Josh, shall we?
00:02:39.792 - 00:03:26.676, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely not. Not a lot of people, I don't mean to out you on a pod, but not a lot of people may be aware that you're actually a historian by training. So it's. We're going to do a bit of role reversal today. Jason's actually not just an entrepreneur, but, like, historical background rebellion and human experiences and revolutionary movements, and, like, not faint flattery. Like, I think you have one of the best perspectives, multidisciplinary vantage points on the space from macro to media to markets collectively. And I'm going to be saying some things outside the historian's hat, and that's partially drawing on some background I usually don't talk about, which was work at the Sarvans Institute for Advanced Studies around complex systems as an entrepreneur, an EY entrepreneur of the year, with repeat exits in AI, natural language processing, which is like a subset of LLM, sold to a spin out.
00:03:26.676 - 00:03:34.556, Speaker A: And so we're going to be kind of switching roles and kicking it back and forth. So it may be a little bit more fluid than people are used to. Hope that's okay. To out you on your pod if.
00:03:34.580 - 00:03:58.356, Speaker B: You think that I'm a good historian. I'm glad to hear that my late night Wikipedia rabbit holes have fooled you into thinking that I'm a historian. Really, I'm just good at repeating whatever Wikipedia tells me on my. On my rabbit holes. But, Josh, maybe if you could. We did this episode maybe a year and a half ago or two. I forget when it exactly was on the renaissance and the link between the Renaissance and crypto.
00:03:58.356 - 00:04:08.940, Speaker B: So maybe we could frame this conversation by going back to the renaissance as just a starting off point, if that sounds good to you. Or do you have somewhere else that you want to take this?
00:04:09.092 - 00:04:25.812, Speaker A: Yeah, maybe. Yeah, that seems like decades ago, given recent events. Honestly. Maybe, yeah, let's start there. And maybe even before we get into that, we set it up just a little bit. And your audience and macro audiences love the fourth turning by Neil Howe. Everyone's heard of that book.
00:04:25.812 - 00:05:01.190, Speaker A: And it's this idea around every four generations, you have this tumultuousness and recreation of society, and people go nuts for that. And that's true. That's not wrong. But every four generations, it's a smaller scale. Like, really how I see history is with these mega turnings or mega waves instead of just ripples on the surface every three or 500 years. And that's largely a function of tech outpacing institutions. And so the model I kind of think about for the renaissance, as we get into that, is really like an ocean.
00:05:01.190 - 00:05:52.214, Speaker A: And there's ripples on the surface with kind of immediate current events, and then there's kind of deeper flows which are these generational turnings, and there are these really deep currents or jet streams that, you know, create these megawaves. And so it kind of, it kind of gets us into, like, what drives history? Is it generations? Is it demography? I, you know, it's not just one thing, but I see technology as a key driver. And specifically, like the social use or the mechanism or interface with a spectrum of different kinds of technology, like between coordination and automation. And usually when you hear historians talk about technology or people on your Twitter feed, they're saying, hey, text neutral, it can be used for good or bad. But that's not the way I think about it. I think different types of technology have different drivers embedded in them, values in the architecture and social impact. And there's kind of two ways to think about it in terms of the spectrum.
00:05:52.214 - 00:07:04.714, Speaker A: There's decentralized technology with communities generating versus centralized technology with institutions compiling. And so history kind of moves back and forth, like this pendulum on a grandfather clock, basically, or a metronome going back and forth. Maybe it's thesis and antithesis or synthesis, or maybe it ratchets in a direction and it goes back and forth between centralization and decentralization and as it interfaces with a sociocultural mix. And so we're going to go through a lot of stuff from the renaissance into today, not just crypto, but touch on some pieces of AI. That's why I mentioned some of my background with those technology companies. The reason why I want to draw attention to that is crypto is really this way to prevent recentralization and ensure there's widespread decentralized technology. We're going to look at visibility into the creation, you're going to have visibility into the sausage making, which makes some people uncomfortable, but it's a unique opportunity versus building in public against a black box model and also this long tail of distribution for small businesses and economically viable creation, like not just coins but different business models.
00:07:04.714 - 00:07:58.814, Speaker A: And then we'll also talk about crypto as the solving, the zero to one mode of centralization. Like, how do you break through that aggregation? And so that's like, disclaimer, disclaimer, disclaimer, my model of what drives history. So just in a minute, to recap, like the Renaissance, I see it as one of those mega unlocks or those like big waves, like a tsunami. And the thesis basically goes and that was my PhD was in late medieval and renaissance, transition between those two worlds. And really what I see driving history is communities using technology, not just any technology, but this decentralized technology. And there's a series of technologies that came in waves. Double entry bookkeeping, or ledger based accounting with credit and debit, was radical, and it unlocked finance from doing centralized reconciliation and increased, you know, a series of financial products.
00:07:58.814 - 00:08:27.928, Speaker A: It meant that you didn't have to stay on a farm and be subservient to someone, as, you know, a common laborer. You could actually have access to capital through someone else besides an authoritative institution that wouldn't give you access to that and set up your own shop. And historians talk about that as the birth of capitalism or proto mercantilism. How would you know about that if you were on a farm? Well, simultaneously, there was another decentralized communication protocol. It was called print. And print's a little bit more nebulous. The printing press, it wasn't just text, it was images.
00:08:27.928 - 00:08:57.516, Speaker A: There's aspects of the web where you can create things, and you have the birth of mass media. The theoreticians, like McLuhan, love talking. The modern media people see the birth of modern media as beginning with Luther and Gutenberg. There's aspects of crypto as well, where you actually own it, the things you're creating, instead of just right, there's ownership, and you have control over that ownership as well. And there's a little bit of synthetic. It opened up synthetic worlds. You suspended disbelief in terms of where you were physically.
00:08:57.516 - 00:09:33.636, Speaker A: You went somewhere else. You lost track of time and space. You went into a universe next to you, a meta universe, and you came back with knowledge, and it was this bi directional doorway. There's also some aspects where print is not unlike AI, where it's a different type of synthetic nature, and there were mix ups and mashups, and it took on a life of its own, which was why printer's marks and proof of humanity and authorship in the data trail and breadcrumbs became ever important. So communities used a new financial protocol and a new print protocol, and they basically transform the world. Their world was fundamentally hierarchical. And I don't just mean church, and I just don't mean nobility.
00:09:33.636 - 00:10:38.270, Speaker A: I mean, they had a series of permissions over their entire life where they could go, what they could say could, whether or not they could own certain things, whether they could communicate ideas, and how they identified themselves. You know, did they identify themselves as belonging to a certain group, or were they belonging to someone else? And they didn't have control over that, which sounds crazy to us today, but in many ways, we're in the same boat. It was only with the advent of this unlock of value ledger, being crypto, today, this unlock of communication, being web AI or crypto, and identity, the ability to choose the other, it didn't occur to them until that point, which sounds like madness, but the ability to take your money was impossible until even if you couldn't read and write, you had a little ledger, and you scribbled out things, and you could go on your own. The idea to occur never occurred to you because it was like you're a fish swimming in this water. And the idea of choosing something other was completely unimaginable. And so with these technologies, they literally recreated their world. We call it a renaissance, which means a rebirth of the world as we know it.
00:10:38.270 - 00:11:14.290, Speaker A: And largely that was a function of this advent of using these tools for different community formation, the advent of meaningful pluralism and capitalism. You know, not capitalism in the sense of crony capitalism or aggregating as much of the pie as you can, but this idea of generative capitalism striking out, hanging a shingle for yourself, and not a zero sum game, but giving you optionality. You could stay on the farm if you wanted to, but now you could do something else. And that choice was radical. It unlocked awareness. And the key thing I'd like people to take away is that it was only obvious after the fact. People didn't know they were locked up until it was opened.
00:11:14.290 - 00:11:39.870, Speaker A: There's modern analogs you can use today. You think you can spend your money, your credit card company may turn off payment to a crypto conference, or your stock account is an IOU, or something can get seized, or communication. You can get deplatformed. But it goes deeper than that. There's still mobile devices and broadcast layers. And this idea of identity, being able to choose something other than what's predetermined for you, is just absolutely radical. So it sounds super cool.
00:11:39.870 - 00:11:55.204, Speaker A: It sounds like, oh, that'd be great. I wish I were back there. I would have boldly stepped out into history. The experience of that moment was anything but. Was anything but what you wanted to be in. It was volatile. Their money was worth something and not worth something.
00:11:55.204 - 00:12:17.156, Speaker A: It was indetermined. Their world as they knew it, all the institutions that controlled who they were, what they could say, what they could think, what they could share, how they identified themselves generationally over millennia. It was all crumbling. They literally thought their world was ending. And at that moment, the next chapter the recreation. The renaissance wasn't obvious. All they saw was chaos and confusion.
00:12:17.156 - 00:12:39.996, Speaker A: This is literally thought their world was ending. And so, for the participants, the next generation wasn't. The next thing wasn't obvious. It wasn't visible, because it was beyond themselves. And so the people who chose to participate in these movements were seen as the revolutionaries and change makers. They're seen as crazies or zealots. Martin Luther or Erasmus, they were seen as heretics.
00:12:39.996 - 00:13:06.452, Speaker A: George Washington, an american revolutionary, was labeled a trader. Jefferson, an anti federalist and anarchist. The whiskey rebels will get into appalachian hillbillies just like today's current crypto bros and shadowy supercoders. This is kind of what you expect. And, like, at that time, the institutional reaction is always to tamp it down. And the shift from medieval to Renaissance, they tried to KYC printing, and, like, it didn't work. The technology was generative.
00:13:06.452 - 00:13:37.492, Speaker A: It had a life of its own. The harder they squeezed, the more it went through their fingers. It went to other geographies. And then they were faced with a choice. Do they cut themselves off from that, or do they engage it? And as their enemies and adversaries engaged in it, they had no choice but to do that as well and thereby legitimize it. That's kind of how it tends to work out historically. And it's just worth noting that the initial reaction is always to clamp down on it, and it always seems like that's going to win in that historical moment, because the aggregated institutions have a structural advantage.
00:13:37.492 - 00:13:41.738, Speaker A: And so that's the Renaissance theory of crypto in a nutshell.
00:13:41.876 - 00:14:13.584, Speaker B: All right, that was a doozy, Josh. So I want to almost like, I want to contextualize that for a second, but also say that if anyone wants to really double click on the Renaissance crypto connection, we recorded an hour and a half podcast on that that they should go listen to. The TLDR of Renaissance. Of the Renaissance is 99.9% of people lived in this permissioned world. But you don't realize that you live in a permissioned world until your world becomes permissionless, and until the world unlocks. And there were these two great unlocks of, really, the Renaissance.
00:14:13.584 - 00:14:52.026, Speaker B: It was the printing press and double entry bookkeeping, and those two things basically unwound the hierarchy of society. So if anyone wants to go deeper into that, I'd recommend this podcast. We'll link it in the show notes. But now I want to move on to the next big topic, which is the american extension of the Renaissance. And it kind of ties in with this thesis that, yeah, every 80 years, you have the fourth turning, et cetera, et cetera. But it's really every 300 to 400 or 500 years, you have technology that outpaces society and kind of breaks institutions. And the next big time that that happened was the 17 hundreds.
00:14:52.026 - 00:15:10.574, Speaker B: You have the French Revolution, the American Revolution, you have the haitian revolution, you have all these revolutions going on, and they're all tied together. But maybe we can focus on these, like, let's just talk about these global rebellions in general that start happening kind of starting in the 17th century, but really moving into the end of the 18th century. Why don't you take us there?
00:15:10.994 - 00:15:41.394, Speaker A: Yeah. So you can really think of if history is ticking and talking. After the Renaissance, there's a reaggregation or recumulation of power. Basically, that's where you get into the rise of the nation state and where your identity was again forced on you as being a member of this specific geography and state. You were again born into. That again unwinds in this kind of pendulum going back and forth. And part of it, when we say american revolution, we're all saying, hey, this is actually a global phenomenon.
00:15:41.394 - 00:16:34.464, Speaker A: It's not just american centric in the sense, it's a continuation of the Renaissance. Once you have unlocked your identity to choose what you want to do, your vocation, not have to be a farmer or a smith, you can choose, and particularly the idea of creating capital for yourself as an entrepreneur, in that sense of being a small business owner for yourself and others. And there's a whole background where previously the meaningful stuff was holy and that was being locked away in a monastery. And now you could be out in the world, benefiting yourself and your neighbor, using these new financial tools, these new communication protocols, exercising self determination, having a vocation, doing it through print, choosing your identity, that's very tough to take away from people once that's out of the box. So as you have power, reaggregating and reaccumulating. Even very early on, there was a series of attempts to fight this reaggregation, starting through the Renaissance. And these revolutions take different forms.
00:16:34.464 - 00:16:57.468, Speaker A: So when we say us, us was part of, Americans view it as being a us revolution, but as part of a global phenomenon. Even the american revolution was global in nature. And so you have different revolutions in different forms. Sometimes they're bottom up, sometimes they're geographic signs, they're within the system. A lot of that depends on your point of view. The Europeans will say the american revolution wasn't actually a revolution. In the sense of the french revolution.
00:16:57.468 - 00:17:55.500, Speaker A: It wasn't class within the estates. It was a british civil war where the secessionists, meaning the colonies, actually won. So the point of the story is there's different ways of thinking about that, but the idea is that the Renaissance is this global revolution, and immediate after you have this breakup of these institutions and hierarchies, there's this pursuit of unlocked ideas, value, and communication, identity. Immediately after that, you have different flights pursuing religious liberty, starting straight out of the Renaissance with New France and Acadia and Brazil. A lot of these are the losers in history that you tend not to hear so much about. So there's diaspora with the French Huguenots, into New France and Acadia, little known settlements where they're pursuing religious liberty and civil rights from as early as the 16th century into Brazil with Nicolas Durand and these small islands where the imperial French and Portuguese are crushing them. The Huguenots are fighting with indigenous peoples, Tumango people and Taimao people.
00:17:55.500 - 00:18:20.804, Speaker A: And like, this culminates in a series of what we call the wars of religion, you know, throughout the 16th century. And that's kind of bad press. It wasn't just about religion. It was really religion was their identity. And their ability as being part of that group they identified with to pursue their own economic vocation was forbidden to them, as well as talking about matter, you know, through communication. So. So it was a series of ongoing, off again physical wars, you know, eight of them.
00:18:20.804 - 00:19:02.656, Speaker A: And it ultimately culminated in the end of the 16th century, beginning of the 17th century, with this edict of Nantes, which was the first very fully realized federated federal checks and balances, political infrastructure, which was a blueprint for a lot of what happened in the american revolution. And it guaranteed religious liberty and civil liberty aside from flight. But, you know, internally, for those people, property and finance, vocation and jobs, ability to print and communicate freely, worship freely, it legitimized their identity as a dissenting group and had checks and balances for overreach. And that. That blueprint was a lot of those people. The blueprint was very much taken up into the american revolution. As we talked about.
00:19:02.656 - 00:19:31.016, Speaker A: It wasn't just american, it was global by its nature. And it wasn't just about tea. Again, it was, you know, being in a colony and saying, it's not just taxation without representation in terms of political ideology. It was very pragmatic. It was, you know, get your hand out of my pocket. And so everyone knows the main ideas behind that, but it was a global experience. France, one of the reasons why the american revolution succeeded was because we had international support from France and from the Netherlands and from Spain.
00:19:31.016 - 00:20:14.232, Speaker A: And so it was one way to look at it as one of the very first world wars. And largely that was around the pursuit of these Renaissance ideas that you were literally reading when you read the participants. It's back to Weber and the protestant work ethic spirit of american capitalism. It's a little cliche, but pursuing these ideas that you had the ability to strike out and benefit yourself as well as others, were what we considered inalienable rights. That was a geographic revolution. Next up is a french revolution, which is very much class and bottom up, but following the blueprint of the wars of religion and the American Revolution. And that's well known in terms of how people think about that.
00:20:14.232 - 00:21:33.430, Speaker A: But there's a series of other revolutions of oppressed and marginalized people. Haitian revolution is one of the better ones, where everybody's rebelling against the same thing that we saw with the transition from medieval to renaissance, this imposed limitation of value. What can you own? Are you an object? Are you a person? Communication? Can you share these ideas freely? And, like, how can you identify? Are you something? Are you someone? And if you're someone, do you have rights of being able to express ideas, own things, and identify as part of a group? Is it legitimate or not? And so that's one lens to look at all the caribbean haitian rebellions. The point of the story here isn't to get lost in the details, but the core takeaway is that as you have a reaccumulation of power, there's now that this has been unlocked, the ability to have self sovereignty over owning things, being able to share ideas, and being able to select what group you have allegiance, and demand that that's legitimized, that's very difficult to take away. And when you try to cramp, clamp that down again, you naturally have a series of global rebellions. And we generally kind of divide up american history into kind of rebellions and revolutions versus american history proper with this great experiment. But the american revolution wasn't a one time thing.
00:21:33.430 - 00:21:58.986, Speaker A: It wasn't 1776. And then done. Those revolutions and rebellions took on different forms, and we had a series of them. And american history is largely defined by that, that great debate and that continuing fight. Just the nature of the rebellion changed. Instead of becoming territorial versus british, it was an ongoing fight again over the exact same things. Taxation without representation, whiskey rebellion, the fluid nature of the fed against charter and revoked regulators.
00:21:58.986 - 00:22:27.694, Speaker A: The idea of always improving and building in the sandbox and that kind of takes us into the next chapter of this renaissance. Inalienable rights, being able to choose, controlling your own stuff and your own ideas and then resisting reaggregation. And then. So what does it look like in terms of, like, the american experiment? After that, it didn't go away. The rebellion and revolution was ongoing. It happened within very specific structures, and we can go through a few of those if you'd like. But it's all the same thread.
00:22:27.994 - 00:23:25.344, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I think it's interesting to actually just think about the similarities between the Renaissance and the american revolution, right. One, like, just hearing you talk about this, the biggest thing that comes to mind is this emphasis on individualism, right? Like, both periods saw this really strong emphasis on the value and the agency of the individual, right? Renaissance, you see a shift from a focus on the divine to a focus on, like, human potential and really, like, what could you achieve, right? And then you had the american revolution where it emphasized, like, the rights and the liberties of the individuals as foundational to society. So that's the first big thing. Second big thing. Break from tradition, obviously, right? Renaissance marks this break from the medieval period, starts to focus on, like, innovation and rediscovers these ancient texts and, like, new ways of thinking. Then the american revolution you have marks a break from colonial rule and the monarchy, right, and establishes this new form of government centered around democratic principles. That's the second big thing.
00:23:25.344 - 00:23:56.992, Speaker B: I think the third. And these all end up tying into crypto pretty well, right? Like, the third thing is rejection of authority. Obviously, that goes with that being said, like, american revolution rejects the crown, Renaissance rejects the authority of the church. I think you have focus on human rights and dignity. And then I think you also have global impact, right? Like the Renaissance and the. Like, the Renaissance influenced culture and thought throughout all of Europe. And then the american revolution, you have, you don't inspire these movements for independence across the world.
00:23:56.992 - 00:24:17.526, Speaker B: And really had a. I mean, we've seen it like a very long lasting impact on global politics. And I think all of that, if you think about it, like, the global impact, the rejection of authority, this focus on intellectual and cultural flourishing, break from tradition, the emphasis on the individual. It's the exact same thing that crypto is actually fighting for today.
00:24:17.710 - 00:24:50.890, Speaker A: No, we could double click and go down any of these in great detail. The shift from medieval into Renaissance, you know, it's. Divine is off, it's like a quest for the locus of the divine. Like, the divine is off outside the city, it's in the monastery, and with the Renaissance, all of a sudden, it doesn't get rid of the holy thing. It says there's holy, transcendent meaning in the everyday stuff. All of a sudden, locus becomes, like, here and now. What you do, you work to the glory of creator, not just by being a monk, but by being a small businessman or a milkmaid or sweeping.
00:24:50.890 - 00:25:06.104, Speaker A: And you do that to help your neighbor. Like, your neighbor doesn't need your prayers. They need your help, basically. They need a job. They need, like, economic generation. And so that's why you have these ubiquitous fruit bowls. And that idea that's, like, straight line thought throughput to the american founders.
00:25:06.104 - 00:25:30.560, Speaker A: When they talk about city on the hill and all of that imagery, you can write it off as rhetoric, but they believe that that's what they were talking about. Like the idea of an experiment where you actually do this de novo from. Recreate the system. And they did it geographically, which we're doing it globally today. That globally, that global piece. Not to go too far into the details, but the Renaissance, there weren't countries. There were Rizzo.
00:25:30.560 - 00:26:00.544, Speaker A: There were networks, basically, and these decentralized networks of power by patronage and clientage. They were familiarly oriented, which wasn't just by bloodline, but by people who opted into these Rizzo, what would you say? Social networks? This is families. Medici controlling France and Italy and parts of. And Habsburg. So they're trans european. They're transnational, and the fight is triangulation. Enemy of my enemy is my friend.
00:26:00.544 - 00:26:30.634, Speaker A: And so that's why you have different nations jockeying around the same thing with the american revolution. We think of it as purely succession geographically between the colonies and the British, but it's not. It fails without munitions and training and soldiers and naval support from France. It fails without similar things from Spain. It fails without recognition of legitimacy from the Netherlands, which was one of the Renaissance low country hubs. And all of this around what constitutes legitimacy. And it gets down to the idea of inalienable rights.
00:26:30.634 - 00:26:47.090, Speaker A: You aren't born into a thing. And I realize this fails in practice. And you can point all sorts of issues where this isn't consistent. There's egregious abuse of human rights. Trigger warning. Trigger warning, trigger warning. We're going to talk about things that are not good legitimately, but there is a pursuit of what is good.
00:26:47.090 - 00:27:18.854, Speaker A: You aren't born into a holy roman empire by birth. You aren't born into a regime. You can actually impact that regime. And part of the impact is resistance theory, like vindicii contraturanos. All of that political theory from hot men and to Bez and Mornay comes out of those pieces. You have the first civil liberties and religious liberties as marginalized communities coming out of 16th century. And the blueprint for that is largely cut and paste with those same communities that failed in the Carolinas and failed in Maine and failed in Florida.
00:27:18.854 - 00:27:46.734, Speaker A: Hugo, like, they became straight line through to the founding fathers, like, cutting and pasting from that. That's why you have that, like, transatlantic dialogue back and forth bi directionally. Even though we didn't support french revolution as a nation because of geopolitical context, we ideologically. Franklin's saying, this is the best thing I've ever seen. Like, not the bloodshed, but the idea of, you know, not being born into not, not obligation without representation. Another way to frame that as, like, unfair rights. And like, that's.
00:27:46.734 - 00:28:08.406, Speaker A: That's what continues, we tend to think, because you teach this as a professor, you teach this, there's medieval, you're done. There's renaissance, you're done. There's revolution, you're done. And now you're into american history proper. Now you're into current events. And it's like, what's really interesting is the transition between each of those periods. That's where you have those three and 500 year epic shifts, the late medieval to Renaissance.
00:28:08.406 - 00:28:36.534, Speaker A: You're born into a situation. It didn't occur to you you had another choice, and now you could work with, you know, community, using different types of decentralized technology to get out of it. And it didn't unwind something. Yes, it crushed medieval, like hierarchy and hegemony. It recreated at Renaissance what we would call capitalism, and, like, individual pursuit of, you know, call it life, liberty and happiness. Or you can use value, communication, identity, if that's more properly fitting. Same thing yet again, you know, working with the american revolution, it's all part of the same story of those great transitions.
00:28:36.534 - 00:28:56.578, Speaker A: And then the next chapter, we say, okay, we're done with revolution. Now. We get into american history proper. It's like, well, those revolutions and rebellions keep going. They're not minor footnotes if you really drill into them. Like Shays rebellion, whiskey rebel. Like, all these pieces which we can go into, they determine, Shays rebellion is we're trying to pay off revolutionary debt.
00:28:56.578 - 00:29:23.050, Speaker A: It's straight line applicability. Next chapter in the Revolutionary War. And it's pushed onto people on the frontiers, the people who are hanging out there on Shamevilles as american entrepreneurs and business people. Those are farmers, we would call them. They're no longer medieval serfs they're actually taking risk onto themselves, and they're tasked by the federal government, Madison, and companies saying, you have to pay off our debt, like, disproportionately placed on them. Unfair. That creates absolute rebellion.
00:29:23.050 - 00:29:58.730, Speaker A: That actually accelerated, some historians would say caused the assembly around articles to revamp it. In other words, it's how we get Washington as president out of that Shays rebellion. And it was Springfield, Massachusetts, exact same place, exact same issues as the american revolution or the next chapter, which is, like, one of my personal favorites. Not just because I'm based in Kentucky with bourbon, but, like, the whiskey rebellion is like, a great example. It's not just taxation without representation for ideological reasons, because it personally impacts you. It restricts your pursuit of economic. Of your economic viability for yourself and your neighbor.
00:29:58.730 - 00:30:17.024, Speaker A: Like, whiskey rebellion, like they're out in Appalachia. It's a bunch of hillbillies, and what have you is usually the popular caricature of it. But you're a farmer. You're now responsible for your own economic viability for the first time. Like, farming is inherently volatile. Some years you get a bunch of stuff. Some years nothing grows.
00:30:17.024 - 00:30:42.616, Speaker A: How do you arbitrage that? You arbitrage by borrowing money, by over planting. If you have a bad crop, it gives you net positive, and the market, having lack of supply, equals out. If you have too much crop, that's where you go broke. So they distilled it into whiskey, which was stable and viable. It allowed them to economically arbitrage to feed the coasts without doing that. That would have cut off supply lines to the coast. And like, that took on a life of its own.
00:30:42.616 - 00:31:15.926, Speaker A: It was currency and unregistered security. And so the crackdown on that from, like, fed and participants was. Was. It was poorly executed in terms of they didn't understand the economic creation that that had disproportionate impact, not just for those people primarily, but for everyone secondarily. And that was, hence, you know, the revolt, basically, and, you know, resistance. The idea here was resistance to the fed having arbitrarily made decisions without understanding impact. And part of the experiment was putting checks and balances on that continued.
00:31:15.926 - 00:31:37.928, Speaker A: That kicked off. That was largely straight line through to federalist papers with Madison and Hamilton. And Jefferson is a response to that. Everybody loves Hamilton because everybody's seen the play and they're tap dancing, whatever. But it's like Jefferson is the drunken anarchist. He's portrayed in cartoon characters as, you know, working hand in hand with the devil. Sometimes it's not hand in hand sometimes it's like, you know, sexual.
00:31:37.928 - 00:32:18.260, Speaker A: I won't get into that. But the point is these cartoons, and like, they're working with Jefferson's, working with Satan as an satanic anarchist, pulling down the United States on behalf of the british, basically, right? This is like what dominated 1790s. And like, the point of the story is there's an ongoing debate about the nature of the fed, and when it oversteps its bounds, there's different types of resistance in theory, some internal, some external, some through the court, some through rule of law, like through a variety of ways. That's like what characterized our history, not just at the revolution, but like, throughout. Throughout all the way up until now, is like, literally a continuity of that. Like it was the formation of, like, what we call. There's a reason why we say it's like the great experiment.
00:32:18.260 - 00:32:49.596, Speaker A: Like, people didn't expect democracy to last like the european prototypes we saw, like in France. And with those international, like, edict of Nantes was revoked. With the rise of the state, it didn't last. Democracy did not work. So the question wasn't, could the United States set up a democratic environment, a republican environment? The question was, could it last? Because you would be building out in the open. You were granting your own citizens visibility into the sausage making. You're granting the global stage visibility into your machinations, warts and all.
00:32:49.596 - 00:33:26.770, Speaker A: And the idea is that you're going to get mocked. It's going to be awful. Aggregate institutions are going to have asymmetric advantage at the beginning, but the bet is that by doing this in public and building in public with participant citizens, you're using these types of decentralized technologies, undergirding all of this, which provides financial substrata for entrepreneurship and the pursuit of the experiment. The bet is you're going to lose the first round, but you're going to come back as it goes along. And it's worth doing that and worth making that. It's like, what's that Marvel movie where they kind of get beat up and then Tony Stark's like, hey, we did a bad job in the beginning, grant you that. But that's the bet you're making.
00:33:26.770 - 00:33:27.574, Speaker A: Basically.
00:33:29.914 - 00:34:07.426, Speaker B: Let'S face it, concentrated liquidity is hard. And that's why I'm super excited to partner with Carbon for Empire. Carbon is a new Dex on Ethereum that makes concentrated liquidity easy. With carbon, LP's can now automate your liquidity strategy with custom on chain limit orders and range orders. Want to buy a token when it dips and sell it when it spikes with carbon. You can now set a strategy that buys in on one price range and sells in a higher range on repeat. Using a single source of automated rotating liquidity strategies can be created for any standard ERC 20 token.
00:34:07.426 - 00:34:34.091, Speaker B: I recently checked out the carbon beta that just dropped pretty blown away by the liquidity strategies that carbon enables on chain. It has these rich trading features that you'd expect from a centralized exchange, except carbon is fully on chain, decentralized and non custodial. Just connect your wallet. It's carbon defi XYZ. That's carbon defi XYZ. Choose a trading pair, set your buy and sell ranges and amounts. Hit create and you're done.
00:34:34.091 - 00:35:02.816, Speaker B: Carbon automatically moves your liquidity into your selected ranges as the market moves. Last but not least, I'm excited to announce that carbon is running a ROI trading competition until July 11. Here's how to play super easy two steps. One click the carbon link in the show notes. Two, create a new carbon trading strategy and voila. You are now eligible to win USDC rewards based on the performance of your strategies. LP's it is time to take back control of your liquidity with carbon.
00:35:02.816 - 00:36:02.480, Speaker B: Check out the link and get started today. Now let's get back to empire. Maybe you could contextualize the SEC clamp down right now. Because when, I don't know, just like hearing what you said, like hearing you describe the Renaissance and hearing you describe the revolutionary war, like, and the American Revolution, it went well, but there was obviously pushback, right? And like, when you look at the Renaissance, you have, like the holy roman empire tries cracking down. But technology was. And honestly, the memes, right, were just better, faster, cheaper, and it was bottoms up, right? You allowed the Renaissance, gave communities the ability to co create, and it was a generative movement, right? But you still had people like, you know, you had these people like the holy roman empire very much tried to crack down. And then, like, even in the american revolution, right, like, you had the british push back, but then you had even internally, like Hamilton versus Jefferson, and like, it did, it was not smooth, I will say.
00:36:02.480 - 00:36:29.024, Speaker B: You had the federalists ship posting, basically creating their memes and stuff like that. The Tea party, obviously, anger against values like government was basically preventing them from pursuing the creation of value. Feels very similar to the SEC, but would love for you to maybe walk us through how you contextualize the SEC's pushback today in light of. In a historical context.
00:36:29.184 - 00:37:02.676, Speaker A: Yeah, you can see that as you can look at it a couple different ways. One way to think about it is just part of the experiment. The idea of, like, federal republicanism is to prevent. Like, it's like Locke's Leviathan, right? You're Hobbes and company. You're always going to have. Once you seed power, it's going to grow and grow and aggregate until you unwind it. And then the question is, how do you unwind it? And they believed in the individual citizenry working together, I would say through social coordination means blah, blah, blah.
00:37:02.676 - 00:37:18.912, Speaker A: Like to do that, that continues. It doesn't go away. It's constant. It's the thread. There's this epic fight. If you're into crypto, you're part of this much larger story. And there's this ticking and talking constantly between aggregation and decentralization.
00:37:18.912 - 00:38:01.586, Speaker A: Aggregation. The institutions use different types of technologies, like surveillance, control, any 101 survey of hegemony, and trying to figure out how you control the mind, the Overton window of what you think is possible, not just technically, but in terms of what you have availed to you or you have opportunity to have with your personal life, liberty and happiness. Is privacy a right? It used to be. Now it's not like controlling. That is the game that's been played since day number one. And so that debate going back and forth is controlling the inevitable accretion of craft over government institution. And that takes a number of different forms.
00:38:01.586 - 00:38:30.660, Speaker A: It takes unfair implications. Implementation without representation is like the classic one that takes over stepping bounds in terms of what the institution is actually set up for in its charter. That would be someone like a commissioner saying, like, I don't think we need this technology. We already have something else. Well, that's clearly outside the domain of the charter. That's an individual acting as a rogue agent in that sense, against the charter, there's different ways of thinking about this. And the battle was constant and consistent throughout.
00:38:30.660 - 00:39:04.480, Speaker A: Like, federalist, anti federalists, but like, over, like since the seventies. Like would be one of these ripples on the surface. There's like a market. And the bitcoin guys talk about this, like, not wrongly, like, there's a market, like demographic, like reaggregation, that almost like requires, like a synthetic economic strata. Like, to. That requires like, empowerment of institutionalization. Like, oh, that sounds like esoteric, abstract, like, I think the best way to walk through what the SEC is doing today is to think about what the SEC has done previously, even within our own history.
00:39:04.480 - 00:39:41.590, Speaker A: So if you think about these 305 hundred year epic waves, and you view these generational turnings and other things as ripples on the surface, even within our own lifetime, for some of us, and within a recent memory we've had, this is what we do. The institutions try to not only exceed charter, but also unforcefully and unfairly and unfairly implement. And part of that is game theory. If you're in office, it behooves you to seize as much power as you possibly can. You file a bunch of court cases, they're not going to be resolved till you're out of office. You win, it's egg on somebody else's face when it doesn't work out. Nobody remembers that except for the historians.
00:39:41.590 - 00:40:18.364, Speaker A: But the bet you're making is, that's not going to play out long term, and part of that's just a function of our short term memory. We're all surprised that the SEC is doing this. This was. If history rhymes at all, this is always going to happen. You don't have to be a medievalist or early modern european historian or kind of, you know, laTam, like, rebellionist, like, within our own lifetimes, like, the same thing is happening. There's a reaggregation of institutional powers, like, outpaced by tech. Like, for the past 40 years, we've seen the SEC and other institutions at every level not only jockey with one another, but, like, take turns lining up to do this.
00:40:18.364 - 00:40:43.242, Speaker A: Every time technology outpaces institutions. Like, there's a cracking, basically, right? And, like, you can talk about in terms of fractional equity or apple stock protection, tech crackdown, post office running, taxing, email, net neutrality code is free speech, online payment. Like, I think it's worth focusing on a couple of those examples, because if you're listening to this, you're like, I don't know what this guy's talking about. Medieval history, boring. Rebellion. That was bad. I don't know.
00:40:43.242 - 00:41:13.862, Speaker A: Is that what we want to be doing? Let's just even think back throughout our lifetime as part of this ongoing experiment where we do the default wrong thing and then eventually we cracked it. So pays to bet on fixing it in the end. It's a little bit different in the sense of it's ongoing, it's more subtle. Rebellions, they're working within the system sometimes, but it's super important to get an idea behind that. Even into the 19th century, the idea of the company, or fractionalized equity was heresy. It was crazy. It was indemnification.
00:41:13.862 - 00:41:37.638, Speaker A: Saying, I want to set up a limited liability company with indemnification rights was the worst moral thing you could. Front page of every major paper. Saying, this is awful. Like, why because then you're going to be able to do things and be indemnified. So that will be the end of economics. They thought that would undo the Renaissance spirit of capitalism. And that's why at the time, again, like in the medieval context, you were locked out of opportunities.
00:41:37.638 - 00:42:23.416, Speaker A: You as an individual citizen, you can now be a farmer and run your own farm, but you're not going to like work in some like, entity that has asymmetric upside because nobody's going to let you in. They aren't going to let you in because you only let your friends and family and a very small minority of people in there because of the indemnification requirements. And so by saying, I want a limited liability company and corresponding fractional equity, that was seen as a social evil. And what actually happened with the birth of the company was that was a huge fed process and indemnification. And they tried to ban it. Decentralized finance, essentially. The point is that fractionalized equity, which was seen as awful, the federal institutions at the time tried to ban that and resist that.
00:42:23.416 - 00:42:48.674, Speaker A: That eventually went on to become our stock market. The Dow, the Nasdaq 401 ks, modern financial system, greatest wealth creation for individuals. It's like our initial reaction from federal regulators and government institutions was to try to ban the company. The limited liability company, fractionalize equity. Who needs it? We already have property rights. The same arguments here, we tried to ban that. That didn't work much to our citizens benefit.
00:42:48.674 - 00:43:31.310, Speaker A: Then when that didn't work, then the feds, SEC, even at state level, they tried to decide who could buy what under the guise of protecting the consumer. One of the best examples that springs to mind, and you can go out and find it, there's great images of it, is when Apple went IPO, there's a great Wall Street Journal headline. Apple computer set to go public today. Massachusetts bars sale of stock is risky. The state of Massachusetts and government authorities, on behalf of protecting the consumer, protecting the consumers from purchasing stock within the Nasdaq. After it was already okay to have fractionalized equity, they said that's okay as a general principle. But this one here, we think this token, this fractionalized equity is different than all the other ones for these reasons.
00:43:31.310 - 00:44:01.246, Speaker A: And we as regulators are going to, like, make that decision. In retrospect, if you put in $1,000 into apple at the time, it'd be worth a million million and a half today, depending upon price. That was obviously the wrong thing to do. But that's what we do. We ban the class and then we ban assets therein or continuing on even through the nineties. The UK rise of global financial system is largely a function of us being unwilling to deregulate in the way that they did. This was derivatives rise of the euro dollar market.
00:44:01.246 - 00:44:25.820, Speaker A: This is trillions of dollars, which we opted not to participate in and didn't work out well. It's global triangulation is the lesson. If you don't participate in this, someone else globally will. We lost a battle like that where the UK successfully succeeded. So the crypto playbook they're following right now is what worked really well for them in the nineties. That's all finance stuff. And that might be a little bit outside.
00:44:25.820 - 00:44:55.190, Speaker A: If you're not into crypto or finance and you're listening to this, the more tactical or practical example of this is the post office. It's one of my favorites. Nobody believes this, but if you're into it, there's academic lit, but there's also popular stuff book neither Rain nor Snow by Devin Leonard. And the point of the story is the post office tried to deliver email. This is a quintessential example of technology outpacing institutions. So the USP's set up an e comm, e dash.com service back.
00:44:55.190 - 00:45:25.186, Speaker A: They launched it January 4, 82. And the idea was that they were going to give every American an email address ending in us and they were going to control that. And they're very explicit about it. Their leadership said, hey, it would be a great opportunity for the postal service if we could quote, if we can control millions of physical mailboxes in the United States effectively, we can certainly control email addresses. This was the plan. Like, when that didn't work because it just failed to do so because of the technological nature, because that was decentralized by nature. To your point, like, obviously we tried to tax it.
00:45:25.186 - 00:45:53.188, Speaker A: That's written off as myth, but you can certainly find those records. Even in 2004, senators Republican Lamar Alexander and Democrat Tom Carpenter introduced legislation that would temporarily extend expired Internet tax moratorium ban. They tried to track it directly, then they tried to tax it through ISP's. Like, up to 25, 30% of, like, your ISP bill. Like, very similar to, like, Apple's. Like, this is kind of what we do. Like, it might not just be fed or regulators.
00:45:53.188 - 00:46:15.868, Speaker A: You can think of net neutrality, like, this eternal vigilance that's. That's currently active court cases going on now. Like, but I think that it's best seen in, like, it's best seen in code as free speech. That's really important people just talk about it a little bit as if it's a civil right, privacy or free speech. And it is. But there's also economic. It's worth viewing through the lens of what we tried to shut down economically as well.
00:46:15.868 - 00:46:53.122, Speaker A: So then encryption, it was classified as ammunition. Despite creating the Internet, we tried to ban a major use of it. In other words, we tried to ban the tech that became the basis for privacy for your iPhone, for credit card payment, for online payments. We tried to ban what would become e commerce, like $5.2 trillion in the US loan each year. In that case, regulators did their thing. It was resolved favorably for the citizenry in the courts, forcing the government's hand and then government interest, because the unique generative power, they couldn't ban it.
00:46:53.122 - 00:47:27.582, Speaker A: If the US was going to ban online payment and encryption, other companies were doing it. That's one reason why that was walked back. But because the economic creation was generative, it created more than they otherwise thought was possible. Like, it's, like, if you're talking about taxi market, like, why is Uber worth this much money? Like, it can only be a fraction of the existing market. No, like, once you unlock it, it's generative. It ends up being like magnitudes of order larger tam to be able to do that. So the regulation was walked back through Congress, largely because other countries were effectively using it.
00:47:27.582 - 00:47:41.142, Speaker A: And so we didn't want to lose out on that. Like, it's already out of the box. International triangulation, but also because of the generative aspect of that. So our model isn't perfect. It always falters initially. This is what we do. It's expected.
00:47:41.142 - 00:48:16.194, Speaker A: The bet is that we get it right. Just as a thought experiment, imagine a world where our initial resistance from the SEC at every one of these cases or other government doesn't have to be the SEC. It can be the USP's. That's a fun example. Imagine in a world where that won our initial resistance. We'd have no stock market government literally delivering message through tape, no online payment, no online electronic privacy. Imagine it was a quote unquote, compromise with the government banning asymmetric stocks, letting you pick the losers for your portfolio, taxing email, or selecting privacy bit by bit.
00:48:16.194 - 00:48:42.508, Speaker A: Not as a right, but in determining what code is acceptable. We got it right, but it's a fight. What the SEC is doing right now is it's very similar to holy roman empire, it's very similar to british imperialism. It's very similar to federalist vision. It's very similar to it's very similar to just what we do over these past 80 years. This is just kind of how we do it. Like, that's probably the best way to think about it.
00:48:42.508 - 00:48:44.748, Speaker A: I feel like you're going for it is.
00:48:44.796 - 00:49:30.430, Speaker B: I feel like a lot of this just stems from fear over chaos. Basically. If you think about the renaissance, they were right to think that governance from the bottom would be chaos and that self governance would be chaos, because oftentimes it was, and there were rebellions and it was very chaotic. But at the end of the day, it was this massive transformation of society that was a net benefit. And I feel like if you look at just what the SEC is concerned about, like, their tagline is protecting consumers. But I do feel it's a combination of fear of chaos and just something that they can't control and then an inability to understand the magnitude and the size that this can get. Right.
00:49:30.430 - 00:50:04.786, Speaker B: Like, when the printing press, when the printing press came out, like, they. There was, there was no, I'm trying to remember the exact story, but there was like, something about, you know, will we have, you know, we, there's like 10,000 books or something, and it was like, could you imagine the world with 100,000 books? Now that, you know, now there's like billions of books out there, right? Like, there's no, it's very tough to comprehend the size that this stuff can get and just how big this can be. And I'm sure the, you know, the pilgrims weren't imagining a country of 300 million plus people, right? Like, it's very, it's very, it's almost scary to have those thoughts. And so I'm curious, like, yeah, yeah.
00:50:04.810 - 00:50:30.176, Speaker A: You can look at it like, part of it's just ongoing american history. Fight institutions overseas power. That's like, by their nature, what they tend to do that was, like, baked into our articles of federation, right? That's like, that was our, that was our political thought philosophy to prevent that. Just like the reformation, we know bad stuff's going to accrete over time. We have to always be vigilant, always reforming, always be like, don't leave the fence alone. The fence is going to rot. You always have to be repainting it.
00:50:30.176 - 00:51:00.272, Speaker A: You always have to be adjusting that. Like, we know that part of that is like, there's a particular type of accretion where there's, like, gamesmanship on this. Like, that's kind of what I was alluding to. And, like, you know, jockeying between, you know, different agencies and as any individual basically saying, you have a set time, so grab as much as you can, especially if the fallout is measured in years and you may or may not be there. Why would you not do that? You have a perverse incentive to do that. You can't even get mad personally. It's the nature of historic appreciation.
00:51:00.272 - 00:51:27.410, Speaker A: Part of it is as institutions, this gets into some of the fourth turning or some of the demographic stuff with technology outpacing institutions, whether it's Howe or Zeon or whoever you want to pick. Part of it is like the failure to imagine, like, infinite compounding, like benefit for citizenry. Like you're betting on the bizarre, the chaos, rather than the beautifully architected cathedral. But that's like the nature of how we're doing this. It's not just like an american experiment. You can write it off and say, oh, we don't care about it. Like, the crypto will be fine.
00:51:27.410 - 00:51:47.200, Speaker A: And that's true. It will be like the market will, two x or five x, depending upon who you believe Americans are involved. And, like, we will get there. It's a question of, are you going to do it now? Are you going to do it, you know, ten years later? And, like, that early advantage opportunity is where all the asymmetric alpha is. So, like, that's, it's worth, like, fighting for. But part of it is the not just protecting. Like, that's why that Apple example is really good.
00:51:47.200 - 00:52:16.120, Speaker A: But, like, there's a, there's another charge in the charter. So they're not just overstating, like, charter. Like, in terms of, like, being able to pick what is and what isn't, like, being able to give an opinion on, like, we don't need something now the market decides, like, what we need. Like, you don't get to say, like, we don't need a certain type of technology or have a business case for that. That's like, not within your role. That's like the point of, like, federated description of, like, charters. Like, the other side of that also is empowering consumers and national competitiveness.
00:52:16.120 - 00:52:33.040, Speaker A: That's the other side of the coin, which. That part of the conversation is markedly absent from any of this. Right? Except for occasional congresspeople pointing that out. Part of the SEC's charge is to ensure american competitiveness. In this case. It's not just America first. It happens to benefit the entire crypto market.
00:52:33.040 - 00:52:52.888, Speaker A: So if you're listening internationally, you should be pro this as well. So that part is generative. They can't imagine. That's always the way it is. The ripples on the surface are better, faster, cheaper. The deeper waves unlock the previously unimaginable, which can happen until the second unfold. If you're not, just think of Uber on your phone.
00:52:52.888 - 00:53:36.792, Speaker A: You can't have that without your phone. Or you can think of books, basically, how are you going to have more than 100,000? Or you can think of computers, famous quotes of different people saying, how could I ever have a computer with more than 120 megabytes on it? What would I ever use that for? Like, you as an individual, much less as a regulator, aren't charged to make that determination. You're having faith in the market, which is pursuit of individuals for their benefit and others. And so it's very, very much on par. The only difference now is that we're playing for much higher stakes. There's kind of ticking and talking and little ripples. And now we're entering one of these 300 to 500 year waves.
00:53:36.792 - 00:54:08.720, Speaker A: And that's not hyperbole. That's like, if you believe that renaissance thesis, you can also see the fourth turning stuff line up. You can see the Zion demographic deep and all school people. Like, all these models are lining up right now. And part of that, yet again, is entering into, call it exponential age or new renaissance or this type of qualitatively different types of technology. That's why we started off the conversation with technology driving history and different types of. Of technology working in different ways.
00:54:08.720 - 00:54:42.738, Speaker A: And so, like, we're entering into, not just like a geriatric or gerontocracy based kind of stale institutional structure, we're entering into AI, quantum, whatever you want to call it. But particularly crypto. Like, is different in that we're building this in the open. And so, just like the american experiment was different than all the others because everybody had visibility into the sausage making. So too, in crypto, we're doing that. And that's like a very different playbook. That's why I mentioned some of my past experience building, successfully exiting AI companies like MIT smart.
00:54:42.738 - 00:55:02.968, Speaker A: It's like what you do is you bake up your model, you don't tell anybody about it, you get all of your regulations set, you do your lobbying, then you release it, and it's fed accompli and you're done. Basically. Crypto is not like that. You're building in the open. Everyone can see your economic model. You as a startup, have a price, which is, like, horrifying. The community can impact that.
00:55:02.968 - 00:55:25.144, Speaker A: Like, your code may be forked. It's like crypto is the technological version of that great experiment of building in the open. And so, like, the fight isn't just for, like, America's place. Dollars, jobs, competitiveness, participation. Next, Internet, which is all true. It's also for, like, global crypto, like, as a function of two to three to five times market size. And, like, speed of adoption isn't just for yay.
00:55:25.144 - 00:55:42.980, Speaker A: For anybody here in the states. Speed of adoption benefits everyone. The crypto model is generative by nature. It's not zero sum. So that means, like, if you're international, you want more users and you want more capital. Like, you benefiting yourself benefits others. So instead of taking the pie, you want to see this succeed.
00:55:42.980 - 00:56:19.104, Speaker A: And, like, it's very different. That black box model is, like, it unnerves people. And the truth is, because, like, you're a medieval farmer, you haven't seen the sausage making behind the scenes. You haven't seen, like, you haven't had visibility into how this is done. And the american experiment was a bet that this process will lose in the early innings, and then we'll overcome structural advantage of aggregation through this institutionalized tech. And that's the same thing you're seeing with the SEC right now. It's a participation, a return to the great experiment, and it renders everyone who was american revolutionary was an entrepreneur in the sense that they.
00:56:19.104 - 00:57:01.096, Speaker A: They were betting on themselves or the community as, like, a breakout function from something else. And so there's, like, this culture of, like, tinkering and, like, no longer being subservient to the farmer. Sounds great until you're looking at a crop loss and getting wiped out and going back into an entry servitude, like, hence, like, arbitraging into whiskey. And so, like, with crypto, you're in the same spot now you're an entrepreneur, not in the sense of, like, you know, why? Combinator? I'm raising a big fund. But, like, you are now having opportunity and awareness of, like, being able to place your capital and your time and attention and data, which is worth, like, six, seven, eight figures over your lifetime. It's what powered fang. And so now you have opportunity to do that with applicability into equity around that.
00:57:01.096 - 00:57:48.922, Speaker A: So what you're playing for isn't just like a coin. It isn't just digital gold. It's like, on one sense, it's like your ability, life, liberty, pursuit of happiness, ability to own your assets, communicate freely and choose your group and your affinity as identity. But you're also playing for, again, this recreation of the world. So it's particularly galling when you have these same sorts of archaic fracturing as tech outpaces institutions that you've seen for past 80 years, for past couple hundred years now at the point of another renaissance. And that gets lost in a lot of the conversation. What are we playing for? What are we playing for coin? Are we playing for, like, a pixelated cat? Like, no, we're actually playing for, like, something.
00:57:48.922 - 00:58:07.010, Speaker A: Like, we're playing for a new renaissance. And that's, like, that's worth taking a minute just to drill into. Like, if history rhymes, what are the big buckets that, like, a historian or, like, a cultural anthropologist might, like, use to evaluate? Like, crypto, if history rhymes at all? And, like, we can. We can get into that a little bit if you'd like.
00:58:07.202 - 00:58:23.970, Speaker B: I think. Let's go there. And I think, like, you know, you're talking about demographics and zion and fourth turning and all that kind of stuff. Like, I think the one indicator that to look at that is more important than anything else is trust in institutions. And if you look at. I've got two polls pulled up here. You have the Gallup poll.
00:58:23.970 - 00:58:38.306, Speaker B: Average confidence in major us institutions from 79 to 2023. Exactly. Used to be at 50%. Now it's at 27%. I'm looking at a Pew research study. 1958, public trust in government. Government was at 73.
00:58:38.306 - 00:59:11.156, Speaker B: So that means 73% of people said that they trusted to do the government to do what is right just about always, or most of the time, 73% in 1958. Today, it is at 18%. And, you know, so we've gone from 73% to 18%. And that is a number that doesn't go back up. Right? That is a chart that is a. I'm looking at this chart that is a down only chart. And it's nearly impossible for a government to do something to pull that back up.
00:59:11.156 - 00:59:50.194, Speaker B: Right. It's very tough to turn that around. And the only thing that basically happens, the only thing that really turns that around, is letting this grassroots organization recreate society and recreate who the new institutions end up becoming. Right? So, I'm curious. Let's go to self sovereignty. If history rhymes, there are these big buckets of society that will get completely flipped on their head and then rebuilt, and then in hundreds of years, they become the new institutions. But, like, there are these buckets, right? Like finance, culture, your identity, your education, your work.
00:59:50.194 - 00:59:56.210, Speaker B: Like, maybe walk me through how you think about all of this, and maybe you have, like, a more structured view of this. Like these.
00:59:56.282 - 01:00:17.674, Speaker A: No, no, that's so. That's super good. That. No, you're. It's like a good news bad news situation. Like the big picture, grand big sweep. Historians have models for this, 13 stages of civilization and decline, and they would put United States in the 11th or 12th, depending.
01:00:17.674 - 01:00:51.738, Speaker A: These don't go backwards. Typically there's an overarching sweep of stuff going down. And those poles are one of the indicators that assign that, that taxonomy. And like, it tends not to go down the experiment. So that's bad news, right? Like what you're betting on is you're betting on a continual recreation. You're betting on a sempera formationist, like you're betting on an always repainting the fence, basically. You're betting that, you know, communities will use this decentralized technology building in the open to recreate themselves, to literally overcome the innovator's dilemma.
01:00:51.738 - 01:01:16.218, Speaker A: Like if it works, it will fail. It doesn't work immediately. It will fail at first, and then they'll get it right, like over time. But it's worth painting a picture, like the people, the revolution, the people at the time, they couldn't picture what the world would be like, you know, if it actually succeeded in this world. And it doesn't mean it's getting worse. It means like this is the bet you're making. And like in the big, big sweep, maybe ratchets back and forth towards decentralization over time, but definitely ticks and talks backwards.
01:01:16.218 - 01:02:09.032, Speaker A: And like the picture that, like you can imagine even with like these little embryonic, even with these little, you know, kind of, you know, shadows, types and shadows you already see right now. You could picture like I generally talk about it in terms of like five buckets, finance and culture and work and education and like this idea of like meta and IRL and like a thread throughout with governance. And so like, I'll just take a minute on it. But just to like lay out big picture, like what could possibly happen? Like if it rhymes, if it matches medieval to renaissance, if it matches like revolutionary as extension, and if like the 80 years are undone and we're like at the same this epic time turning point. Like finance is like everybody in crypto talks about it, it's obvious, but it's underappreciated. Like it's, it's massive benefit for the unbanked, it's displacement of payday loans, it's global access to stocks, which people don't think about, synthetic or what have you. It's access to like early stage companies like previously through accredited or vc.
01:02:09.032 - 01:02:50.152, Speaker A: And like most importantly, it's like being able to invest with the assets that you create, like, not just your money, but your time and attention. Like that is the data that is harvested by fang like a medieval lord. That's like what what powered the rise of Nasdaq? And you got nothing except a free subscription or maybe subsidized subscription. You having access to that is unbelievable. In terms of theory, it might not be universal basic income, but equity of those things, which has particular salience in an AI dominated world. Finance very much redistributing, leveling, giving asymmetric opportunity out of the stuff you do, turning you from product into participant. Like that culture is a little bit trickier in terms of identity.
01:02:50.152 - 01:03:24.528, Speaker A: You pick signs and symbols. You can talk about nfts and memes, but property rights are a function of that culture. You don't have culture without property rights, and that's property rights not just for synthetic things, but things on chain, like real world items as well. And so that's in some ways rectifying the original sin. You can think of the Internet as a false fork. We went down where we weren't able to persist state, and so we outsourced state to companies that persisted that for us, because the protocols weren't rich enough, and so that HTTPs couldn't do it, and so it ended up being Google and apple persisting. That's why you log in with that.
01:03:24.528 - 01:04:02.072, Speaker A: That throws off data which powers those economies, and you get 0% of fractional equity out of that. And so, like, the ability to rectify that is like very significant. Like for the rails of value capture, which like transforms work as another bucket. Like when crypto people say work, they say, oh, we're going to have daos. It's not just that the idea of formation of capital is radically different. Previously, as a founder, we never took venture, we always bootstrapped it, but we took some angel and we do invest and blah, blah, blah. But usually venture capital very well, maybe have conflicting expectations and incentives.
01:04:02.072 - 01:04:39.760, Speaker A: With founders. The founder may want to found something that doesn't have. If you run a small $100 million fund and you're making ten bets, one of those has to hit a billion dollars for you to have a meaningful IRR after, like, after, like, after not only illiquidity, but like liquid. You have to have a billion dollar bet to make up for all your other strikeouts, basically. And you're better off in terms of IRR for like, closing those other ones down that are only going to be doubles or triples. Like our last company we built from scratch and sold for over 100 million. Like that would have been a massive venture failure because like, we wouldn't have returned their fund and we would have been better off as like, loss against that.
01:04:39.760 - 01:05:07.280, Speaker A: And so you have this inherent tension. When I teach the class on this stuff, we go through that now. You don't need to do that. You can actually get capital. Usually on shows, people are talking about venture funded things, and that's great, that's a meaningful opportunity and go for it. But there's a whole long tail of distributed ideas, concepts, businesses, which might only return a million or 10 million or 100 million, and that's meaningful. That doesn't fit into that venture model and crowdfunding.
01:05:07.280 - 01:05:38.238, Speaker A: You're not able to do that without fractional equity of ownership, without a crypto under railing. That's significant. The greatest amount of value created within these past 80 years is arguably through open source software, which people did for free but pro bono. You maintained your GitHub library just because. Imagine keeping a piece of that, not just paying you to do that, but imagine if you were paid to do that, instead of working a meaningless office job as a drone. Like what you could have created if you were good at that. That's fantastic.
01:05:38.238 - 01:06:20.422, Speaker A: Like a recapturing of that data is like power. Your time and attention is like. It isn't just like, depending upon whose estimate you believe, you throw off, like seven, maybe eight figures of data doing that. Being able to opt in for product development with ownership, even in like, say, pick a trading platform, and there's a few of these out there, which are built on crypto reels where the algorithms are outperformed, performing like alpha based on opt in, contributing to your data, and you get equity as part of that. That's transformational just for playing around in simulation, not spending a penny. The core idea of being able to start with a price as a startup from day one, where people have visibility into your code and can fork it. Community measure.
01:06:20.422 - 01:07:16.880, Speaker A: If you could cut and paste Google's code base, it's a very different game, which is scary and chaotic and kind of bizarre over cathedral. But it's like unprecedented opportunity for capital formation, especially resolving moats like aggregated institutions defend themselves with bureaucracy. It's a feature of the system, not a bug. And that means, from an entrepreneurship perspective, a moat, basically. How do you overcome a moat? An impenetrable wall, like done by capital regulation, physical infrastructure, you do that through a decentralized technology which has economics like. One of the most interesting examples of that is into deep end decentralized physical infrastructure networks, where you're taking on telco, where they run billions of dollars of opex by negotiating with cities to put up towers versus individuals doing that with backfill. And so they're turning cost centers what they used to pay for a physical location for rent and to revenue generation for them.
01:07:16.880 - 01:07:50.112, Speaker A: And unlocking the ability to do ancillary businesses and pricier areas that they wouldn't have been able to do or to pay for their rent or their mortgage by doing that. And like following their own interests, like that capital formation, like we aren't even at the second unfold yet. We can't imagine what that will be like. But with that visibility into that sausage making, expect it to be volatile. Education is the third bucket and that's closest to my heart and it might even be the biggest unlock you have education. It's the most medieval contract. It's like the medieval institution that never went away.
01:07:50.112 - 01:08:23.590, Speaker A: It's like the university is a medieval function, basically. Basically you go, it's geographically proxied, you have to have the right credentials to get in and you basically study. And then somebody determines like you're doing a PhD, it's two or three people going to decide like did you get it? Did you not get it? Like no recourse, blah blah blah. You're relying on an institution to literally put their stamp on a piece of paper to give you accreditation. You need to show the diploma. Imagine not just the future where it's peer to peer. Not just like a PO app, but proof of experience, proof of expertise.
01:08:23.590 - 01:09:01.024, Speaker A: Imagine it weighted in a rating, not quadratic voting, but quadratic recommendation. The people that have the highest repositories on an individually owned GitHub have an algorithm like the recommendation of someone who knows what they're doing means more. And you can hire that way on chain instead of going through like that changes all of that. If that's too esoteric, just imagine no student debt like new perpetual swap products with intelligence and information and expertise. That's a very fundamental unlock, not just in the states but globally in terms of doing that. De identified the fifth bucket is a little esoteric. It's this meta IRL stuff.
01:09:01.024 - 01:09:37.904, Speaker A: If you basically are running a small business and we do some of this just personally because we're into it. The building I'm doing this from, it's an old, old bourbon bar that was going to get knocked down for mini storage in a parking lot lot, right? And like we ran a little Dpin unit to do a historical transformation. Now uses a community center and then work with like coffee shops and restaurants. And like they have a list of cost centers in the web 2.0 world. Some of it's like rent and mortgage, some of it's subscription, some of it's like payment on a credit card, some of it's like they're paying ten k to a specific music licensing service to be able to license to run that at their bar. Like you don't think about that for Spotify, but they do that.
01:09:37.904 - 01:10:02.914, Speaker A: You can make a list of every one of those cost centers. There is a crypto version of that which is not only free, but which gives you access to payment, which you can sweep aside. So your rent you can be paying out of deep end proceeds. And it benefits the long tail. It's not as beneficial in Manhattan if everybody's there, but if you're out in rural or esoteric Kentucky, it is more beneficial to you economically. And so you'll hear more of the market. Get pissy about that.
01:10:02.914 - 01:10:33.768, Speaker A: But that definitely benefits redistribution for people who want to go off into the frontier. And like that basically means instead of paying 5% to Amex, they're making 5% on auto staking on perpetual swaps out of a payment system. That's a 10% swing for a small business. Like with deep end, paying their rent with music instead of licensing free with participation with. There's 20 other examples. Or they're freeing up gpu's to use for like AI training, like that. If you do that, it's a little bit of work, but it pays for the barista, it gets you through a.
01:10:33.768 - 01:11:02.280, Speaker A: A pandemic, it pays for an extra cook on the line. More broadly speaking, that allows you to set up something which wouldn't be economically viable. Crypto is like a business model with a bolt on economic engine for you. You're into some weird esoteric subject. You can go ahead and do that by swapping out your cost centers for revenue generation. It's not glamorous and sexy, but it's really powerful throughout. All of this is governance, which again is totally exposed.
01:11:02.280 - 01:11:33.720, Speaker A: So like, you know, this was our, this is a sandbox for speed running representation, doing it through simulation. Like that's a, in terms of like, oh, magna Carta, and you have non people forget about that, and then you have the american revolution. It's like, what if? And maybe it's not just purely political, maybe it's like economic representation. Maybe if you're locking up your stock and you're not going to sell it as an activist, you can actually like have greater voting rights for it. So you're like, you're tamping down perverse or unintended consequences. Consequences. Or even within representative government, you're doing public.
01:11:33.720 - 01:12:03.964, Speaker A: Like, you can experiment and let a thousand flowers bloom and figure out which ones. That's the only way you can get out of institutional gridlock, to be able to say, hey, here's something that works in a synthetic world. And if you do that, that opens up. The way you bring that into IRL is by creating more value than you take. And so that's doing public good. And not just kind of green pill stuff, but public good funding from private entities. Like, actually, we do some stuff where you're planting trees and you're subsidizing it.
01:12:03.964 - 01:12:30.766, Speaker A: You can use the mechanisms which are decrepit and not working and realign the perverse incentives through this type of social coordination, all of that. We haven't yet wrapped our minds around what that will look like over time. Just saying we're not into it and we don't see a viable use for it. Not significant. So this would be the five buckets, if they work out how you might think about that, basically.
01:12:30.950 - 01:13:14.560, Speaker B: So this world sounds great, Josh, the world that you lay out sounds great for you and me. Right. And I think it's this very idealistic world. But one question I'd have for you is how much does society have to unwind for this to be possible? Right? Like, the breakdown of societies and governments and institutions usually follows the, the pattern, right. Whether it's the renaissance or the revolution or whatever it may be, you have people who at first are just kind of annoyed with their government or their big institution. Then they rebel, and then they are no longer at the whim of the institution, and they kind of just, usually they become self sovereign and just kind of go somewhere else. Right.
01:13:14.560 - 01:13:32.984, Speaker B: This could be people moving away from the Holy Roman Empire. This could be literally the pilgrims getting on a boat and leaving and leaving Britain. Right. How bad, though, does society have to not, maybe it's, maybe bad is the wrong word, but, like, how much does society have to unwind for. For all of this to be possible?
01:13:33.564 - 01:13:46.372, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. No, you're, that's like a thousand percent. Like the right question. Like, and there's a wide range of historical precedent on that. Like, there's. Sometimes it doesn't unwind. Sometimes it's.
01:13:46.372 - 01:14:18.624, Speaker A: There's gentle renaissances and there's cataclysmic renaissances. And, like, some of that is a function of, like, what you're particularly talking about, what type of thing, what institution? Some of it is a function of geography, like at the lat, you know, previously, where things unlock and there's international triangulation. And so in some geographies, it gets very bad. In some geographies, it's a relatively seamless transition. The thing I think that's different about this time is you have, like, you have. It's one of those. The technology itself is going to be a forcing function.
01:14:18.624 - 01:14:55.468, Speaker A: There's not a matter of like, if it's just like, literally when. When you're looking at, you know, decentralized computing, not just, you know, a computer, not just mobile, but like, the strata for that. When you're looking at, like, decentralized, like economic generation, like through entrepreneurship, that's a, that's stuff we haven't seen before. That. That in the context of also these things tend to come in twos and threes. That in the context of AI as well, I think there's going to be institutional cataclysm coming regardless of whether we want to see it or not, questions how well we're going to manage it. And that happens.
01:14:55.468 - 01:15:34.018, Speaker A: That varies widely each time and by geography. And that, honestly, is the fight we're in right now. Part of that is in some sense, I personally am a fan of how the SEC and institutions are playing this. This is beautiful. Over playing your hand and just making it so egregious is just the best possible thing that could happen. There's going to be institutional pushback and squeeze each time it gets into really dangerous territory, when you don't recognize that if you're an institutional regime, the way you manage this decentralization is you can threaten physical force, that's fine. If you use physical force and war's religion, 70 years war blow, you get an f.
01:15:34.018 - 01:15:50.030, Speaker A: You've failed to manage it. If you have to threaten it, you get a c like you threatened it. But it's fine if it doesn't even occur to them that what you're doing is wrong. If there's no pushback or no resistance theory, then you can effectively. You're like a hegemonic poster boy. Antonio Gromsky would be proud of you. That isn't the case.
01:15:50.030 - 01:16:14.374, Speaker A: This is so egregious. It's perfect. It's a forcing function for us. Some of this won't even matter. There's going to be massive institutional overhaul, partially just because of demographics. There's no way to get outside of that. That with AI and crypto as either in one way reinforcing each other and another way as counterbalances to one another.
01:16:14.374 - 01:16:48.246, Speaker A: It's unknown how bad it's going to get, but the nature of how bad it's going to get. The thing I do know is that's part of the recreation, the chaortic reconstruction process. It makes it super bad, and it may be relatively smooth. I think it's going to be fairly bad in terms of institutional like, it's not going to be collapse and decay. There's always cigar budding or cigarette butting going on. Basically, the legacy institutions, it's like you can survive off an endowment for a long time if you're careful. And how you do that, those won't go away, basically.
01:16:48.246 - 01:17:39.446, Speaker A: And part of that will be generational shifting, but it's going to be very chaotic and very volatile in terms of not just institutional authority and, and some of the polls he cited, but also, like, their functions, there aren't enough. Our lifetime is going to be managing volatility, volatility of price, volatility of business, volatility of communication, and volatility of, like, how we identify. And I don't mean in like, a culture type thing. I mean in like, specifically like, what groups. Like, we used to instantiate identity and retract it and kind of a one to many type thing like that stuff we haven't wrestled with previously. So it's going to be highly volatile, and our job is going to be managing that. And the way I think we manage that, particularly some of the AI stuff, is with crypto, is a counterbalance to it.
01:17:39.446 - 01:18:09.464, Speaker A: Lots of people talk about crypto and symbiosis with it, or proof of humanity, or training an LLM, or decentralized compute power, or maybe universal basic equity stuff. That's true. Our sources of authority. You think the authority polls go down now like it's black box. You don't know what pops up. You pop something in chat GPT, and it gives you a resume and says something with cited sources that aren't true when you actually fact check them. So being able to preserve perspicuity, like on chain, is going to be incredibly important.
01:18:09.464 - 01:18:17.270, Speaker A: It's going to be a different types of collapse and a different type of recreation, I think, is the way to think about it.
01:18:17.412 - 01:19:04.190, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah, I tend to agree with that. I mean, if you. I mean, think about the Renaissance, right? There was the Renaissance sounds all great and fun, but then after, for 150 years, there was like mass chaos in these wars, right? You had the italian wars and the. What else? You had the wars of religion, right? You had the french wars of religion. You had the anglo spanish war, right? Like, you had, like hundreds. You had the english civil war, right, the ottoman wars in Europe, and, like, it was just mass chaos, a bunch of wars for 150 years. But at the end of the day, the political and religious and social upheaval that kind of categorized Europe during this transformation from the Renaissance to the early modern period, it's very tough to argue that life is not better because of that.
01:19:04.382 - 01:19:31.666, Speaker A: Yeah, the theorists will talk about it. Split ontology from epistemology. Wars were always going on. You just weren't privy to them. Like, there was always, like, there's always, like, physical, martial campaigns, like, you just didn't know about them. And so, like, after the fact, there were skirmishes, they were inter party, like, you know, tribal, like familiar. Like, there's like, roving mercenaries that are displayed.
01:19:31.666 - 01:19:56.606, Speaker A: There's like, there's more carnage pre renaissance than there is post renaissance. It just gets a bad pr app. Why is the question, like, because you actually know about it now. You actually have visibility into it and, like, now you have choice. And so it's going to resolve that way. Like, some people say, well, it was the. It was the same, you know, different tribes and networks and they just swapped labels basically and carried out the same, you know, kind of feuds and skirmishes that went on.
01:19:56.606 - 01:20:29.230, Speaker A: Like, other people say, no, no. They really, like, they really believed in the thing that they were, like, advocating for and like it, which, like, I personally take that view from some of the archival work. Like, you see, like the. You see society being like, in an xy, like, conservative social. This tribe, this group, that group type of thing, and you see that split down the middle with a reformation and a z axis, like polisci, like cleavage with, like, with, like, different groups reforming around that. There's like a very good archival argument to make about that. Like, what does that mean? It's like you're going to hear there may or may not be more chaos.
01:20:29.230 - 01:20:48.980, Speaker A: It's definitely going to feel that way because you're going to have visibility into that until you're like, very excellent point. Like, that's never fun. It doesn't feel good because you don't know what that next world that's recreated looks like. You're in this no man's land, you're in the dip. You can't see what it's going to look like. It may not work. The whole thing may collapse.
01:20:48.980 - 01:21:16.608, Speaker A: That's totally true. I have very good reason. If history rhymes it own based on decade in the archives, reading manuscripts, looking at this seems very similar to me. Like, not a teleology that's determined. So there's like, open agency, but, like, definitely rhyming and following these contours. And, like, if. If that rhymes, like, it's going the way I know it's going to be, if it fails, it's going to fail with a whimper.
01:21:16.608 - 01:21:41.798, Speaker A: And if it succeeds, it's going to succeed with, like, crazy volatility, where the pr around the volatility, like, outstrips the actuality around that. And, like, that's what's happening now. Like, if you see this, here's your takeaway. If you see this, don't be scared. It's supposed to be crazy. You're seeing the sausage making. It's the american revolution on display for the global community theater.
01:21:41.798 - 01:22:06.538, Speaker A: Taking shots at it. It's calling one another traders and Satan spawn. That's what we do. It also renders you as an entrepreneur, you haven't done this if you haven't been a founder, you haven't been in charge of your own destiny before. And a meaningful way, like, you're now out on the frontier is like running your own shop or farm, or you have to put on your startup hard hat. Like, the volatility doesn't mean it's ending in a whimper. Counterintuitively, that's a really good sign.
01:22:06.538 - 01:22:23.306, Speaker A: Like, that conflict tends to be a leading indicator, historically speaking, that it's, like, significant in terms of transformation. And the really good news is you're aware of it. Most people weren't aware of it at the moment. They didn't know what was going on. Their world was falling apart. They're right to be fudding on it. They're 1000% right.
01:22:23.306 - 01:23:01.272, Speaker A: You have some analogs, you have some previous iterations where can see this and, like, thanks to this episode, like, this whole thing may be cracked, but hopefully, like, suspended disbelief and said, what if that's right? If that were right, that's what it would look like if the whole world's going and saying, like, maybe you're the mad one. Like, it's the opposite of that. Like, if this were to, like, work out very, very positively, it would look like this specifically because the nature is like a bet on decentralized technology, communities using it within this particular form of government, where it's all on display. That means they're going to lose the early innings. That means they're going to get hammered. Like, I'm actually very optimistic. Like, immediate response of SEC and what have you.
01:23:01.272 - 01:23:23.464, Speaker A: It's great how they're playing their hand. That's going far, far better than I would have anticipated. I will say you can expect a fight. It's naive to think it's just going to be smooth adoption. We cited all those examples, not only over long arc of history, but over the past 80 years, that we should be aware of where we do the wrong thing. Initially, lots of people got into crypto because they didn't want to deal with politics. Nothing is more understandable for me.
01:23:23.464 - 01:23:40.024, Speaker A: But crypto doesn't mean that you get out of a fight. It means that it's epic. Once in a millennia opportunity. It means crypto doesn't mean you don't have to fight. It means it's actually a fight worth having. Those opportunities are rare. Expect to fight.
01:23:40.024 - 01:23:53.584, Speaker A: Expect to be branded as a zealot, a heretic, a traitor, anarchist, drunkard, crypto bro, shadowy supercoder. This is right on cue. I get worried if it goes away and it's not an issue. That's when I start to get significantly worried.
01:23:56.324 - 01:24:20.760, Speaker B: Josh, this was amazing. Anything else? That is very top of mind for you in terms of looking at the market? Looking at just crypto, we're 14 years into this bitcoin thing, eight years into decentralized protocols and these apps being built on open smart contracts. Anything else that we haven't talked about?
01:24:20.952 - 01:24:51.866, Speaker A: No. I think the key is you have visibility into the creation of this, and it's unique in crypto. And so you're making a bet on that building in the open, and that feels uncomfortable. And you have two ways to beat a market. You can bet against the market, which is tough to do, or you can get in big on something early. And if you say reworking finance and work and education and the structure of governance, that's worth strongly considering. But you have to weigh the cost.
01:24:51.866 - 01:24:56.214, Speaker A: It's not going to be easy. The only thing I'm really thinking about is how to get into Sante's bank.
01:24:58.234 - 01:25:15.640, Speaker B: Yeah, we've seen this before, Josh. We have failing institutions at the same time that we have technology that's outpacing society. And that is a recipe for disaster. But it's also a recipe for entrepreneurs and optimists to take advantage of it. Yeah, it's a good time.
01:25:15.752 - 01:25:27.736, Speaker A: Yeah. Don't shrink from the fight like this is not. It's nothing we didn't expect. It means it's significant from a historical arc. Don't run from the fight now. It's worth fighting for. Step in the ring.
01:25:27.920 - 01:25:46.072, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly. Josh, appreciate it. As always, I would recommend folks, if you want to double click on the Renaissance connection, we will put a link in the show notes to the first episode that Josh and I did going deep on the Renaissance, what it was, what it meant, and how it is relatable to crypto. So, Josh, as always, my friend, thank you for your time.
01:25:46.168 - 01:25:47.544, Speaker A: Thanks so much. I appreciate it, as always.
