00:00:00.520 - 00:00:39.751, Speaker A: So thank you very much, Raj. And of course, thanks to the organizers for giving me an opportunity to talk to you here today. What I'm going to talk about is loophole free interferometric test of macrorealism using heralded single photons. And I believe that this is going to be a significant shift from some of the talks we have heard before, which have been very focused on some of the technological ideas. But then, of course, today's science is tomorrow's technology, and this will lead to a lot of very interesting technology in years to come. And of course, I have a lot of connections with Canada. I am an affiliate here as well as at iqc, and I am a Simon Seminoe, the fellow at the Perimeter Institute as well.
00:00:39.751 - 00:00:58.575, Speaker A: Okay. And so I head what is called the Quantum Information and Computing Lab, which is at RRI Raman Research Institute in Bangalore, India. And we work on a large array of stuff. And you can find more details on our website. I don't know if my mouse is. Yeah, you can kind of see that. And.
00:00:58.575 - 00:01:29.517, Speaker A: Okay, that's interesting. So you can go to the website quite easily. Looks like. Okay, so the areas of research are, well, photonic quantum information processing, quantum computing, secure quantum communications, fundamental tests of principles of quantum mechanics and quantum optics. And so today I'm going to focus on the fourth one, as this experiment is more related to that. And these are, of course, the people who enable things to happen in the lab. So starting with some fundamental quantum questions.
00:01:29.517 - 00:02:43.845, Speaker A: Okay, so what do the non classical features of quantum mechanics reveal about the nature of physical reality? So a question perhaps we've not asked in this conference so far, but then a question worth pondering about. So now, you know, this everyday experience that we have of what we may call the macrophysical world, the world that you and I belong to, how does it reconcile with the quote, unquote, weird behavior of quantum mechanics? Many things about quantum mechanics are not quite how they seem when we talk about ourselves and so on. And so to what extent is it possible to test quantum mechanics in the macro limit? This brings us to the underlying feature that we have tested in our experiment, which is called realism. The classical realist worldview states that a system is in a definite state for which all its observable properties have definite values independent of measurement. The fact that Raj is here and looking at his phone is perhaps going to still remain true when I look at my screen, you know, and he's probably going to still be interested in his phone. And so the fact that he's looking at his Phone is not quite related to whether I'm looking at him. And so this is something that we are used to that, you know, things happen the way they do whether or not I look at you.
00:02:43.845 - 00:03:22.803, Speaker A: And so this is the measurement that I'm talking about. So without that also things continue. However, unlike a classical state, the specification of a quantum state does not in general give the values of the dynamical variables possessed by a system. Thus, in general, the dynamical variable is taken to have no definite measurement independent value. What does that mean? In other words, a measurement according to quantum mechanics in general does not reveal a pre existent value of a dynamical variable. So once you measure, then it reveals itself, whatever that is. But before that, you don't know what the outcome of a measurement will be.
00:03:22.803 - 00:03:58.469, Speaker A: And so this bothered, for instance, Albert Einstein. He says that, you know, he likes to think that the moon is there even if he's not looking at it. And which is perhaps how we would all like the moon to be. But then that's not how it happens in the quantum scenario. So this is the basic idea of realism. Which brings us to John Bell, who of course we have talked about many times in other avatars during this conference and this very nice paper on Bertleman's socks and the nature of reality. So what does he say here? He says that, you know, the philosopher in the street who has not suffered a course in quantum mechanics, is quite unimpressed by these EPR correlations.
00:03:58.469 - 00:04:33.891, Speaker A: Right? And so he takes the example of Bertelman, who is his good friend and colleague and collaborator as well, whose socks, you know, are always of different colors. And so which color he will have on a given foot on a given day is quite unpredictable. And so this is his picture from his paper. You know, the first hawk is pink, the other is not pink. And so isn't that what we all talk about in these EPR correlations? So what is so great about these correlations? This is just not the same. So this was a question that John Bell asked. And of course this is Reinhold Bartleman with his socks.
00:04:33.891 - 00:05:22.695, Speaker A: Okay? And so the best known set of experiments which have actually tried to examine this question of realism are of course these EPR Bell experiments. And we know all this very well. So we have a source. We have, I mean, for me it's a pair of photons, but it could be anything. And so they are going to these different measurement stations and then measurements are happening simultaneously and some correlations are coming through. And so of course, if you believe, and if you use objective Local theories, which is, for instance, local realism, then you will end up, end up with this inequality, which is called the Bell inequality, right? And so this is something you are aware of. So when, you know, Bertleman derived Bell's inequality, he was very impressed by it because, you know, and he was also very impressed that, you know, John Bell could do this.
00:05:22.695 - 00:06:28.601, Speaker A: And, you know, but of course, for a theorist, the job was always done right? Which brings us to these experiments about these inequalities. And I don't want you to go through the whole thing here, but the underlying feature is that when Clauser wanted to do these experiments and he approached Richard Feynman, Richard Feynman actually said that, you know, when you have found an error in quantum theories, experimental predictions come back then and we can discuss your problem with it. So, in fact, the thing, it still remains the same, right? When we talk about doing experiments in foundations of quantum mechanics or fundamental aspects, we are always asked, what is the use? Right? So how do you write a grant application for doing these foundational tests? So we have to write in bold, these are the technological things that we would affect in years to come. And so this remains pretty much the same. However, this was the kind of opposition that was faced. And then later on, he, however, stuck to it and did the experiment, and the rest is history. And then of course, we have Anan and his group who went on to do more modern versions and so on and so forth, because these experiments happened today, we have quantum communication and quantum information.
00:06:28.601 - 00:07:12.839, Speaker A: Otherwise, of course, we would be still doing theory for them. And this was celebrated in Caltech by. And this is a very nice blog by John Presquill where he says that many things happened in 1964, but all of them could have perhaps happened, even if the people who did them did not do them, but accept this Bell inequality, which perhaps could not have been proposed by anyone other than John Bell. And it forms the basis for everything that the conference has discussed so far. Right? And so this is why it is interesting going on to. Now, Tony Leggett, who of course asked this question, and it's a very, very interesting question. Does nature differentiate between micro and macro? Of course, you know, this is a bit odd because, you know, quantum mechanics is a totalitarian theory.
00:07:12.839 - 00:08:13.975, Speaker A: So why should something specifically apply to microsystems and not apply to macrosystems? There must be something we can do to reconcile these things. And of course, the Schrodinger cat is a very famous example of such reconciliation. So this brings us to two key notions of our everyday macroscopic world, the first set we have all been discussing, and we know a lot about, which is local realism, where we have the local realist inequalities, where we need a bipartite or a multipartite system to test these inequalities, right? And then we have this concept of macro realism, which brings us to macro realist inequalities. So how do you test the quantumness of a system which is single? So you know, I mean of course if you have two parties which are entangled and so on, you do these Bell violations. But then if you have a single system, then you can define a superposition and a superposition of macroscopically distinct states is required. And then you can actually do what are called the legged Garg inequality violations and variants thereof. So these are the two different notions.
00:08:13.975 - 00:09:01.779, Speaker A: I don't know why my mouse is not working, but then it keeps you awake if I start pointing like that at the screen. So you have realism and locality, and that gives rise to the Bell violation experiments. And then you have realism and non invasive measurability, which I will tell you a little bit about, which gives rise to macro realism. So Leggett Garg inequality is a temporal analog of Bell's inequality. So Bell's inequality requires non locality. So Leggett Garg is a temporal analog where you very sort of measure time separated correlation functions for a system which is evolving in time with different superpositions possible. And so realism is there, but other than that we also have non invasive measurability, which means that in principle it is possible to determine determine which one of the states the system is in without affecting the state itself or the system subsequent dynamics.
00:09:01.779 - 00:09:46.471, Speaker A: And that is very difficult to do experimentally. So which is, which is the hard part? And so original motivation was to test for these macro systems. You know, keep on increasing the size of a system and test up to which point you can go on violating these. And there is a series of work that has been done on this. But now over the last few years, there is a lot of focus on using legged garg to test the non classicality of single systems like photons, nucleus, pins, electrons, and so on and so forth, without involving the notion of locality. Which brings us to our experiment, which is a loophole free interferometric test of macrorealism using heralded single photons. So what are the key features? The first is that it is a loophole free experiment where both the LGI and the WLGI inequalities have been decisively violated.
00:09:46.471 - 00:10:27.337, Speaker A: It is a comprehensive Reputation of the classical realist world view, of course. And we have painstakingly assumed and verified that our experiment is non invalid. And then the other thing we have done is that not only have we violated LGI and so on, we have actually had a perfect match with quantum mechanics here. And that is important because we have done this by taking into account all the non idealities that affect the experiment and found the new quantum mechanical predictions. And it matches very well with our experiment. And then of course we have a proof of non classicality of single photon states which can be used for various applications in information theory, in communications and what have you. Right.
00:10:27.337 - 00:10:54.967, Speaker A: And so why is it important? Well, it's a short talk, so I should tell you why it is important. Halfway through we have had these three different loophole free bell tests which happened in 2015 from three different groups in three parts of the world. And that was several decades after the first Bell test. Right. And so why were they important? Because of course, you know, this is very nicely written in this article in Physics Today. You should read this if you have time. Of course it is important to do something in an unambiguous way.
00:10:54.967 - 00:11:51.195, Speaker A: Who wouldn't want to do that? But then if you do that in an unambiguous way now you have proven that your system is ready for the applications that you want to give, whether it's in qkd, perfectly secure QKD or source of truly random numbers. So these are all applications that now are becoming very important and interesting for the Bell violation. And now we have architecture where you can't have an alternative explanation for whatever it is that you're trying to do. So loophole free is important because you don't want any ambiguity in things that you are proving or disproving so that it can be used as the basis for whatever it is that you want to apply it to. And so that is why we are very happy that ours is the first loophole free experiment and it is August 2022 and we still don't have a second one this year at least there is no claim. So I am hoping we will pass by this year without having the two more claims that the Bell people had in 2015. So we have done both LGI and WLGI.
00:11:51.195 - 00:12:17.647, Speaker A: Now this is more for the people who already know stuff here in this genre because we have around eight minutes more. So please believe me that we have done loophole free violation of these, you know, inequalities. These are the inequalities. I do not have a pointer. So the first one consists of, you know, these joint measurements in times t1, t2, t2, t3 and t1, t3. And so of course, as I said, it is two time correlation functions. It is less than equal to 1.
00:12:17.647 - 00:12:40.931, Speaker A: For LGI, the quantum mechanical bound is 1.5. WLGI. Likewise, we did both. Why? Because both of them are necessary but not sufficient conditions macrorealism. So we did both so that it's stronger. And secondly, as experimentalists, WLGI has less parameters to measure, so it's less number of joint probabilities, so less error. So who doesn't like that? So that was the idea behind doing both.
00:12:40.931 - 00:12:59.527, Speaker A: And this was our proposal. We have concatenated Mark Zenda interferometers. A single photon is going through the first one. It can be in the upper part or the lower path. These are the two macroscopically distinct states. Similarly the second interferometer and likewise after the second beam splitter. And now the macroscopicity parameter for our experiment is 1.2
00:12:59.527 - 00:13:38.133, Speaker A: times 10 to the fourth and that is a very large number. So now somebody would ask how come a single photon is macroscopic? So I answered that here. So it's not about the size of the photon, of course, it's about the difference between, you know, the distance between the two arms of the interferometer and the wavelength of the photon. That is how we have defined our macroscopicity, which is context dependent. So there are several experiments which have been done in different contexts and their own definitions of microscopicity. So this is ours. But what is important is the thing below where we have told you that we have actually closed all these known loopholes that existed for these different experiments in this genre.
00:13:38.133 - 00:14:07.897, Speaker A: Important one is the clumsiness loophole, which is also very interestingly named. So we have done what is called the negative result measurement. What is a negative result measurement? The theorist can do this very easily. A measurement in which the outcome is inferred when the detector is not triggered. Which means that I put a detector somewhere and whatever is being detected, I don't count that in the experiment, I only count the sub ensemble which is not getting detected. So naturally it's not very invasive because you're not even putting any detector there. And so this is a standard way of doing nim.
00:14:07.897 - 00:14:58.349, Speaker A: However, even here we can have some something inherently invasive. So non idealness here can result in loopholes. This is called the clumsiness loophole, the act of being clumsy and causing some invasiveness. And so this is nrm. So what we have done here, which has not been done before is we have used what are called the no signaling in time conditions and satisfied these no signaling in time conditions at each experimental run, you know, for all three times. So both t1, t2, t2, t3 and t1, t3, we've satisfied the two time NSITs, which are actually statistical equivalents of NIM, and shown that, yes, with the satisfaction, our violation is now even more NIM than one could have claimed with just NRM. So this is one of the USPs of this experiment, a very strong closure of the clumsiness loophole.
00:14:58.349 - 00:15:33.219, Speaker A: The other one is the detection efficiency loop, which I think all of you are aware of because it's a very common one. The assumption that all detections are 100% efficient, which is of course never the case. And so you do the, you know, hidden variable model and find the critical detection efficiency for which your violation can be considered loophole free. And this is what we found. However, we did not want to buy detectors which were, you know, having this sort of efficiency because this is quite difficult in a coincidence measurement to get 85%. So we modified our measurement strategy. And so two things, two take home messages about how we close this loophole.
00:15:33.219 - 00:16:21.761, Speaker A: One of them is instead of using a detector in the middle, we used a metal block. And so metal block, which is perfectly blocking everything is a hundred percent detector. And of course we are doing nrm, which means that we do not care about what it is blocking, we only care about the ensemble it is not blocking. And so by using a 100% detector or a simple metal block, we were able to, you know, come closer to, you know, closing this loophole. But the other thing we did, which is a lot of math actually, is we pushed all detections to the third, you know, the T3. And now this is something, I can't say much here because it's a very long piece of calculation, but if you go through the paper, you'll realize that by doing that, we have been able to bring down the detection efficiency eta as just a parameter in the denominator. So anything which is non zero is now enough.
00:16:21.761 - 00:17:05.287, Speaker A: And so detection efficiency loophole thus becomes irrelevant in this context. And this I think is a trick, you know, which can be used by several other experiments to actually circumvent the detection efficiency loophole. Other than that, we have also closed the multiphoton emission loophole, which is important to have a bound on how much contribution is coming from more than single photons. Again, a series of experiments, so many sub experiments have happened in this towards the final result that we have claimed. And this is the actual schematic with the displaced Sagnac interferometer for the added phase stability. So clumsiness loophole has been closed by many experiments before, but the other loopholes have not gained much attention. And so ours is the first experiment which has claimed to close all the known loopholes.
00:17:05.287 - 00:17:36.461, Speaker A: Nothing can be loophole free. Somebody will come up with a sixth loophole. But at least so far we have closed the known ones. And so this is of course the PS DOU resistance which is the, which is the result slide. So here you have the experimentally measured value. As you can see, it matches beautifully with the quantum mechanical prediction. It is not just the quantum mechanical prediction, which also has been actually spinstakingly worked on by my student to actually take into account all the non idealities of our experiment and have a realistic bound from quantum mechanics itself.
00:17:36.461 - 00:18:07.821, Speaker A: It just cannot remain 1.5 if your detector is never fixed. So all these things have been taken into account and that is how we have the, you know, this is. So it's eight times and five times respectively, the violation. And so this is us with Tony Leggett when he visited us in 2019 for his 80th birthday celebration. And the discussions of course enriched very much our experiment. And we were also very happy that it was noted by, you know, different fora, including new scientists, which actually quoted experts as calling it the most watertight experiment in this genre till date.
00:18:07.821 - 00:18:48.393, Speaker A: And so that is very good after spending four years on a certain experiment. So the last minute I want to tell you that this is not all we do. Of course I wanted to tell you about this in a short talk, but then other than that, we have a lot of interest in the technology that seems to have underlined this conference so far. So we have different projects in quantum communications. We are working on India's first project on satellite based quantum communications. We have done several ground based milestones including this one, which is the first free space demonstration between buildings that was achieved a couple of years ago. And now we are going on to increasing the complexity of the problem, hopefully ending with a satellite based demonstration in the near future.
00:18:48.393 - 00:19:34.167, Speaker A: We are working on quantum relays and repeaters, integrated photonics as well, but not ourselves. We are collaborating with Italy, we have the protocol, the Italians are giving us the chip and then we are working on device independent random number generation, teleportation and so on, and higher dimensional quantum information and computing which may perhaps be the topic of some other talk and an effective interplay, I would say, between fundamental science and novel technologies is what I would like you to take home as a message. So this is us. We celebrated our 10 years in March this year. Now we are in our 11th year. And if you have found any interest in what we do, and if you are a student, do consider applying for positions in our lab. You have to, first of all, like what we do.
00:19:34.167 - 00:19:41.335, Speaker A: And also like India. This is a combination which will work for you. So with that, I'm on time. Yeah, thanks.
