00:00:00.200 - 00:00:37.876, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan the necessary entertains the 1 August 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. Alright, first off, starting off here today, we have a tweet thread from POTUS, I think that's how you say their name here, talking about how the girly testnet actually underwent an epoch or epic long reorg. So basically what this means is that the testnet, not mainnet, the girly testnet reorged, you know, through an epic, which is around, I guess, like six minutes on Ethereum proof of stake here. And this happened for, I guess, like a variety of reasons.
00:00:37.876 - 00:01:14.140, Speaker A: And you can check out this thread for a breakdown of that. But the TL doctor is that there was barely enough participation, so validated participation above 66%, an early block justifying everything else was missing. That block was 30 seconds late as well. And then there was a, um. There was a kind of investigation into this done, and there was a tweet thread put out here. But the reason why this can't happen on Mainnet was also kind of included in here, I believe. I think that it's because of this EIP, maybe 70 45, if I'm looking at this correctly here, which is a two line change that increased the max attestation in inclusion slot here.
00:01:14.140 - 00:02:02.028, Speaker A: But you can read the thread for full details on that one. Now, if this was to happen on Mainnet, just for whatever reason, it would be ugly, because we all know how reorgs work, right? And just to recap people how reorgs work, they're pretty common, I guess. Well, they were much more common under ethereum proof of work, but they happen because the chain basically sees two competing blocks to advance the chain. And then it has to choose which one of those blocks, they're similar blocks, but has to choose which one of those blocks is the canonical one, and then advance the chain from there. And that's what we call the fork choice rule. And so, while the thing that does that is called the fork choice rule in ethereum, proof of stake, and I've spoken about that before, but if the real lasted for more than a block. So blocks like, well, a slot technically, which is 12 seconds, if it lasted for the whole epoch, that's like six minutes worth of blocks, right? That would be essentially reversed.
00:02:02.028 - 00:02:26.500, Speaker A: And then you would have. You could possibly have transactions that happen with. In those, I think it's 6.4 minutes exactly. That basically got erased from the history of the chain and either replaced by other transactions or just dropped altogether, which would have downstream effects. You could imagine how this would play out for things like Defi if those kind of transactions got Reorg there. And reorgs are a concern when it comes to MeV.
00:02:26.500 - 00:03:18.480, Speaker A: Generally, there's something called a time bandit attack, which I believe takes advantage of reorgs and can be done if you control enough validators that basically do kind of multi block meV, where essentially you reorg the chain, or you reorgan other validators, the MEV that they're capturing, and you kind of give it to yourself, essentially. So let's just say a. For example, a block was proposed by a validator, and then there was a massive Mev reward paid out to them. If you control enough validators. Technically, I'm not sure on the deep technicals of how this would work, but technically, you could reorg the chain for that kind of one slot in order to basically make it so that your validator is the one proposing that block, and then you get the payment for that MeV transaction. Right. Now, there are some ways that the core developers are looking at to mitigate this.
00:03:18.480 - 00:03:40.664, Speaker A: I mean, as I said, it is a very kind of far fetched attack vector, but it exists. One of those is single slot finality, and that's the big one. Basically, you have finality within those 12 seconds. So I believe it makes real like that basically impossible. Don't quote me on that. But, yeah, it makes it, like, just stupidly expensive to do, which basically, as far as I understand, makes it nearly impossible to do there. So.
00:03:40.664 - 00:04:15.708, Speaker A: And then there was also the secret single leader election, or single secret leader election, which basically makes it so that you don't know who the proposer of the block is ahead of time, which I don't know exactly if that would help with this kind of attack scenario, but that's another upgrade that happening there. But anyway, you can read this tweet thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right. I did mention, I think, maybe a few weeks ago now that the rocket pool Odao was having its rewards reduced in a gradual fashion. Now, the first reduction has actually gone through. So, of the total RPL inflation, that's paid out.
00:04:15.708 - 00:04:46.526, Speaker A: So there is a total inflation that's paid out to three different groups. The node operators get 70%. Protocol Dow got 15%, and the Oracle Dow got 15%. But now that's being rejigged. As of today, the protocol Dow has 22% of the share, and the oracle Dow now has 8%. So it's basically cut the rewards of the oracle Dow by about 50% here. Now, this will continue to come down over time, of course, as I explained the other day about the Oracle Dow, I think it's going to finish up at like four or 2% or something like that by the time it's been cut there.
00:04:46.526 - 00:05:45.158, Speaker A: But this is a pretty substantial pay cut for ODAO members and a pretty substantial reward kind of arm redirection to the protocol Dow here, or the PDA, as I've discussed before, and I've also said before that once the ODA rewards got low enough, I would, you know, forego donating them to the protocol guild and just kind of take them for myself, for operating costs, of course, but also because I think that it's a lot fairer at this level. Just to give you an idea from my rough napkin math, and based on the current price of RPL, I think it's currently, with this reduction, $8,000 worth of RPL at current prices per month to owe down members. But as I said, this is going to keep reducing every month from here until it gets to a certain percentage. I can't remember the exact percentage it's going to get to, but I think it's at least, again, half of this. So again, at current price of RPL, that would be around $4,000, which is obviously much more reasonable than what it has been traditionally. Right. Especially when RPL was worth a lot more at like $50 or something like that.
00:05:45.158 - 00:06:25.568, Speaker A: And I have explained in the past how I think because it's paid out in RPL, the dollar, I guess, like fluctuations in the RPL price is going to greatly affect this. Like RPL could double from here. And then in terms of dollar terms, we would be back to where we were, you know, I guess, I guess today before this change happened. But at the end of the day, because it's paid an RPL, there's actually no way to essentially do this based on dollar value. You have to keep looking at it as time goes on. And you could basically do, you could, you could do it programmatically, but it wasn't included in this. But essentially what you could do is if the dollar price reaches a certain amount, then you cut the rewards, or you redirect the rewards in a programmatic way, and then if it goes down, maybe you give the rewards back.
00:06:25.568 - 00:06:55.520, Speaker A: You could do it, but it's a lot more complex, I think, to do it like that. So the community just agreed on this and pushed this upgrade through or up this update through. And this is what it looks like right now. So, yeah, just wanted to update you guys on that one. All right, so I think the talk of the town over the last couple days has been around base. So the l two from Coinbase that launched in for developers, I think, you know, a week or two weeks ago and is launching for the public early August. So within the next, I guess, week or so.
00:06:55.520 - 00:07:28.104, Speaker A: But there was a kind of meme coin that deployed onto base called bold. Now, this was a meme coin that was birthed out of the meme that Degen Spartan has been pushing on Twitter for a while that the reason he bought the coin stock was because Brian Armstrong, Coinbase's founder and CEO, is bolt. So that's the whole meme right there. For those of you who didn't know. Now, this meme coin basically started at zero and it went to, I think, like $100 million market cap or something like that. People were making a lot of paper gains or posting it on Twitter. There was a lot of fanfare going on.
00:07:28.104 - 00:07:47.240, Speaker A: Everyone was bridging into base, even though it wasn't open to the public yet. You could still bridge in. There were a couple of ways to bridge out, but it was messy and it was. It was obviously not open for the public yet. It was open for developers, but it was still open for people to bridge in. And they did this and they kind of bet on these meme coins. And there were derivatives of this.
00:07:47.240 - 00:08:25.942, Speaker A: I think there was like a hair meme coin or something else. Like, it was just crazy, right? And they spurred on a lot of activity. There was like $60 million worth of trading volume on an amm called Leet swap that had been deployed to base, which ended up being exploited. And they paused the contracts as well. So it's been a mess, right? It's been a whole mess here. But today there is a kind of like a bunch of, I guess, circumstantial evidence that came out that pointed to SPF being behind the bold meme coin because bold ended up rugging, or guess, like soft rugging, where the biggest liquidity provider pulled liquidity. So the token price just crashed to basically zero with, you know, such as life in these meme coins.
00:08:25.942 - 00:08:52.702, Speaker A: Right. Um, but there's a thread here from Mac, who I'll link in the YouTube, which I'll link in the YouTube description below that goes over why people believe that SPF or someone at Alameda was behind the deployment of this meme coin. Now, as I said, circumstantial evidence. I don't know if this, you know, it's kind of hard to prove stuff like this. It is known that SPF has access to the Internet. He apparently has access to approved websites. But it's really easy to get around that.
00:08:52.702 - 00:09:25.116, Speaker A: He probably just using a VPN, right? I'm sure he has addresses stashed somewhere where he has money on them so he can do stuff like this. And honestly, he's that mentally deranged that I wouldn't put it past him to do this. And it could, as was stated here, is that could just be another person from Alameda as well. But crazy, right? This is just, this is stuff that you see happening, and it reminds me of defi Summer, because crazy stuff like this happened pretty much every other day in Defi summer in 2020. And people are saying, oh, you know, now it's worse than Defi Summer. This doesn't even make sense anymore. This is like retard summer, some people said.
00:09:25.116 - 00:09:56.430, Speaker A: And I'm just like, okay, well, it's kind of, like funny language there, but I mean, when you look at that and look at kind of like, the culture that forms around these meme coins, you can't help but say that, you know, this stuff's just really stupid. It just really doesn't make much sense. And then some people were complaining. They were saying, oh, you know, the first thing that launched on bay, launched on base and got, I guess traction was a meme coin. This is a bad look. Okay, like, let's step back for a sec. Base is being developed as a public, open, permissionless protocol, right? Yes.
00:09:56.430 - 00:10:32.196, Speaker A: It's not live for the public just yet, but that's what it's being built as. It is not being built as a regulated KYC chain that controls what can be deployed there and who can use it. It's being built in the similar way as every other l two is being built out. And because of that, it means that this stuff is going to happen. And at the end of the day, people are kidding themselves if they don't realize that this stuff happens everywhere. And this is one of the main draws for on chain activities is gambling, is this speculation? And in my mind, there's nothing wrong with that. I think that at the end of the day, people are going to use these platforms as they wish.
00:10:32.196 - 00:10:57.782, Speaker A: And obviously, people love to gamble, they love to speculate. And just because it's done in such a transparent way doesn't mean in crypto, doesn't mean it doesn't exist in other industries. I mean, the whole capitalist society is built on speculation. There is this sort of stuff going on everywhere. I mean, casinos alone in, I guess, like the off chain casinos, not on chain casinos. And gambling is a huge industry, right? People love to do this sorts of stuff. It is not inherently a scam.
00:10:57.782 - 00:11:37.624, Speaker A: It is not inherently something that is dodgy or gross. Obviously, if people abuse it and become gambling addicts, then you look at it and you're like, you know, feel sorry for them that they fall into this trap and it can be pretty dangerous. And I have said before on the refuel that I think that generally kind of like straight up casino gambling is a net negative, like slot machines and stuff like that. But that doesn't mean I don't think that they should exist and people should be able to do what, what they, what they want with their money and should be able to gamble as they want. My personal views don't come into this, especially when we have these systems which, as I said, are permissionless public protocols. They're not trying to control what you can and can't do. They're not trying to moralize what you can and can't do.
00:11:37.624 - 00:12:03.296, Speaker A: And that's why I kind of took issue with people complaining about that in saying that obviously we want to see these kind of on chain ecosystems go beyond speculation and gambling and stuff like that. But at the end of the day, this speculation brings in liquidity, right? It brings in liquidity to the chain. It brings in activity. It means that people feel confident deploying their, you know, non gambling products on there because, because there's already users there. There's already people interested. There's already liquidity. So it does have positive effects.
00:12:03.296 - 00:12:48.114, Speaker A: It's not all just kind of like gambling for the sake of gambling and speculating for the sake of speculating here. But as I said, you can check out this, this Twitter thread from Mac about this. And I put out this tweet where I said, you know, the funniest thing about the launch of base is that, as I said, it was only meant for developers, but degens aped anyway because they were so starved for volatility. But this is what happens, right? People hear about these meme coins, they're like, oh, my God, someone made like a million dollars by putting $500 into this thing because they got in early. And then everyone thinks they're going to get in early and they think they're going to get into the next, I guess, like meme coin that does that. But what really happens is that it's like that euthanasia roller coaster where it just spirals and it death spirals. And like every meme coin that comes after every other one just gets, you know, less and less market cap.
00:12:48.114 - 00:13:36.644, Speaker A: Everyone knows the game and eventually people just lose all their money and get wrecked, right? Whether it gets rugged or not, they get wrecked because everyone knows the game at that point there. Now, because of all of this, I guess, like activity happening on base, we had a new all time high activity for ethereum l two s that combined reached around 5.3 million transactions settled on the day. Now you can see this on l two beat here on the website itself, but also the screenshot that was posted by Alvaro HK here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But we've just well and truly, like in terms of TPS just smashed layer one, right? And that's only natural. As I've said before, you know, not all TB TPS is created equal, but at the same time, aetherium l one is strictly limited by how much a TPS it can do. In theory, it can do a lot more than what it's currently doing.
00:13:36.644 - 00:14:16.052, Speaker A: If everything on ethereum layer one was just an ETH transfer. But in practice, on average eats TPS or transactions per second, you know, I guess like hover between what, ten and twelve or something like that. Ten and 15, I mean, depending on the day, right? Whereas on l two s you can see here that this TPS is at 50 on average right now. And it's been growing, as you can see, this is the year chart. It's been growing pretty steadily and pretty healthily here, which is amazing to see. Now, if we drill into base, we can actually see here the bases TPS and daily transactions have gone, you know, skyrocketed, mainly because of bold, of course. But as I said, it's not live for the public yet.
00:14:16.052 - 00:14:42.634, Speaker A: So imagine when it goes live for the public and all that liquidity is there. People are raring to go, they want to get, they want to play on the chain, they want to do stuff on the chain and that's exactly what's going to, going to happen, I believe. So, yeah. Just been a really positive, I think, last few days for base as an ecosystem, given that they're not live yet, but they still have that liquidity coming online because of the bold token. Yes, it's a meme. Yes, it's silly, yes, it's gambling. But hey, there's a lot of positive externalities here from that there.
00:14:42.634 - 00:15:24.960, Speaker A: All right, so bread on Twitter has put out an updated little graphic here, trying to cover the current l two landscape, but doing it in a different way than sites like l two beat does it. So you can see here that they've grouped these things into the respective ecosystem. So you can see on the left hand side the stark x ecosystem. So things built using the Stark X technology, such as immutable x, so rare, rhino finance and more. Then you've got Zkstack, which from, from the Zksync project. So you've got Zksync error and other projects on there. The op stack of course, which has op mainnet base, public goods network and more loop ring with loopering and d gate.
00:15:24.960 - 00:16:23.048, Speaker A: There's a scheduled l two s on the right hand side here that aren't live yet, such as scroll and Tyco. And then at the top you have l two s that don't have a shared code base, such as Starknet, Aztec Connect, Linear and polygon Zkvm. But I think one of the guys from Arbitrum here, yeah, AJ commented that arbitram nova should be put in as part of like the kind of arbitrum stack here with arbitrum one. So they kind of share most of the code base there. So obviously it's not a complete comprehensive overview of the l two landscape, but it is a really good attempt and a really nice way to visualize it. Because as I've said before, I think what all these l two teams or the generalized teams are kind of doing now is they realize that there's only going to be a handful of generalized winners. So they need to create the software and the ability for people to basically use that software to build their own app chains, because there is going to be hundreds, if not thousands, if not tens of thousands of these app chains.
00:16:23.048 - 00:17:00.432, Speaker A: And you obviously want those app chains building with your technology technology for various different reasons. Now, it depends on what the developers decide to go with. Obviously, Op Stack has a pretty big head start because they came first, and there's a lot of teams currently building on Op Stack. They want to be part of that super chain vision vision. But Stark X actually came before Op Stack, I should say. Sorry, Op Stack came first in the sense that I think they made it a lot easier than traditionally Stark X had made it, because Stark X with they had dy DX building as one of the first with immutable X. Dy DX has since kept their Stark X implementation live, but they kind of pivoted to cosmos.
00:17:00.432 - 00:17:36.962, Speaker A: I wonder if they're going to pivot back, to be honest, to l two s immutable x still has their stark implementation, but also have a polygon implementation. I believe rhino as was formerly diversified. They've been with Stark X for a while, and a few, and some with so rare. I don't actually know of these four other ones, Apex, Mario, Canvas, Connect, and brine, so I can't give any color on that. But Op Stack has obviously been pretty successful. There's also the polygon stack that got announced recently that they're building. So yeah, I think that the l two, the generalized l two teams, are definitely all targeting that, and it's going to be cool to see how that all plays out.
00:17:36.962 - 00:18:08.718, Speaker A: But yeah, thanks to bread for visualizing this for us. I'll link this tweet in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so yeah, I discussed this. This was base's l two activity here, just this tweet, which I'll link in the YouTube description below, so I won't discuss that again. Moving on to Connext. So Connext has a tweet thread out today talking about something called watches, which are the silent added layer of protection in the Connex network. No, they are not external validators avoiding the security flaws present in proof of stake bridges.
00:18:08.718 - 00:18:41.824, Speaker A: So they are something different here. So as I kind of recap here, connect is a hate is the HTTP of web3 the secure execution layer for cross chain operations that outsources the verification process to native bridges. And they continue on and saying, here's an example of l two to l two communication with a nice graphic and an explanation here, and then l one to l one paths. And then they say. However, the most secure verification methods may lead to latency issues. For instance, ethereum to l two could take up to 30 minutes. So Connext mitigates this by having routers execute transactions via a fast path.
00:18:41.824 - 00:19:13.876, Speaker A: They front the cache to users and get refunded later by the protocol. And this is a common design that's being used by other kind of bridging protocols out there. And I've discussed it before. And this architecture, of course, relies on several off chain actors, such as the relayers that execute contracts for users. The sequences collects bids and assigns routers and routers provide liquidity and execute transactions with local verification in a fully trustless way. But despite these precautions, cross chain communication brings a potential weakness. The entire cross chain ecosystem is only as secure as its weakest link.
00:19:13.876 - 00:19:54.520, Speaker A: If one chain gets compromised, it could put the entire ecosystem at risk, which is only kind of natural here. This risk can be mitigated, though, if the compromise verification channel can be quickly disconnected, minimizing potential damage. And that's where the watches come into play. Now, I think this might be something that was borrowed or has been taken from the Polkadot ecosystem. Actually, I remember in the early designs of Polkadot, I don't know if this is still around. They had this concept of a watcher as part of I believe the relay chain that would kind of work to, to do stuff like this. Now I've forgotten basically how it worked exactly, but that's another, that's another ecosystem that I've seen the terminology used in before.
00:19:54.520 - 00:20:35.682, Speaker A: Basically a piece of software that watches for these stuff. As you can see here, watches continually monitor for fraudulent activity in their verification methods. If they detect fraudulent activity, they can sever any compromise verification channels, channels similar to how fraud proof operates. So yeah, you probably got reminded then or thought of fraud proofs then in optimistic roll up. So very elegant design here that I think is, is trying to and hopefully will succeed in alleviating that major concern that if where you're bridging from kind of, or bridging to can kind of become compromised because it is a weaker chain, maybe it gets attacked or something like that. Right. We've seen these attacks play out before, so it's a way to kind of minimize the risk there for the connects protocol itself.
00:20:35.682 - 00:21:00.170, Speaker A: So yeah, you can give this thread a read for more details on that. And there's also a blog post which I'll link in the YouTube description below. All right. Actually, I didn't have this before. I came across this tweet earlier today and Twitter's just suggested it to me again. So apparently the temperature check for the celo l two proposal passed today. So yeah, I mean, it passed with 100% yes and basically 0% no.
00:21:00.170 - 00:21:38.856, Speaker A: 56 million sello voted in favor of yes, 632 not million, 632 voted no. So it looks like Seller will be coming and l two on Ethereum, which is obviously really great to see one of those l one transition transitioning across. I have gotten word that there are other l one s transitioning across. We obviously saw Palm network the other day, announced that they're going to be joining the polygon ecosystem, but I have heard of a few others. I haven't heard any specifics or names, but I have heard that there are a few others that are going to be transitioning across. I'm excited to find out what those ones are there. But yeah, great to see this passed by the celo community.
00:21:38.856 - 00:22:12.754, Speaker A: Yeah. All right, last up here, Gitcoin grants round 18 applications are now open so you can head to grants dot Gitcoin co to, to apply today. So there's a note here on supported network, which is what I wanted to focus on. All core rounds will be on optimism. Besides the core Ethereum infrastructure round, which will be on the public goods network, you can create your own grants in the grants gitcoin, Gitcoin grant stack builder on any network and then apply on the appropriate network. So yeah, the gitcoin is officially multi chain now. They have their own network with the public goods network.
00:22:12.754 - 00:22:46.398, Speaker A: They are on optimism. I think they're trying to move away from Ethereum layer one for obviously the only, I mean, really the only reason is gas fees. Because if you're trying to donate $5 to someone and it's costing you more in gas, doesn't make much sense. This really did kind of hamper gitcoin grants adoption for a little while in the bull market because of the fact that logos gas fees are really high. And they did try some early l two solutions, like Zksync, I think lights, it's called now. So their first iteration there and that worked to an extent, but it was kind of like clunky and it wasn't exactly something, it wasn't exactly the end game. Right.
00:22:46.398 - 00:23:37.456, Speaker A: But that's what they're trying to do here with this kind of git coin grants, 18 applications that are now open and deploying Gitcoin grants to these networks and especially the public goods network, which, as I've discussed before, is all about, you know, public goods. It's not just going to be Gitcoin on there, but there's going to be a bunch of other protocols and apps on there as well, all in the name of public goods funding. All right, so I got a few minutes left here. Last thing I wanted to talk about today was, of course, the markets, because not that much has changed in probably the last couple of weeks since I've talked about the markets. But it's kind of funny seeing the, the mood, I guess, of the, the crypto ecosystem right now. So what I mean by this is that there was a few tweets put out, and I was one of those people who put out the tweets. And I talked about this yesterday about how that, you know, I expect the rest of the year to be like a crab market.
00:23:37.456 - 00:24:23.812, Speaker A: I expect the new all time highs to not happen till the second half of next year. I expect the bull market to potentially happen in early next year, to start early next year. And I also expect the overall cycle to be shorter. Now, there are a few making comments saying all the influencers are suddenly getting together and saying the same stuff. That means it's not going to happen or, you know, that means that it's going to happen differently or whatever. I've had this opinion for a while now, and you guys would know because I think I've talked about this on the refuel quite a while ago now about this kind of, you know, the bull market will happen a lot later than people think it will because of time based capitulation, and the all time highs will happen a lot later as well, in my mind, at least the years out from, from all time highs here. Um, but at the same time, they're just predictions.
00:24:23.812 - 00:24:47.236, Speaker A: I think that's what I want. The point of what I'm saying here, they're just predict predictions. I don't have any crystal ball or special insight. I have experience. I have experience with crypto market cycles. I have, I have probably a clearer head than most people around this because I think that when you're in the ecosystem and you haven't kind of made a lot of money from crypto yet, I'm not trying to brag here or anything. I'm trying to give you context around this.
00:24:47.236 - 00:25:32.982, Speaker A: But if you are, like, still in that phase of trying to generate wealth from crypto, then you're thinking in a different way to someone who is, who has already generated wealth from crypto and is rather indifferent around when the bull market comes back. People were accusing me saying, you are, you know, you're only saying that because it's hopium, you want the bull market to come back, blah, blah. I'm like, okay, of course I want the bull market to come back, but at the same time, I don't care when it comes back. I'm very patient at this point in my life, but other people aren't, and that clouds their judgment, which I totally get because it clouded my head's, clouded my judgment in the past. So as I said, I don't have a crystal ball or anything like that, but I have experience and I have a different way of thinking about this sorts of stuff now. And I'm just trying to stay as grounded as possible when saying these things. I don't like to give exact predictions about things.
00:25:32.982 - 00:25:52.490, Speaker A: I like to give kind of broad predictions because I think the broader stuff is better just for a number of different reasons. But also, as I said, like, I can't tell the future. So I'm not trying to promise anyone anything. I'm not trying to sell anyone anything. I'm not trying to say that. Oh, yeah, just, you know, accumulate now, wait a year, 18 months, and you'll be rich. No, that's not how it works at all.
00:25:52.490 - 00:26:24.394, Speaker A: I mean, you could fumble the bag. Anyone could fumble the bag for any different reasons. I mean, I remember in March 2020 when we had the whole COVID dump, I knew multiple people who had held the entire bear market and crab market only to fumble the bag at that point in time and basically get wiped out and miss the whole bull market. Like, that stuff happens, guys, and that stuff happens more than, more often than you would think to people that you may not think that it would happen to. So that's. I think the one thing you need to do is you need to avoid those pitfalls. You need to stay grounded, stay relaxed.
00:26:24.394 - 00:26:42.218, Speaker A: The bull market will come when it comes, but that's no guarantee that, you know, you're going to generate wealth from it either. Because at the end of the day, if you don't sell, if you just hold, you don't. You make nothing. And this is what I did in 2018. In 2017, I made a bunch of money. You know, I had a decent amount of ETH, not. Not as much as I would like, but a decent amount of ETH.
00:26:42.218 - 00:26:58.894, Speaker A: I wrote it up. I wrote it up from basically $10 to 1400. And I didn't sell a single ETH. I got too greedy. I didn't take profits. I had a fairly sizable chunk at that point. And I saw that and I'm like, you know what? I'll just keep holding because I was just so bullish at the time.
00:26:58.894 - 00:27:19.844, Speaker A: I didn't have enough experience under my belt, and I held it. I didn't obviously think ETH was going to go to dollar 80 in a year. No one thought that. But it did. It did. And I round tripped my, you know, pretty, pretty much everything because I started buying more ETH at around two to $300 in the bear market in 2018, which brought my cost basis up. So really I was at net zero profit for quite a while there.
00:27:19.844 - 00:27:47.034, Speaker A: And then the bull market came again. And this time I said to myself, I'm taking profits, right? I'm not round tripping this again, because I had accepted the reality that it wasn't just going to be a bull market always. It wasn't going to be a super cycle. It, there was going to be a bear market. I obviously didn't know what the bear market would look like. I didn't know if it was going to be more brutal than the last one or, you know, what was going to happen to ETH or anything like that, but I did know that these things work in cycles. I accepted that there'd be another bear market and that's why I took profits.
00:27:47.034 - 00:28:03.594, Speaker A: So having a bull market is no guarantee that you're going to make money. You need to stay grounded. You need to set yourself, sell targets. Now, to be honest, you need to stick to them. You need to not get greedy. Take profits and then you'll feel a lot better about yourself. Because there will be another bear market after the next bull market, guys, I guarantee.
00:28:03.594 - 00:28:27.642, Speaker A: I mean, I can't guarantee you anything about the markets except that, that they work in cycles. There will always be another bull market. There will always be another bear market. That is the, I guess, like soundest piece of non investment advice that I can give you is just be aware of those trends. Be aware that they are multi year trends as well. And if you are, then you'll have a much better chance of success than those who aren't. But anyway, on that note, I'm going to end it there today.
00:28:27.642 - 00:28:35.914, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
