00:00:00.250 - 00:00:55.082, Speaker A: Welcome back to the Defiant, everyone, and we are back with another explainer video. Today we're focusing on Mantle, a L2 birthed from the merge with Bitdao, who's renowned for managing one of the largest onchain treasuries in all of DFI. Mantle's recently launched their new liquid staking protocol, or LSP, and its value accumulation receipt token M ETH, which is looking to deliver high yield and efficient staking to its users. The goal is to turn Mantle into an allencompassing DFI hub funneled through the use of me and the LSP. But before we go too deep into the LSP, let's discuss a little bit more about what Mantle actually is. So what is Mantle? Well, Mantle is a rollup based L2 solution on Ethereum that plans to be fully compatible with the Ethereum virtual machine. The mantle ecosystem maintains a heavy focus on decentralization, and it's entirely dow governed.
00:00:55.082 - 00:01:15.746, Speaker A: The main net alpha went live on July 17, 2023, and has seen its TVL grow to $236,000,000 as of December twelveth. The chain uses its MNT token as the native gas token. MNT holders make up the mantle governance, which is responsible for all decision making regarding the future of the ecosystem and.
00:01:15.768 - 00:01:17.122, Speaker B: The use of its treasury.
00:01:17.186 - 00:02:15.158, Speaker A: Mantle has just recently launched its liquid staking protocol with the goal of making it a central part of the greater ecosystem. The LSP is a permissionless, non custodial ETH staking protocol on Ethereum, but governed by Mantle. By utilizing the protocol, users can stake their ETH and receive the native receipt token. Mantle staked ether or meth to use elsewhere on ethereum or on mantle in particular. After observing previous iterations of liquid staking, the LSP was designed with four main goals, delivering a highly rewarding me experience, robust risk management, a simple and modern architecture, and its utilization as a core mantle product. Mantle's goal is to develop me into one of the most efficient staking tokens across DFI by maintaining the highest sustainable core yield through MEV tactics and treasury yield sharing. The protocol is currently offering roughly 3.65%
00:02:15.158 - 00:03:08.226, Speaker A: APY. The development of me as an integral part of the ecosystem lays the groundwork for future interoperability within mantle. Meth can currently be used within particular lsdfi apps across Ethereum, all of the largest DeFi platforms on mantle and has integrations in bybit. The scalability and ease of adoption of me is a primary goal of its architecture. The DAO will look to make Emmeth a staple across all new protocols that are launched on the chain, ensuring the mantle LSP users see optimal returns for their loyalty. The growth of meth not only allows for high yields for users, but will provide an extra layer of security to Ethereum via staking while enhancing the mantle ecosystem. This liquid staking allows for stakers to remain active across the greater DeFi ecosystem while earning yield on their deposited funds.
00:03:08.226 - 00:04:06.810, Speaker A: To maximize capital efficiency, the DAO will look to make me a staple across all new protocols that are launched on the chain, ensuring the mantle LSP users see optimal returns for their loyalty. Following its recent launch, Mantle is also providing a double dose of yield for users who stake their ETH on Mantle LSP. That's basically double whatever the core yield is for the staking period, and this will be ongoing for at least two months. This is being launched in conjunction with other yield bearing offerings from mantle. This is partially led by its tokenized bearer Note MUSD, which is a rebasing version of USDY, a tokenized note from Ondo finance that's secured by a combination of US treasuries and bank deposits. Through MUSD, Mantle is set to provide multiple yield growing products to its users. So now that we understand a little bit more about Mantle and their LSP, let's walk through how you can get started yourself.
00:04:06.960 - 00:05:07.306, Speaker B: We can begin by visiting the LSP homepage where we're immediately routed to the staking interface. By selecting connect wallet in the top right hand corner, we'll be able to select the wallet that we want to connect. Once we're successfully connected, we can ensure that the stake button is selected on the left hand side of the screen, and then we can enter the amount of ETH that we'd like to stake, bearing in mind that the minimum amount for staking is 0.2 ETH. Before signing, the interface will show the amount of M ETH set to be received in return, as well as the exchange adjustment rates, and after reviewing that, we can confirm the rate is deterministically calculated every 8 hours and there is no slippage involved. If staking for the first time, you will be asked to add me to your wallet after the transaction is confirmed, and clicking the add token prompt on your wallet will ensure that the tokens are visible on the interface. To unstake, begin by clicking the unstake tab on the homepage of the interface.
00:05:07.418 - 00:05:08.798, Speaker A: And once this is selected, we're going.
00:05:08.804 - 00:05:50.380, Speaker B: To follow the same process as staking. So we select the amount of m ETH we'd like to unstake. For the sake of this example, let's go ahead and use the full amount and once we've done so we can click on approve me. So the minimum amount for unstaking is zero one. And again, we can check the exchange and adjustment rates prior to moving forward. We see the amount that we're set to receive and the transaction costs associated with this decision and we're going to press confirm. Now, once we confirm the unstaking transaction the process can take a few minutes to complete and once it's successful there's a processing time of up to a few days before you can actually claim ETH back.
00:05:50.380 - 00:06:13.690, Speaker B: To see all of the claimable ETH we're going to select the claim tab at the top of the interface. Within a few days our ETH will be claimable and to do so we'll navigate to the claim tab and proceed. Now you're armed with all the knowledge needed in order to become an active ETH staker and defi participant on demandle network. Thank you for tuning in today and stay defiant.
