00:00:00.400 - 00:00:44.086, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the daily Refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesano, and today's the 4 November 2021. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So I put out this tweet today, basically, where I said, if your goal in this industry is to profit at all costs, then we're probably not going to be friends. If your goal is to change the world using revolutionary decentralized technology, then I count you as part of my squad. Money is nice, but it will not buy you a purpose. Now, for those of you who've listened to my Layer zero podcast that I did with David Hoffman at, you'll know kind of like my thought, my general thoughts on having a purpose and kind of like doing things and kind of like participating in the ecosystem and in life in general for things more than money.
00:00:44.086 - 00:01:26.826, Speaker A: And, you know, in crypto, it can be hard because I kind of like, get it. There's a lot of people out there who come into crypto. They're relatively new and they're like, okay, well, I have a starting bankroll of maybe a few thousand dollars. I want to get rich off this because I've heard all these stories of all these people kind of like getting rich off crypto, and I want that to be me. Look, I thought that way too, once upon a time back in when I first got into crypto, in 2013, when I got into bitcoin, I had heard all these stories as well of people kind of buying bitcoin at a dollar and it was like, when I got in, it was, I think it was like 60, $70 or something like that. And that was a huge gain, right? Still at 60 or 70 x and I heard all these stories and I'm like, oh yeah, I'm gonna, I'm gonna buy it and I'm gonna be rich. And I was so naive, right? I was so young and naive.
00:01:26.826 - 00:02:00.046, Speaker A: It was so dumb. And then I ended up just selling like the near the bottom of, in kind of like 2014 of my bitcoin, probably not too near the bottom. I think I sold it around $400 and it ended up bottoming somewhere in the hundreds. But still I didn't sell it at like $1,000 or whatever what it went to. I didn't have much to begin with either. Now and then I, you know, I kind of like, I came back in early 2017 into Ethereum, bought my kind of like first bit of ETH and then kept buying for a little bit. Then but I didn't really have much back then, so I tried to, to use that ETH in within icos to flip and everything like that and to earn more ETH.
00:02:00.046 - 00:02:32.162, Speaker A: It worked until it didn't, right? It worked until kind of like the bull market ran its course and the icos just got absolutely destroyed and slaughtered. And, you know, I ended up losing some ETH on them. So, fast forward to today, and there's like, a lot more opportunities to make money now, right? You have yield farming, you have like, all these token incentives happening on all the different chains. You have all these tokens that you can buy that. I mean, it seems like everything's going up these days, right, against USD, at least. And it seems like everyone's making, you know, lots of money around you now. I can pretty much guarantee you that most people aren't making lots of money around you.
00:02:32.162 - 00:03:17.788, Speaker A: Most people will actually end up trading away a lot of their gains because they'll try and chase that one pump that they rode and they'll just kind of like, trade away what they've, what they've made. They'll probably end up underperforming Ethan, kind of like BTC over the long run. You know, there's a long list of things that kind of happen there. But as I said, I totally understand that, and I totally understand a lot of you guys, kind of like, tuning in, definitely fall into this camp of people that, you know, are newer to the ecosystem, and you're making your first kind of investments, and you're hoping that this can lead to, obviously, some making some money over time, which is, which is totally fine. I have no issue with that at all. What I take issue with is people who are what are called, quote unquote, profit maximalists, where the only reason that they're in this ecosystem is to make money. They care about nothing else.
00:03:17.788 - 00:03:43.134, Speaker A: They just care about extracting as much money as they can from the ecosystem. And then when they get what they want, pretty much like, when they've got enough, they'll, uh, they'll probably, like, exit, right? And just like, take their money out and go do whatever they want with it. Uh, look, if you want to be that type of person, then feel free to do that. Like, no one's gonna stop you from doing that. But I personally don't want to associate with people like that because it's just not what I, what I vibe with. I. I've never been like that.
00:03:43.134 - 00:04:17.026, Speaker A: Like, even in 2013, when I first got into bitcoin myself, I wasn't a profit maximus. Yes. I wanted to make money, of course, but I was still very, very interested in the technology. The funny thing is, I actually started being interested half because the price came down, but half because the tech was so limited and there wasn't anything like ethereum back then. So I kind of lost interest. But there wasn't really much going on in kind of the market during 2018, 2019, and even early 2020. And I think I got more involved than I ever had been with, with crypto.
00:04:17.026 - 00:04:53.650, Speaker A: So for me, at the end of the day, like, I am literally in it for the tech. I think at this point, like, if you've been watching the refill for a while, reading my newsletters, it's all free, right? Like, I'm not here to suck the value out of this ecosystem and go buy lambos. Like, the funny thing is, my lifestyle hasn't even really changed that much since I, you know, since kind of, like, the bull market began. And obviously my investments paid off. The biggest lifestyle change for me was that I quit my job at set. Well, I didn't quit set entirely. I just, like, stopped, um, being their product marketing manager, and I moved into an advisory role, uh, and, you know, so I could do more of this stuff, so I could do the daily stuff and.
00:04:53.650 - 00:05:06.914, Speaker A: And everything else that I try to do within the ecosystem. But other than that, I haven't done anything else. Like, I haven't got. I haven't gotten bought. Bought a fancy car or anything like that. Yeah, buy my figurines, which you guys know about. You may see it on Twitter, but I was doing that before, uh, you know, while working at set as well.
00:05:06.914 - 00:05:26.684, Speaker A: So, um, yeah, from. From that perspective, for me, money was just always a means to an end, to get to. To what I want to do, which is change the world using this revolutionary, decentralized technology. I want to educate about this. I want to spread the word. I want to get more people involved with it. I want to get more people involved with it for the tech rather than the money.
00:05:26.684 - 00:06:01.788, Speaker A: But in saying that, I am talking from a privileged position here where I've kind of. I'm kind of like the point where I've made the money I wanted to make, and then I can just, like, kind of, like, coast along, whereas a lot of you guys who are newer to the ecosystem are definitely trying to find Alpha and trying to kind of invest and make money elsewhere. And as I said, no issues with that at all. And I account every, obviously, all of you listening and watching every day as part of my squad because you wouldn't be listening and watching my videos if you. All you cared about was money, because I don't shill you tokens, right? I don't go through price charts all the time. I'm not telling you when to buy and when to sell. There's plenty of youtubers who do that.
00:06:01.788 - 00:06:36.796, Speaker A: But you watch the daily way because you want to get the kind of like most up to date information on the ethereum and wider crypto ecosystems without all that fluff and shilling. So from that perspective, I already know all of you are in it for the tech, and it's okay to be in it for the tech and the money. I mean, I am too. Like, I'm not gonna say I'm not. Like, I still make investments, I still buy things, you know, whether that be angel investing or buying things on public markets. And obviously I'm expecting a return. I'm not just doing it as an altruistic endeavor, but what I mean by profit maximalist and how they differ from that is that they literally don't care about the tech.
00:06:36.796 - 00:07:14.378, Speaker A: They'll use whatever is necessary to get money. They, they may even go as far as kind of like creating their own tokens and their own things to scam people out of money, which pretty much goes much further. A lot of them really are just like, I mean, it's a big part, like traders, right? A lot of the people who are just like mercenary farmers and kind of like getting as much money as possible and then not caring about anything except that for me, that's a hollow existence, really, at the end of the day. Like, I couldn't do that even if I wanted to. Even if I tried my hardest to force myself to do it, I couldn't. I'd probably just end up getting depressed about it. It is such a hollow existence because, as I said in the tweet, money is nice, but it will not buy you a purpose.
00:07:14.378 - 00:07:32.114, Speaker A: It's, money is a means to an end. It's not going to, you know, making all this money, say you make like millions of dollars. It's not going to automatically lead you to or allow or basically tell you, okay, well, now you've made millions of dollars. Here's your purpose in life. Go do that and you'll be truly happy. No, money is an inanimate object. It lets you get.
00:07:32.114 - 00:08:13.828, Speaker A: Have more free time to maybe pursue your interest and pursue kind of like finding your purpose. So, as I said, it's a means to an end. But. But it is not going to buy you that purpose. It is not going to tell you what it is. It is not going to kind of like make it any easier to figure it out other than kind of like freeing up some of your time. So, and then, you know, if you, if you do something with what's called a lifestyle creep where, you know, you may like spend lots of money on different things because you've got a lot of money, so you start like creeping up your lifestyle and start buying, you know, lambos and like fancy houses and fancy things and whatever, um, you know, trying to kind of like chase that uh, that happiness or trying to like uh, get, you know, get kind of like chase, um, a purpose.
00:08:13.828 - 00:08:38.217, Speaker A: I don't know, I just feel like it's not going to work. But I'm not here to kind of tell people what they should and shouldn't do. I'm just giving my perspective and I think this is critically important. You may be wondering why I'm even talking about this on the refuel. But at the end of the day, like, Ethereum is a social movement as much as it is a technology. Uh, the Ethereum culture and the Ethereum ethos and mission is all about the social contract constructs and all about the social layer. The technical stuff kind of like follows on from that.
00:08:38.217 - 00:09:26.342, Speaker A: But first and foremost, Ethereum is a social construct and we all kind of like are aligned on properties of decentralization, openness, permissionlessness, doing things the right way based on hard science rather than doing things by taking shortcuts. And as I said, that all stems from the social layer, which stems from the fact that a lot of people in the Ethereum ecosystem, I mean, I would say that the hardcore Ethereum community members, pretty much none of them would be profit maximalist. They are literally kind of like in it for the tech. They want to help the tech along, they want to do different things, whether that be building, educating, you know, investing. And investing doesn't have to be just like a pure profit driven endeavor. There are a lot of funds that will obviously invest their money, but they'll also invest their time, their knowledge, and they'll help these, help these teams out in those regards rather than money. And they'll do it because they enjoy doing it.
00:09:26.342 - 00:09:50.538, Speaker A: They want to do it. They want to see these things get built and succeed. So it's not just about profit for them at the end of the day as well. So. So yeah, anyway, kind of like a little bit of a, I wouldn't call it a rant, maybe just like a kind of like open kind of discussion about how I feel about these things. I'm curious to obviously get your guys thoughts on this as well. So if you want to comment on YouTube or going to the Discord channel and kind of like probably talk about this some more, I'm always happy to do that.
00:09:50.538 - 00:10:28.408, Speaker A: I think that it is critically important that the social layer gets talked about a lot more than it, than it has been, because people think this stuff's just like purely technical, when in reality the social aspect to it is probably more important than the technical stuff. And it all flows from the social layer anyway, at the end of the day. So. So, yeah, anyway, I'm going to move on to the rest of the updates. So another ens token update. So over the last 24 hours, someone on Twitter spotted that there was a cluster of accounts that, that appeared to be designed to farm the ENS token airdrop. And then Nick says here, Nick Johnson, the lead developer of ENS, said here that they've taken a closer look at the accounts and they considered several options.
00:10:28.408 - 00:10:55.134, Speaker A: And then he outlines what they've described and their, their reasoning here. So you can go read this thread full of, for a full breakdown of this. But essentially they've gone with option, kind of option four here, which was basically blacklisting that the accounts that they've identified as trying to game the airdrop. So I thought that was the best outcome for sure. I think there was 748, 784 accounts associated with this. Definitely the best outcome. Definitely a really good move by them.
00:10:55.134 - 00:11:30.914, Speaker A: And, you know, it's funny because there's a few reasons how this could have happened. One is the obvious reason someone had insider knowledge of the airdrop. They decided to kind of like, essentially create all these different accounts, get these ans names in order to maximize how much of the airdrop they could get. The second thing, which is actually, you know, pretty likely, probably not. Maybe not as likely, because I think being an insider is probably more likely than this. But, but secondly, could be someone speculating that ENS was going to have a token and basically saying, well, you know, if they do have a token, I'm gonna just like spend some money to spin up all these accounts and try and game the airdrop. That could definitely have happened.
00:11:30.914 - 00:12:11.550, Speaker A: And I think someone mentioned that ENS had a job advertisement for a governance lead a few weeks ago. So, you know, it doesn't take as rocket science rocket scientists to figure that out either. Where you see governance lead, they're like, okay, well, Ens doesn't have a token, doesn't have a dao, doesn't have a governance process right now. So what does that mean? Well, I mean, it means that there was a token and a governance kind of like an Adao thing coming, which, which exactly what happened. So I think there are merits to both, kind of like stipulations there or kind of speculations there. But if I had to guess, I'd probably say it was an insider. Because the thing is, is that when you launch a token, there are a surprisingly, a lot of people that need to know about it for various different reasons.
00:12:11.550 - 00:13:00.102, Speaker A: And any one of those people could go tell someone else, right? And then they could go tell someone else, and it quickly becomes a thing where there's hundreds of people that potentially know about this, and any one of them can easily try and game the system pretty much anonymously. You could send funds to an Ethereum address and then wash them through tornado cash. And then basically you're free to do whatever you want. The chances of you kind of like getting traced back to a destination address is extremely low, if not pretty much like impossible for it, for it to be traced back there. So from that perspective, I would say maybe more likely that it was an insider, but it's not too far fetched to say that it was just someone also trying to, I guess, game the airdrop by, by guessing or assuming that there was going to be an airdrop. So. So yeah, anyway, go read this thread for a full breakdown of the reasoning.
00:13:00.102 - 00:13:35.302, Speaker A: I thought the way that it resolved it was, was pretty cool, pretty admirable as well. So Amin Soleimani, the CEO of Spank chain here, had a really great tweet. Well, I guess, like one part of his tweet that I really resonated with. But essentially he was, quote, tweeting, uh, Raul here, who recently joined kind of like Reddit's crypto team to build, uh, Reddit's kind of like crypto integration on arbitram, which I'm going to talk about in a sec anyway. But essentially amin, quote, tweeted it and said, the end users of Ethereum are no longer individual humans. It's a roll up dev team. It's roll up dev teams building ecosystems, let 1000 roll ups bloom.
00:13:35.302 - 00:14:20.382, Speaker A: And then he goes on to say, this is my favorite part of what he said, ethereum as a civilizational trust anchor. Now, this is what I wrote today's Deli Gwen newsletter about. You can go check that out for some more context around this. But I mean, this is exactly what I've been preaching for a long time now about how Ethereum layer one is not for individual humans or end users anymore. It is for bots, whales and L2, kind of like proofs and call data, which is what roll ups are, of course. But then, I mean, you just put this in some, you know, a really, really great quote where he says, ethereum as a civilizational trust and anchor that, like, got my head, got my brain spinning today. And really what, what it kind of like says to me is that Ethereum is a global network, right? It is.
00:14:20.382 - 00:14:54.050, Speaker A: It spans, you know, every country in the world. It spans every civilization in the world. It is truly global in nature. And because Ethereum is truly global in nature, it can globally scale trust, settlement assurances and security and decentralization, which is exactly what Ethereum's layer one is doing right now. And, and he's being designed to do even better in the future, obviously, with the merge coming up and switching to proof of stake. And also we're still going to be scaling at this layer through sharding and statelessness. But at the core of what Ethereum layer one wants to be is a trust anchor for things like rollups.
00:14:54.050 - 00:16:53.014, Speaker A: Because what ends up happening is that roll ups can have very, very, very strong guarantees, pretty much like the strongest guarantees on the planet, that if they post their proofs of their transactions and their data of their, from their roll up to Ethereum layer one, they have extremely strong guarantees that it is going to be there when they need it and it's going to be secure, because in a proof of stake world, Ethereum will have finality, which makes this even more secure and makes the settlement assurances even stronger. And the notion of finality is basically that every twelve minutes, the ethereum network under proof of stake will finalize. And that means that two thirds of the ETH at stake, which would currently be around five or 6 million ethics, tens of billions of dollars attest to the, what has already been kind of like validated in the past on the chain, and basically say, you can't reorg past this point, or you can't go back past this point, or what ends up happening is that two thirds of ETH that has kind of attested to this is at stake of being slashed. So you have tens of billions of dollars, potentially hundreds of billions of dollars in the future of capital at stake. If someone was to go back and reorg the chain, you know, more than twelve minutes, or someone was to go back and try and kind of like change something about it, or, or kind of like do static surgical state transitions and things like that. So essentially what you have is the only system out there that is extremely secure, extremely resistant to basically reorgs and stuff like that, and gives you incredible, incredibly strong settlement guarantees because of that as well. So that's what I took from, I mean, saying ethereum as a civilizational trust anchor, because these roll ups are basically trusting Ethereum, layer one, to both be, to both have the availability, right, the data availability, have the, have the kind of like proofs be cemented on there and come to consensus on and secure it on there.
00:16:53.014 - 00:17:15.362, Speaker A: And they're also trusting them with their bridge contracts, too, right? Getting in and out of these kind of roll ups. And this is why, or one of the reasons why rollups have chosen Ethereum as their trust anchor. Because of this. Like, think about all the other chains. They have way less security than Ethereum. Many of them are not decentralized. Many of them have very, very centralized points of failure.
00:17:15.362 - 00:18:10.088, Speaker A: Many of them don't have the notion of finality like Ethereum does. Many of them deposit networks, which are inherently turning to cartels over time. And many of them are taking extreme trade offs to achieve scale at layer one, whereas Ethereum is doing scaling at layer one over the long term in the proper way and also ensuring that layer one can stay as decentralized and secure as possible so that we can, we can still remain this civilizational trust anchor. So anyway, I've got more information about this in today's Deliware newsletter, if you want to go check that out. But I figured I'd just quickly talk about it now because it really means a lot to me and it's at the heart of what I think Ethereum is today and what it can be better at in the future as well. So here is Rahul, who I was talking about before his thread on joining Reddit's crypto team. Now, you remember that Reddit is building their own instance of arbitrum to scale their community point system.
00:18:10.088 - 00:18:51.670, Speaker A: And in this thread, Rahul goes over what he's doing or what he's, sorry, what Reddit is doing in crypto, and it's three words, decentralized social media. And then he goes on with, you know, details about it and how to kind of like, make this all happen. This, this tweet that's being kind of like, quote, tweeted a lot is about how Reddit has 500 million monthly active users. And when Reddit pulls off this kind of like, arbitrary instance, they could potentially onboard 500 million web two users into web3, and then there is no going back. So basically, potentially onboarding 500 million new crypto users, which is absolutely massive, right. Incredible amount of users to onboard and Reddit, I think, you know, I've gone through it before. They're very progressive in choosing a kind of like Ethereum based scaling solution here.
00:18:51.670 - 00:19:39.364, Speaker A: They definitely care deeply about, or seem to care deeply about the web3 movement and decentralization. And ethereum is kind of like placed in that as well. So definitely go read these thread for some further context here. But it's really, really great to see that that kind of like that Reddit is taking this approach rather than going to one of the kind of like more quote unquote scalable other chains that have sacrificed those core properties of decentralization and security in order to achieve that scale. They're taking the proper approach here. So big props to Reddit and respect to Reddit for doing this, of course. So I missed this, I think it was two days ago, but Meta Cartel launched the Padawan Dao, which is basically a Dao that is going to fund scholarships to young Padawans to attend their first crypto conferences, high school and college students, et cetera.
00:19:39.364 - 00:20:33.966, Speaker A: And Peter Pan here, one of the founders of Metacartel will be personally pledging funding to this as well. So this is something that Rick Burden actually has been pioneering lately, basically sponsoring people and sponsoring particularly young people who don't have much money, whether they're in high school or in college, to go to crypto conferences. Because for anyone who's been to a crypto conference, specifically an ethereum conference, specifically an ethereum hackathon like ETH Denver, for example, you know, just how much kind of like alpha is there? I'm not talking about investing alpha, talking about knowledge. Like the smartest people in the ecosystem are like concentrated in one space for a few days. And there are kind of like builders everywhere. There are, there are kind of like scientists everywhere, researchers everywhere. And it's just like a, I mean, it really is a kind of like a kind of like center point for a few days where people can just like learn from each other and get to know each other.
00:20:33.966 - 00:20:51.542, Speaker A: And it's not fair that younger people have to miss out on this just because they can't afford to go. So this is really cool. You can read this kind of like foreign post for more details about this. But yeah, awesome to see this. And I hope to see some of these people at conferences in the future, myself as well. Maybe they're listening to the refuel right now, if you are. That's awesome.
00:20:51.542 - 00:21:35.734, Speaker A: But yeah, I hope to see a lot of these people kind of attend these conferences going forward. So the metaverse has obviously been a big topic of discussion lately. And the funny thing is, is that a lot of people may not be aware of this, but polygons pos chain or the polygon ecosystem is very heavy into the metaverse. Things that have been kind of like in the spotlight lately, like the sandbox and Decentraland and you know, decentral games, abagotchi, all that sort of stuff, yield guild games, they, they live on Polygon. They are part of the polygon pos chain ecosystem. And you know what? I actually think that that's the one of the best places for them. I know there's other kind of like ecosystems, like immutable x building stuff and building NFT and gaming stuff.
00:21:35.734 - 00:22:13.012, Speaker A: And they're doing really well as well. But I think that Polygon has a really, really great kind of way of doing this because as you guys know, the Pos chain isn't a true L2. It's not a roll up. It's a kind of like commit chain on to Ethereum, and it has less security because of that and less decentralization because of that. But the thing is, a lot of these kind of like metaverse things, especially the gaming side of it, they don't need the maximum decentralization and security of ethereum layer one, especially not for kind of like a lot of the maybe lower value assets that they have. What they do need is a way to do cheap transactions, which is what the polygon pos chain gives them. So, yeah, this is really cool.
00:22:13.012 - 00:22:42.454, Speaker A: I just wanted to point this out that a lot of this kind of stuff lives on polygon. It's a great ecosystem. I mean, obviously I'm an advisor to Polygon, so I'm just kind of like talking about this because I pay attention to this ecosystem. But I mean, I put out a tweet today saying that I figured crypto gaming is going to be much bigger than people realize. It's still very early days for it. Of course, it's still something that is definitely going to require a lot of tinkering with to get right. But there are a lot of kind of like really cool games out there and a lot of ones coming online soon that, that are going to be big.
00:22:42.454 - 00:23:13.746, Speaker A: And you know, the fact that they're on Polygon as well is really, really cool because Polygon basically has a really great little metaverse ecosystem developing here. So if you want to check any of them out, you can, I'll link this in the YouTube description, you can just Google each of these, see what they're all about and go play around with them. So another bridging protocol that I came across today, I don't think it's new. I think it's been out for a little while. But I hadn't heard of it before. It's called the bridge or de bridge. And the reason why I heard about it today was because they've deployed their updated version to the testnet.
00:23:13.746 - 00:23:44.698, Speaker A: So to, I think it's on Kovan testnet. But this is just another bridge for kind of like l two s and four side chains and all that sort of stuff. There's so many of these things, right? Like, it's insane how many bridges there are. But it makes sense because everyone wants to go from like everywhere to everywhere. And, you know, this is only on testnet right now. This isn't on mainnet just yet, but with kind of like this new Testnet deployment, they've got like an improved UI. Gas optimizations are kind of like they're doing kind of like things with, with ipfs as well.
00:23:44.698 - 00:24:37.294, Speaker A: So I mean, you can read this blog post for full details here and try it out on Testnet as well. But I wanted to point this out because I know you guys have been listening to me talk about bridges for a long time and I want to kind of like try and stay on the, on top of all the bridges and kind of like know which ones are out there, know which ones are specifically doing things kind of like differently as well, which ones are cheap, which ones are the most trustless. Um, as I said, like each of these bridges have a lot of, uh, kind of like different designs to them. You know, I spotlighted across protocol the other day, which is already a new design where they do short term loans, you have cross chain dexs, you have like arbitrary message relays, you have multisig bridges. You know, there's a world of different bridges out there and they all have their own different kind of like trust assumptions and trade offs. And I think, you know, the bridge is just another one that's kind of like come across my, my radar and seems to be making waves here as well. So definitely go check out this blog post for more details about that.
00:24:37.294 - 00:25:47.978, Speaker A: So immutable has announced that they've partnered with another big, kind of like, I guess a traditional gaming firm called Playco. So 500 million players apparently are in the Playco ecosystem, and now they'll get access to gas free and carbon neutral nfts on their favorite games across Facebook, TikTok, Snapchat and more, all powered by Immutable X, of course, which is built on Starkware secured by Ethereum. Immutable is just making like, I mean, I know I've said this, probably said this before on the refill, but they're making so many big waves here with basically bringing the non crypto companies into crypto because I think that that is the biggest opportunity for, especially for these, for these L2s where they can essentially bootstrap kind of, I guess, like new users or get new users into the ecosystems without having to kind of like tap into the existing users because the existing user pool is very small. Like, I actually put out another tweet today where I basically said everyone's fighting over the few million on chain active users that we have. And if I'm being honest, I don't even think it's a few million on chain active users. And I'm talking about like, people who are active, you know, at least weekly. It doesn't have to be daily, but like, you're active at least weekly.
00:25:47.978 - 00:26:27.490, Speaker A: There's probably less than a million of those kinds of people at this stage. Maybe it's, it's probably, probably grown since then. Maybe it is a few million, but we have billions left to on board. So why are we fighting over like, scraps? Essentially, we should be working to grow the, the pie, like, so much bigger. And I think that's exactly what happens when immutable does this and when other kind of, like, obviously infrastructure projects kind of do this, where they basically bring in these massive user bases, sort of like what, what I, what Reddit is doing, right. They're bringing in their massive user base into the Ethereum ecosystem via arbitram. Immutable is bringing in the massive user bases of things like TikTok and Playco.
00:26:27.490 - 00:27:20.648, Speaker A: And, you know, there was other ones out there as well. I can't think of it right now. There was other ones they're bringing in and they're doing it while also appealing to the existing Ethereum user base as well that can use this stuff. But they realize that the existing Ethereum user base is tiny compared to the amount of users they can bring into it. So this is why these sorts of stuff get me excited, because it just means more and more people are going to be using Ethereum and they're also going to be using Ethereum without realizing it. Like, how many people are going to use immutable X without and kind of like associate immutable X with NFts but not realize that it's secured by Ethereum in the background. That is kind of like what Ethereum is being built to be in the background, sitting in the background being that, you know, trust anchor that I talked about before and kind of like the L2s at the user level can offer that better experience, offer their own ecosystems, cheaper transactions, faster transactions, all that good stuff.
00:27:20.648 - 00:27:43.376, Speaker A: And these users would never have probably used Ethereum layer one anyway. So as I've said before, immutable is unlocking more value, unlocking basically new transactions and new kind of like economic activity that just simply wouldn't have happened at layer one. Ethereum. So awesome to see them partnering with Playco. I'm sure they've even got more partnerships coming. They seem to be knocking these out every other day at this point, but awesome to see that. And disclosure.
00:27:43.376 - 00:28:12.508, Speaker A: I'm an investor in immutable X. Very proud investor because they're an Aussie based team. I love supporting Aussie based teams. Um, but yeah, just wanted to add a disclosure there. All right, final thing to talk about here is Starkware has announced their strategic partnership with Argent. So I think I spoke about this on the refuel, but there was kind of like a bit of hints about the fact that Argent was working with Starknet already. But I think this is kind of like formalizing a strategic partnership between Starkware and Argent to bring Starknet to the Argent mobile wallet.
00:28:12.508 - 00:28:40.154, Speaker A: So this is basically argent confirming that they're working with both Zksync and Stocknet. And I'm sure they're going to be confirming a partnership with arbitrum and probably optimism as well in the future too. So, you know, they want. Argent wants to be connected to every layer too. And why wouldn't they? They are trying to be the most kind of like user friendly, Normie friendly ethereum wallet out there. And to do that, they can't do it at layer one for all the reasons I've outlined previously. Right, they have to do it at L2, and they are.
00:28:40.154 - 00:29:00.900, Speaker A: And I think it, I mean, they've been teasing it for quite a while now. I'm sure it's coming very soon. I'm hoping it is because I really want to play around with it, but all this sorts of stuff is just like making moves, everything's happening in parallel. And I'm super excited to see more stuff like this happen here. But yeah, I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet.
00:29:00.900 - 00:29:06.044, Speaker A: Give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
