00:00:02.440 - 00:00:13.194, Speaker A: It's my great pleasure to introduce Professor Sergey Trail from Brown University, who will speak on the matrix clock measures singular spectrum and matrix criteria angular derivatives.
00:00:15.454 - 00:01:16.362, Speaker B: Thank you very much for the invitation. And so I'll be talking about very classical subject, but with a modern twist, kind of non commutative twist, that everything is matrix value. So first of all, let me introduce the main object and first of all, matrix valued measures. What is matrix weight measure? Of course we can say that it is just matrix measure on the unit circle. Relief from the unit circle is just countably additive function on parallel sub sigma algebra with values in positive semi definite matrices. So that is but kind of in matrix case. Of course one can define operator wave measure, but it's more complicated.
00:01:16.362 - 00:02:33.522, Speaker B: But in matrix valued case it is just we can see it is the matrix of measures, where on the diagonal we have honest to guard positive measures, and off the diagonal we have signed or complex valued measures, depending on which universe we live. So generally complex valued measures and we want to integrate with respect to measure. We want to compute something like l, two norms with respect to this measure. And what is that in matrix case, unlike the operator web case, everything is very simple. Namely we can define scalar measure by defining just trace, just summing up the diagonal entries, it will be matrix. And we can see that all other measures of diagonal are absolutely continuous with respect to this trace, for example from positive semi definitely, because therefore we can write that our measure m is absolutely continuous with respect to the measure mu. So measure mu can be singular, but weight is just function.
00:02:33.522 - 00:04:10.564, Speaker B: And so finding the weight, finding the l two norm of a function as it is, just integrating this expression matrix multiplied by vector inner product with vector and such is something very simple. Again, unlike the operator case, I should say also that kind of it all will be easier if matrix has values in trace class operators. For example, now what is Clark measure? So let me have tepe will be matrix valued analytic function in the unit disk and it is a strictly contracted analytic matrix period function. So we consider that for example, theta at zero norm has norm less than one, and norm is standard operator norm of the matrix. So largest singular wave. And this of course implies that in the unidisc a norm can be in the unidisc norm also will be one, but on the boundary norm can be one. And in the boundary we can have boundary values can be for example, unit operators everywhere or almost everywhere.
00:04:10.564 - 00:05:12.826, Speaker B: And usually it is one can think of theta as characteristic function of a contraction. Now for a unitary matrix we can consider. So if we take constant unitary matrix alpha. And we consider h alpha being such a linear fractional transform of theta. And we can take, we can see that h alpha its, if you consider for example, scalar transform this linear fraction transformation, map the unit disk into the right half plane. So the real part of h alpha in this color case is non negative. And that is the same in the case of matrix valued functions.
00:05:12.826 - 00:06:24.004, Speaker B: And here I kind of should emphasize that for matrix a real part of a, it is just one half of it's written here. It's just one half of a plus a star, unlike what sometimes people just take real parts of matrix entries. Now we all know that if we have non negative harmonic function in the unit disk inside the union disk, then it's a Poisson extension of some measure, some non negative measure in the boundary, such as a classical result. And this classical result, there is a classical generalization to the case of matrix valued functions, or even a greater valued function. So there exists unique matrix measure, which I call m alpha. It's not negative measure such that a real part of alpha is the Poisson extension. Or we can write it in this way.
00:06:24.004 - 00:07:51.354, Speaker B: So how we restore function by its real part, we just take this cache type integral, sometimes cache Schwarz integral, and we just like add imaginary part because we don't have imaginary part. So that is what is classical Clark measure. And kind of originally they were introduced with connection with the branch of an aqueductor valid spaces. But I like to think about this matrix Clark measures as matrix spectral measures. And what is a spectral matrix valued spectral measure? Now suppose we have unitary operator in Hilbert space, and suppose we have some invertible operators from finite dimensional space to the h, so left invertible. And usually we consider that this b is isometry. And then we introduce matrix spectral measure as the measure such that its cache transform correspond to this resolved expression.
00:07:51.354 - 00:10:01.176, Speaker B: Okay, for those who kind of prefer this abstract spectral theorem with abstract spectral measure, which is projection valued measure, we can say that our measure m of any barrel set here is b star e of e b, where e is a valued projection valued spectral measure like in the spectral theorem. So it is the same. And if b is rank one operator, it's usual scalar spectral measure of the operator. And if range of b is start cyclic means that star cyclic means the span of un range b over all exponent over all integer exponent that the closed span is the whole space h. That means then u is unitary equivalent to multiplication by z and in l two and weighted l two t with matrix value to weight m and we introduce the norm. So it's in fact form of spectral theorem that I prefer that, I prefer the term to abstract spectral theorem because for example, all we know that for cyclic operator operator is just unitary operator is just unitarily equivalent to multiplication operator in l two mu when usual scalar measure. And it is just generalization of usual scalar measure.
00:10:01.176 - 00:11:15.504, Speaker B: And in fact it was introduced, considered in earlier derived spectral theory and it can be used to prove that resin Bloom's theorem. And in fact corona and de branch presented proof of that. And kind of one remark that if b is isometry, then m is probability measure. So measure of the whole circle is identity operator. And so another point of view of this, it is a counteractive perturbation. So suppose we have two subspaces of the Hilbert space, and suppose we fix an isometry b, the trench is one of the subspaces. And let us find family of all finite run perturbation by operator k that ranges inside this subspace.
00:11:15.504 - 00:13:11.562, Speaker B: It can be parameterized like that and this can be checked usually just by doing some algebra. Or I prefer just to consider first the case when u is identity operator and then just multiply everything by u and which is where you and I should say that if gamma is unitary matrix, then u gamma is unitary equivalent. We use lambda instead of Cas and the Clark family in this case is this matrix spectral measure of this operator u lambda, so lambda instead of gamma. Now if gamma is a contractive operator, if gamma norm is a contractive, then we can assume that then u gamma is also contractive operators and we use t gamma in this case. And let us assume that gamma is a strict contraction. And for finite dimension it means that norm of gamma strictly less than one for finite dimension. And then if ranges start cyclic and the gamma strict contraction, then ugamma is what is called completely non unitary contraction, meaning that there is no like orthogonal unitary part sticking out.
00:13:11.562 - 00:15:03.354, Speaker B: So and for and completely non unitary contractions, c anu, which I use for abbreviation, it's completely defined by what is called characteristic function and what is characteristic function. It is some, in this case of finite defects, it is some matrix valued bounded analytic function which is contractive. So at each point it is a contraction. And there is formulas that can be found in any kind of classical textbook, in Nashvoych textbook for example on what is called functional model. So suppose we have two defectors, so we define those two two defect operators, defect of the t and the defect of t and the defect spaces, which is just closures of the ranges and suppose we have two abstract spaces of the corresponding dimension. And suppose we have unitary operators that identify those defect spaces with abstract spaces of different and then characteristic function is defined like that. Now this is formula essentially formula from the nitro book harmonic analysis operators.
00:15:03.354 - 00:16:35.452, Speaker B: But there is a little bit new trick which kind of introduced by Nikolsky, because in Nat Foers book characteristic function considered acting from one defect space to another. And very often we kind of consider the situation when we are acting not in these abstract defect spaces, but from some spaces of appropriate dimension. And so we need this identifying operators again such as standard formula. And we consider in our specific case, I don't want you to kind of memorize, pay much attention, but everything can be can be computed. So if gamma is strict contraction, then defect operators can be it is of b defect operator of h's range of u star b. So one of the defect operators and characteristic function, there is a simple formula and essential part here is this c one m over z where c one is non standard cache transform. So it is just this integral and c one of m.
00:16:35.452 - 00:17:20.644, Speaker B: So we have to integrate with respect to matrix weight measure m, not with color measure mu. And that is like one of the cachet transform. And kind of, I emphasize a theta gamma of zero. In this case it is just minus gamma because this part just disappears. So this is formula for and kind of, let me say digression, how one can compute this formula. I use this trick kind of a lot and I did not know that this has a name. It called Woodbury inversion formula.
00:17:20.644 - 00:18:42.098, Speaker B: And this would be inversion formula that if we have kind of two epilators bc acting like that, then inverse of this operator is identity nh plus the inverse of b star c. And kind of advantage of this formula is that b c acts in e. And if e is like finite dimension, we just have to invert matrices not operators. And if it's e is one dimensional, we just have to take inverse of a number. So it is very easy. And to get the formula two, we just decompose this using geometric series and then take the first term and take he out on the left, b out on the right, and the rest geometric formula give us this expression, but kind of formal proof. This can be done kind of rigorously format case by introducing analytic parameter lambda and kind of using analytic continuation.
00:18:42.098 - 00:20:32.086, Speaker B: But the easiest proof, the easiest formal proof after we know the formula is just by checking by left and right multiplying and in rank one. It also has a name formula that people and perturbation theory use a lot and I kind of explained that the inverse of this is multiplication by the separator and therefore when cashier integral sepia. Now, so how this related to them to the Clark mears that we introduced before. Let me introduce three cachet transforms the standard cache transforms the c one mu and c two mu, or sometimes it's called Schwarz integral that is used to restore functions from its real part. And they all have like very simple relations between them. And when gamma is zero, so gamma, remember what is that? It's gamma is this gamma. So when this gamma is zero for perturbation, then everything simplifies a lot and we get that theta with gamma equal given by this c two o cachet transform is given by that.
00:20:32.086 - 00:22:45.834, Speaker B: And such is exactly kind of the definition of Clark measure with alpha equal one. So for me, at least for gamma, for me, for me, clerk measures are spectral measures of some unit regulators and when gamma not zero relation between gamma and alpha more complicated and namely the classic so that m is classical spectral measure and classical clerk measure and empty wheedle is the clerk measure obtained from the point of view of unitary perturbation and one from the other is obtained by just rescaling, sorry, classical one. And this is one from the perturbation theory. And so everything kind of can be really scaled. And when you think from the point of view of perturbation theory, your all clerk measures are, your all clerk measures are a probability measure. So the total measure is identity operator. And for jm form classical clerk measures, the probability measures only in specific case when inner when theta of zero is zero.
00:22:45.834 - 00:23:53.746, Speaker B: Now why this name Clark? So the scholar situation started from the work of Douglas Clark. And what he did, he has, he considers case when theta is inner function. When inner function, the zener function one can associate so called model operator. It's just a restriction of say backward shift on this subspace each operators with defect subspaces equal by one. So there is family of rank one perturbations that make it the separator unitary. And he studied all these rank calculations in their spectral measures and he got those spectral measures, but only for inner function. And then in the series of work with Konilau, we did kind of the general case.
00:23:53.746 - 00:24:35.054, Speaker B: We consider the general case when theta is general contractive function. In this case, model is simplified. And then we consider when theta is a general contractive matrix wave function. But we went from unitary operators to contractions. It is possible to go from contractive operator from model to unit operators. Battery didn't do the algebra. Now let us investigate the property of the classical clerk measures.
00:24:35.054 - 00:26:42.106, Speaker B: So how can we construct absolutely, how can we find absolutely continuous spark of these Clark measures and singular parts and the absolutely continuous part, it's very easy. So for this, if we, given this function, this function theta contractive function theta, we consider on the boundary this defect function, and essentially defect function is just, this absolutely continuous part is just this transformation of this defect function. And it's not hard to see that those term is invertible almost everywhere on the circle, and spectral multiplicity of the multiplicity of IC part is rank of these defect operators almost everywhere. Now I should emphasize that why I'm interested, most interesting cases are kind of cases of kind of singular. So remember our measure m can be represented as w the mu. And in most interesting case, this weight w does not have full run almost everywhere. And classical examples, if we consider for example a cyclic operator just multiplication by z in some scalar l two mu, but we take its rank deep perturbation, we have matrix valued measures, but density will have rank one almost everywhere.
00:26:42.106 - 00:28:23.478, Speaker B: And such is kind of typical situation, such as interesting situation and such as what kind of one we should have in mind. Now let us see what can we say about singular particles. Okay, first of all, let us, first of all, let us consider this h alpha and let everything discolor. So if everything is colored, so we have harmonic function, which is, so we have a harmonic function which is just Poisson extension of some scalar meshes. Okay, where is the singular part of this measure list? And that is the classical result, we have to consider points on the circle where non tangential boundary values of these harmonic functions of this harmonic function are infinity. And there the singular part of the measure lives, meaning that on the complement of this set there is no singular part. And more on we can say that in fact singular measure lives in the set.
00:28:23.478 - 00:29:54.924, Speaker B: Again, in this color case where the denominator is zero. So when boundary value of theta of z I equal alpha, but again, in the situation of matrix valued function, it is all kind of new phenomena, right? So we have different directions, and I should say new phenomena of directionality appears. And I should have prepositions that for every e in the range of w alpha, the non tangential limit of this theta star of ce exists mu s almost everywhere and exists and equal to this. And now we consider the set s alpha to the point of psi. It is just collection of the directions such that this limit exists and equals that. And it is directional support of alpha. And this directional support is of course trivial almost every way with respect to back measure, what we can say is that range w alpha so lives in this directional support almost everywhere.
00:29:54.924 - 00:31:28.438, Speaker B: And in particular we can say that directional support of with alpha equal one and directional support with alpha up to this factor for oxide in orthogonal for oxide at. So we can say that in rank one perturbation, there is classical aranche Danachu theorem that says that for a singular, that for ang one perturbation, singular spectra, singular spectral measures are mutually absolutely singular. And here they mutually absolutely singular. If we kind of, in the definition take into account, we will take into account and how we prove this preposition. Okay, the first part is we have this formula for that defined taunt M. And we can relate it after some algebra in this situation. And then we multiply, right, multiply both sides.
00:31:28.438 - 00:33:13.434, Speaker B: By this end, we get this identity. And the limit of cache transform of a singular measure, of cache transform of a measure is infinity almost everywhere with respect to its singular part, which is kind of classical stuff. And now I use what is called Poltaradsky theorem, and Poltarovsky theorem says that if we have cachetransform of f mu and we divide it by Cauchy transform of mu, and we take non tangential limit as z approaches to point psi on the boundary, then we got f of psi mu s almost everywhere with respect to the singular part. So with respect to singular part, we kind of can just cross out cashier and mu and get facy limit. So it's great theorem. And if you apply this kind of entry wise, we will get that non tangential limit, this. And if we can write formally this identity and taking a joint, we get that.
00:33:13.434 - 00:34:10.794, Speaker B: Of course, there is kind of little problem, because who says that non tangential limit of this theta of z exists? But. Okay, so we have to do kind of a little bit careful analysis of limit, but it can be done. So that is kind of what can be said about singular part. Now, let's talk about the carathea doria angular derivative. So again, that is classical topic. Suppose we have scalar contractive function in boundary to analytic function. H infinity is the set of boundary to analytic function.
00:34:10.794 - 00:34:59.494, Speaker B: And we say that data has angular derivatives at point psi. First of all, the non tangential limit exists at this point, an equal sum point alpha of absolute value one. And the second, this non tangential limit exists. And this limit is called angular derivative. And it's in fact like. Indeed like consider the classical definition of the derivative. Because alpha is like theta of psi, we can say that alpha is like theta of psi.
00:34:59.494 - 00:37:03.544, Speaker B: So it is just like derivative, but we take only non tangential limits. So when z approaches xi inside of some angle, and it is kind of again classical fact that this non tangential angular derivative is just non tangential limit of derivatives. So it is just kind of equivalent to the existence of theta star and the scalar case then where so every, every measure can be decomposed absolutely continuous part and singular part. This is actually back measure and singular part is decomposing into atomic parts of purely atomic, which is just some of delta measures with some coefficient plus singular continuous part and purely atomic part. So it lives on the third layer of mu alpha live on the third layer where boundary values of theta equal alpha and derivative exist. And moreover, we can say what is mu alpha of xi? Very often people just write that mu alpha at the point xi is just one divided by absolute value of the angular derivative of point psi. Now let us discuss what happens in the matrix case.
00:37:03.544 - 00:38:16.136, Speaker B: And in the matrix case we have that m alpha at the point psi coincide with this non, with this non tangential limit and non tangential limit. It's like the definition of cartheidore angular derivatives only flipped. And the proof is kind of pretty simple. So we have this equality that can be obtained easily by a simple algebraic manipulation. From the definition of Clark measure, we multiply both sides by this and taking limit. And after multiplying and because this is a constant, it will disappear. And here we will get integral of this type.
00:38:16.136 - 00:39:54.332, Speaker B: And so we will get mu alpha of psi plus the integral over this and this graph just disappears. Why? So in symmetric scale. Now let me kind of go back and look at this equation and suppose we know that this is invertible. If this is invertible, we can just take inverse of this equation, consider limit and we will get that angular derivative exist in kind of classical sense and everything is fine. What to do in the general case, and I say that my most interesting case that I am interested in is when everything is degenerate. So this quantity does not have full rank, is not invalidable. And I will be considering for simplicity of notation, we will consider only the case alpha equal I identity matrix.
00:39:54.332 - 00:41:19.764, Speaker B: And then everything can be obtained from the above by simple change in theta by theta alpha star. And we need to introduce kind of new definition. We have to introduce definition of caratadori derivative on a subspace and the definition is exactly the same. So first of all, for all vectors in this subspace non tangential limit is e. And the second the derivative, this limit of derivatives exists. And we have to pre and post multiply everything by projection, art form, projection on tree and equivalent definition, kind of simple that it happens if and only if when there's a limit existent again, such as like limit in the classical, classical definition of carathea dollar angular derivative. And but with those projections, period.
00:41:19.764 - 00:43:13.324, Speaker B: And the question is, how is there always exist maximal subspace on which angular derivative exists? And if you just try to prove it immediately, you will, you will see that it is not kind of completely trivial. And we can say that theta satisfy this carathadori condition at the point if this limb inf is finite and collection of all calcade or equal direction. Such vectors are called cathode or equirection is kind of is a subspace. So it is indeed subspace. And such as kind of simple use of polarization theorem, that is. And recall that we give the direction support of singular measure, which was that. And if I defined e alpha part of s alpha where such e satisfies the cataract condition, then theorem that a alpha here I assume that point psi is fixed, so that is a alpha of psi.
00:43:13.324 - 00:44:27.096, Speaker B: And basically Carathadori angular derivative is exist on this e alpha. And the proof is kind of convoluted, but I will not present it here. But I should say that we have that in angular derivative on a subspace e is this quantity. And we ask ourselves, okay, is it possible to get rid of one of the projections? Again, we cannot get rid of both of the projections such as kind of simple diagonal examples. We take diagonal function. We take on one diagonal function that has cathedral angular derivative at this point and on the other one that does not. And we can see that at least one projection is needed.
00:44:27.096 - 00:45:19.500, Speaker B: And the answer is that in fact we need both projections and such a simple counterexample just by two by two matrices. And that is kind of how the counterexample look. And counterexample is in the right half plane. By conformal substitution, we can move it to the unit disk. So we consider this function, it has non negative real part. And then we consider function theta, which is just a linear fraction transformation of h. It's a contractive function.
00:45:19.500 - 00:47:56.534, Speaker B: And if we kind of do some algebra, we can this function will give us a counterexample in the right half plane. So that is now what is the angular derivative. And here again, kind of simple generalization, generalization of classical result that if you consider angular derivative at point xi, and let me recall that everything here when alpha equal I, so I don't put index alpha here, then the cathedral angular derivative up to this xi, it is just more pin row symbols of this sorry mass is just the more pin rows inverse of the corrected angular four. So that is now I kind of want to go back to the question kind of to the very beginning and let me move quickly to the very beginning. And so why in the definition of this h alpha, we put alpha on the right, alpha star on the right and not on the left? Kind of formally, everything will be still. And for me, if you kind of work with perturbation, if you look at Clark perturbation measures, then that is where you should put alpha. But on the other hand, if you look at the branch Leonard spaces, then you can also see cy.
00:47:56.534 - 00:49:15.054, Speaker B: So namely is that what is the branch ravnic space? So, for analytic function that we can define topic operator, which is in this case, it's just multiplication. And the branch Ravnyak space is just a range of this operator. So it is the subspace of h two and endowed with the range norm. So the norm in the range is in fact the norm in the dummy. So the normal range is the normal stamina. And if we consider this function, it is a matrix reproducing kernel for h theta. And that means that if we want to, if you want to take f at omega, it is just some vector in cd and take it projection onto vector e, it is the same as taking product of f and this k w theta, this function multiplied by vector e in the D branch space, it is kind of standard result and theta star belong.
00:49:15.054 - 00:51:07.476, Speaker B: We can see the theta star is here and that is why alpha star is there in the definition of the Clark measures. And we obtained kind of the following equivalence of the classical result for matrix measure. And it essentially says that. So classical result about Carthag derivative about Clark theory says that if we consider this reproducing kernels, then so classical result of on the theory says that if you consider reproducing kernel k of the w and you allow w go to psi non tangential and f prime oxide exists, then the staff converges, the stuff converges to some reproducing kernel k of the xi and converges in all possible senses. And we get the same result for matrix valued functions. But in the case when. But in the case of matrix valued functions.
00:51:07.476 - 00:51:25.744, Speaker B: But in this case, we have only convergence on the derivative here, kind of precise statements. Okay, let me stop here and thank you very much for the attention.
00:51:29.164 - 00:52:16.364, Speaker A: Thank you. We have time for questions. So if you have a question, then please just go ahead and ask a question. I guess you answered all the questions in your talk already. So. So if there aren't any questions, then let's thank our speaker again.
00:52:16.944 - 00:52:17.384, Speaker B: Thank you.
