00:00:04.920 - 00:00:31.449, Speaker A: Hello, everybody. It's wonderful to be here in Singapore. It's wonderful to be here for my fourth break point. It's an incredible time to be in the Solana ecosystem. And today I'm going to be talking a little bit about the past, present and future of product on Solana. Let me start with a quick introduction and that's all the Chinese are going to get out of me today. I did not pay enough attention in Chinese school to do any more than that.
00:00:31.449 - 00:01:42.685, Speaker A: But again, great to be here in Singapore and meet so many new people. For the people who don't speak Chinese, my name is John Wong. I run the engineering team at the Solana foundation. And part of my role is to spend time with all of you, all the hundreds of teams, the thousands of builders building on Solana to understand exactly how they are approaching building their products and businesses and figuring out both. How do you use the existing state of Solana as well as what new things we should create to help facilitate new interesting products on chain? And in light of that, instead of the past, present and future of product, which sounds like a roadmap, sounds like very definitive things, I do want to talk a little bit about the insights that actually I've learned over the last couple of years working with of you and a lot of the folks in the broader crypto ecosystem. So instead of the talk that you came here for the past, present and future of product, the talk you're going to get is how to build better products, comma, on chain. And I will talk about everything that you need to know about products.
00:01:42.685 - 00:02:21.635, Speaker A: So first off, we have to remember why we're here before we can understand the how, we have to understand the why. Why would you want to build products on chain? Well, there's some components of being on chain that are just really valuable that help you do really interesting things. I'll go through this quickly because I'll touch on a specific couple of them. First, trustlessness, censorship, resistance. This is sort of the obvious one. It allows you to transcend the platforms that lock in our data and force you to do different things. Security and provenance allow you to confirm both what and when something happened.
00:02:21.635 - 00:03:13.565, Speaker A: Ownership and self sovereignty allow you to own digital assets and be able to transfer them in different ways. Interoperability and composability allow you to work with others collaboratively on this giant public slope, but still public database and programmable money allow you to handle things like value transfer and allow you to really interact with the broader world. Let me touch on two of those things because I think it's really important to understand what the answer to why blockchain is for every single one of you, your products and your businesses. Composability is a really interesting attribute that allows you to have different opportunities for operational leverage. I just said a lot of words. I'll explain exactly what that means. I'll give a very concrete example of one of the best teams and one of the best examples of composability in the Solana ecosystem.
00:03:13.565 - 00:03:52.807, Speaker A: There's a team named Baxis. What they do is they take high end whiskeys and they vault them, tokenize them as NFTs and allow you to buy, sell and trade them on their marketplace. But what's so interesting about this is just the fact that they have that particular NFT allows them to interact with the broader Solana ecosystem. If they want to, you know, handle a secondary marketplace, they can post it on places like Tensor and Magic Eden. Their team does not have to go and figure out all the, you know, idiosyncrasies of building a marketplace or contract. They have an NFT and they can use that contract from someone else. If you want to collateralize that NFT against anything else you want to collateralize alone, you can use something like bridgeplit.
00:03:52.807 - 00:04:22.225, Speaker A: All of these things are on chain and allow you to reuse all of these different components. And from a company standpoint, it means that they can stay super small, nimble, able to respond to different things without having to build all of these extra pieces. Also, efficiency gains are pretty innovative too. I'll explain that. So there's a couple components to this. Here's a typical hotel reservation. You'll book a hotel, hopefully a few months in advance, but you don't really get that payment to the hotel.
00:04:22.225 - 00:05:12.175, Speaker A: The hotel gets paid when you stay, or even later than that because the credit card company has a settlement window of 30 days. So there's a lot of time where that money is sitting around basically not being particularly useful. With crypto you can actually squeeze that down and do something. I heard this term yesterday. I really liked it, the stablecoin sandwich, where in this case, on both sides of it, the hotel is getting Fiat, the credit card company is paying Fiat, but in the middle, the hotel is actually willing to give you a 10% discount because you're paying instantly and that instant payment happens through a liquidity pool. Right? These are the kinds of efficiencies that are pretty tough in the web2world because of how expensive payments are, but are dead simple in the web3world. Okay, so We've talked a little bit about some of the interesting components of building products on Chain.
00:05:12.175 - 00:05:31.345, Speaker A: But why should you build that on Chain? On Solana? Well, let me also back up a little bit there. Why do we count in tens? 10, 20, 30, 40, 100? Well, we have 10 fingers. It's really easy. Form follows function. You have the. The tools available to you. So that's how you end up.
00:05:31.345 - 00:06:04.665, Speaker A: That informs how you end up building things in the real world. For the last seven years, Smart contract development on Chain has kind of looked like our life with horses. You spend a lot of time, you love this horse, they grow with you, but sometimes they have a bad day, you can't make it to the farm. You got to deal with having this horse, and sometimes you're just not going to make it, right? And, hey, sorry, I can't visit you. It's going to take three days to get there. And obviously this worked great. You had a lot of people building around horses and getting from A to B in weeks.
00:06:04.665 - 00:06:33.989, Speaker A: But then came something called the car. And it was a little rough, right? Everything was bumpy. There was no paved roads, who knows what gas is, all that sort of stuff. But it was sort of very clear that this car was just infinitely better than the horse on Solana. What we are, we're the car, right? And over the last couple years, we've spent a lot of time building infrastructure. The infrastructure is ready. This is where we are today.
00:06:33.989 - 00:07:01.425, Speaker A: We have these highways. We have all of the infrastructure around it. And now instead of thinking about your horse, poor roach. Instead of thinking about your horse, now you're just thinking about, how do I get from A to B as quickly as possible. Form follows function. And when the form is fast, easy, interoperable, and on Solana, cheap, then you start building more interesting products. As a result, the technology falls away and you can do the thing that you want to do.
00:07:01.425 - 00:07:29.905, Speaker A: So back to the talk. So we talked about, okay, how do you build better products on Chain? I'm gonna start this off with the most important framing for how you build products on Chain. And this is gonna come from the goat himself, Steve Jobs. You've got to start with the customer experience and work backwards to the technology. You cannot start with the technology and try to figure out how you're going to sell it. This is super critical. You must talk to your users.
00:07:29.905 - 00:07:59.193, Speaker A: You must talk to people and understand exactly what they're dealing with. In order to solve those things. I'm going to give you a couple of tips on how you can use the form of Solana to really inform how you build and deliver value to your users. First thing is deliver value immediately. And there's a couple steps here. How many times have you gotten to a site and the first thing you see it's completely beautiful and right in the middle is a connect wallet button. Now this implies a lot of things.
00:07:59.193 - 00:08:36.875, Speaker A: One is you have to be on desktop, right? You have to have some sort of extension or maybe in your mobile wallet. It also implies what happens when you connect to it and doesn't have Solana support. There's so many problems with this. These are each friction points and your end user is going to drop right off, right? So what if instead you took advantage of the fact that we have this public blockchain, we have all this extra data, why not preview another public key? I kind of want to see what it's going to look like. Show me the value that you're going to provide to me. Before I have to get all this stuff set up, I need to scramble for my desktop. I should be able to see it on my mobile browser and really understand what's going on.
00:08:36.875 - 00:09:15.261, Speaker A: Or maybe use a browser stored session key and graduate to self custody later. Why not just keep it there and say, hey look, you've gotten to a certain point, you've gotten a little bit of value. Now you can graduate, get out into your own, your own system that you have custody over. You might also think about getting rid of the paywall, gas tokens, protocol tokens, even Solana, the native token itself. They're all blockers to someone getting started. Because guess what, I accidentally connected my wallet that has nothing in it and now I can't use your app. You just lost a user and there's not that many of us to begin with.
00:09:15.261 - 00:09:24.453, Speaker A: So use systems like the transaction relays on Solana. Very easy. Use the new technologies like ZK compression and across the two of them you.
00:09:24.469 - 00:10:00.155, Speaker B: Can get on chain for less than a tenth of a cent, right? And at that cost point you can sponsor those interactions both for first time users and maybe throughout the entire lifetime of their interaction with your application. Also take advantage of there's other information on the chain. You already know who I am when I connect my wallet and let's say I have all those things figured out. You already know who I am. I don't need to upload a second profile photo. I got a bunch sitting in my wallet already. You know that I like to listen to Hachimugin.
00:10:00.155 - 00:10:28.717, Speaker B: That should just be the background music, right? Thinking about these different components that are already on chain and taking advantage of them in the context of your application. Okay, so you've delivered value immediately. Someone has connected their wallet. Everything is great. They're really figuring out what's going on. The next thing that I would recommend is to meet people where they are. For those of you here earlier, you heard a little bit about what blinks from Chris.
00:10:28.717 - 00:11:06.475, Speaker B: But one of the things that we think about is how do we push crypto to the edge. You shouldn't only need to use crypto in a place where there's a connect wallet button. You should be able to use it on any website in the world. Blinks or blockchain links allow you to bring that on Chain World, the one that we're all building, and push it to every edge, every website in the world. It means that you can take a fun game like Checkmate and be able to render it right on x.com and be able to do it right when there's a new game that's happening. So instead of having to go figure out what the website is because I don't remember what it is, you can play it right there, play it with your friends in your DMs and you can see that call to action immediately.
00:11:06.475 - 00:11:42.775, Speaker B: Second thing is to build for intent. One of the things that I don't see a lot of teams doing that they really should think more about is give me the thing that I need to do if I'm about to get liquidated. Give me one button that gets me out of dodge, please. Or, you know, hey, enough multi signers have signed this proposal on the dao, or maybe the vote went through. I should just be able to execute it straight from my wallet instead of going through all the hoops to figure out exactly where I am. Same with subscriptions, same with NFTs and games. These are opportunities for you to serve your user and tell them exactly what they need to do.
00:11:42.775 - 00:12:18.349, Speaker B: And they will do it. And it will be frictionless because they're using blockchains. And it's also important to note that certain when we say meet people where you are, some of those people are working at big businesses and enterprises. We've seen a lot of institutions joining the Solana ecosystem over the last couple of days. And a lot of what we have on Solana with things like token extensions, allows them to express the permissioned nature of their product. In the broader permissionless network, the opposite is impossible to do. But with these smart contracts, you can actually design really complex products like these institutional finance products.
00:12:18.349 - 00:12:36.069, Speaker B: That need that capability. Okay, so we've delivered value immediately. We are building with intent. We're building wonderful, great products and you're all set up for success. This is great. So this is the current state of the world today. This is what you can use in the technology space today.
00:12:36.069 - 00:13:25.359, Speaker B: But what I want to really dig at here is actually what kinds of products should we be building next? What are the areas that we should look to see? What problems exist to make sure that we can solve them? So where do we go from here? I'm going to show you two tweets. I'm not going to read them in detail, but just a couple of notes on what they're mentioning here. The final chain, abstracted experience, social recovery for wallets, buying any asset on chain, being able to have a dead man switch or something like that, being able to have subscriptions. You can do 90% of this on Solana today. This is not a fantasy. It's not something that is on a roadmap for 12 months or years or anything like that. I guarantee you, if we sat down for three weeks with the people in this room, we could figure this out.
00:13:25.359 - 00:14:21.845, Speaker B: We have the technology, we have the infrastructure, but we have to have the thought process to, to really understand what the product is, what is the problem and how we can solve it. A second area that we might want to look into are things like our identities. I mentioned this before with things like NFTs, but in this world outside of Web3, our identities are increasingly becoming both the mixture of the physical and the digital. A lot of our digital experience, though, and our digital identities are associated with platforms. TikTok, YouTube, Twitter, and they're all separate. And being able to express yourself, your own identity as an amalgamation of those things is critical to both making sure that we can transcend different platforms, but also to be able to express ourselves better in this Internet age. In my mind, the blockchain itself is the social graph where as more things come on chain, you can have better things to express yourself with.
00:14:21.845 - 00:15:09.311, Speaker B: And lastly, in the world of things like AI, blockchains have the potential to be the ground truth of the source of data or the source of bias. And that might be something like provenance for something that's created in a digital form, or it might just be an objective or social consensus around a specific fact that has happened out in the real world. So let me leave you with this. When you're building products on chain, you have to talk to people, you have to solve real problems. You have to understand that not all our problems involve blockchain. And in fact, they might not need blockchain at all. But where blockchain is very valuable, you should absolutely take use of it and make sure that you guide them through the entire process of really understanding who they are.
00:15:09.311 - 00:15:26.425, Speaker B: I'm glad that we've had breakpoint here in Singapore for all of you to understand as well that we have a global audience. Our products are not just crypto. Twitter, unfortunately. So I think that you need to talk to more people. You need to really understand what their needs are and make sure that you're solving their problems. Thank you.
