00:00:02.890 - 00:00:58.080, Speaker A: The vast majority of blue chip NFTs in the market do not support dynamic changes, which makes it challenging to be integrated into metaverses. The lack of interaction, means and methods also limits the engagement of community to fan art only, rather than various interactions with immersive scenarios. DN Two Life creates a brand new metaverse avatar estacos digital person through users movement changes in clothing and the correspondence of clothings to the avatar's fitness level. DN Two the Life allows users to create a strong emotional bond with the digital persona. As a digital version of person, the digital persona will be a mapping or projection of the user into the metaverse and can be involved in wider and more interactive scenarios. We see the rich experience of movement, interaction and digital fashion in the DN Two Live team, and we also feel the team's passion for the meta universe and decentralized creator community.
00:00:59.410 - 00:01:45.966, Speaker B: We build Evolvable digital personas through an interactive workout game. We believe in Web Three, avatars serve as a carrier for users digital identity in the virtual world. The problem we see is that the current offerings of avatars in the market mainly exhibit the nature of digital assets but lack the emotional bonding with users that creates user attachment. We wish to help users build avatars into digital personas that they can emotionally bond with. Our roadmap simply divides into three stages alpha, beta and official launch. For the alpha stage, the key goal is to have a product prototype. For beta, the objective is to have a working product and a limited number of early users to test out their genomics, and once that's done, we'll proceed to official launch where the product is open to the public.
00:01:45.966 - 00:02:30.810, Speaker B: We've currently just completed our first milestone, which is the alpha. Our business model revolves around growing and dressing NFT avatars. The avatars are earned through Airdrops, but we sell digital outfits and we tax on all secondary NFT transactions. Our biggest differentiation from competitors in the market is that we're not just another workout to earn game. Instead, we're an avatar breeding game where gamify fitness just the means by which users can build up their digital personas in a Web Three world. Our core technology is a proprietary AI algorithm for movement recognition. We build a library of workout movements and the AI algorithm will just recognize users movements in front of mobile camera and count the reps, which is the basic input for our gameplay.
00:02:30.810 - 00:03:28.350, Speaker B: We intend to appeal to users, particularly Web Two users, with our Life Challenge gameplay, which is a live streaming workout session with Fitness KOLs. This is a proven model in Web Two and has the potential to leverage the fan base of our partnering Fitness KOLs. On one hand, we already integrate dow into our most advanced gameplay called Hunger Gang, where the community can sponsor the prize pool and cast votes on the specific rules of each Hunger game. On the other hand, we also intend to create a Dow Square where lots of the future development aspects can be voted on by the community, including narratives, designs, et cetera. First, our governance token emission is 40 irregular through our Hunger Game gameplay. Second, we introduce staking mechanism into our Hunger Game gameplay, which will increase total value locked. And third, we peg our ethereum token price to some stablecoin or mainstream tokens by allowing certain NFTs to be traded in both tokens.
00:03:28.350 - 00:04:01.170, Speaker B: Our founding team consists of a serial entrepreneur, a seasoned game producer, a Web Three all rounder, a computer vision expert, a digital fashion pioneer and a digital growth marketer. We assemble the team with a long term vision in the first place, and this is also a team with established friendship with various expertise inside the team. We believe it's a strong and wellrounded one. We're lucky to have Seven next as our investor for its deep understanding of Web Three and our vision, and for its continuous post investment support ranging from pattern acquisition to tokenomics advice.
