00:00:42.860 - 00:01:03.816, Speaker A: Hello everybody. Nice to meet you guys. Bonjour. Salam. My name is Michael Abraha. I'm here with the Tiger Art collective and be speaking on how the web3 community can help humanitarian crisis in Africa. It.
00:01:03.816 - 00:01:59.790, Speaker A: So for past 600 days, over 500,000 people have passed away due to a genocide occurring in 2022. Currently, the UN, United States and Europe often have remained relatively silent while discussing and releasing press releases consistently about statements of urgent attention and action. Need china, UAE, Turkey, and Saudi Arabia have played a role and provided drones, weapons and other means of support to support this conflict. And you have to ask why? So you can take a guess about what I'm talking about, and unfortunately, you probably won't guess. I'm not talking about Ukraine, I'm talking about Tugrai. And Tigray is the northern state of Ethiopia. The conflict in Ukraine began in late February 2022, while this genocidal war in Ethiopia began November of 2020.
00:01:59.790 - 00:02:52.092, Speaker A: So you got to ask, why is there a war? So Ethiopia has an ethnic federalistic federalism resulting in different states due to ethnic divisions. But those individual states have their own local government while parallel to the federal government working together. So each ethnic group has its representation in the national parliament. Historically, the leaders of Tigray have been in power of Ethiopia within the last two decades. And that power and they have been blamed for for corruption and human rights abuses previously to this war. So the current prime minister was recently awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2019 by opening the borders between Ethiopia and Eritrea. So a little history.
00:02:52.092 - 00:03:51.520, Speaker A: Eritrea was once a part of Ethiopia, but there was a civil war in the late 90s that led to a divide. So the current prime minister won a Nobel Peace prize by unifying and opening the borders between Ethiopia and Eritrea, which hasn't happened for over 25 years. So this was a major step and a shift in the change of hands. And with forgiveness in the air, Ethiopians were promised a very peaceful future. So unfortunately, the prime minister of Abi Hamad chose to curate a plot to seek justice from the previous leaders of Tigray, alongside the Eritrean president, Isaiah Saforki, who has a grudge against the people of Tigray because of the conflict that occurred in the nate lighten. These that led them to have independence. So in November 2020, the government of Ethiopia began attacking and blockading the Tigray region and demanded the imprisonment of the leaders of the TPLF.
00:03:51.520 - 00:04:45.650, Speaker A: So what was the greater impact? Currently ethnic tensions at an all time high, resulting in racial segregations of Tigrayans all over Ethiopia, not just in Tigray. Many people of Tigray have been removed from their jobs regardless of where they are in Ethiopia. Interrogated, at work, arrested and or detained for their identity, and killed just for their identity in many regions of Ethiopia. Here on the left you see an image of young men and children being rallied up and being well, you don't see it, but they're being arrested. And eventually this clip is them getting thrown off a cliff and shot. The picture to the right is them burning people alive, unfortunately. And I didn't want to play any videos because I just a little vulgar and hard to watch.
00:04:45.650 - 00:05:20.550, Speaker A: So as a result, there's a humanitarian blockade. For more than 600 days, the Ethiopian government has systematically destroyed the infrastructure of Tigray. All hospitals cannot function at full capacity. Electricity and telecommunications have been completely blocked off and shut off. And worst of all, 90% of food aid that is needed has been blocked for 600 days. So that's 18 months. So, global awareness.
00:05:20.550 - 00:06:32.130, Speaker A: The international community has remained vocal without any action and any accountability. Therefore, words without action has led to the starvation of thousands of people. Here's an article the United Nations has released urging them to do action and pushing the government to do a ceasefire. Here's another article Al Jazeera has released. Hundreds of aid trucks have failed to return from Tigray for them to be refilled and driven back into the region. On the right, the Pope Vatican has appealed for the end of violence in the region of Tigray because outside of the UNHCR and the UN, the Catholic Relief Services is the only other aid program that provides aid to Ethiopia. So when it comes to global awareness, the African community has shown support to the government to end the conflict, but has remained silent when asked about human rights abuses and the violations at the hand of Ethiopian government.
00:06:32.130 - 00:07:15.038, Speaker A: So another thing that people don't know is that the African Union HQ is in Ethiopia. So African leaders, it's really hard for them to say something because when they are in the African Union for these assemblies, they are in the country where these atrocities are occurring. Mind you, no one has access to Tigray. All the borders are blocked. People from Tigray cannot go home from anywhere in the world. So currently, Ethiopia is in turmoil. So you must ask, what are other Ethiopians saying about this conflict? Since Tigray is one of the smallest populations in Ethiopia, this war has divided the people.
00:07:15.038 - 00:08:21.342, Speaker A: Like I said earlier, ethnic tensions at our all time high. So majority of Ethiopians are supporting the government, and what I mean by that is they're supporting the isolation of Tigrians in Ethiopia and outside of Ethiopia. What I mean by that is they have labeled Tigrians, who are pleading for the war to end, because, mind you, the Tigrian regional government is fighting against the government of Ethiopia. So there is a conflict, right? They're not just attacking civilians, they are fighting against Tigrayan civilians and their local militia. So Tigrayans who are pleading for peace are being labeled as people that are supporting terrorists, such as myself, on Twitter, on social media and Instagram. I get antagonized all the time for my advocacy that I'm doing all over the world. And Ethiopians have curated counterprotest movements against what? Our message and our narrative of China, either when it comes to raising awareness, providing our Twitter campaigns, or even our protests.
00:08:21.342 - 00:09:34.090, Speaker A: So they are spreading a narrative that what we are saying is not true or it's fake news. And as you see in that image, Ethiopians and AirTrains together protesting, saying that BBC is spreading fake news about Ethiopia. So just imagine while we're protesting about stopping famine and stopping drone strikes on civilians, people that we considered family, brothers, sisters, neighbors, cousins, are saying that what we're experiencing is fake and it's a complete lie. Mind you, our population tagrans in Ethiopia is about 6 million people, while the Ethiopian population, the second largest country in Africa of 110,000,000 people. So we're a minority amongst people that are telling us what is occurring is a lie. So is the crypto community aware about what's going on? Yes and no. Cardano founder Charles Hoskins has striked a partnership with Ethiopian government in 2021.
00:09:34.090 - 00:10:41.630, Speaker A: So for someone who is an advocate for human rights, an advocate of democracy and decentralization, right, has partnered with a government who is actively killing and starving its own people. So major players in the crypto space are very much aware and have said nothing because they don't want to ruin their relationship with a government, right. Or the people he is working with have convinced him otherwise of this war being justified and know not to the extent of what is actually happening with this humanitarian crisis. Another example is Jack Dorsey, founder of Twitter and also major Bitcoin advocate, who has been lobbying significantly and working with startups in Ethiopia since 2018, before the conflict, to embrace Bitcoin adoption in Ethiopia. Right. I have no problem with Jack Dorsey, but this is what I have a problem with. The fact that you are still silent and working alongside a government that is actively committing genocide currently.
00:10:41.630 - 00:11:52.116, Speaker A: And I don't know if you guys were aware, but in the summer of 2021, during the Olympics, a lot of people saw ETH trending due to him tweeting about it. People thought he was supporting the Ethiopian athletes during the Olympics, but in fact he was just trolling the ethereum community. Most people, whether you took it or not, that's what it really was. So ETH with the Ethiopian flag was trending for about a month or two. Me seeing this, I was thinking, oh, maybe people are aware about what's going on and maybe this is a plea to kind of raise awareness about what's going on. But in reality, look what you see, right? And in June of 21, he is tweeting saying hashtag Bitcoin in Ethiopia about a project being released partnership with Ethiopian government. So is this ignorance or is this selective activism or is this racist? Racism? Not saying he's racist, but just in general, right? It is really unfortunate, but this is what is happening.
00:11:52.116 - 00:13:32.896, Speaker A: And how could we change this narrative? How could we educate and help people, right? How can we kind of stir up not just awareness, but in March, Vitalik Tweeted Ukrainians are far from the only ones suffering of war. Also, people in Yemen and Ethiopia are just as human as Ukrainians and as you are. This is not a valid excuse to not care about Ukrainians today, but it does mean that we should self reflect and extend our compassion to others. Know Vitalik, notable leader of Ethereum, has made a statement, and I would like to make this statement as well, to not just our community, but to the greater world is how can we all come together and help? So how can the crypto community help crowdfunding and to push aid into refugee camps in Sudan and eventually into Tigray? So currently, people that are Tigrian, that are actively fundraising and helping out, the only way we can help is by sending money and sending aid to the refugee camps. About 600,000 people have fled north because Tigray is on the northern border of Ethiopia, fled north to Sudan. So that only way we have access to people is to Sudan. Everybody else in Tigray, our mothers, our cousins, our grandmothers, we have no access to no communication, no telephone, no electricity.
00:13:32.896 - 00:14:40.116, Speaker A: So the only way we can help right now is at refugee camps. And eventually, when the borders open up, we can help out. So another thing we can do is help raise awareness using influencers in the crypto space and beyond, right? Notable leaders having discussions, maybe even virtual conferences to kind of get the word out and working with different organizations to kind of use funding in a different way. Another way we can use fund is to get the message to politicians and key figures to help food aid and get into IDP camps in Ethiopia. So what I mean by that is, for an example, this week, earlier yesterday, the US. Government passed a bill saying that the use of food insecurity as a method of war is going to be deemed illegal. And ironically, they are very much aware about what's going on, right? And there are other bills being trying to be pushed for the American government to push, actually put troops into Ethiopian soil and basically stop this from happening and opening the borders by force.
00:14:40.116 - 00:15:35.340, Speaker A: But since Ethiopia has very close relationship with the American government, it's very hard for them to enforce that without stepping on anybody's toes. So this is a very subtle political move of them attempting to do that. But why do we have to wait? Why do we have to wait to feed people? Why do we have to wait to give people medicine? And our community can help. Another thing that we can do is generate a campaign around NFTs for good to continue the global mission. So various blockchain organizations provide a hand by distributing emergency grants for displaced refugees as you all know there are many, many different types of grant programs. We've applied to them, and it's kind of hard to get people's attention until you get a stage and a platform like this to kind of speak in front of people. Another thing that we can do, which we already have been doing, is educational grants that can be deployed.
00:15:35.340 - 00:17:05.700, Speaker A: So basically, since this war has been going on for 18 months, all the children that are refugees haven't been out of school for two years, right? So we are sending Raspberry PiS to fuel education remotely with services such as Internet in a Box. And what Internet in a Box is you basically get a Raspberry Pi, you download a whole bunch of content onto it, and basically you can have access to that content without having Internet. As long as you have a monitor, you just plug it in and you have a generator. And as long as you have electricity, you can have a classroom and you can be teaching. Another thing is, due to identity crisis created by displacement, we can use the new soul bound token standard to provide refugees the opportunity to have a digital identity, right? So, moving forward, we can implement a lot of these new features that we have within the space when it comes to the wallets and basically improving identity, we can test those things on refugees, and people that are displaced actually need those services. Right? And to continue, our long term plan would be funding and educating and creating banking solutions for those and eventually create a dao to help create the sustainability of Tigray. Whether Tigray becomes its own country or it stays a part of Ethiopia, we need to rebuild what is destroyed.
00:17:05.700 - 00:18:23.660, Speaker A: The infrastructure, mind you, again, hospitals destroyed, banks have been shut off, no electricity, no food, aid getting in, people are starving, businesses been destroyed, bombs have been airstrikes have been all over major cities in Tigray, nowhere else in Ethiopia but in the region of Tigray. So we have to garner not just our attention, but our energy to rebuild systematically what has been completely destroyed. And a lot of global leaders and influencers have spoken out and even donated money. As you see a picture of the Weeknd, who is also Ethiopian, but he's not to grind, but he knows that it is the right thing to do. He's donated over $2 million, but that money he's donated has not gotten there because of this blockade, right? So it's like, all right, even when people are trying to do something positive, it's being blocked, right? So, I don't know if you guys are familiar. I mean, a lot of people in this room seem a little older, but back in the 90s, late 80s, michael Jackson and a whole bunch of other artists created the We Are the World campaign, created a song and all that money. They partnered with USAA and USA Africa to help feed people and guess where it was in Ethiopia.
00:18:23.660 - 00:19:19.300, Speaker A: Why? There was a drought. But that's not why they needed to create a campaign. That's not why there was a famine. In late 80s into the 90s, there was a war in Tigray, and guess what the government was doing? Blockading and preventing aid in the midst of a drought. 1 million people died then, and now we're facing the same thing. So how can we prevent that? Is creating another global campaign, getting a group of really famous artists to kind of take the stage and do a music festival, recreate a song, whatever it's going to take for the world to pay attention is what we have to do. So our end goal is to partner up with major crypto organizations, host music festivals, maybe conferences to educate people and help what's going on and increase global awareness.
00:19:19.300 - 00:19:58.684, Speaker A: I truly believe that with the advocacy and the awareness that the crypto community has when it comes to being empathetic towards going on, we can really make a big impact. So to wrap it up, our first steps that we've made is we created an art collective called Tigrayan art Collective. It's our Twitter, that's our ether address, and that's our Instagram. Check us out. It's a group of artists from all over the world. And we actually have a gallery around the corner about ten minutes away from here. We're going to be open today, tomorrow, and also Saturday.
00:19:58.684 - 00:20:30.236, Speaker A: Check it out. It's an open gallery. We have prints, NFTs, and then also original pieces from the artists. Those are the two founders, Gabrielle and Mahadi, and I'm the NFT expert on the team. And last thing I want to say is I really want y'all I'm a big Dragon Ball Z fan but the reason why I put this up here is if you guys are familiar with Dragon Ball Z, the only way Goku could have ever defeated Frieza is the energy of the world. The people that came together and gave him his energy. And that's how I feel right now.
00:20:30.236 - 00:20:46.330, Speaker A: I feel like Goku moving around, trying to get people to give me their energy, to give me their blessing, to give me some sort of positivity, to help me push this message and help save people, my people of Tigray. So thank you for the time. Thank you for this opportunity. I really appreciate it.
