00:00:09.120 - 00:00:30.840, Speaker A: Hello, everybody. Thanks for being here. I am Avril. And today we're going to talk about a trend that has been pretty popular, let's say, on Cosmos twitter recently, which is the idea of we need to grow the pie here. The title of the speech today is a bit of a misnomer. We're actually going to talk about liquidity in cosmos in general and. Yeah, and let's get cracking.
00:00:30.840 - 00:01:26.576, Speaker A: So what is liquidity? Well, liquidity is the ease at which you can take an asset, convert it into another one or into cash without impacting its price significantly. Why does that matter in general? Because we're building infrastructure that is used a lot for financial use cases. That matters because it determines how much slippage, how much leverage you can take on the size of the maximum action that you can take. But more importantly, the reason why we care so much about bringing liquidity into cosmos is because we need to create economic opportunities for people to be able to come into the ecosystem, see the opportunities, and say, hey, I'm going to build a business here. I'm going to make money by providing a service or a product. I'm going to be interested and learn about this technology, because there are things for me to do here without necessarily relying on, like, external incentives. Right.
00:01:26.576 - 00:02:34.180, Speaker A: The activity, the market that's present in this ecosystem is sufficient to just attract me, sort of like intrinsically, organically. Now, one of the reasons that Cosmos currently doesn't have that much liquidity is because of a thing called the hurdle rate, which I'm sure you've all heard about, it's the idea that in this ecosystem of proof of stake chains, the base rate that's available to you, that's sort of like the risk free rate is the staking rate, and that tends to be super high across the entire ecosystem. Now, if you're a defi application, and I'm offering you, like, 3% for lending your atom, and you can get almost ten times that by just staking your atom and taking no risk, like bad debt risk, then obviously you're just going to go staking. Another reason for this lack of liquidity inside the DeFi ecosystem is we don't have that many applications. This makes it difficult for applications to make money and attract capital. As a result, we don't have applications, so people don't use them and don't use anything. We also don't lack some of the infrastructure that allows people who still want to deploy capital into the ecosystem to do so.
00:02:34.180 - 00:03:11.080, Speaker A: Things like custodians, smart contract wallets, things like fire blocks. And finally, as a result of all of these things coming together, we also have a higher risk profile in the ecosystem because things don't. Things change faster in cosmos. We update our blockchains a lot more frequently than ethereum itself. And applications are also not as old, and so they're not as battle tested. So the perception of risk is higher. Now, how do we solve this situation? What I'm proposing today is to explore a bit of a mental model where I propose four points on how we can resolve the situation.
00:03:11.080 - 00:04:05.030, Speaker A: Today, we're mostly going to talk, talk about number two and number three, right? So we can either create liquidity, create new value, and put it into circulation. We can release it, eg, take a pool of existing value somewhere that is not circulating, and then put it back into the economy in cosmos, right? It's kind of like how finance in the real world is supposed to take savings and then put it back into the economy so that it can help generate more value. And then we can import liquidity, eg, take value from other ecosystem, other places, and bring it into cosmos. And fourth, and we're not going to talk too much about this today, is optimize liquidity, right. We can do more with less liquidity. And that's sort of also the thinking behind things like ko fi. Now, if we look at where the liquidity, where the value is in cosmos right now, we have so, like, multiple categories of.
00:04:05.030 - 00:04:45.820, Speaker A: Of pockets of liquidity. One of the ones that is currently very under explored is treasuries, right? You have very large treasuries, like the cosmos subs. Treasury is about $30 million right now. That is just like sitting here waiting to be spent by governance, right? And that is idle capital that is not contributing to the economy and that potentially we can put into circulation within some framework, right? So we're going to talk about that. We can also create liquidity. So neutron launched with a token that was like a net new pool of capital into the ecosystem. Other projects, like, say, barachain, Celestia, will also be doing the same.
00:04:45.820 - 00:05:06.440, Speaker A: DydX is joining. So I guess that also counts. And then you have staking. That's probably the biggest one in the ecosystem itself. You have. Most of the value in cosmos is actually in staking right now. And so for the hub itself, that's more than $2 billion worth of capital that is locked in staking to secure the cosmos hub, but therefore not participating in the actual economy of cosmos.
00:05:06.440 - 00:05:56.354, Speaker A: So there's a very obvious answer to how we put that back into the economy that will sort of, like, fly over afterwards. And then just for so, like, giving an idea of scale, we can also import liquidity, right? There are assets outside of cosmos that may want to be deployed in cosmos that we can bring over. And so, for example, for, you know, just to have a frame of reference, state eth, currently in Cosmos, in Ethereum, is about $14 billion of value. Now, imagine if we could get some of that over to cosmos as well. That could prove to be sort of like an economic bounty for applications and builders in cosmos. Now, the first approach that we can take is to look at these pockets of idle capital and release them into the ecosystem. The obvious sensor, the one that a lot of people have been talking about for months and months and months now, is liquid staking.
00:05:56.354 - 00:06:48.010, Speaker A: We take the staking coin, we allow it to secure the blockchain, but at the same time, we also give you a derivative that represents that staking coin and allows you, and allow you to use that into the economy so that you're essentially doing both. We remove the opportunity cost of staking. Now, staking is already live. You have blockchains like stride, persistence, quicksilver, already providing liquid staking services today. But the adoption has been sort of slow. It's been very successful, especially just tried, but it's been sort of slow still because of a few factors, I think unboning periods, the fact that you need to abandon, let's say, a month's worth of rewards to be able to get into the protocol. And then once you do, you'll still have to pay the protocol fee, about 10% today, but you won't really be able to use your liquid staking derivatives for much beyond providing liquidity currently.
00:06:48.010 - 00:07:54.290, Speaker A: So making sure that this problem gets solved with the LSM module, which allows you to instantly get into the protocol, that we grow the Defi ecosystem and that we provide better integration so that larger holders who would want to deploy the value into liquid staking are able to do so, is kind of critical. Now, liquid staking wasn't a very new idea, but one of the things that is now sort of appearing in cosmos, and that is a very cosmos native type of idea, is liquidity as a service. For example, how do we allow Daos to manage their treasuries and put them into the. And actually participate in the economy despite, you know, the different type of entity that they are, despite their, like, structural disadvantages? We think that this potentially can be a tremendous business for the cosmos hubs specifically, because they. There has been this desire to accrue value to atom. But exactly how to do so has been the topic of very heated debates for months and months now. The hub currently is very minimalistic.
00:07:54.290 - 00:08:43.270, Speaker A: It doesn't do a whole lot, but it's already super good at two things. One, being very secure, and two, having atom, which is worth money. It's very liquid, it's worth a lot of money, and that is something that the hub can actually monetize. This is something that's already happening. We had a proposal recently that passed for the hub itself, its treasury, to deploy capital into a defi application to do liquid staking and then provide liquidity in a liquidity pool. The main issue with the way we currently handle this is that this was a sort of a grant, right? There's no monetization behind, like, except for the fact that more liquid staking with stride. Since stride is now on, replicated security should translate to a little bit more revenue.
00:08:43.270 - 00:09:08.356, Speaker A: But the hub is not monetizing the liquidity itself here. It's monetizing securing the consumer chain. We also don't really have a framework. So all of these agreements, like the destroyed agreements and the future ones, are sort of just negotiated on the forums. Um, and the kind of, like, proposer has a lot of influence on shaping that debate. Um, and it also requires trusted multisig. We don't really have really good solutions.
00:09:08.356 - 00:10:06.670, Speaker A: Um, so it's kind of like the hub sends money out of the treasury, and then we trust that it will be handled carefully. And according to the proposal's text. Now, what we propose is to actually systemize this, right? Make a framework, a set of small contracts, some infrastructure that would allow us to do this in a programmatic, in a constructed and strategic approach, so the hub could deploy its liquidity into the ecosystem, monetize this, and therefore, you know, attract more revenue, potentially be able to shore up the inflation by taking basically into account the risk profile of doing so and the rewards that it can get on the risk side. We have multiple components, right? There's a technical risk, obviously, like, is this blockchain going to be exploited or what have you? There's also, like, the security assumptions in cosmos. Now, with replicated security, we have this sort of very interesting factor whereby you have the whole of cosmos with each. Its sovereign. Like, each blockchain has its sovereign securities on.
00:10:06.670 - 00:10:33.756, Speaker A: But we now have replicated security with the Cosmos hub having a few blockchains around it that have the exact same validator set and stake and trust assumptions. And then you have other economic factor, like impermanent loss, structural disadvantages. What that means is if the hub wants to take a trade, it needs to do a proposal. That proposal is two weeks long. That's plenty of time for everybody to just go and front run the hub and then the hub executed straight. Obviously, the price has changed. That's not ideal.
00:10:33.756 - 00:11:30.394, Speaker A: So all of these means that today, with the current infrastructure, actually deploying liquidity at large scale into the ecosystem is kind of risky for the hub. It could still do so, but it would cost a lot of money. There would probably be less demand for that, and there's more risk of losing the principal, the value of the treasury, which is something that should be very carefully avoided. Essentially, to solve this, what we can do is we can create a mechanism which has been dubbed the allocator, which essentially allows the hub to enter these deals and exit them as well, based on a programmatic agreement that is to be negotiated. We can bake into that agreement mechanisms to ensure that the hub doesn't have these structural disadvantages. We can allow the hub to exit its positions first, to exit it programmatically. Let's say the hub agrees to be part of the liquidity of a pool and then the rest of the liquidity starts being withdrawn.
00:11:30.394 - 00:12:07.754, Speaker A: Well, the hub could scale out of its position as well. The hub can ask for guarantees, impermanent loss or others as part of these agreements. And finally, we need to develop a framework for how we think about these things and how we price them. An example of what that could look like is imagine two blockchains, like, let's say, neutron and Archway want to grow their defi ecosystem. They want some liquidity to bootstrap their economic activity. Now they say, hey, we want to borrow atom, let's say like $10 million of atom or something. If we look at these blockchains, these projects, we see that they have a very different risk profile to the hub itself.
00:12:07.754 - 00:12:35.330, Speaker A: From the perspective of the hub, right? Not necessarily in general, but from the perspective of the hub. On the one hand, you have a chain that's secured by the Cosmos hub's validator set. As a result of that, it has high economic security. But more importantly, it has the exact same trust assumptions as the hub. And the hub can always send the national guards to repay itself if something happened. Kind of. It has been audited multiple times, but it's kind of new still, right? So there's a risk factor in the fact that it's still a new project.
00:12:35.330 - 00:13:03.962, Speaker A: Archway, on the other hand, is secured by its own token. So it has a different trust assumption, and it has been only once. And it's also sort of like more recent. Right. So the sort of score, like our very minimalistic scored card here, gives a slightly different result. And so we can, you know, we have less risk here than with Archway. And so we can give a lower APR because the hub is taking less risk over its principle.
00:13:03.962 - 00:13:48.808, Speaker A: Um, and so what we can do is we can, like, this is obviously just an example. It's very minimalistic, and it should be, um, expanded and made, like, a lot more systematic, sophisticated, and precise. But essentially we can, you know, for each category of risks, we can really go down into the detail and, you know, as a community, agree on how we're going to price these various risks. Right. Um, so that we have a very constructed way to essentially say, all right, the hub will make money by deploying into the ecosystem. It's going to make consistent yield, perhaps that can subsidize even the security budget of the hub and is going to do so with a very low amount of risk. Now, another thing that we can do, we've talked about how we release liquidity into the ecosystem.
00:13:48.808 - 00:14:30.100, Speaker A: Staking. Liquid staking, and how we release treasuries into the economy. Now, how about importing capital? Well, to do so is not that complicated, but you still need to have a pretty strategic approach to it if you don't want to just be spending money for very little result. So ideally, we want to target an asset that is a pretty large camp. There's a lot of money behind it. Ideally, it's yield bearing, which makes it a lot better collateral. And in the best of worlds, you potentially get an asset that is from a community or a protocol that is sort of culturally aligned.
00:14:30.100 - 00:14:45.768, Speaker A: What we propose is to focus on staked ETH. Staked ETH is a very large cap asset. It's about $14 billion today. It's yield bearing, of course, because it accrues the staking rate of ethereum. It is awesome. Collateral is pretty liquid in defi. There are good price feeds.
00:14:45.768 - 00:16:00.468, Speaker A: And it's very culturally aligned because Lido has been one of the projects that focus on decentralization and governance design the most, which are two things that are obviously very crucial and core to the identity of cosmos. And so what we want to do now is we want to reduce the barrier to adoption, to importation. We want to reduce the cost, and so we want to reduce all of the barriers. One of the way we do this is reduce risk once again. Yeah, well, so I guess having a good bridge, having solid oracle price feeds and what have you, so that any protocol that uses state ETH in cosmos can do so with low risk, so that the users that bring that liquidity aren't afraid of being wrecked and therefore accept like lower APR and such. And we also reduce the friction, right? Because that's one of the big things where despite the fact that we've made like major improvements over the last few weeks and months like IBC is still very complex for non cosmos users to wrap their head around. And so thinking very carefully about this onboarding experience, how do we go from my state eth on Ethereum to being able to participate in DeFi with it is kind of crucial.
00:16:00.468 - 00:17:12.670, Speaker A: Now, the flow that we imagine is something whereby, something like squid would be essentially guiding you from Ethereum and then routing the token, wrapping it, all of this that are required in one transaction from Ethereum to Cosmos, and then enabling you, for example, by allowing you to have a section of the block space of the blockchains that use that asset, like neutron, for example, to essentially allow you to have a few free transactions under certain conditions so that you don't even need to go and buy NTRN XLR, USDC or atom tokens to use the blockchain. You can just like you bring your asset, that's it. You're already in cosmos defi now you can use it. And potentially there's even a few quests or onboarding tasks that allow you to discover what's available for you to do with that asset. Now, to ensure that the assets stay once they're here, we need to ensure that they are organic sources of, well, organic use cases and organic sources of yield. The way we do this is by ensuring that we have applications that are efficient, secure that work with these assets. So there's a bunch of categories of things that work very well, and especially with liquid staking token.
00:17:12.670 - 00:18:03.172, Speaker A: So you can trade it, you can take on leverage. You can do leverage staking if you want. You can even tokenize that leverage staking position and maybe you're going to collateralize that as well or something. You can collateralize stablecoins, split yields so that you have fixed rates. There's a bunch of financial tools that don't really exist at scale in Cosmos today, but that could benefit from importing that liquidity and really strengthening their position in defi ecosystem and therefore finally creating a native economy. Now, the one question I haven't answered still is why should people actually bring it to the ecosystem in the first place? The initial state that we have right now is that there's still a lot of friction. The protocols are not as battle tested, so the perception of risk is higher than by just deploying that capital on Ethereum.
00:18:03.172 - 00:18:55.940, Speaker A: And so to ensure that they actually come, we provide a carrot. Right? And the carrot is a multimillion dollar incentive fund that is being bootstrapped by commitments from, you know, potentially the neutron dao. If the upcoming proposal is accepted, as well as liquid staking partners, bridge partners were sort of like joining forces to create this pot of money to use as an incentive to essentially bring users and capital to the ecosystem and really inject that liquidity so that we can start building an economy in cosmos. If that sounds interesting to you, well, watch on the neutron forum and the Lido forums and a few other protocols, because there should be proposal there soon. I hope this talk was interesting and that gave you a few ways to think about how we can actually create an economy in cosmos. I'm Avril from Neutron, and it was a pleasure to be with you guys.
