00:00:01.920 - 00:00:43.542, Speaker A: Yo, how's everyone doing? I think it's pretty awesome that you have me talking right after Austria, we have different opinions on sequencers, so that'll be exciting. Big picture. There's just one thing I want you to take away from this presentation. It's that we are taking an extreme approach towards what it means to have a very, very performed environment. We want to scale blockchains and we're not going to take anything else as a result. A bit about us we are a team of pretty strong domain expertise in low latency compute, high performance networking and just a general spirit, vibes and technology of blockchains. Why are we actually here? Elong studied low latency compute at Stanford for his PhD.
00:00:43.542 - 00:01:36.990, Speaker A: Lei did high throughput networking at MIT for his PhD. Some of you may also know him as one of the co authors of the famous data availability white paper of Xu RaM from Eichenlar. Xuyao led global business development at consensus for six years, Metamask, Linea and Fuhr. I myself am just like the local DGen, right? Did a little bit of venture investing in infrastructure, ran a prop book in New York trading, and I've been an operator in daos and companies like consensys. I think we have a thesis, which you've heard a billion times now, which is that l one blockchains fundamentally cannot scale proportional to the world compute, right? And that's because traditionally l one's are heterogeneous. Right? Nodes are heterogeneous, meaning that ultimately, if you want to be really, really performant, you need to have a beefy node, right. And the beefier a node is, you know, surprise, surprise, the harder it is to decentralize, right, and have many, many participants.
00:01:36.990 - 00:02:17.460, Speaker A: There we go. So, I mean, I think it's interesting when you look at the actual tasks which a blockchain has to do and what are the ideal configurations for those tasks to be completed. So we basically have sequencing, execution, dissemination, finalization, as well as validation. And in an ideal world, they have different trade offs for sequencing and execution. You really want to make sure that's a very powerful node, so you have extremely performant block production for validation. You want that to be as decentralized as humanely possible. What you have is, in traditional heterogeneous architectures, people making decisions on this tradeoff curve.
00:02:17.460 - 00:02:31.556, Speaker A: So here's a very lightweight bunny. It's pretending to be a node that does all of these things. Validation. Fantastic. Really, really low cost of entry, very decentralized finalization. Okay, okay. Sequencing sucks, execution sucks.
00:02:31.556 - 00:02:53.340, Speaker A: It's not very performant. That's ethereum. They made an extreme trade off. Now you have a substantially beefier bunny, right? Beefy node, fantastic for execution, not so good for validation. That's Solana. So a lot of people are like, hey, Solana is great. Really, really performant, not as decentralized.
00:02:53.340 - 00:03:46.062, Speaker A: So we take very different approaches. And this is actually because we are in l two, we can actually optimize something called node specialization. The thesis is that instead of having node be heterogeneous, doing everything, all of those different tasks, why not have particular software and hardware configurations for that particular task? And that's effectively what we do. So imagine a world where each node is specialized and optimized for this task. For sequencing and execution, you have a very, very beefy node, and that is not very decentralized. But for validation, you have an extremely lightweight node and many, many, many prover nodes, which are very, very decentralized. What if you could actually optimize the blockchain on a task basis, which is possible for L2? And I will explain that momentarily.
00:03:46.062 - 00:04:21.760, Speaker A: So this is kind of what we do. We have one sequencer, very, very beefy, not at all decentralized, which is able to hit 100k transactions per second. And because it's one centralized node that's been optimized like one millisecond latency. Right. We have effectively a wide range of nodes. The long story short is that our approvers are actually more decentralized than Ethereum when it comes to the cost of actually being able to participate in the network. So here are the three basic configurations of our sequencer prover, which is currently an optimistic model, and our full node.
00:04:21.760 - 00:05:08.354, Speaker A: As you can see, block production, that is, sequencer, is way beefier than a Solana node, right? But when you look at our basic block validation, it's way, way, way more decentralized and lighter than an ethereum node. It's kind of doing the best of all worlds, right? Oh, do anybody want to see that? I'm seeing some pictures are being taken. There we go. Love fuel. So this is kind of similar to anyone who likes to read Vitalik blog posts, as I'm sure everyone here pretends to do back in 2021. He kind of showed this outcome. Hey, what if we just have an optimized model where block production is still centralized? Quite honestly, pragmatic about it, but you basically have maximizing the block validation in a decentralized manner.
00:05:08.354 - 00:05:32.996, Speaker A: And then obviously, because you're L2, you have the intrinsic sensor persistence guarantees that are associated. That's basically what mega ETH is. What we have to do now though is you have a very very very optimized piece of the puzzle. That is fantastic log production, but it's just one piece of the puzzle. And if you don't optimize the rest of the EVM, you end up just having the bottleneck somewhere else. That's not why we're here. We are here to build a real time blockchain.
00:05:32.996 - 00:06:07.426, Speaker A: So here you're going to see a very basic schematic of the mega ETH architecture. The sequencer is extremely beefy, and that allows us to do additional optimizations. We're able to do jit compiling and memory computing, as well as parallelization, which is a very popular buzzword these days. Past that, however, we also optimize the prover network, right? We're able to effectively decouple the individual nodes to do a subset of the sequencer's transactions. That means that we don't have to scale the hardware requirements of the prover nodes with that of the sequencer. This is similar to stateless validation. From there we have our full nodes.
00:06:07.426 - 00:06:39.990, Speaker A: Our full node network has a couple additional optimizations. We have our state deltas compressed, as well as the fact that we've rewritten the data state tray. The end result is 100,000 transactions per second, sub millisecond latency and one millisecond block times. Pretty exciting. And there's a reason why we're able to do this. It's because we've taken this idea of node specialization, having every single node do a very particular task, and taken it to the absolute extreme. We can only do this by being a L2.
00:06:39.990 - 00:07:09.700, Speaker A: We have a couple things that allow us to inherit the security and decentralization of Ethereum. As we ourselves have centralized block production. We have proofs to ensure the sequencer is following the rules. That's initially going to be optimistic, because ZK is expensive, but we're very very excited to be able to switch when the time comes. We have the guaranteed rights of a force exit. If you think the sequencer is being malicious or it's censoring transactions, you can still exit to the l one. Finally, you have the ability to rotate the sequencer.
00:07:09.700 - 00:07:48.674, Speaker A: There is a big difference between decentralizing a sequencer that is multiple sequences running, and you'd lose all of the performance and latency benefits and actually rotating who is running the sequencer in some sort of block interval. So I just gave a bunch of fun facts about mega Eve, how we work. How exciting it is. But in the end of the day, we are way more obsessed with applications than we are boring infrastructure. At least I am. I think Mega Eve has become the unlock to be able to build real time apps. It's the reason why everyone in crypto actually got in here, right? The ability to create peer to peer applications that have a permissionless base layer.
00:07:48.674 - 00:08:19.204, Speaker A: Anyone anywhere can come and play and learn and grow. So in that regard, we have quite an opinionated approach towards ecosystem development. We think that if you have a real time blockchain, we need to find people to build real time applications and this is an open call. Please reach out. I would love to work with you very, very closely on building real time apps. You might be a defi fan. There's great HFT use cases you might be way more interested in consumer imagine a streaming blockchain where you can basically stream information in one millisecond intervals.
00:08:19.204 - 00:08:41.496, Speaker A: That's crazy. You can put everything on chain and there are no trade offs anymore. Also like autonomous worlds allegedly have insane product market fit, even though autonomous worlds themselves do not yet have product market fit. So if anyone here is an aw, do reach out. I'm a very big fan. I think it could be a lot of fun. Here are some use cases, right? So I love the idea of a real time prediction market.
00:08:41.496 - 00:09:08.584, Speaker A: It's a bit silly, but imagine being able to bet on events as they're happening. It could be some sort of reality tv show as opposed to like a long term presidential election. My personal opinion is people care way more about betting on fun things than they do about betting on like dark, depressing, like state of the world things. You can build different kinds of betting products. Decentralized racing games. Those are the ones I mentioned. But you can build real time money markets.
00:09:08.584 - 00:09:28.580, Speaker A: You can finally build a fully on chain club. You can build a fully on chain perp dex. These things are actually now possible. You can build a fully on chain minecraft. I have a friend who's building that. You can build literally anything your mind has to propose. I'm particularly interested in consumer applications in the realm of attention monetization.
00:09:28.580 - 00:09:55.790, Speaker A: I personally think the times of putting a dollar in the to take a dollar out are done. You need to enable people to be able to participate of the blockchain and peer to peer networks with things other than capital. So if anyone's ideating about this doesn't look like it, do let me know. So yeah, I mean, that's me. That's mega Eve. We are on a mission to make Ethereum great again. And yeah, this is a pretty cool megadef logo poster that I like.
