00:00:01.360 - 00:01:06.654, Speaker A: And in the last several years, I was interested in studying mathematically this isobe kakinuma model. This is a model for water waves. And this model was proposed by japanese researchers, Professor Isobe and Professor Kakinuma. And they are not mathematicians nor physicists. They are working on coastal engineering, and they derived this model by using the variational structure of the water waves. On the other hand, as you know, the water wave problem has hamiltonian structure. And as far as I know, the water crate likes very much this hamiltonian structure for waterway problem.
00:01:06.654 - 00:02:24.154, Speaker A: Also, this is Beckinma model is derived as Euler Lagrange equations to some lagrangian, but its hamiltonian structure is not so trivial. So therefore, I chose this topic to talk in this workshop dedicated to the memory of Professor Walter Craig. And this talk is based on the joint research with Benson Duchenne at University Durand in France. Okay, before going into this topic, I'd like to talk on the Professor Walter Craig. Okay. I began to study the waterway problem around 1993, and at that time, I was a Masako student, and I read this water's paper here. This is my favorite Waters paper.
00:02:24.154 - 00:03:28.508, Speaker A: This paper was published in 1985 from communications in partial differential equations. And this paper is more than 200 pages. And this is printed in the old style type setting like this. Although around this time in 1985, the japanese mathematicians Professor Kano and Professor Nishida also worked on the KDB approximation of the waterway problem from mathematical point of view. But as you know, this paper, this waters paper is a fast paper that gives mathematically a ligurization justification of the KDB approximation of the waterway problem as an approximation of the solutions. So. And I was impressed.
00:03:28.508 - 00:04:41.234, Speaker A: At the time, I was impressed by this paper, Waters paper. And since then, I'm working mainly the waterways problem. And at that time, and since then, for a long time, I did not know personally the Walter Craig. However, in 2016, I invited Walter to Japan at the occasion of LIMS workshop on mathematical analysis in fluid and gas dynamics, held at LIMS at Kyoto University. Fortunately, Wouter has not yet scheduled around that period, and he accepted. He kindly accepted my invitation, and so he came to Japan with his wife, the other, and he talked on normal forms for water waves in the. In this LIMS workshop.
00:04:41.234 - 00:05:41.814, Speaker A: And here, this is a title of his talk in this workshop. And the Kyoto. Kyoto is one of the famous touristic place in Japan. So after finishing this workshop, we went to sightseeing around this Kyoto area, and also he gave a talk on board experiment dynamics in our nonlinear analysis seminar at Keio University. I'm also working on the bolt experiment with ends a little bit with my former student aiki. So these topics are very interesting to me. And I also invited Walter to a dinner in my home in that occasion.
00:05:41.814 - 00:07:00.684, Speaker A: This is a picture at that time. Here you see the Walter and his wife, the other, and my wife Madoka and me. So the time, we have very much enjoyed spending the good time. And in the next year, 2017, it was my sabbatical year, and I was visiting Universite de Bordeaux in France. And at the time, by coincidence, the Walter was also visiting the University of Bordeaux with his wife, the other, for several weeks. And at the time, the water proposed to discuss with David Lang at Bordeaux and me on scattering problem for linear two dimensional water waves with localized bottom topography. Namely the scattering problem of the water waves due to the localized bottom topography.
00:07:00.684 - 00:08:14.664, Speaker A: And by taking that opportunity, Walter, his wife Diadr, my wife Madoka and me, we went to nice restaurants in Bordeaux. And we have again very much enjoyed spending a good time, in fact, at some restaurant, in a dinner, we went there when it opened and we stayed there until when it closed. So at the time, Walter said, yeah, this indicates that we have enjoyed very much in talking. So here, this is a picture at a restaurant in Bordeaux. So for me, Walter was very nice and a very kind person. And of course, he's a very good mathematician. Okay, now let's go back to mathematics, and let me formulate the waterway problem.
00:08:14.664 - 00:09:02.484, Speaker A: And also let me explain the derivation of the Isobel kinema model and its basic properties, because the isobeckinzma model is not so familiar. So now we consider the motion of the water in n plus one dimensional space. And we assume the shape of the water region is like this. Here, this is the water surface, denoted by a gamma of t. T is a time, and this blue region represents the water. And this region denoted by omega of t. And here, this is the bottom of water, denoted by sigma.
00:09:02.484 - 00:10:02.034, Speaker A: And we denote x as horizontal spatial coordinates and z as the butker spatial coordinate. And we take the gullibility into account as an external force and Gt's gravitational constant and the surface tension. The effect of the turface tension on the water surface is neglected as usual. And moreover, we assume this water surface and this bottom are represented as graphs like this. Here, the eta represents the surface elevation, and this is one of the main unknown function, and h, which is a positive constant. This is a mean dips of the water, and b represents the bottom topography. And this is a given function.
00:10:02.034 - 00:10:50.174, Speaker A: And we are now considering the water waves so we assume the water is an incompressible EdL fluid, and the flow is irrotational as in the usual way. And then the fluid motion is described by the following equations. Here, capital phi. I use this notation. Capital phi is velocity potential. And this Laplace's equation is a continuity equation in the fluid region omega of t. And here, this is so called Bernoulli's equation on the water surface.
00:10:50.174 - 00:11:51.170, Speaker A: And here, this is a kinematic boundary condition on the water surface. Here, this is a Neumann boundary condition, and this is a kinematic boundary condition on the bottom and here, and in fact follows, we use the standard notation nebula as a nebula with respect to the horizontal spatial variables and the nabla. Which suffix capital x has nabla with respect to the whole special variables. And the similar notation will be used in the following like this. This is a laplacian in the whole space variables. Okay? As you know, nowadays, whatever problem is, they becomes famous. So, as you know, these the basic equations for water waves.
00:11:51.170 - 00:13:06.254, Speaker A: And this is a starting point of our argument. So now we put phi as a trace of the velocity potential capital phi on the water surface. And then the basic, as is well known, the basic equations for water waves can be transformed equivalently into this system of equations for the surface elevation eta and this phi here. Here, this is, we have kept a lambda. This is the degree to normal map associated with Laplace's equations. So, as you know, this formulation is known as the Zaharov formulation or the Zakharov create silam formulation for waterway problem. Okay, now let me explain the variational structure of the waterway problem.
00:13:06.254 - 00:15:10.304, Speaker A: In 1967, Luke showed that the waterway problem has a variational structure, and his Lagrangian density is given by this formula, the vertical integral in the water region to these quantities, the time derivative of the velocity potential plus half of the square of the velocity plus half of the gravitational constant g times square of the surface elevation. And this time corresponds to the kinetic energy of the water, and this time correspond to the potential energy due to subgravity. And the action function is space, is space and time integral of this lagrangian density. In fact, corresponding Euler Lagrange equation to this Lagrangian is exactly the same as the basic equations for water waves, and Professor Isobe and Professor Kakinuma used this variational structure to derive their model more precisely. In 1994, Professor Isobe proposed a model for water webs by approximating the velocity potential capital phi in this Luxurangian. This is Lux Lagrangian as follows. So he approximated the dispersity potential like this, where capital phi.
00:15:10.304 - 00:16:57.154, Speaker A: This is an appropriate function system of the vertical coordinate z and this may depend on the bottom topography b. So in this approximation we have to specify this function system appropriately, whereas here this coefficient vi are unknown functions. So now plugging this approximation into this looks lagrangian. Then we can obtain an approximate Lagrangian for these unknowns, the surface elevation eta and this coefficient function phi zero phi one blah blah blah v capital n and. Okay, the z model is a corresponding Euler Lagrange equation for this approximate Lagrange and 2000 Professor Kakinuma extended these techniques, this method to the internal, the case of internal waves. So now we are considering the surface waves, but he extended this method to the case of internal waves. And since then, Professor Kakinuma, he gave many many numerical simulations by using zea model.
00:16:57.154 - 00:18:11.424, Speaker A: Okay, but now different choice of this function system gives different isobecka kinema model. So which one is. So we have to carefully choose this function system in order to obtain a good model for water waves. So one of natural choices of that function system is as follows. Let p zero p one blah blah blah, p capital n, the integers satisfying this ordering and here p zero should be zero and we approximately the velocity potential capital phi like this. So we take the base function CI as the polynomial in the vertical coordinate set. So we know that these polynomials are zero on the bottom except the case when I equal to zero.
00:18:11.424 - 00:19:38.204, Speaker A: So this means that phi zero in some sense, phi zero denotes the trace of the birthday potential on the bottom in upper in the approximate sense, and here this index PI, which is PI as two times I in the case of the flat bottom and I in the general case. So these choices are consistent with theta approximation of the bursitic potential for the full waterway problem along the support. Okay, now plugging this approximation into looks Lagrangian here. Then we obtain the approximate Lagrangian. And so this expression is very explicit, so we can write down explicitly this approximate Lagrangian. This is expression of the approximate Lagrangian, but a little bit complicated. But for the moment, this expression, this explicit expression is not so important.
00:19:38.204 - 00:20:40.344, Speaker A: So just, just I showed that we can calculate explicitly like this. But here, just please memorize that we use this notation capital h, which is the water dips at point x at time t. So now it is not difficult to calculate the corresponding Euler Lagrange equations, which are as follows. So these are corresponding Euler Lagrange equations. And I think that these equations are a little bit complicated. So, I think I have to explain these equations. So, as a first variation with respect to the unknown function phi to our approximate language, we obtain this first equation.
00:20:40.344 - 00:22:00.204, Speaker A: The time derivative appear only here. So, this is an evolution equation for the surface elevation eta, and it contains up to the second order spatial derivative of vj, and the derivative, and the derivative up to the first order special derivative of eta. And here the indices I move from zero to capital n. So this means that we have capital n plus one evolution equation for surface elevation eta. And now, as a fast variation with respect to the surface elevation eta to our approximate Lagrangian, we obtain this second equation. The time derivative appear only here in the second equation. So we have.
00:22:00.204 - 00:23:25.604, Speaker A: So we have just one scalar evolution equation for many unknown function phi, and this contain the first order spatial derivative of pj and does not contain any derivatives of eta. Surface elevation eta. Okay, this is the isobeckinma model in our choice of the Bayes function. So therefore, we have so many, many evolution equations for just one unknown scalar function eta, and we have just, we have only one evolution equation for many unknown functions, phi zero p one, blah, blah, blah, phi capital n. So therefore, the ether by kinma model is an over determined and under determined composite system. But anyway, the total number of equations are equal to the total number of unknown functions. And in the following, we consider the initial value problem to this isobeca kinema model and these initial conditions.
00:23:25.604 - 00:24:36.984, Speaker A: Okay, now let me explain the basic property of the isobe Kakima model. Before that, let me remind you that it is well known that the full waterway problem have three conservative quantities. Mass, which is defined by this, the momentum in the horizontal direction, which is defined by this in the case of the flat bottom and the total energy, the kinetic energy plus the potential energy. And here, this volume integral, we can derive this volume integral into the surface integral on the water surface like this. And here, phi is a trace of bursting potential on the water surface. And we can also write this volume integral as a surface integral on the water surface like this. Here, capital lambda is directly to normal map associated with Laplace's equation.
00:24:36.984 - 00:25:56.784, Speaker A: So we have these conservation laws for full waterway problem. Okay, now is Kachinma model has also three conservative quantities. The first is mass, which is the same, the momentum, which is defined by this in the case of the flat bottom and total energY, the kinetic energy and potential energy. And in order to define the momentum and energy, we have just replaced capital phi, which our approximation of the velocity potential and this volume integral again can be written in the surface integral like this. And here this quantity is the trace of our approximate velocity potential on the water surface. And we can also write this volume integral as a surface integral. But the expression is a little bit complicated, so I omit it.
00:25:56.784 - 00:26:46.924, Speaker A: So the Isobeka kinema model keeps these conservation laws. So the EsoP kin model is not so bad. But however, isopecal kinima model has a serious drawback. We can easily see as follows. The isobe calculum model can be written in the matrix form like this and we have the time derivative only here. Therefore, if the capital n is greater than zero, then this coefficient matrix has always the rising value. So the hypersurface t is characteristic for this model.
00:26:46.924 - 00:28:29.728, Speaker A: So therefore, the initial value problem to the isopeca model cannot be solved in general, even if the initial data is sufficiently smooth and small. In fact, we have capital n plus one evolution equation for just one scalar unknown function eta. So by eliminating the time derivative of the surface elevation eta, we obtain this relation which does not contain any time derivative. So in order to as a necessary condition for the existence of the solution to the interval problem, the initial data have to satisfy these conditions. So these are the necessary conditions. So now the problem is if the initial data satisfies this condition, can we construct the solution of the initial value problem to the esopic model? The answer is yes. And more precisely, we have the following laser and more precisely the concerning the well poisonous of the insert value problem to the Isabel carcinoma model, we have the following lizard with my former student Murakami in 2015 in a special case and Nemoto, he's also my former student in 2018.
00:28:29.728 - 00:29:51.394, Speaker A: The general case we prove that the initial value problem to the isobeckinva model were posed locally in time in the standard class. If the bottom topography satisfy this regularity and the initial data satisfy the previous necessary conditions, the sign condition as in the case of the flu waterwork problem, the corresponding regularity to these function spaces and the poly stability of the water tips. So again, the isobeck Aquina model is not so bad. But here we have some problem. One problem. Although the interval problem is were posed, how do we prepare the initial data? For the variable of Isopeca kinema model, EtA is a surface elevation, so this has a physical meaning. So it is also difficult to specify the initial data for Eta, and phi zero is also have some physical meaning, but the other unknowns are just the coefficient.
00:29:51.394 - 00:31:29.754, Speaker A: So how do we prepare the initial data of these variables which satisfy the necessary condition? Seven. The answer is as follows. I guess that nobody has any objection to impose the initial conditions on the house canonical variables, namely the surface elevation eta and this phi, the trace of the bursty potential on the water surface. So, okay, in terms of our variable to the isobecanum model, this quantity should be deleted by this dilation. So phi should be defined by this, which is nothing but the trace of our approximate velocity potential on the water surface. And then we have the following proposition, which says that if the initial data of the Zaharov canonical variable eta and this phi, the trace of the burst state potential on the water surface and the bottom topography b satisfy these irregularities and the positivity of the water dips, then the necessary conditions. And here, this relation determines uniquely the initial data for the isopeculum model, which satisfies this estimate.
00:31:29.754 - 00:32:24.944, Speaker A: So by using this proposition, once we obtain the initial data for the canonical variable, then we can construct the initial data for the esopic model. So again, ethobeckiniva model is not so bad. So now let's consider the hamiltonian structure with the waterway problem. This is the main topic in this talk. And as you know, in 1968, Zahara formed a hamiltonian structure, the water wave problem. And Hamiltonian is total energy, the kinetic energy and the potential energy. And as I explained before, the canonical variable is the surface elevation eta and phi, the trace of the bursty potential on the water surface.
00:32:24.944 - 00:34:01.734, Speaker A: And this hamilton, this total energy can be little in terms of these canonical variables like this, where capital lambda is delicate to know my map associated with Laplace's equation. So now how about the isobe, a kidnum model? So, as I mentioned before, the Isobeck Hinoma model has conservative the total energy of the isobec hidden model is conserved. So this is a conserved quantities. So by the analogy of the classical mechanics, if the isobecanum model would have a hamiltonian structure, then the Hamiltonian would be this total energy. The fear, as I explained before, I remind you that this approximate burst potential was defined by this. So okay, it is maybe the Hamiltonian, but the problem is, which one is a canonical variable? What is a canonical variable? So we have many, many unknown functions, not only eta, but also feeder phi, one blah blah blah, v capital. So which one is the correct variable and what is the complex structure? But again, the answer is finally, again, it's very simple.
00:34:01.734 - 00:35:13.554, Speaker A: The canonical variable is similar to the Zaharov's canonical variable, namely the surface elevation eta. And this function phi, which is a trace of our approximate burst potential on the water surface. These two variables are canonical variable. In fact, given this canonical variable by the proposition one, the necessary condition and this deviation determine uniquely the variable of the isopeconomic model. V zero, v one, blah blah blah, v capital n. Now this is denoted by this. So now, plugging this into the total energy to the isopecinema model, we can express this total energy in terms of these two variables.
00:35:13.554 - 00:36:38.978, Speaker A: And in fact this is hamiltonian of the isopical mammalian. In fact, we have the foreign theorem. This is one of the main desert in this talk. So the Isabel Kakinoma model is equivalent to this Hamilton's canonical form as long as these canonical variables have this regularity and the, the water depth is strictly positive. So, okay, this has a hamiltonian structure. So now let's consider the relation between this Hamiltonian of the isobeck Aquinama model and the Zaharov's Hamiltonian to this, to this end, in the following, according to the bottom topography, we restrict the choice of the approximation of the velocity potential as follows. Namely, in the case of the flat bottom, we use only the polynomial of even degree and in the general case we should also use the polynomial of auto degree.
00:36:38.978 - 00:37:44.324, Speaker A: But in this case we have to add up to two times capital n. This means that in this case the number of unknowns becomes nearly twice and we consider the corresponding Isobeka kinema motel. And to this end we write all of the equations in a non dimensional form. Let h be the mean dips of the water as before, let lambda to the typical wavelengths of the surface wave, and we introduce a non dimensional parameter delta as a ratio of the mean dips to the wavelength, which represents the shallowness of the water. And we said that the water is shallow when this delta is small. And with this scale independent and dependent variables as follows, then we can derive all of the equations in the non dimensional form. And then we have the following theorem.
00:37:44.324 - 00:39:09.744, Speaker A: This is the second main laser in this talk. So it says that under appropriate regularity of the water surface and the bottom and the positivity of the water dips, the Zaharofz Hamiltonian in a non dimensional form can be approximated by the Hamiltonian of the Isobeck akinma model in the non dimensional form up to of order delta to the power pole times capital n plus two. In a sense, this is very high. So the Isobe kinema model, the, the Hamiltonian of the isobeckinoma model is actually the higher order shallow water approximation of the Zaharo's Hamiltonian. And in fact we have more rigorous result concerned to the shallow water approximation. Under appropriate assumptions. In shallow data, the solution of the full waterway problem can be approximated by the solution of the isobe cacisma model in the non dimensional form with an error of order delta to the power for capital n plus two.
00:39:09.744 - 00:40:11.874, Speaker A: This is the same order as before for some time interval independent of delta. So here I'd like to mention that in the case of the shallow water equations, this eta is of order delta square. And in the case of the greenhouse equations, greenhouse equations, as known, is known as higher order shallow water approximation. And in this case, the error is of order delta to the power four. But even in the simple case, for example, capital n is equal to one. Then this order is of delta to the power six, much better than the green nugget equation, so that the isobecanum model is actually the higher order shallow water approximation. So this is the end of my talk.
00:40:11.874 - 00:40:14.294, Speaker A: Thank you very much for your kind attention.
