00:00:01.680 - 00:00:30.014, Speaker A: All right everyone, welcome to the 12th Daily Gwei AMa, just like all the AMA's. If you would like to ask a question, please use the raise your hand button at the bottom and it'll come up on my request here. And I'll be able to basically invite you on stage. You'll be able to ask your question live and I'll be answering questions from the AMA series channel that have been asked in there. But if you don't want to get up on stage, you can always ask the question in the AMA series channel. And I'll get to it at the end. So yeah, I'll be going through the questions just one by one.
00:00:30.014 - 00:01:09.050, Speaker A: You know, if you want to come up at any time you can and I'll just invite you up onto the stage. Of course this will be recorded and uploaded to YouTube, so if you have and with timestamps and if you have to leave early, you can just catch back up on the YouTube channel there. So I guess without further ado, I'm going to get right into the first question that comes from MD triple eight, who says, hey Anthony, thanks for everything you do. Can you explain, like I'm five, the ALCX bond program please? Sure. So this bond program basically is in partnership with Olympusdao. It's not just Alchemyx, kind of like offering this themselves. They're working with the Olympusdao kind of team to do this.
00:01:09.050 - 00:01:57.914, Speaker A: But essentially, and I'm taking this pretty much directly from their explainer video, the way it works is that these bonds allow people to purchase ALCX tokens at a discount. Now you don't get to purchase them at a discount and then get immediate access to them or anything like that. You purchase them at some kind of discount and then over time they vest out to you over some predetermined period of time. So, and this is called maturing of the bond right up until like the last date where it's kind of fully matured. So the reason why this is going to be done like this is designed to prevent people from obviously dumping the token as soon as they get it right. And it's designed for long term investors who are like, okay, well, you know, I can see Alcx growing in value over time. I want exposure here, but I would like to kind of get in at a discount and, and kind of like have that, have it kind of mature over time.
00:01:57.914 - 00:02:39.274, Speaker A: Sort of like how, you know, people get in at a discount when they're, you know, doing a seed investing or a series A or something? Like that. And they are, they have vesting on top of it. It's similar to that in terms of kind of like the deal structure here. And, you know, you may be wondering, well, why would Alchemix, as a kind of like, protocol, do this? Why would the, why would Alchemyx sell AlcX tokens to people at a discount? Well, the cool thing is, is that you can only buy these tokens, the Alcx tokens from Alchemyx with LP tokens. So with liquidity provider tokens. So what ends up happening is that you're essentially selling your liquidity, provide the liquidity that you've provided to, to the Alchemix protocol, and they're giving you some kind of like Alcx deal in return. And that way they earn their liquidity.
00:02:39.274 - 00:03:01.178, Speaker A: So it becomes like a protocol owned liquidity. And then they. And by doing this, they actually don't need to pay farmers as much with token incentives to bootstrap liquidity. So it's just a different way of bootstrapping that liquidity for their native token. And I think it's really, really cool. I mean, bonds aren't unique to crypto, of course. They're, they've existed for, for hundreds of years, right, in the traditional finance system.
00:03:01.178 - 00:03:41.134, Speaker A: Governments issue them, you know, private companies, things like that. But it's cool to see this coming to kind of like Defi and crypto in a really big way here. And it's cool that, you know, I guess, like everyday kind of people are going to get access to this now and get access to kind of like being able to buy things at a discount, being able to essentially kind of like, have a long term kind of alignment with the protocol. And it gives the protocol something as well. So hopefully that that kind of is an easy kind of explanation for you, maybe not an explain like, I'm five, I doubt a five year old would understand what I just said, but maybe like an explain like I'm a, you know, just sort of new to defi, but have like my bearing sort of thing. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question there. MD triple eight.
00:03:41.134 - 00:04:08.798, Speaker A: So onto the next one from. Man, I don't know how to read this name. I'm gonna, I'm gonna attempt to enchilada source. I think that's how you rate it. Can we get a rundown of the top Twitter accounts for crypto? Maybe just high quality informational content accounts, not moonshots or anything like that, specifically defi or ethanol. So there's a lot of them and I don't have a list handy with me right now. I remember DC investor curated a really great Twitter list of, you know, top ethereum people that you should be following.
00:04:08.798 - 00:04:50.286, Speaker A: So definitely go check out his list. If you just go to his profile and then click lists, you'll be able to see all the people included in that list. But I mean, what I can do is I can give you kind of like a general guidance on how I would structure kind of a Twitter following and how I've structured mine. First rule is avoid most of the traders because unless you're a trader yourself, uh, and even if you're a trader, um, it's a lot of noise, right. If you're kind of looking for, I guess like uh, fundamental analysis and kind of like, uh, information on things, following updates and stuff like that, the traders are not going to give you that. They're just going to give you charts all day and they're going to give you technical analysis. And that's all well and good of people who want to follow that, but if you're into like following the fundamental stuff, then that's just going to be noise on your feed.
00:04:50.286 - 00:05:14.460, Speaker A: I follow very few traders. There's only a few that I follow and they're more macro people. Like, they don't do day to day charts. They're like a macro kind of multi month outlook or multi year outlook, which I, which I enjoy. But there's not many, very many of them that I follow. I tend to follow as many of the kind of like project accounts that I'm interested in because then I get the update straight from the project. But also a lot of interesting people that do education especially.
00:05:14.460 - 00:06:01.024, Speaker A: I mean, if I'm not learning something when I'm scrolling through my Twitter feed, then if something's wrong, I mean, there's a lot of shitposting, of course, a lot of people making jokes, and I obviously do a lot of it myself. But I think generally what I want to see on Twitter is like a mix of both. I want to see kind of smart people talking and having conversations and kind of like teaching me something new. And I also want to have a bit of light hearted fun on there as well. So that's how kind of like the general, the kind of general structure for me. And I would also not just avoid kind of traders, I would also avoid people that are just like pumping a new token like every couple of days and trying to kind of like shill a new token. It's just so noisy, like, and the funny thing is is that not only is it, is it noisy on the surface, it also kind of just starts clouding your brain and, like, using up your precious brainpower and you have to focus on that.
00:06:01.024 - 00:06:33.848, Speaker A: And then it subconsciously just kind of like, ties you out and you kind of like, oh, God, Twitter's crap today. I'm going to close it. And it's just, you know, because you're following the wrong people, I think, most of the time. And also the last thing that I would be very conscious of would be trying not to fall into an echo chamber. But I do think that people have the wrong definition of kind of like, or the wrong view of an echo chamber here. I think following things that you're just interested in and, you know, say you like, follow 90% of Ethereum accounts because you're interested in Ethereum. I don't consider that to be an Ethereum echo chamber.
00:06:33.848 - 00:07:06.936, Speaker A: It's just like what you're interested in. And Twitter is going to show you that anyway. Like, if you're just kind of tweeting about and talking about Ethereum all the time, or following Ethereum updates and interacting with Ethereum stuff, Twitter's algorithms are going to show you that anyway. But definitely you don't want to get stuck in like, an echo chamber where you're essentially, your kind of positions aren't challenged. You think that everything you know, everything kind of like you say and everything everyone else says is right. You definitely want to curate kind of like a bunch of different kind of accounts that have more, I guess, maybe objective view of things and don't fall into any of the camp, so to speak. There's only a few of them.
00:07:06.936 - 00:07:48.740, Speaker A: It's kind of very hard to be impartial in this space, especially because there's a lot of kind of like, money flying around and stuff like that. But just, even if you're just conscious of, and even if you see someone kind of like saying something, don't just take their word for it. Make sure that, like, there's multiple people saying, you know, multiple respected people saying the same thing. Make sure you verify the information yourself. Like, I know that the term do your own research is kind of like, uh, overused at this point, but really, you, you don't want to just be blindly following people kind of like, that are telling you things, but at the same time, you definitely want to listen to people who you consider to be a trusted voice in the ecosystem. Like, for example, myself, I try really hard not to spread any kind of misinformation about anything or any wrong information. But, you know, you shouldn't just blindly trust what I say.
00:07:48.740 - 00:08:27.476, Speaker A: You should definitely kind of go to other sources as well. Cause sometimes I may unknowingly say something that is wrong. I've done it before, I will do it in the future again. But just generally you wanna follow the people who have, you know, a very high kind of like hit rate in terms of actual educational information and actual truth, and not trying to kind of, I guess, like spread crap about things. So, I mean, that's a long way around, a long winded way of saying probably don't follow too many bitcoin maximalists. A lot of the stuff that they like, from what I've seen, a lot of the stuff that they say just is really crappy if you, if you're kind of like wanting to learn about anything, really. I mean, it's, it's just, yeah, I mean, I'm not going to get too into the weeds there, but it's a bit of a disaster.
00:08:27.476 - 00:08:57.604, Speaker A: I don't follow any bitcoin maximizes, really, at. Most of them have me blocked at this point, but just generally, yeah, you want to avoid kind of that, that kind of, um, that kind of stuff. Right. So hopefully that answers kind of like your question there, enchilada source. Uh, but as I said, if you want an actual list, I remember that DC investor has a really great Ethereum list, which basically has, you know, it's basically a starter's guide or a beginner's guide to Ethereum Twitter. If you can't follow those accounts, I'm sure Twitter will suggest you more and more kind of like related accounts as well. So good place to start there.
00:08:57.604 - 00:09:49.404, Speaker A: All right, next one here comes from a rob dog, who asks, or she. In the last week, the whole Ethereum NFTs are destroying the environment narrative has really taken off, which unfortunately makes many potential users miss out on crypto. Do you think a switch to proof of stake will be enough to turn this narrative around, given that this take is already largely based on misinformation and quote, unquote, anti tanks, anti tech sentiments? So much work ongoing in crypto to combat climate change, but it feels like the message is not getting out beyond crypto Twitter. How do we change that? So I would say that this narrative of like, nfts destroying the environment is not something that's just happened in the last week. It's been persistently kind of like growing over the last, I guess I would say probably since the start of the year when I started seeing it. At least from outside of crypto Twitter, I am of the opinion that you can't necessarily win a narrative war just with words alone. You have to actually show action.
00:09:49.404 - 00:10:28.686, Speaker A: So I definitely think that ethereum switch to proof of stake will help with this a lot. It will alleviate all of these issues. But the problem is, is that these people have this opinion based on, as you said, misinformation or incomplete information, because they don't understand that Ethereum blocks are still going to get mined regardless of if there's nfts in there or not. Nfts marginally increase the kind of like demand for Ethereum blocks, right? Because if it's not nfts filling the blocks, it's DeFi or something else. So this whole kind of argument about nfts destroying the environment is just really misguided in general. So I think the only way, I mean, there's probably two ways you can get. You can kind of like rectify that one.
00:10:28.686 - 00:10:47.682, Speaker A: Obviously move Ethereum to proof of stake. So whenever someone brings it up, you can say, well, you know, Ethereum is proof of stake. It doesn't use mining or anything like that. It's just like running any software on your pc. Most people should get that. But, you know, there's a lot of people that have these preconceived kind of like ideas and notions, and it's really hard to change their mind sometimes. So you'll probably get pushback on that still.
00:10:47.682 - 00:11:35.434, Speaker A: So that goes to my second point where it's just really hard to win a narrative war because these really shitty narratives can take off and then depending on who's, who's spreading it. Like, if it's a big account spreading it or, you know, if it becomes kind of like a common belief, it takes a while for that to kind of change over time. So, you know, for example, you don't hear much about it any these days, but bitcoin, for much of its life, was referred to as something that was only used by criminals. Um, and, you know, that may have been true in the really, really early days when bitcoin's main use case was to buy kind of like drugs. But I, I mean, referring to those people as criminals for buying drugs is just kind of a stretch anyway. But, you know, generally people would say that and then, and then, you know, you hit them back with the argument of, well, I mean, cash is used for more criminal activities than anything. The US dollar is used for more criminal activities than anything.
00:11:35.434 - 00:12:09.776, Speaker A: Like then, you know, it's like probably a million times more than bitcoin would be, and you hit them back with that and they couldn't really say anything. But that still didn't change their mind. Right? Didn't change their view of bitcoin. What changed? It was just like time passing. Bitcoin becoming kind of bigger and bigger and kept sticking around, becoming more institutionalized, gaining legitimacy from different institutions and different kind of companies and different people within, within the kind of ecosystem. I think the same thing is going to happen with nfts. There's already plenty of nfts, sorry, plenty of celebrities giving legitimacy to nfts and endorsing it.
00:12:09.776 - 00:12:57.900, Speaker A: Obviously, you know, if you go to some of their posts, there'll be people pushing back, but eventually, those people, most of them, not all of them, but most of them, I believe, will kind of, like, change their tune on things, and they'll kind of like, just be subsumed into the ethereum nft kind of ecosystem. But I. Yeah, I mean, the only way you win a narrative war is kind of, I guess over the long term, you actually have to kind of like, make a concerted effort on the, on the tech side. We are doing that with proof of stake. But, yeah, in the short term, there's just no way, like, there's no reason. Okay, I love using this expression because it's so good and it's so useful for everything in life, but basically, you can't reason someone out of a position that they didn't use reason to get themselves into because they're already not thinking logically. They're already not kind of like following a great kind of, like, process to get themselves into a position.
00:12:57.900 - 00:13:32.754, Speaker A: So it just becomes more of kind of like blind faith on their part in their own argument and their own position. And that doesn't hold over time for most people in the face of overwhelming evidence. I mean, this isn't just a crypto thing. Go through history and how many, how much crap did people believe over the, over the, you know, the years of human history that is not consensus today? There's, there's tons of things that were, that were kind of like, believed, sorry, thought to be true, but turned out to be false because they were disproved in one way or another. You know, science disproved it a lot. And the funny thing is, some of these beliefs that people had were disproved by science at the time, but people didn't want to listen. They, it was very hard to kind of, like, win that narrative war.
00:13:32.754 - 00:13:59.332, Speaker A: But then over time, you know, time passes more and more. People's kind of like, beliefs get shaken and time kind of like. And sorry. And then, you know, the beliefs, sorry, the, the actual evidence gets more legitimacy and it just becomes like, kind of a thing that goes away over time there. So, yeah, I would say that I wouldn't worry too much about kind of like the NFT stuff, to be honest. Uh, I don't necessarily think it's a, it's a huge deal. I think that there's more than enough people getting involved.
00:13:59.332 - 00:14:32.436, Speaker A: I think that a lot of, some of the people that are actually having a goal at people having a go at nfts in general probably are involved themselves. It's, it's funny how much cognitive dissonance there is around these sorts of things. And, you know, I actually saw people that were kind of like saying, well, I'm not going to use ethereum nfts because it destroys the environment, but they'll use tezos for nfts because tezos is, is proof of stake. And they're like, well, you know, taste. Those is environmentally friendly. And taste actually did a whole marketing campaign based on this, and it seemed to have worked. So, you know, I think that it's more about kind of like marketing and kind of like narrative weaving from these kind of things.
00:14:32.436 - 00:15:03.544, Speaker A: And that all plays into the long term thing where you don't win a narrative war by attacking it directly. You just keep building. You just keep kind of like building a, kind of like a base of people. And then over time, the doubters get kind of like, drowned out and basically become, you know, advocates for the technology. Eventually, I'm sure there's plenty of people that thought the Internet was going to amount to nothing and eventually came around because it was just too big for them to deny it. You know, it was too, it was, it was a part of too many people's lives and a part of too much of society as well. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question there, Rob dog.
00:15:03.544 - 00:15:38.792, Speaker A: All right, one here from t. One who says, who asks, isn't the modular architecture poly now talks about very similar to the construction of Polkadot and Cosmos? I see Ethereum's future model compared to Solana often as it is the most binary monolithic blockchain. But rarely a comparison is drawn to other modular chains. What are the differences between Ethereum's future model and those of current day Polkadot and Cosmos? And where are the advantages? So Polkadot and Cosmos aren't modular blockchains. They are still monolithic chains. Maybe I should start by defining exactly what a modular blockchain is. It is one that splits three things up, right? You split consensus and security.
00:15:38.792 - 00:16:21.004, Speaker A: You split data availability and you split execution into different kind of like, I guess, layers or shards. So the way Ethereum and Ethereum right now, I mean, technically, isn't like a full modular kind of chain because it doesn't have sharding yet. But the way a theorem will do it once it does have sharding, is that Ethereum kind of like the base layer will be. I mean, there'll still be kind of like an execution environment in the Ethereum that we know and love today. But the shards will be the data availability layers that kind of exist at the base layer for these L2s, which handle the execution to put their data on and kind of like get more scalability. And then the consensus and security layout for ethereum is actually the beacon chain. In a proof of stake world, which is running right now.
00:16:21.004 - 00:17:04.092, Speaker A: It processes transactions, sorry, orders transactions, builds, blocks, all that sort of stuff, and kind of like stores them and keeps the chain going. So that's why Ethereum kind of like, is Ethereum two, I guess, specifically will be a module, a more modular design. And the roll ups or the L2s inherit the security directly from Ethereum and directly from the shards and stuff like that. And that is why it is considered a kind of like modular blockchain rather than a monolithic chain. And the reason why Polkadot and Cosmos are not, and I think Polkadot is actually changing its architecture recently. I think I haven't looked into it too much, but they've changed their architecture recently to be closer to the modular design. But I'm not sure if that's live yet.
00:17:04.092 - 00:17:47.236, Speaker A: And I don't know how far along that is. But essentially their designs are more about kind of like this app chain model, where you can either have your own self sovereign chain or you can go kind of like plug in and share the security of kind of like the main chain. So in Polkadot's case, they have something called the relay chain, which is very similar to the beacon chain. And then these kind of like parachains that can connect to the relay chain, but they have to pay. They have to pay some kind of, or put up a bond in dot tokens to kind of like, do this now. And those kind of like parachains can be standalone chains with their own consensus mechanism. So already that's not a modular design because these parachains are not, you know, it's optional for them to share security or not.
00:17:47.236 - 00:18:16.248, Speaker A: With. With Polkadot. Sorry, with, with kind of like the relay chain. They call it layer zero. I don't think that that's really kind of, like, accurate. I think that's just a buzzword, but it's the relay chain, right? So the parachains are more like app chains that can choose to connect to Polkadot if they can afford it because they have to put up a dot bond. And then, even then, I don't think it's a modular design because it's, as I said, I'm not an expert on the architecture there, but it's different to how ethereum, kind of like two, is doing it.
00:18:16.248 - 00:18:41.254, Speaker A: And similar thing with Cosmos. Cosmos has like the, these kind of like, zones and things like that. And they do actually encourage, like, standalone chains where you don't have to do anything, but if you want to. Sorry, you don't have to kind of like, connect in. You can just be your own kind of like sovereign chain. And if you want to, you can connect to IBC, which is like their bridge protocol, I believe, which allows you to kind of, like, communicate with other. Other kind of like cosmos zones and app chains and stuff like that.
00:18:41.254 - 00:19:13.936, Speaker A: So they're. I would say they're fundamentally different designs, and I would say that they're. Because of that, they're not modular blockchains, at least not in their current iterations. I think Polkadot may be making a move towards being more like a modular blockchain, but in that case, it would just look exactly like Ethereum. So I wouldn't really understand the need for Polkadot if they're just doing exactly the exact same thing Ethereum is doing. Maybe you prefer on chain governance to off chain governance because Polkadot has that as a difference. Maybe you prefer programming in rust instead of solidity, but doesn't really make too much sense because L2s will allow you to program in different kind of languages.
00:19:13.936 - 00:19:44.774, Speaker A: They're not going to lock you down to solidity, a lot of them. So, and then Cosmos, you know, Cosmos is a funny one because there's cosmos, the chain, and there's cosmos, like the tech, and the tech seems to be getting, like, adoption with a few different things. Like, I know that. I believe that Terra uses kind of like the underlying tech of Cosmos or tendermint Thor chain. I think there's a few others out there that use this, but I don't think that drives any value back to cosmos itself or the atom token. So it's. It's just a very kind of, like, different design there.
00:19:44.774 - 00:20:25.294, Speaker A: Whereas within Ethereum, or at least with ETH plus sharding, you're going to have this holistic design where the roll ups and the other layer, two constructions and stuff like that, they're all going to be feeding value back into Ethereum and being secured by Ethereum's consensus and data availability layers. So you do have like a true modular blockchain in that sense. So hopefully that kind of like clears it up for you and gives you a bit of clarity around that. Polyuner does have some blog posts on this, I believe. I think they did talk about Polkadot and Cosmos in one of them, so they may have more color. So if you just Google like Polynya medium, you know, that might, it should come up with, with their blog post there. But yeah, hopefully that gave you more clarity around everything there.
00:20:25.294 - 00:21:32.380, Speaker A: All right, so another question from MD triple eight. Who asks if you haven't covered this tweet regarding Alchemyx working with Mim or Mim being the Abracadabra protocol? Please explain this in the AMA. How is different or better than the current process of depositing Daisy mincing Al USD and then using that to yield farm? So the tweet that MD triple eight is referencing here is one from Daniel Cesta, who I think is the founder of Abroad Abra, where he says with Alchemyx taking in Mim, which is a stable coin to mint al USD, the loan repayment will be two times faster. This is the future of empowering people to, of empowering people to live their dreams, I think is what the tweet says here. So I may be wrong here because I haven't dived too deep into this just yet, but I believe it's because I guess like abracadabra, like the protocol is already generating yield for itself because it's using the assets backing Mim to go yield farm with. So it's already generating a yield like that, whereas maker doesn't do this. So when you put your funds into maker to back die or to mint dai that those funds are just sitting there, they don't actually taken to go yield farm with.
00:21:32.380 - 00:22:11.184, Speaker A: Whereas with abracadabra, when you put funds in to mint the mem stable coin, it is actually being used to yield farm with. So I think that's what Daniel is talking about here when he says you kind of get like a double dip here where the loan will pay itself off two times as fast. Because not only do you have like the kind of like yield being generated through alchemyx, when you also have it being generated through Abu Kadabra as well, I think that's how it works. I may, I may have to kind of like double check that, but, yeah, hopefully that kind of answers your question. Well, we got. No, I thought we had someone in the audience there. So another one on the list here from DGen, Ethan, who asks.
00:22:11.184 - 00:22:37.372, Speaker A: Use of defi protocols require enabling token approvals, how users can keep track and manage given permissions. There's a bunch of different tools out there. I would suggest using the tool from Etherscan. It's probably the most trusted one. So you can go to Etherscan. I don't remember exactly where it is in their menu bar, but it's there and you'll be able to kind of like see all the contracts that you've essentially enabled token approvals for and be able to revoke them there if you, if you want to. So there are a bunch of other tools as well.
00:22:37.372 - 00:23:18.288, Speaker A: I just don't know off the top of my head what the names are, but you definitely want to, you know, use the etherscan one because, you know, in my mind it's the most trusted, but. And it's the most easiest to use as well. So, yeah, just go to Etherscan and in the menu bar somewhere there will be the token approval, kind of like app there. All right, a few questions here from Patrick. So for question one, you mentioned a couple of times that you're an active angel investor. Do you have a framework for evaluating your investment opportunities and are you willing to share it? I mean, sure, I'm willing to share it. Uh, so the thing about angel investing and kind of like public market investing, they're kind of like very similar in that I use a similar approach when, when doing these sorts of things.
00:23:18.288 - 00:23:53.276, Speaker A: But it depends on what stage the project's at. Like, if it's a seed round, normally the project is like pre product. They have no traction yet because the product's not out there. It may be like a brand new team. They have to scale up all these sorts of stuff. So it's going to be a very different risk profile to, say a series A or a series b where they probably already have a product, probably already have some traction and, you know, they've got, they've got like a solid team behind them and they're just looking for additional funding so they can kind of keep building what, you know, keep doing what they're doing, essentially. So depending on what stage a project is at, will kind of like alter what I look at, but generally the kind of like things.
00:23:53.276 - 00:24:27.492, Speaker A: And this is, I'll try and do the kind of like things in order of most importance to least importance. So the most important is the team. Always the team. Like, I can't stress how, how kind of, like, important the team is because of the fact that the. A bad team can have the most amazing product in the world and kind of like, screw it up, right? But a good team can have a bad product, but then pivot to a good product. A bad team can't pivot to a, to a, you know, to a, to a good product. And they, and they, you know, a lot of the times they can't actually make a product that is actually good work if they just don't know how to build it and they just don't know how to kind of, like, grow it and they don't actually put effort into it.
00:24:27.492 - 00:25:24.566, Speaker A: So it's kind of like all on the team, I think. And, you know, that may be obvious to some people, but just generally the team means a lot. And that's kind of like what I wait as well. It's kind of like, okay, like, am I getting a good vibe from this team? Like, when I jump on a call with them, when I talk to them, just more naturally when I see them, see their public presence, you know, do I vibe with them? Are they smart people? You know, what's their background? Have they done startups before or is this their first one? As I said, like, if, if it's kind of like, you know, earlier on in the risk profile, if it's a seed round and this is like the first startup that, that people are doing, it's kind of like, well, okay, this is like super risky, right? This is much, much riskier than something else that's kind of like had founders that have exited multiple times or kind of grown something from, from, from nothing and things like that. So, yeah, team, definitely the most important second would obviously be kind of like the product that they're building. Um, there's massive differences between them. I've invested across pretty much like, uh, most sectors at this point, like NFTs, defi infrastructure, like L2s.
00:25:24.566 - 00:25:51.796, Speaker A: I haven't invested in any layer ones in terms of like, smart contract layer ones. There are, I think there is a couple of layer ones that I have, but they're not like Ethereum and they're not like a smart contract platform. They're doing something else. But, like, I've invested in L2s and obviously I'm an advisor to Polygon who's building a lot of scaling solutions as well. But generally the product, and the product has to make sense. If I see a product and I kind of think, okay, well, you know, this is. This already exists.
00:25:51.796 - 00:26:15.528, Speaker A: So. And if it already exists, that I kind of think to myself or I kind of, like, ask the teams, like, what makes you different? Like, what, you know, what. What sets you apart? What's kind of like, what's the draw of your product over something else? And, you know, sometimes the product just isn't that great. It's not that different. It's not that differentiated. And it just becomes kind of like a thing where it's like, well, okay, there's a low chance of this succeeding. So you may pass on the round.
00:26:15.528 - 00:26:37.928, Speaker A: You may not put much money into it, you may put a little bit into it or something like that. But generally, I pass on things that I'm not, you know, don't. That I'm not feeling. I don't like to kind of, like, invest in something just for the sake of it. So there's that aspect to it. And then, I mean, I would say, like, team and the thing that they're building are the most important things by far. And then you've got, like, the kind of, like, laundry list of other things that kind of fall into that.
00:26:37.928 - 00:27:15.060, Speaker A: I think number one is kind of like, okay, sorry, sorry. Number three, which feeds into number two, is kind of like, you know, is the market ready for something like this? Like, is it too early? Is it too late? And, like, how, you know, how. How dedicated is the team to building this out if it's going to take a while? Because some of these projects may end up being, like, really, really big, but it's probably going to take a while to get there. Like, perfect example being a smartphone. I mean, a smartphone has been around since, like, the nineties, and it didn't take off until I, you know, until Apple did it with the iPhone in 2006. I think. I believe before that there were plenty of smartphones, but it wasn't a mass market thing yet.
00:27:15.060 - 00:27:37.810, Speaker A: Most people hadn't used them. They just weren't the, you know, they weren't, the world wasn't ready for it and the infrastructure wasn't there. And a lot of kind of, I think people. Sorry. A lot of products were just inferior. So there's also that aspect, like, is the timing right for this product? Which I think, you know, obviously there's. There's kind of, like, the aspect of, okay, is this a good product or service? And there's the timing, which is a big part of it as well.
00:27:37.810 - 00:28:13.244, Speaker A: So those, those kind of, like, three things, I think is what informs me the most, especially, you know, as an example, when I invest in these L2s, like, for me, investing in a L2 is like the easiest investment I can make. Uh, but, you know, uh, besides ETH, of course, uh, simply because I know that the L2s are going to be, uh, you know, extremely big. I know that they're needed. There's already massive demand for them. There's already like a massive problem that they're solving. And a lot of the teams that I've kind of like backed, you know, big one being arbitrum, they've been working on these things for quite a while now. Same with Polygon.
00:28:13.244 - 00:28:34.552, Speaker A: They've been, I mean, as matic network. They've been working on it for quite a while. So, you know, when I look at this sort of stuff, I'm just like, okay, well, this is a no brainer bet for me. But at the same time, not all kind of like L2 teams and products are created equal. There are plenty of scale, not just L2, but the scaling projects in general. There are plenty of them that have kind of failed over the years. Or maybe not.
00:28:34.552 - 00:29:07.634, Speaker A: Maybe failed is the wrong word, but like, failed to gain traction is maybe the better kind of description here. I think the most obvious example of this is Raiden. Raiden has a, has a token, and it has failed to gain traction over, over the years because it's a state channel network rather than a roll up. And roll ups kind of like superseded that. Amise go failed to get traction for quite a while with their plasma implementation because everyone moved on from plasma to roll ups, and now they have like a roll up called boba network or something like that. But I think it's like a fork of optimism. And I'm not too bullish on kind of like l two forks.
00:29:07.634 - 00:29:38.084, Speaker A: And then I think there's a few others out there that kind of like, just failed over the years to gain traction. Maybe because they were too early or they're just inferior products, but in terms of where the L2s are today, anyone building roll ups, I'm pretty bullish on, like, building them from scratch, or at least I've been building them for quite a while. I'm very bullish on and then bridges as well. I mean, I've talked about this a lot on the refuel, but bridging protocols. There's a lot of them, though. That's the problem right now, is that there's so many of them and not all of them are created equal. A lot, actually.
00:29:38.084 - 00:30:18.488, Speaker A: Most of them are pretty different to each other. You can either have, like, bridges that look more like cross chain exchanges or bridges that are just like multi sigs, right. And things like that. So it's kind of, like difficult from a technical standpoint as well to kind of like, to navigate that and to see which one's going to win, um, and kind of like things like that and then on, you know, other things like Defi, probably even harder and the NFTs even harder. Like, the only NFT investments I've done have been infrastructure plays. So I invested in immutable x because, you know, NFTs themselves are just, in my mind, very hard to invest in for the long term, but the infrastructure seems like a safer bet. So, yeah, that's kind of like my general, general framework.
00:30:18.488 - 00:30:54.452, Speaker A: But if. If I don't get a good vibe from the team, I'm pretty kind of, like, turned off investing in general. Even if I think the idea and the product is good and it's going to be big, I tend to be turned off if the team, if I'm not feeling a kind of like, vibe with the team because I generally know, like, how valuable a good team is. And I also generally know how, how dire, how crappy a bad team is. Like, I've seen it time and time again within crypto where teams just, like, just don't work. They don't know how to build a product, they don't know how to be cohesive, they don't know how to grow something. And it's, it's a slow bleed as well.
00:30:54.452 - 00:31:23.006, Speaker A: It's not like an overnight thing, especially if they have a token. It's a very, very slow bleed. So I'm very kind of, like, conscious of not making the wrong move there. But this is why it can be so hard as well in the public markets, because on the public markets, you're obviously buying things a lot of the time at a kind of like, higher valuation than they were done at the seed in series A rounds. You know, maybe it's a little bit more de risked because there's actually a product and things like that. But then you're benchmarking against two things. Like, at least I do.
00:31:23.006 - 00:31:47.918, Speaker A: You know, you're benchmarking either against USD or ETH. Like, for me, I benchmark against ETH. If I buy something on the public markets and it doesn't outperform ETH, it's just like, what was the point of buying it, right? Like, I should have just bought ETH. And if you look at a lot of these things over the long term, they tend to underperform ETH. Maybe, you know, if you catch it early enough, you'll be able to outperform. But it's just, it's very difficult to kind of, like, make these investments. And investing is not meant to be easy.
00:31:47.918 - 00:32:37.436, Speaker A: I think in crypto, sometimes people get the wrong idea that investing is meant to be easy. If you're just trying to get a return in USD, then you'd be fine betting on most things in a bull market because things just seem to rise together. But if you're trying to outperform ETH and, you know, and you put your ETH into something especially as well, well, then you really definitely are going to underperform a lot of the time because it's just too hard to outperform these benchmark assets. But I think that's unique to crypto because in the traditional kind of like, investing space, I don't know anyone who benchmark against any kind of, like, stock. They benchmarks against like an index, like the X SPX. If they buy, like an individual stock and it doesn't outperform the SPX, well, for them, it's kind of like a bad trade. But it's not like they're trying to stack more of the kind of like SPX index or like the S and P 500 index.
00:32:37.436 - 00:32:56.860, Speaker A: They're just trying to stack more us dollars. Whereas within crypto, most people are trying to stack more BTC or ETH. They don't really care about dollars too much. Yes. Okay. People measure their net worth in dollars, measure crypto prices in dollars. But if you're kind of like a long term investor, you definitely want to be stacking, like a long term stack of, like, ETH or BTC.
00:32:56.860 - 00:33:28.232, Speaker A: So again, just very, very difficult. And doesn't matter how good the team is, doesn't matter how good the product is, outperforming like a benchmark asset like ETH is very, very hard. And you can see plenty of examples of this right now. Look at Aave maker, yearn compound, uniswap, just. Yeah, I mean, look at all of those tokens against ETH. Go look at all their charts. All of them are down a lot against ETH from that, from their kind of like, all time highs against ETH.
00:33:28.232 - 00:34:19.060, Speaker A: If you had bought really early on, you'd probably still be up against ETH. But generally, most people don't do that. So even the best products, even the ones that have, like, hyper growth generating revenue, all that sort of stuff, they underperform ETH. And I think, you know, a big reason at least going forward, especially, is going to be the fact that ETH is generating more revenue than any, than any of these protocols actually worked it out today, annualized right now, Ethy is generating $14 billion of revenue a year in terms of its gas fees, and 80% or 70% to 80% of that is being burned, which means it's going directly to ETH holders. Then on top of that, you have like a risk free rate for ETH with staking, like, you can just basically stake it and earn. I mean, I say risk free, but like, it's low risk. It's not risk free, but it's like a low risk, kind of like return of what, five, 6% right now? And then post merge, you'll be earning more for a little bit until more people stake.
00:34:19.060 - 00:34:51.894, Speaker A: It's just so incredibly hard to kind of like outperform that. And that's why investing, I think, is when using ETH or BTC as well as a benchmark, is very hard within crypto. So maybe a bit of a tangent there, but just to add a bit more color around. Yes. Okay. When I'm evaluating things, I'm looking at these sorts of things, but at the same time, those things, even if, even if project has all those things, it can still underperform a benchmark, like pretty easily over the longer term. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your first question there, Patrick.
00:34:51.894 - 00:35:21.084, Speaker A: All right, second question from Patrick. How do you think about the development of old school blue chip defi products? It seems like they're struggling with creating new catalysts and are quote unquote, dying. So I guess I just touched on this with their tokens, but I want to touch on the project. Them projects themselves. So the term blue chip defi is a marketing term. It doesn't really mean anything. It's used, of course, to refer to these big defi products, like, as I mentioned, like maker, uniswap, compound, all the, all the, you know, the biggest one, the curve, stuff like that.
00:35:21.084 - 00:35:43.984, Speaker A: But it's not really like, I don't know if I'd say it's accurate or not. As I said, it's just like a, kind of like a marketing term. But the problem is, is that these products, as I mentioned, are still growing. They're massive. They have lots of, like, they're generating lots of revenue. They have a lot of users, but their tokens are stagnating. Now, is that because the token designs are crappy? Maybe.
00:35:43.984 - 00:36:05.366, Speaker A: Maybe for some of them they are. I think for the MKR token, it doesn't really have a great design, right? Doesn't. It's like a buy and burn kind of like model. But I don't know, I've never really liked that model. And some people bring up, well, you like it for Ethereum, technically, like ETH is doing a buy and burn. I mean, technically. Technically it's not, because ETH, the protocol is not buying the ETH, but we are burning ETH.
00:36:05.366 - 00:36:27.414, Speaker A: But I mean, either as an asset does a lot more than just be burned. It does a lot more than gas fees. You can stake it, you can do it, use it as clatter within Defi and all that sort of stuff. You can use it as money. Whereas the MKR token, you can't do anything with it. You do governance, which most people don't care about and they don't do. Or you get a passive kind of like value driver through the buy and burn, which really isn't that much.
00:36:27.414 - 00:36:57.568, Speaker A: And it really doesn't kind of like push the price higher there. So, you know, that's an example of something that has like kind of crappy tokenomics, I would say. And then you have something like. Like the CRV token, which I actually think has one of the best tokenomic designs in. In crypto. But the problem with CRV, at least from my point of view, is that there's too many emissions still. And they already had like a really large market cap or a fully diluted market cap of, I think, like, what was it? Like $10 billion of fully diluted market cap or something like that.
00:36:57.568 - 00:37:26.618, Speaker A: And they had a lot of tokens coming to market over time. So what ended up happening was that the price just stagnates because the market caps have to kind of come together. They're circulating in the fully diluted, especially because they have like a big liquidity mining program. But their tokenomics makes sense. So there's that aspect as well. And then there are like tokens that really kind of like weirdly valued, like more valued on their future potential than their current potential. So for example, the Unitoken doesn't have a fee capture right now.
00:37:26.618 - 00:38:08.592, Speaker A: It has governance. Most people don't use it as governance, but it's one of the most valuable defi tokens, at least in USD terms. But the kind of like hope is that someday in the future, because Uniswap is so large, because people expect it to keep growing, someday in the future, that fee switch will be turned on and then Uni tokens will be able to maybe stake their uni and get like a share of the revenue. Obviously this already happens with Sushiswap, but even the sushi token isn't really doing much, so. And you know, you've seen this kind of like wave recently of quote unquote Defi 2.0 projects, which again is a marketing term, but their tokens have been doing really well. I don't think necessarily that's for fundamental reasons as much as it's for kind of like short term speculation reasons.
00:38:08.592 - 00:38:49.964, Speaker A: I would like to have more data before I kind of like declared these other token designs as the holy grail and oh my God, we created like a token design that actually, you know, drives value to a token. I would like to wait six to twelve months and see where these tokens actually are against both USD and against ETH, especially if they haven't actually, you know, at least kind of like kept up with ETH over the long term. Well, then you can just chalk it up to short term speculation for these things. And a lot of these things started out smaller as well. A lot of these blue chips are already multi billion dollar defi, kind of, sorry, multi billion dollar market caps, whereas a lot of these, quote unquote DeFi 2.0 things started at, well, less than 100 million market cap, probably even lower than that. So they had much more room to grow as well.
00:38:49.964 - 00:39:35.820, Speaker A: But that's why I'm saying as once you get to that peak of like a few billion, or there seems to be a ceiling right now, and the ceiling goes up over time, I think as kind of like Ethan BTC go up or as like the total crypto market cap goes up, but you seem to reach like a ceiling and then just start bleeding against ETH or something like that. So there's definitely that aspect to it as well, which, which kind of like plays into it. So hopefully that answers your question about, about that, Patrick. But I wouldn't say these protocols are dying. I would say that there's a bit of like shit tokenomic design, and there's a bit of, uh, really, it's really hard to outperform ETH. And there's a bit of kind of. This market has like a lot of uh, participants who aren't necessarily very, necessarily kind of like very, uh, uh, I guess fundamentals based.
00:39:35.820 - 00:40:09.028, Speaker A: It's just more short term speculation based. So from that point of view, you get a lot of these wild swings. Uh, but over the long term, we'll have to see, we'll have to see if any of these kind of like outperform Ethan and things like that. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question. All right, so the third one you had here, have you any experience with leveraged yield farming? Can you share your experience in this area? I mean, all my yield farming has actually been leveraged yield farming, because I didn't want to sell any of my ETH or anything. So I just used my ETH as collateral within maker drew die out, and then just yield farmed with it. But there are protocols that let you do this kind of automatically.
00:40:09.028 - 00:40:29.732, Speaker A: It's kind of like the same concept, but they let you do it kind of automatically. Instadapp lets you do it. There's alpha finance, I think there's impermax or something like that. There's a bunch of these protocols. Now, I don't use any of them because it just adds more risk. I just do it manually. But the thing with leverage is that it could be dangerous depending on what you do.
00:40:29.732 - 00:41:18.820, Speaker A: So what I did by borrowing Dai and just using it within stablecoin farms, that is not very risky, because if I need to pay my loan back, I can pretty much immediately, I can just withdraw my daisy, go to the, go to maker, pay it back, and I'm all well and good, but I also keep a very, very low liquidation price. My liquidation price on my maker loan is like $500 right now for ETH. If ETH goes back to dollar 500 before I can pay my loan back, we have a lot of other problems on our hands at the end of the day. So it depends how you play it, because people use leverage to buy crypto assets. So, for example, this is the most dangerous thing you can do with leverage, is you use ETH as collateral, then you borrow dai, you go buy more ETH with that dai to leverage up on ETH. Um, but then ETH goes down, and maybe your liquidation price is. Isn't kind of like, very, very high.
00:41:18.820 - 00:41:41.896, Speaker A: Uh, sorry, sorry. Very low. And it's actually much higher. Say it's like $3,000, and you levered up on ETH at, like 3.9k. But the problem is that when it's falling, both the value of the. The assets that you bought with the dai is falling and the collateral backing is falling as well. So you have this kind of thing where you just have less and less money, and, um, you know, you won't be able to pay your kind of, like, leverage back unless.
00:41:41.896 - 00:42:09.600, Speaker A: Unless kind of, like, you could, you can source the funds from somewhere else. So it kind of, like, leads to a bit of a death spiral there. You can get yourself into a really, really shit position where the value of your collateral keeps falling, the value of the assets that you bought with that with the borrowed funds keeps falling. And it just, it's very messy. So I tend to steer clear of that completely. I did do some small, very very small trades on dy DX just to test out the experience there with leverage. But generally leverage isn't part of my kind of like overall strategy.
00:42:09.600 - 00:43:02.490, Speaker A: Leverage trading at least, but leverage yield farming. Yeah, I mean it's definitely safer, but still carries a lot of risk because if you use a third party protocol, lots of smart contract risk, you know, you need to make sure that, you know like what are the conditions that you can get liquidated on? And you know, if e flash crashes can you get liquidated? Sort of those sorts of things to consider as well. So yeah, hopefully that answers that last question. Oh no, you got one more question here. So your fourth question, what are you asking here? What did you think about all the upcoming bridge aggregators like XY Finance and live finance? How do you see the risk in those, especially if we refresh our mind in regards to what happened with the $600 million hack a couple weeks back. So I think the bridge aggregators are obviously great because there's a lot of bridges now and it's going to be harder for people to kind of I guess pick and choose which one they want because each one to use. Sorry.
00:43:02.490 - 00:43:30.962, Speaker A: Because each different one has different networks that it supports, different assets it supports, it has different kind of liquidity profiles. So these aggregators are definitely needed. But it does add a lot another layer of risk. Right. Because you're going through these aggregators now on top of the bridges themselves. I don't think, at least I don't know about XY finance, but with Lee Finance or live finance I'm pretty sure they just sit on top of the other protocols. So I don't think they store any user funds or anything like that.
00:43:30.962 - 00:44:10.334, Speaker A: So essentially what's happening is that you're taking the kind of like a smart contract or bridge or multi sig risk of the, the actual underlying bridges. So whether it be like hop or, or connect or kind of like synapse or whatever, whatever other one there, that's kind of like what you're taking on the risk of. I don't think at least lead finance doesn't kind of like add any additional risk. But maybe XY finance stars, maybe some other ones will in the future. You really do have to do your research there. I think to kind of get an accurate view of these sorts of things, but generally I think that they should just sit on top and it shouldn't be kind of like extra risk there. Alright, what a quick break here and then I'll keep going on.
00:44:10.334 - 00:45:02.424, Speaker A: Alright. Next question comes from Professor Angel II, who asks, what sort of future do you see for proof of work mining? Is there a place for proof of work coins going forward on Ethereum or other layer one l, two s? And what would you recommend, good or bad idea to someone considering investing in power proof of work mining equipment? So the only proof of work network that I can see that, you know, it's native coin retaining value over the long term is bitcoin. I think, you know, Ethereum is obviously moving off of proof of work. If you look at all the other networks, they've performed really poorly. Litecoin, dogecoin. I mean, Dogecoin has its speculative pumps, but just generally, just most of the time it performs very poorly. There's a one that came out a couple years ago called grin.
00:45:02.424 - 00:45:24.312, Speaker A: This was like the thing that everyone was shilling on crypto Twitter in 2019, a lot of VC's were shilling it. I think hundreds of millions of dollars went into investing in mining equipment for it. It is down 99.8% against USD. I don't even want to know what it's down against ETH, probably 99.99% or something like that. I am bearish on proof of work coins besides bitcoin.
00:45:24.312 - 00:46:06.366, Speaker A: I mean, I'm bearish on bitcoin long, long term, but I mean, I'm sure it's going to keep going up in value regardless. But I don't think that there is room for another proof of work chain besides bitcoin to kind of like accrue that value over time and keep it both in the mining equipment and also the coin itself. So I think that, I mean, you know, and there's another example being zcash, which is also proof of work. Again, the coin is destroyed against us dollar and bitcoin and ETH. It's just down really, really bad. I actually think zcash makes sense to become a roll up on Ethereum, but. But I think that they're just going to switch to proof of stake, or at least a hybrid proof of stake proof of work soon and just go down that path for the time being.
00:46:06.366 - 00:46:32.276, Speaker A: Which again, is another signal that kind of proof of work is on its way out. Or it's pretty much. It's pretty much out because I don't think since grin launch. There's been any high profile proof of work coins launched at all. And this is because it doesn't, doesn't make much sense. It's outdated technology that coins don't perform well because there's a lot of inflation. You have to kind of bootstrap a whole network of, of miners and of people kind of like mining these sorts of things with different equipment.
00:46:32.276 - 00:47:14.086, Speaker A: And then, you know, it's less secure than, than proof of stake as well, I believe. But you know, there's different proof of stake implementations as well. So I wouldn't say it's less secure than kind of like some of the really bad proof of stake implementations. I would say it's less secure than Ethereum proof of stake. And it's also harder to get security because you're relying on these kind of like hardware rollouts, which if someone has to decide where to mine, a lot of them are just going to mine bitcoin or ethereum these days as well. So I would, I don't know if I'd recommend someone to invest in proof of work mining equipment at this stage. Instead I would probably, again, this is an investment advice, but what I would do instead of investing in mining equipment is I would invest in proof of stake coins, obviously, ETH, I would just stake.
00:47:14.086 - 00:48:17.776, Speaker A: And because I feel like the return is going to be better there, I would really only buy 8th, to be honest, and that's what I already do. I don't really, I don't really want to buy any of the other proof of stake coins, but ETH instead of mining equipment. I mean, it's a no brainer for me, at least at the end of the day there. So I think it's funny because I was talking about this in the newsletter the other day where I basically said, I think going forward, the kind of like layer one ecosystem in general is going to kind of suffer the same fate that proof of work did, where people are going to stop spinning up layer one chains because it's just such a big thing to do, and they're just going to start spinning up L2s instead and just outsourcing their security to Ethereum. There's a lot, you know, a lot less cost involved, a lot less effort involved, and just being able to kind of like, I guess be like, okay, well, Ethereum, you can handle the consensus and security and data availability and we'll handle the execution, which I think is a better model anyway. So there's a lot of those dynamics going on and I think that's why I've been saying the next five plus years is going to be the modular blockchain error, rather than the monolithic chain error, which we've seen over the last five, five or so years. Just doesn't make much sense to launch these monolithic l one s anymore.
00:48:17.776 - 00:49:19.856, Speaker A: It never really made much sense, but I think more people understand that now, and there's much more competition now, too. So I think, you know, that, that that's going to kind of follow the same path that mining, that that mining has over the last few years. All right, question here from Axiomtix, who says, what's your view on amm versus club? So, amm being automated market maker, like uniswap versus central limit order book, something like DyDx. Seems like the l two space enables possibilities for the latter to be successful, since clubs is the standard for most online legacy market stocks, et cetera. Is there any reason to think this won't happen here as well? So this is like a pretty broad discussion, and it's one that a lot of smart people, smarter people than I have had in the open on Twitter and, you know, through blog posts and all this sorts of stuff, I think they're fundamentally two different things, not just from a tech kind of like, I guess, architecture perspective, but also from who they appeal to perspective. So the main difference is in how market making is done. Whereas on an ammo, it's automated, right.
00:49:19.856 - 00:49:32.856, Speaker A: That you provide liquidity. The whole. The amm handles it all for you. You don't have to manually kind of like put your liquidity wherever you want. Sorry. Put your liquidity at kind of like this price point or that price point or change it. This.
00:49:32.856 - 00:50:17.718, Speaker A: This applies to kind of like sushiswap and uni v two, but uni v three. There's kind of like a hybrid model, right, where you have the passive amm, or you can have like a more active kind of like market maker, where essentially you do kind of like passive investment. Say, okay, I'm going to provide liquidity between $3,000 and $3,500 for ETH, but if it falls out of that range, then your position basically stops providing liquidity and you're stuck in just 100% of kind of like either coin, but you can move it, right? You can actively move it. So it's like an actively managed position, but like, it's like a hybrid passive active, whereas with a club or a central limit order book, you need to be active. You need to be an active market maker in there. You need to kind of like either have a bot that's doing it for you, or you do it, you're doing it manually. You have to keep rejigging things.
00:50:17.718 - 00:50:58.410, Speaker A: You have to keep reacting to market conditions, so it lends itself to the more professionalized people, more professionalized market making firms, whereas amms lend themselves to just normal retail investors who are like, okay, well, I can provide liquidity for this thing. Just do it in a few clicks and then don't have to worry about it. So that's the major difference in my eyes and why I think both are going to exist in the future. But you're right, clubs couldn't really work on layer one. There's actually one of the ancient ones from 2017 called Ether Delta, which was very, very expensive to use on layer one. Very, very kind of, like, slow to use because it was all on layer one. Like, it had an order book, but you had to, like, go in manually, select the orders you wanted to buy.
00:50:58.410 - 00:51:34.094, Speaker A: Then you had to submit an on chain transaction to do this. And even back in 2017, where gas prices were a lot cheaper, it was still too expensive, and it was still kind of very, very slow. Whereas with something like DydX, now it's on L2, instant transactions, you know, no fees, whatever, it just makes a lot more sense. Whereas with an amm, because of the fact that it's all kind of, like, done automatically, handled by the smart contract, it doesn't really matter that it's running on layer one. And it's proved to be incredibly popular because a lot of people are just like, okay, well, I can just go buy these tokens on this thing. I just submit an order to the smart contract. I don't have to manually pick it from, like, an order book.
00:51:34.094 - 00:51:55.650, Speaker A: It's like, just basically a market buy and everything's all well and good, and the liquidity is there. I know it's there because it's in the contract and all these sorts of things. And the contract knows. Sorry, the. The. Yeah, the contract knows it's there and can provide users with kind of, like, this liquidity as well. So I think from that perspective, it's just really, really cool that both of these things will exist and continue to exist in the future.
00:51:55.650 - 00:52:36.422, Speaker A: And it's funny because, like, uni V three being, like, a hybrid between the two is an interesting thing, but that doesn't stop people from using uni V two or using sushiswap or using curve. I know curve has some concentrated liquidity stuff as well, but just generally, it hasn't stopped people from using those sorts of things. Now, what's it going to look like in the long, long term? I'm not sure. I'm not an expert on these sorts of things, but I would bet that amms are not going away anytime soon. And even the passive ones, like the total passive ones, not just the hybrid ones, the total passive amms, I think they're going to be around for a long, long time. They, you know, the funny thing is, the idea for an amm has been around for decades. It just didn't work in the traditional finance system.
00:52:36.422 - 00:53:14.030, Speaker A: But now that we have this kind of like level playing field where retail investors can access this sort of stuff and, you know, non professional, kind of like people can, can mark to do market making, it's just proved to be much more popular. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your question there. All right, two questions here from max invests. First one, the Ethereum fud continues to annoy me. Apparently someone can post a blatant lie on twitter and thousands of people will like it and call anyone countering the FUD and ETH maxi, I am worried that this is only going to continue when ETH 2.0 happens as 99.99% of people do not understand ethereum's roll up centric roadmap and will continue to post screenshots of the l one having high fees.
00:53:14.030 - 00:53:45.734, Speaker A: What is your perspective on this? So this is a very big thing to unpack. I would say basically what I was saying before about how you can't win a narrative war, but at the same time, I've been fighting this fud for years now. I mean, I started, or I started it with Eric ETH hub because of this. I started the Daily Gwei in part because of this. You just have to keep educating that this is a constant battle. There's always going to be misinformation being spread. There's always going to be people believing things that they shouldn't believe and, and kind of like, you know, giving engagement to things that shouldn't have engagement.
00:53:45.734 - 00:54:11.464, Speaker A: There's always going to be people trying to push their own agenda. Maybe they're a fan of another chain. They're like, oh, Ethereum's dead because it has high fees, blah, blah, blah. People posting screenshots of l one having high fees and being like, ethereum is broken. Which is always funny to me because when I look at that, it's kind of like, do people post pictures of like Apple's revenue and be like, this is bearish. It's like, I just like, why is it bearish? That Ethereum is generating tens of millions of dollars in fees every day. Like, I don't understand that at all.
00:54:11.464 - 00:54:37.006, Speaker A: But from the user's perspective, like, for them, they're just annoyed because they're like, I want to use Ethereum, but I'm priced out, which is totally fair, I get that. But we have the, obviously the L2 solutions. We have kind of like the roll ups and all that sort of stuff for end users. But as I said before, you can't win a narrative wall just purely based on kind of like spreading a story or a narrative. You have to have the tech to match it. And that's exactly what we're doing. We're rolling out this stuff.
00:54:37.006 - 00:55:07.492, Speaker A: These people are using them. Like the l two s are really growing much faster than even I anticipated they would. Dydx is having amazing growth. For example, arbitrum has had amazing growth since they went live. You know, we've got the kind of like the generalized ZK roll ups coming, ZK EVM, the Polygon Pos chain, which technically is not a L2, but still has had amazing growth, right. Part of the Ethereum family. So you have all this kind of like stuff happening here that I don't think users, most users will ever need to understand.
00:55:07.492 - 00:55:46.104, Speaker A: The roll up centric roadmap, they don't need to understand even what Ethereum is, how it works, what the beacon chain is, how staking works, how transactions are ordered, any of that stuff. Just like most users of the Internet don't have to understand how TCP IP works because they're protocols. At the end of the day, ethereum is a protocol. The defi apps are protocols, roll ups, protocols, and they're just kind of like the users are going to interact with things that are kind of like customer facing. So, for example, we all interact with different kind of email clients, right? But email is a protocol, SMTP is a protocol. But people interact with Gmail or hotmail or whatever other mail there is. These days, I use Gmail.
00:55:46.104 - 00:56:31.734, Speaker A: People interact with those, and through a client, instead of having their own kind of like setup directly talking to the protocol, they kind of like outsource that to kind of like Google, right? So the same thing is going to happen with the Ethereum experience for a lot of people, where Ethereum will sit on the background, it'll power all these sorts of things. The ro ops will power all these sorts of things, but people will get access to them without even realizing, like, there's going to be plenty of people, for example, that are going to use the immutable x NFT roll up without realizing that it's built on Ethereum and secured by Ethereum. And that's okay. That's totally fine, because it doesn't. They don't need to know that, and they shouldn't need to know that. We can't expect everyone to know the intricacies of Ethereum's kind of like design, to want to be able to use it. If they're interested in learning about it, sure, go and go and learn about it.
00:56:31.734 - 00:56:55.878, Speaker A: But to just use it as a regular user, they shouldn't be expected to know those sorts of things. And most people don't want to know those sorts of things, too, because of the fact that they've got other stuff going on in their lives. So from that perspective, I would say that don't be disheartened by this fud. It's going to exist forever. All this misinformation is going to exist forever. But the technology speaks for itself. I think over time, over the longer term, I think that the L2s are going to speak for themselves.
00:56:55.878 - 00:57:31.936, Speaker A: As I said, people are going to use them without realizing they're using Ethereum. You know, even the haters are going to use Ethereum without even realizing it because they're going to use one of the l two s, which is. Which is just a really funny thing to think about. So focus on the tech. Focus on kind of like helping where you can with the tech, focus on getting people to use these sorts of things. And don't worry about like, this, this kind of like, fight and misinformation, because narratives can change really, really quickly. I've seen it happen many, many times before where, you know, the funny thing is a narrative in 2018 and 2019 was that Ethereum was dead, that the Ethereum network had failed, that all these Ethereum killers were going to usurp it and everything, and Ethereum was just going to be, you know, written in the kind of like, footnote of the crypto history books.
00:57:31.936 - 00:58:08.374, Speaker A: That obviously didn't happen. Ethereum has gone on to become, you know, very, very big, much, much bigger than what it is, what it has been in the past, like, by much more than, much bigger than what it was in 2017 as well. And the 8th price has gone on to fresh all time highs and continues to accrue value and continues to push higher. So from that perspective, I just wouldn't focus too much on the. On the kind of like noise and the fud, but focus on educating. It's what kind of like the position I've taken, kind of what, you know, why I do the refills, why I do the AMA's, why I do the ethub stuff, newsletter, all that sort of stuff. It's because I believe education over time, you know, pays massive dividends.
00:58:08.374 - 00:58:59.562, Speaker A: But I also believe that none of the kind of like Twitter squabbles really matter that much at the end of the day, because most users will never see them, they never pay attention to them. Most users just want to use something that kind of like, works and that they actually get value out of. But there is one key consideration there is that there are a lot of things that quote, unquote, just work, but are like totally centralized, right? For example. But it's on us as kind of like people that are more involved within the ethereum ecosystem to make sure that we build the best products and keep the decentralization there and keep the security there so that we can protect users as well. So I think that's a responsibility of all of us, but shouldn't be a responsibility of the everyday user. They definitely shouldn't have to worry about that sort of stuff there. And then your second question here, Max, is why is Makerdao generally considered the most important DeFi project? I think this is like super subjective, right? I don't think everyone can considers Makerdao to be the most important DeFi project.
00:58:59.562 - 00:59:39.406, Speaker A: I think that it is one of the most important in terms of like innovation, what it's done for the space, what it's shown for the space, how long it's been around, across every kind of like metric and barometer, whatever you want to use there. But it's like totally subjective about what's the most important DeFi project. Right. It's definitely, it's definitely not going to be the same for everyone. For me, actually, I would argue that Uniswap has been the most important DeFi project if I had to pick one. Uniswap has done a lot. It basically proved the AMM model, which basically made it possible for DeFi to be defi without exchanges, like, without something like an amm, Defi would never have really taken off as it has.
00:59:39.406 - 01:00:07.208, Speaker A: But in saying that without stable coins is the same thing, I believe. But the thing is, Makerdao isn't there only kind of like, sorry, Makerdao has daisy. Um, and then there's obviously the kind of like centralized stable coins and stuff like that. But I think that, um, uniswap, if I had to, you know, if I really had to answer it, would be the, I think the most important defi project. But the thing is, they're all important in their own way as well. Like Uniswap and make are totally separate products. They work very well together, of course, because you can trade dial uniswap and all that sort of stuff.
01:00:07.208 - 01:00:33.296, Speaker A: But I don't consider, you know, I personally don't consider maker to be the most important. It's. It's definitely one of the most important. But yeah, if I had to pick, it would be Uniswap. So again, subjective, right? That's definitely not something that you're going to get the same answer from everyone for at the end of the day. All right, one here from Dom who asks, what the heck is DeFi 2.0? So as I mentioned before, DeFi 2.0
01:00:33.296 - 01:01:13.070, Speaker A: is mostly a marketing term, but it also. It is also used to describe a set of new features that have kind of like come to, I guess, DeFi over the last few months that people are now paying attention to. So I think the biggest feature here is something called PCV or protocol controlled value. Essentially what this is is basically the protocol itself controlling some kind of like value, whether that be their treasury, whether that be their own liquidity. As I explained at the start of the AMA about how kind of like Alchemyx is doing their bond program. And it basically uses that kind of like value to do various things, whether that be kind of like provide liquidity, whether that be backing kind of like. Sorry.
01:01:13.070 - 01:01:39.890, Speaker A: Actively backing like a stable coin, like with abracadabra, and then using it to yield farm those sorts of things. That's definitely one part of it. I think the other part is like more composability. So more kind of like stacking the money legos, making more efficient use of capital. That's in the protocol. Because something like Maker, for example, and I don't actually think this is a bad thing, but maker, all the collateral in there doesn't do anything right. Whereas with a collateral within abracadabra, for example, is being used to yield farm.
01:01:39.890 - 01:02:07.422, Speaker A: But there are additional risks here. So I think those are the kind of like the two main features. And I think like the third one that I don't know how much of this is kind of like. I don't know. This seems like a sub feature, I would say it's kind of like being multi chain. So having like your defi app on different kind of like l two s and different kind of like side chains is definitely a big theme in that kind of like area. As well, so those are like the top three things off the top of my head.
01:02:07.422 - 01:02:29.574, Speaker A: But again, defi 2.0 marketing term doesn't really mean much. I would actually consider it to more be more like Defy 1.5. Nothing I've seen has been like a zero to one moment to justify like a DeFi 2.0 thing. But I don't think that these other projects that people are calling DeFi 1.0, like the maker, the uniswap's, whatever of the world, they are not stagnant.
01:02:29.574 - 01:02:58.502, Speaker A: They are, you know, working, sorry, they're working on new features all the time. They're adding new features all the time. It's not like they're going to get, you know, usurped or killed by these kind of newer protocols. I think they're all just going to work together and some of them will appeal to, you know, some people, some of them will appeal to other people, but you know, it's the same as like kind of like people saying, oh, people, things are going to kill Ethereum. No, they're not. They, you know, they might carve out their own niche and do their own thing, but they're definitely not going to kill Ethereum. So, yeah, from that perspective, I would just kind of like be wary of people saying, oh, this is DeFi 2.0
01:02:58.502 - 01:05:04.046, Speaker A: and this isn't because I think it's just a marketing thing. And it definitely comes back to people's bags as well, right at the end of the day. All right, going to take a quick 1 minute break here, guys. So, yeah, I'll be back in a minute. All right, on to the next question. So this one comes from Lucas, who says, who asks, I think at this point most of the crypto natives are understand proof of work with all its mechanisms, minus four nodes, etcetera. Could you explain to us the consensus mechanism of proof of stake based on the ETH two implementation? What is the equivalent of a full node in ETH two? In other words, can I read the break and chain myself without validating? Yes, you can.
01:05:04.046 - 01:05:32.966, Speaker A: So in ETH two, there's two separate things here. There is the validators, and then there is the kind of like beacon node. So you can either choose to run your own beacon node or kind of like outsource your beacon node needs to someone else, and you can run your validators like that. You can basically point your validators at someone else's beacon node or your own. So right now on my staking box, I have the beacon node and I have my validators. Pointing to it. And the beacon node doesn't require 32 ETH, only the validators require 32 ETH.
01:05:32.966 - 01:06:11.096, Speaker A: So, yes, you can verify the chain just like you can with Ethereum today without having a mining, you know, miner, for example. You can just run a normal full node, and it's all well and good. And that's actually something that I see as, like, a common misconception a lot of the time on, especially kind of like on Twitter, where people are like, oh, you need 32 ETH to validate the chain. It's like you need 32 ETH to participate in the consensus of the chain. You don't need 32 ETH to verify the chain or validate the chain with a kind of like a full note, just like you do in ETH one. So, you know, from that perspective, that's. That's actually one of the things that I kind of like, dislike most, and one of the narratives that I dislike most is that people believing that you need over $100,000 to verify the chain, not at all.
01:06:11.096 - 01:06:37.920, Speaker A: That's definitely not the case, as you know, as I just explained there. So. And obviously, another key difference is that proof of stake relies on stake. Instead of hardware, it relies on ETH being staked. So that. That ETH kind of like, is like a bond, essentially, where if you do something malicious and the network detects that you do something malicious, you get slashed and you get ejected from the validator set. So what ends up happening is that depending on what you do, you get slashed for some amount of ETH.
01:06:37.920 - 01:07:21.590, Speaker A: That ETH basically get. You basically lose that ethanol, and then you get ejected from the validator set, which means that you're kicked out from validating, and you can't basically reenter. I'm pretty sure you can't reenter with the same address. You could obviously withdraw that ETH to a new address, top it up with 32 ETH, and come back into the network. But, yeah, you basically get ejected for doing something malicious, and then also with proof of stake. The way kind of like the block, I guess the way the blocks are verified is very different. It's done in a deterministic fashion rather than a probabilistic fashion, improve of work, whereas proof of work, it's probabilistic because all the miners are competing to find kind of like a block within proof of stake.
01:07:21.590 - 01:07:52.240, Speaker A: It's kind of like a more kind of like, deterministic, ordered system, where stakers are basically attesting to blocks, and then. And then every now and again, they'll propose a block. It's rare to propose a block, like for, for your own individual validator. You might propose like one a month, but you'll be, uh, you'll be attesting to a block, like every couple, every, every few minutes, so. Or, you know, depending on your validators and how many validators you have and stuff like that. So they're, they're fundamentally different systems, actually, in comparing the two isn't. I mean, comparing the two doesn't really make much sense.
01:07:52.240 - 01:08:26.664, Speaker A: Like, comparing bitcoins proof of work to a theorem's proof of stake doesn't really make sense at all. I think they're, they're definitely completely different things. The, the only thing in common that they have is that they come to consensus on something rather consensus mechanism. But other than that, they work very, very differently. They have very different security properties and trade offs and, and kind of like, um, different requirements and stuff like that. But in saying that, what remains the same is that, yes, you can run a full node without requiring the 30 tweet minimum of a validator, and, you know, you don't need a minor or anything like that either. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your questions there, Lucas.
01:08:26.664 - 01:08:58.722, Speaker A: All right, onto one from Yayvia Lux, who says, who asks questions about ERP 3664, the next generation game NFT standard. So how do you feel about this ERP and its impact on the NFT market? So, I actually didn't know about this until you. You kind of like, asked this. And I quickly looked it up on Google before it seems to want to do what loot did, but natively at the kind of like, protocol level, where you basically have like, these composable nfts. So I think that's really cool. Of course, I don't know if it should be done natively at the protocol level. I think you can do this with like an ERC.
01:08:58.722 - 01:09:50.780, Speaker A: I don't think you need an EIP for this, but, you know, we'll see. And then you, you know, you go on to say the AIP is qualified as draft. Now, how long could it take for this EIP moving forward? It doesn't seem very difficult at the protocol level. Difficulty here should be at the Dapps using these, these super nfts, as you call them, and when the creation design of these nfts kind of like on steroids. So then your third question, which feeds into the second one, is, with all the mega changes coming in 2022, 2023, with the merge sharding l two deployment, statelessness, etcetera, does this ERP have any enough attention from Ethereum engineering research in order to move forward. So I would actually say that it probably doesn't, and it's probably not going to go into the network for a long time, because right now the only thing that's being worked on in terms of a network upgrade is the merge, right? That's an EIP in of itself. And the only other kind of like stuff that's happening is the difficulty bomb pushback.
01:09:50.780 - 01:10:16.424, Speaker A: So the difficulty bomb is set to go off in December. That's going to be pushed back to June. That's an EIP. There's going to be the merge hard fork snip, then after that there's going to be another set of eips. But I think there's already kind of a list on there and I don't think something like this would make it in there. I think what's going to happen is that this needs to be an ERC, which is like a kind of like token standard which can be proposed by anyone. It doesn't require protocol change.
01:10:16.424 - 01:10:58.706, Speaker A: Getting eips into the network, especially these days, is very, very hard, unless it actually is considered a major network upgrade for like everyone, not just for one specific kind of like sector. I don't see it actually going in, unfortunately. So I would encourage this AIP kind of like author, whoever, whoever it is, to create an ERC standard instead and try to get adoption that way. Because, yeah, as I said, I just see a very, very low chance of this making it in. And if it does make it in, it's probably not going to be till 2023 at the earliest from what I've seen anyway. All right, so I have a few questions here from yawn the faun. First one is having one's tokens on an l one, on ethereum, l one, a ticking time bomb in the sense that it is getting more and more expensive to transact on l one.
01:10:58.706 - 01:11:43.364, Speaker A: Meaning, should we all be migrating our tokens onto an l two as soon as possible? What if our token doesn't have enough liquidity on the l two? Are we screwed? And what if our token is an NFT on l one? So this is a good question, and I don't really have like a definitive answer to it, obviously, because I don't know what the future is going to look like. But I think that, yeah, generally as a user, you want to be using l two s as much as possible. You don't want to be doing too much stuff on l one. But I, as I've mentioned before that I think that the l one fees are going to, you know, keep going up and get like, really, really super expensive over time. I think that's like the long, long term, I think. I don't think that's gonna, it's gonna be kind of like the case for maybe another, I guess, few years, I would say. But as I said, like, it's very hard to kind of predict these things.
01:11:43.364 - 01:12:30.598, Speaker A: But at the same time, if you have things on l one that you're just holding and that, you know, you're scared that it's gonna cost you hundreds of dollars to move one day or to sell. I would definitely get them onto Altoos today if they're supported by, by these kind of like Altoos and their bridges and stuff like that, which I think, you know, arbitram supports a lot of them already. And then, you know, nfts are bit messier, I think. I think the funny thing is, is that I think a lot of nfts are going to end up migrating to L2, generally, like a lot of the mints. And only the highest of value nfts will be on layer one because those are the only ones that make sense on layer one. So, yeah, it's, it's a bit of a, kind of like, transition period here. It's a bit of short term, short to medium term pain before we settle on some standards with the L2s before we have like more support there.
01:12:30.598 - 01:13:02.736, Speaker A: But I would encourage everyone, yeah, to move to L2s. Get kind of like your funds on there if you, if you want to, if you, if you kind of like trust them, um, be, you know, not just because like it might get more expensive on l one over time. It already is expensive on l one. And you can save so much gas fees even using kind of like the, the, I guess you could call them gen one. L two s today, like arbitrary and optimism haven't got, you know, they're basically in their beta stages still. They've, they've still got plenty of development coming. But arbitram, for example, what it's costs like a few dollars for a uniswap, trade it.
01:13:02.736 - 01:13:34.696, Speaker A: To do that on mainnet is like, you know, dollar 50, something like that. So it's a substantial saving already. And that those costs are just going to come down over time as well. So when you look at it from that perspective, if you're already kind of like paying l one fees, you, yeah, 100% should just be moving to l two and kind of like taking advantage of the other low fees on there. Alright, your second question. Say I want to never transact on l one ethereum again and only ever be on l two. How would I do this? If I have a Coinbase account? Can I go directly from buying ETH on Coinbase to sending it to my wallet on an l two? Not yet, but in the future you will be able to.
01:13:34.696 - 01:14:32.020, Speaker A: Coinbase has already signaled that they want us to support the Polygon pos chain first, and then they want to support optimism arbitrum and I think they mentioned starkware as well. And I'm sure they're going to support Zk sync and, you know, all the other l two and things like that. So, yeah, just in the future it's going to happen, but it depends how they do it as well, because they can either be just like a bridge from l one to l two and just handle that for you, which will be more expensive, or they can basically have like a liquidity pool that sits on one of these other bridges that allows you to just go directly from Coinbase to this l two. And it's, you know, very, very cheap to do so. So it'll be interesting to see how exchanges handle that. And third question, after the merge, is it possible that AIP 1559 could burn too much ETH? Meaning does the mechanism design have an asymptotic max percent annual burn? Or could there be a scenario where Ethereum network demand is so insane that we burn all, most of the ETH out of existence? So there's no limit or anything. There's no max percent annual burn.
01:14:32.020 - 01:15:10.424, Speaker A: There's no kind of like, limit to how much fees can be paid. There is obviously a limit to how many transactions can go in a block. And the gas limit is that limit. But there's no limit to how much it can be burned. If someone wants to spend billions of dollars on fees a day on Ethereum layer one, you know, not just someone, but like, if people want to do it, do that, then that's going to happen and the ETH is going to get burned. But the thing is, is that ETH is divisible up to 18 decimals. So if we do ever get into a situation far in the future where, you know, most of the ETH has been burned, they're still going to be people, people still going to be able to kind of like transact with ETH, and they're still going to be able to divide, you know, divide Ethan to those 18 decimals.
01:15:10.424 - 01:15:49.394, Speaker A: And then over time, you can change that as well. You can change it so that ETH can be divided up to 100 decimals or something like that. Something crazy. But in saying that if we burn like a lot, a lot of ETH eats price is going to skyrocket. I mean if we're reducing the supply that much, if we say we burn like half the supply in like the next 20 years for say for some reason or 1020 years or something like that, east prices is going to go absolutely ballistic. It's going to be like, you know, probably way higher than $100,000 or something, something like that. Because you're going to have, you know, that annualized burn being priced in.
01:15:49.394 - 01:16:19.744, Speaker A: You're going to have like people staking. You're going to have ETH being used the way it's used today in terms of like Defi collateral and all that sorts of stuff. You're going to have like just General ETH, you know, ETH general growth being priced in and all that sort of stuff there. So I would say there's like a bit of a balancing act going on there. But this is not something that we have to worry about right now. And if it does need to be changed far far into the future, like for whatever reason in terms of changing those decimals, it can be, I believe. But again, I don't foresee this really being an issue unless like.
01:16:19.744 - 01:16:45.376, Speaker A: Yeah, I don't know. I feel like it's a balancing act. I don't, I don't feel like it's going to be an issue long term, but we'll have to see. It's definitely interesting thing to ponder. All right, a question here from Decca. Can you give a quick overview of the different bridges available to transfer funds across ETH and L two s. Yeah, I mean so I mean you have a bunch of other questions here, but I talk about bridges on the latest Daily Gray refuel on Friday's deli Gwei refuel.
01:16:45.376 - 01:17:08.884, Speaker A: So if you want to check that out at the end of the video. I talk a lot about bridges there, but I mean there's so many that available today. You mentioned hop, connect and synapse. There's so many others right now like the seller network. I'm just trying to think through on the top of my head all the kind of ones out there. I mean there's a lot of leaf finances like the aggregator, there's the native l two bridges that are already kind of like in existence. Like the optimism and arbitrum bridge.
01:17:08.884 - 01:17:38.014, Speaker A: There's the polygon kind of like Pos chain bridge and stuff like that. And then you know, you go on to ask are they all considered trustless or is there a multi sig that controls the funds at the time of bridging? As I said, I discussed this on the refuel, the end of last episode, but they all got different trade offs. Like pretty much. There's a blog post that you should read on bridges. I don't have the link handy right now. It's by Dmitri. I don't remember his last name, but if you search like Ethereum, bridges, Dmitri Medium, it probably comes with that blog post.
01:17:38.014 - 01:18:15.950, Speaker A: But all of them have different trade offs. Some of them are multi sigs, some of them are kind of like totally kind of like centralized, just like an EOA or something like that. Some of them have like liquidity provider risks, some of them have higher fees than others, some of them work differently to others. So definitely you want to be aware of all the risks there. I don't think there's any fully trustless ones yet. I think Connext is probably closest to being that in a future iteration, but I'm not aware of any that are fully trustless. Besides maybe the native bridges, like the arbitrum and optimism bridge, but even then they have admin keys because of the fact that they like a centralized system.
01:18:15.950 - 01:18:56.554, Speaker A: But I'm not sure if the admin keys cover the bridge contracts itself. It may just cover like the other contracts in the l two system. I'd have to check on that. But yeah, that blog post from Dimitri, I think, definitely dived into this when I, when I was reading it. And then you go on to ask how, okay, are there, are there special considerations for providing liquidity to the bridge? Do you consider that a decent way to earn on these base assets? I mean, it's, providing liquidity is very similar to providing liquidity to like an amm, I think. And depending on the volume that runs through it will determine how many, how much fee revenue is being generated, how much you'll make. And also some of them have like incentive token incentives, like synapse, for example, has a token incentive program.
01:18:56.554 - 01:19:21.844, Speaker A: So yeah, I mean, it's just, I guess like on the user to kind of go through, look at all these bridges, see the benefits of kind of like supplying liquidity to them. And you know, maybe you assume that some of these bridges will do an airdrop in the future. So maybe it's worth kind of like taking some impermanent loss now for an airdrop gain later. I'm not sure like which ones will or will not do airdrops, but. Or even if they'll have a token. But I said before, I think everything's gonna have a token. But, yeah, I think that's.
01:19:21.844 - 01:20:25.276, Speaker A: That's something definitely that people need to kind of, like, be aware of and definitely kind of, like, take, make the decision for themselves. All right, quick drink break. All right, onto the next question from Monkey king, who asks, I staked my ETH on lighter and then staked my steth in the curve ETH st ETH pool. I then withdrew all my esteeth from the pool into all, into all ethnic and then used all that ETH to buy nfts. My question is, am I still staking ETH on Lido? No, you're not. You sold your stake, but when you sold your ste, so your ETH is technically still in staking, because what lido does is that it sends its ETH to the staking service providers, which put it into a validator, or, sorry, put it into the deposit contract, which goes onto a validator. So technically, your original ETH is staking, but you're not earning the rewards because you're not holding the Steth tokens anymore, because the Steth tokens are the thing that's giving you the yields, and then it maps directly to that ETH that is being staked.
01:20:25.276 - 01:21:16.890, Speaker A: So, no, you're no longer earning a staking kind of like yield there. And then you go on to say, if I don't receive any benefits once I return and restake my ETH again in the curve for will my benefits resume? If you buy st ETH again? Then, yes, you'll get exposure. I mean, the thing is, you didn't even need to stake your ETH on Lido to begin with. You could have just bought Steve and gotten the kind of exposure there as well, which is a funny thing to think about. So, yeah, you can just get your exposure back whenever you want, basically by trading it back. So hopefully that answers your question, monkey king. All right, one here from Handasa Tuck, who asks, do you agree that wallet owners should have an option to switch from a permissionless setup where anyone can send them tokens at any time to a permission setup where they can restrict the tokens that their wallet can receive to certain tokens only? So this will never happen on the protocol level.
01:21:16.890 - 01:21:49.324, Speaker A: People are always going to be able to send you trash, tokens and scams and all that sorts of stuff. But what you can do is what you, what app developers or wallet developers can do is that they can have their wallet not show you this stuff. Right? They could basically hide it automatically for you so that your wallet isn't. The interface that you're accessing the wallet from doesn't show you all these kind of like scammy tokens. Metamask already does this to an extent because you have to manually add all the tokens that you want. They don't really have a great implementation of it because you have to add the good tokens as well. But then it becomes subjective, like what token is good, what's bad, what's a scam, what's not, right? It just, it becomes messy.
01:21:49.324 - 01:22:26.160, Speaker A: But this, this isn't going to happen on the protocol level. It'll happen on the kind of like wallet level where you can just basically hide the tokens. You can't block the tokens from coming into your wallet, but you can basically hide them. The funny thing is, though, is that this is, this is talking about a normal wallet. If you have like a smart contract wallet, something like Argent, you may be able to block tokens being sent to your wallet. But again, it's hard because you would have to know the token address, like the contract address that you want to block tokens from. And a lot of the time, these scams, they just kind of like spin up kind of like new contracts, you know, every time.
01:22:26.160 - 01:23:04.304, Speaker A: So it's kind of like a chicken egg, it's a cat and mouse game, and definitely doesn't work very, very nicely. So yeah, I would say that on the user interface level, it can be solved, but it's just definitely not going to be something at the protocol level. All right, one here from Gr. Let's go. Who says, how much control do l two s have, which over which projects are released on their platform? Can this potentially be a problem? So the l two is the end goal for all of them is to be permissionless. But right now, optimism has a whitelist because they're not ready to be permissionless just yet, but arbitrary miss permissionless. So they have.
01:23:04.304 - 01:23:39.538, Speaker A: So, okay, the permissionless. Anyone can deploy something to the. To arbitram right now, but arbitram also have admin keys, so they have a multi sig that controls the contracts, and they can upgrade the contracts whenever they want. And they could upgrade the contracts to kick, you know, a kind of like project off or implement a whitelist again or do whatever. But the kind of like the goal of all these l two s is to be completely permissionless, where any project can, can basically deploy there and nothing can be done to stop it. Just like on Ethereum l one today. So from that perspective, we're not there.
01:23:39.538 - 01:24:17.902, Speaker A: We're not there just yet. We will be there in the future when kind of these l two is fully decentralized and stuff like that. And it, can it potentially be a problem? I mean, as much as it can potentially be a problem on l one, it's the same kind of stuff. Like there could be unsavory stuff launched, there could be really, you know, crappy stuff launched, it could be illegal content hosted on these sorts of things. But that's what you get from a permissionless kind of like neutral platform. And that's just a trade off that you have to make. All right, one here from Hubba Cook, who basically linked the kind of like up only podcast with Ari Paul where Ari Paul said that he gives the probability of Ethereum being a market leader in ten years.
01:24:17.902 - 01:24:54.740, Speaker A: Less than 10% probability. He said that having only, that Ethereum has only a tiny moat, which is developer moat, and it's only a short term one, and it has an innovator's dilemma of moving slow. And then Hubba asks, would love if you could elaborate on those arguments he's trying to base his future assumption on about a theory. So I've known Arya for quite a while. He's actually, he was actually one of the first people to notice me on Twitter and give me a bit of a boost on there when I was up and coming in 2018. So I, so I kind of like owe him a bit of that. But I would say that Ari and me differ on a lot of things when it comes to this sort of stuff, and our views differ for a number of reasons.
01:24:54.740 - 01:25:09.776, Speaker A: I think he's a VC. I'm not. I mean, VC fund manager. I'm not. So he has different incentives to what I have. He, I think, doesn't. Isn't up to speed with what Ethereum is doing, how it's going to scale, the roll up centric roadmap modular blockchains.
01:25:09.776 - 01:25:39.616, Speaker A: I think he's, I think he's behind there. I haven't kind of like seen anything from him about that lately. I think he severely underestimates how big Ethereum's moat is on the developer side. He seems to discount that for some reason. I also think that making any predictions over the, you know, over a ten year timeframe and assigning a probability to them is kind of like a fool's errand. I don't think you can actually do that. I know I've said before that I think that over the next five to ten years, modular blockchains are going to be like the big thing.
01:25:39.616 - 01:26:28.784, Speaker A: But I didn't assign a probability to that. I just said that this is what I believe. Assigning a probability to it opens yourself up to scrutiny because you've now just put a hard number on it, which, you know, are he saying Ethereum, you know, is Ethereum's chance of being a market leader in less than ten years? Sorry? In ten years is less than 10%. I mean, how can you, like, how can you even begin to kind of like, reason about that? How can you even begin to explain how you arrived at that position? And, you know, you can say things like, well, the moat is tiny because we're still so early. You know, developer mode is tiny, but there's many, many arguments against that. I think the number one argument against kind of like Ethereum's kind of like probability of success is that it actually increases over time. They think about the amount of kind of, I guess, stuff that Ethereum has gone through, the amount of trials and tribulations it's gone through, the amount of trials and tribulations it continues to go through and will go through in the future.
01:26:28.784 - 01:26:59.146, Speaker A: Just imagine how much it's already gone through and come back stronger. Like a theorem hasn't stopped growing. It kept growing. It keeps growing. To this day, no matter what is thrown at Ethereum, it always seems to emerge stronger. We're on the verge of so many massive upgrades over the next few years, coming to the network, the merge L2 rollout, all the new kind of like, um, stuff happening at the app layer, uh, kind of, um, sharding statelessness, uh, the modular blockchain era, just generally. And developers are still coming, the new developers are still coming into Ethereum, still building on Ethereum.
01:26:59.146 - 01:27:18.514, Speaker A: They're going to be building on the l two s. They're not going to be limited to solidity. They're going to be able to build in whatever language they want. So I don't know, I just, I don't know how he got arrived at kind of like this. 10% or less than 10% probability of a theory. I'm kind of like being the market leader in ten year, in ten years. I feel like, I mean, if I had to put a hard number, I would say it's much, much higher than that.
01:27:18.514 - 01:27:55.920, Speaker A: But again, it's very, very difficult to project out what's going to happen in ten years. Like ten years ago, what was 2011? Bitcoin was two, like, bitcoin was two years old. It was just basically, it was worth less than a dollar, probably, or something like that. It was definitely an Ethereum wasn't even kind of like an idea yet or anything like that. So from that perspective, trying to project, project out what's going to happen in ten years in crypto is a complete fool's errand. So I just kind of like, I don't, I just don't get that reasoning there. And then his other point about like having an innovative dilemma of moving slow, I think this is why I'm saying that he's missing the roll up centric roadmap.
01:27:55.920 - 01:28:50.912, Speaker A: He's missing the modular blockchain stuff because Ethereum is moving slow at the base layer, because of the fact that the base layer secures half a trillion dollars worth of kind of like market cap of ETH right now. All the tokens built on top, all the nfts, all the trillions of dollars of economic activity, all the l two s built on top, you can't move fast in that kind of like scenario. So the Ethereum base layer is definitely moving slower than more of these kind of like newer chains and more centralized chains. That's 100% true. But at the same time, what Ari is missing is the forest. The forest is the L2 landscape where if you understand the roll up centric roadmap, you understand that all of these kind of like innovations and all of these kind of new things are going to happen at L2. They're all going to inherit Ethereum security and its decentralization and its community and its network effect, but they're going to be able to do whatever they want because they only have to focus on the execution side of things.
01:28:50.912 - 01:29:24.774, Speaker A: And again, this goes back to modular blockchains. They don't have to focus on consensus or security. They don't have to focus on data availability. They can choose to if they want to, like Starco has validium and volition and stuff like that, and ZK ZK Porter, but they don't have to, they can outsource that to Ethereum. So, and we've already seen like stockware are doing innovations at L2 by having their chiropro language instead of solidity. They have Stark X, which is, you know, an alternative to the EVM. We have different kinds of implementations of EVM compatibility and EVM equivalents, all that sorts of stuff.
01:29:24.774 - 01:30:05.738, Speaker A: So the innovation is happening at L2 instead of layer one. So I would actually love to just educate Ari about this because it just seems like this is a missing piece in his kind of whole thesis, is that he doesn't understand Ethereum's roadmap, it seems. Maybe he does, maybe I'm wrong here, but from my impression, from that kind of like podcast and from people kind of like saying about it, he just seems to not get where Ethereum is going. And he seems to be comparing Ethereum's layer one to these other layer ones, which is not the right comparison at all. The other layer ones should be compared to Ethereum's L2 ecosystem. Ethereum's layer one should really be compared to anyone, maybe bitcoin. But I mean, that's even, that's stretching the definition or stretching the comparison there.
01:30:05.738 - 01:30:55.580, Speaker A: So, yeah, hopefully that kind of like answers your questions there there, habakkuk, because I mean, yeah, I just like, I feel like it's always that these kind of opinions and these kind of stances always come from a lack of understanding. And I can forgive re for this, since he doesn't spend all his time in ethereum. He's obviously got like a lot of other stuff happening in kind of like what he does within crypto. But at the same time, I would kind of like say that if people don't understand this, maybe they shouldn't kind of like a pine on it with such kind of like confidence. And I would kind of like love to educate more people about this. So, so, yeah, hopefully that answers all that for you. All right, one here from Bohus, Bohus Bohas ETH, who says, could you describe the difference between validiums and side chains in terms of security? As far as I understand, both solutions rely a, rely on a set of validators that is separate from a theorem.
01:30:55.580 - 01:31:40.872, Speaker A: Is that correct? So l two s still rely on validators. They just don't rely on them for security. It's more for kind of like the ordering of transactions, like a sequencer and constructing like l two blocks and kind of processing transactions and that sorts of stuff. But the differences between validiums and side chains in terms of security is that validium still inherit ethereum security on the proof side. So a validium will still post the proof of its transactions to layer one ethereum. It will still kind of like say, hey, you know, here's the transactions that I processed, here's the proof of, sorry, here's the proof of the transactions that I processed, and it's all stored on layer one ethereum. Whereas they'll store the data, the state the user balances as a kind of like a kind of like simple example there.
01:31:40.872 - 01:32:41.446, Speaker A: They'll store that as part of a data availability committee, which could be just a set of like, you know, maybe five nodes and kind of like five validators, whatever you want to call them, signers that keep the data available so that the validium can tap into that. Now, of course, if the data availability community was to go offline or withhold the data, then your funds could potentially be frozen because you just don't have the data to kind of like release those funds and, you know, some other nasty stuff can happen there. But in saying that, sidecheck. But the thing is, the validity will still kind of inherit its consensus from Ethereum layer one, because it's usually, it's still putting the proofs on Ethereum layer one, whereas a side chain doesn't inherit any security from Ethereum at all. So a sidechain has its own validator set that does the consensus and also does the execution and data availability and all that sorts of stuff. So from that perspective, there is no proofs being posted on Ethereum layer one from the side chain. And the data that the sidechain has is basically like what Ethereum has on layer one.
01:32:41.446 - 01:33:26.144, Speaker A: Like just like a normal, normal kind of data availability there. So I would actually say that a sidechain, most of the time, is just another layer one blockchain. It's the term sidechain comes from the fact that there's a bridge to the chain, but really it's just a layer one blockchain. Now, the most popular quote, unquote side chain is the polygon pos chain, but it's technically not a side chain, it's more like a commit chain because it actually commits its state back to Ethereum. All of its staking logic lives on Ethereum. So actually, without a theory, the polygon pos chain couldn't exist, whereas there's other layer ones out there that don't rely on Ethereum at all, right? They have their own completely own consensus mechanism, completely own kind of validator set, and everything relies on is kind of an enclosed system. Nothing relies on Ethereum itself.
01:33:26.144 - 01:34:05.880, Speaker A: But then in saying that and going even a step further, you talk about the bridges. The bridge to the polygon pos chain is unfortunately, you know, fortunately, unfortunately, because like, I would like to see this more decentralized over time. But it's, it's a multi seq, right? It's a 507, I think, or something like that, multi sig. And if for some reason that multisig was to become compromised, the funds in that bridge could be stolen. Or if there's a bug in that bridge, it could be stolen and it doesn't even matter that you had kind of like a theorem security for that bridge because it's in a smart contract. And your assets that you bridged onto the polygon pos chain, well, now they're worthless because the bridge, which is kind of like the collateral backing those assets, so to speak, has been drained. Right.
01:34:05.880 - 01:34:30.310, Speaker A: For example. So, and that applies to not just polygon, but like anything that you bridge into. If the bridge contract on Ethereum gets compromised, then the kind of like assets on the. On the chain that you've bridged to basically are worthless because there's nothing backing them up. They're basically like ious. So those are kind of like the main differences between volidiums and kind of like side chains there. So hopefully kind of like that answers your question.
01:34:30.310 - 01:35:14.816, Speaker A: What I'm most excited about is the volition kind of construction, which is like a hybrid, which allows you to basically choose to have data availability off chain or on chain. So you can choose like ZK roll up mode or kind of Lydia mode as part of volition, which. Which I think is really cool because a roll up is definitely what is the most secure L2 scaling solution, but it's also the most expensive. Like, the reason why you would use a validium is you get less secure, less security, and some trade offs, but you get much cheaper fees because you're not storing the data on Ethereum layer one. But the reason you use a roll up, a ZK roll up, or an optimistic roll up is because you want to inherit all that security and get like 100% ethereum security at the end of the day there. So hopefully that answers your question. So I got a few more to get through here.
01:35:14.816 - 01:35:47.164, Speaker A: I might power through them because we're coming up on, on time in 25 minutes here. So one from Paul Yu, who says would be great if you could expand on the differences. Pros, cons between having smart contracts on l one Ethereum, as opposed to keeping the l one as minimalist as possible, that is bitcoin, and letting l two s handle this. I think bitcoin is too conservative. I think Ethereum is in the right spot. I think that having the l one be able to do execution of smart contracts, be able to verify proofs, and be able to store data, is what you should be doing. Bitcoin can't do any of that.
01:35:47.164 - 01:36:05.310, Speaker A: Bitcoin can only do bitcoin. It's a you. It's kind of like it doesn't have a virtual machine, can't verify proofs. They can add op codes to do this. If they wanted to. But who knows when that's good, when that's gonna happen, or if that's gonna happen. So I would say that the pro of keeping a minute as being as minimalist as possible is that you focus on one thing, one thing only.
01:36:05.310 - 01:36:35.976, Speaker A: The entire point of the bitcoin network is to secure the BTC, the asset. That's it. It's a secure user balances. That's absolutely, it does nothing else at layer one. And that's fine because that's what people want. That's what the bitcoin community wants. That's all well and good, but the whole point of a theorem l one is to do more than that, is to give you an expressive kind of like base layer to build l two s on top of, to build roll ups on top of, to build more complex kind of products like we've seen with DeFi nfts to do tokens, do all these sorts of stuff that, yeah, that, that.
01:36:35.976 - 01:37:03.274, Speaker A: And because of that, like, those are all the pros. Because of that, the cons, maybe the fact that, you know, theorem is more complex as a protocol, so maybe it has a larger attack surface then, then bitcoin does. But yeah, so that's kind of like one trader that people point to. And it is harder to run a node than it is for bitcoin. It's not too hard. You can run on consumer hardware, but it's definitely harder than bitcoin because bitcoin's blockchain is much smaller. It's much easier to sync because it only has to handle the Utxo set.
01:37:03.274 - 01:37:35.586, Speaker A: The bitcoin balances, BTC balances. It doesn't have to handle all the state. It doesn't have like an ethereum like state. So from that perspective, there's kind of like the high level pros and cons there. So, as I said, I'm going to power through the rest of these questions, but hopefully that answers answers kind of like your question there, Paul. All right, one from Tom decent, who asks, is there anything you'd like to see in the Ethereum space that you think would be really useful, popular, but no one is working on yet? You know, I saw this question before and I tried to think of something, and I, and I still haven't been able to think of something. Everything that I think of, I think of a project already doing it.
01:37:35.586 - 01:37:56.110, Speaker A: Like I thought, oh, I'd love to see like a. I don't know, I was just rambling in my head. I was like, oh, I'd love to see, like, a better wallet. There's plenty of people working on wallets, right? Oh, I'd love to see, like a privacy focused L2 roll up. I mean, there's two teams at the top of my head, ey nightfall and aztec protocol that are working on this. Or there are probably more than that. I thought to myself, oh, I'd love to see people doing more stuff with nfTs.
01:37:56.110 - 01:38:24.952, Speaker A: And then I thought, and then, you know, I caught myself thinking that I'm like, what are you talking about? Like, NFTs is one of the most innovative sectors right now. And then I kind of, like, thought, okay, well, what about this in defiant, like, this product in Defi and all that's happening? So I actually can't think of anything right now that that would be really useful. Popular or popular that isn't being done right now. Maybe I'll think of something in the future. But yeah, I mean, it feels like a theorem has every base covered at this point in time. All right, so one here from sovereign, so they say. Context for the question.
01:38:24.952 - 01:39:02.470, Speaker A: I have not connected the dots of how Ethereum makes money when this happens. Tick tock is working with immutable x to conduct weekly drops until the end of this month. Immutable team was quoted in the article, the L2 has zero gas fees, nearly instant trade execution, and is carbon neutral. I understand the reputation points that Ethereum picks up and the additional social currency that will continue to cause exponential awareness by being associated with this deal. But how does this translate into Ethereum generating a rise in eats price from these type of transactions described above? I mean, ETH is used as a currency on, on immutable X, right? It's, it's used as money there. So that's one way. But also, immutable X secures itself on Ethereum.
01:39:02.470 - 01:39:46.978, Speaker A: It's not technically a L2, it's a validium. So it still posts its proofs to Ethereum. Layer one. So it's still using Ethereum block space. It's still paying Ethereum, the network, for security, and it's still kind of like using Ethan burning ETH, right? So that's a, that's a value driver there. But I think the biggest value drivers that, the ones that you mentioned, right, the legitimacy, the reputation, you know, the reputation points, the additional kind of like social kind of currency or legitimacy or whatever that is much bigger, I think, than the other stuff that I mentioned because signals, legitimacy, social signals, blah, blah, whatever you want to call it there, at least to me, they are worth so much more than people give them credit for. Because not only do they kind of like bring like attention to a platform, but they also change the narrative around a platform.
01:39:46.978 - 01:40:08.350, Speaker A: Now, I was saying before how you can't win a narrative war just based on pure narrative and storytelling alone. You need the tech to back it up. Well, this is how Ethereum wins the scaling narrative war. People, we just have the products people can use, right? We get these products out there, people use them. They're like, oh, wow, this is built on Ethereum. And I have like zero gas fees or I have like really cheap fees. That's how you win.
01:40:08.350 - 01:40:43.228, Speaker A: That's how the narrative changes pretty much overnight. And that's exactly what's happening right now. So there's going to be tons of new people that come into the ecosystem as well that will have never experienced Ethereum layer one, but they'll be using kind of like immutable x and having an awesome experience with these nfts. And I think that that is a massive value driver for Ethereum as a brand, which should translate into more attention for Ethereum as a whole. And it's logically should translate into more kind of like buy pressure for ETH as an asset. Because I think a lot of these things follow. Sorry, I think these things follow a network effect like pretty strongly.
01:40:43.228 - 01:41:18.172, Speaker A: And the bigger the network effect for ethereum, the bigger the network effect for ETH. The more ETH buyers, the higher the ETH price goes. Is my kind of logic there. So hopefully that answers your question there. Sovereign. All right, so one here from t one who says, how feasible will the taproot deployment make smart contracts on bitcoin? Given bitcoin is arguably the only blockchain more decentralized than Ethereum, is it possible bitcoin could become a viable smart contract competitor to ethereum within five to ten years? I don't think Taproot actually does much in terms of functionality of smart contracts on bitcoin. I think it adds a little bit of extra functionality, but it doesn't do anything like what Ethereum can do.
01:41:18.172 - 01:41:49.586, Speaker A: So I don't think that it's going to make any kind of real difference. I don't think that bitcoin's even trying to compete with Ethereum, to be honest. But the funny thing is, is that if bitcoin wanted to do like a massive upgrade without changing much, they would only have to do one or two things. The first thing, add a verifier so that you can verify stark or snark proofs and you automatically have ZK roll ups. There you go. That's all you need to do, right? You can build ZK roll ups, verify it on bitcoin. Yes, you obviously have to add a new upgrade for this.
01:41:49.586 - 01:42:32.782, Speaker A: And you obviously add more complexity to bitcoin, but this gives you roll ups or second. And secondly, or additionally you can basically have a way to store call data, so have a data available availability kind of layer on bitcoin native to bitcoin, kind of like what Ethereum has right now. And we'll have with sharding. I think the second thing is not going to happen at all because that just increases the footprint of bitcoin too much for bitcoiners and it increases the complexity. But I think that if they want to, they can just do proof verification and then they can have like validiums of volitions or ZK Porter like and do, and do off chain data availability and get that extra scale. But in saying that, I don't see these kind of things happening for a long time. I think that Ethereum is way, way, way ahead.
01:42:32.782 - 01:43:06.918, Speaker A: I don't think bitcoin community really cares about this. I think all the people who care about this are in Ethereum already. So I don't actually think that bitcoin could be a viable, smart contract competitor to Ethereum within five to ten years. I think that it's going to stick to what it does best, which is being whatever the bitcoin is called these days, a story value, digital gold, hard money, you know, I think it's just going to continue to do it, doing that. And Ethereum will just, you know, take everything else, every other use case, pretty much. All right, one here from Brian Peace, who says, because of you and Polynya, I'm generally bearish on monolithic blockchains. Also, I'm generally bullish on projects championed by Andre.
01:43:06.918 - 01:43:29.630, Speaker A: Andre Condre. He seems to be pretty aligned with Ethereum's values and he obviously has a lot of technical expertise. So I was surprised to find out that he is a proponent of the phantom network. Do you have any insights about this that might help me make sense of it? So I think. I don't know, like, I mean, I don't know what Andre's motivations are like. Personally, I think that he just likes building cool shit. But I do know that he has a lot of history with Phantom.
01:43:29.630 - 01:43:56.042, Speaker A: I'm pretty sure he's one of the original architects of the network. He worked with the team for a while, was actually as an employee or a co founder or something. I don't remember exactly, but he's very close to them. But I'm with you. I found it a little bit odd that he was embracing the phantom network, kind of like sidechain or whatever you want to call it, but he wasn't, he wouldn't, he wouldn't embrace the Polygon pos chain. I think you got a bit upset that that, um, Polygon was using kind of like the term L2 in their marketing to describe the pos chain, and that's fine. Like, I I have no issue with that.
01:43:56.042 - 01:44:30.220, Speaker A: Um, you know, people can get upset about that, whatever. Uh, but at the same time, yeah, I feel it did feel a little bit weird when I saw that myself as well. But the connecting the dots, basically, uh, is that, like, he's worked with Phantom for quite a while. He, he knows the team very well, and he just wants to deploy stuff there and build stuff there. And obviously, you know, it has cheaper fees than a theorem because it's a. I don't know, I don't know if calling it centralized is gonna trigger people or whatever, but I feel like it definitely, you know, he's nowhere near decentralized. It's just basically an EVM side chain, same thing as, like, the avalanche seachair sea chain and a bunch of these other kind of, like, things out there these days.
01:44:30.220 - 01:45:13.472, Speaker A: Even the polygon pos chain, you know, it kind of, like, falls into the same bucket where it's just like, giving people a cheaper experience, but also technically kind of like a quote unquote side chain, whatever. So, you know, from, from that perspective, I think it's just like a kind of, like, social thing for Andre. At the end of the day, I'm hoping that he deploys his products to L2s on Ethereum. I know that he's excited about them, so I'm hoping to see that, but, yeah, hopefully that answers your question about connecting the dots. All right, one here from Sour jack. If a web two developer wanted to make a change to web3, should solidity be the first programming language that they learn? Would you recommend something else? I mean, I think so. I mean, I'm not a developer, but I would say that solidity would definitely be something you want to learn.
01:45:13.472 - 01:45:43.492, Speaker A: You know, just generally, solidity is not going away anytime soon. It's basically the JavaScript of blockchain development languages. There's going to be other languages that Ethereum supports at L2, like Cairo from stockware. There's going to rust support all that sorts of stuff happening at L2, but I would definitely learn solidity as like your entry point. And you can do this by going to the developer section of ethereum.org. A lot of great resources there for you to check out. One last one from the princess and then I'll move on to some from the AMA series channel.
01:45:43.492 - 01:46:34.332, Speaker A: Can you elaborate on your opinion regarding web3? Is there any projects and or research you would recommend looking into? And how would you explain Ethereum's role in the web3 development? My opinion on web3 right now is that it's still very early. I think it's going to be big, but we going to take a few years to get there. I think it's going to take an infrastructure build out at L2 to make it feasible a lot of the time. Web three to me is things like decentralized social media and stuff like that. That definitely needs scale, like a lot of it to kind of like work and, you know, in terms of projects and research to look into. I would actually look into what ENS is doing with sign in with Ethereum. I think that's going to be a very, very big deal in kind of like web3 because, you know, as you know, when you go to a kind of like web3 app these days, you connect your Ethereum wallet to it, and that's kind of like your authentication method.
01:46:34.332 - 01:47:07.688, Speaker A: What sign in with Ethereum does is they want to bring that to every website on the Internet so that you can basically sign in with Ethereum, have your public private key pair or your Ethereum wallet be your authentication for the entire Internet, which is absolutely awesome. I think it's going to change everything. So that's kind of like one project I would definitely recommend looking into. And from there you can probably springboard into a bunch of other things. But all of this stuff is still, as I said, very early stage. Some of it's under wraps. There's not, you know, you know, you know, I mean, some of the, some people call like web3 like daos and social tokens, so you can check out those sorts of things as well.
01:47:07.688 - 01:47:33.574, Speaker A: Like there's a social token ecosystem called friends with benefits. This is, that's pretty cool. They do a lot of really, it's like a social club. I think it's pretty cool. They're doing a lot of web3 stuff there, so definitely check that out as well. So, yeah, and you know, your last question, how would you explain Ethereum's role in the web3 development? I would say that Ethereum is kind of like just leading the charge in terms of like, innovation and experimentation, but it's just one small piece of the puzzle. Web three is bigger than, I think, bigger than Ethereum.
01:47:33.574 - 01:48:24.028, Speaker A: I think it's going to involve things like data storage chains, like are we even filecoin? It's going to involve other kind of like protocols, like messaging protocols, things like that. So the web3 effort is not just an ethereum effort, is a crypto wide effort. So I think Ethereum's role is just being the hub of innovation, just like it is for most things, really. All right, so in the AMA series we channel, we have three questions left, and then I'm going to wrap it up for today. So first question from Moon base eight x eight. Can you share your views on privacy tokens? Exploiters typically try to cover their tracks after committing the act. How do you think people, how do you think the crypto community can work with privacy services that help anonymize transaction activities? So privacy tokens, I guess like a separate from protocols that allow you to do private transactions.
01:48:24.028 - 01:49:11.478, Speaker A: So the privacy tokens like Monero and Zcash, I think that they're kind of like, I don't know, I just don't think that they're going to be used as much as privacy services on Ethereum will be. I'm kind of bearish on them, to be honest. I wouldn't buy them, to be honest. I don't think they're going to be used very much going forward. And your second question, how do you think crypto, how do you think the crypto community can work with privacy services that help anonymize transaction activities? By work with, do you mean like catch people kind of like committing fraud or committing theft? I mean, the whole point of the privacy kind of like protocols is that you can't catch them, right? So I don't think you can kind of like maybe work with, kind of like work with these privacy services. It's more of the fact that this is the lay of the land. This is, this is how it works here.
01:49:11.478 - 01:49:58.306, Speaker A: If there is kind of like funds going through like tornado cash or going through aztec protocol or something like that, at some other privacy protocol, I think that there's not really much anything, there's not really anything that developers can do in that situation because if they could do something, it would break the privacy for everyone using the service. Right? So yeah, hopefully that answers your questions. There one here from on the bull who says, how does the concept of ETH staking and running a node change after 2.0 doesn't make the most sense to wait for two point zero's hardware requirements, et cetera, will change. So the only thing that changes once the merge happens is that you'll need to run an ETH one node as well, which you should already be doing. It's not a strict requirement. You can talk to other ETH one nodes, but essentially after the merge you just run an ETH one kind of like full node alongside your ETH two, kind of like beacon node and validator.
01:49:58.306 - 01:50:27.698, Speaker A: So the hardware requirements aren't going to really change that much. I would say that the hardware requirements are going to change probably much more dramatically when sharding is introduced because it's just going to need more space to store the shard data. So then that's not going to happen until probably early 2023, to be honest. So you won't have to worry about that till then. But I don't think you should wait to get the hardware now. You can always upgrade hardware later if you need to. And the hardware that would be probably required to upgrade would just be like solid state drives, which are very, very easy to upgrade.
01:50:27.698 - 01:50:49.036, Speaker A: So if you want to build your own staking box today, I would recommend doing so. All right, last one here from Sponge. Just wondering if you've heard of Rubicon finance on optimism. It wasn't the bankless newsletter this week. Also, does optimism still have a whitelist? I have heard of Rubicon. I haven't checked it out yet. Actually, it's in one of my tabs on Chrome somewhere, but I know it's on optimism, but I haven't checked it out yet.
01:50:49.036 - 01:51:14.322, Speaker A: So sorry, I can't really add much color there. And optimism does still have a whitelist. I'm going to assume that they're going to remove their whitelist after they've done their OVM 2.0 upgrade, which is scheduled to go on main net on October 28. I think it's already on the testnet right now. So I would assume that they're going to remove it in November because the 2.0 upgrade is a major upgrade and I don't think they wanted to let people just deploy anything when they required teams to kind of like migrate.
01:51:14.322 - 01:51:40.190, Speaker A: So, yeah, I'm hoping for a November kind of like removal of that whitelist there because it's been quite a while. Right. So yeah, hopefully that answers your question. All right, so I'm going to take any last questions from the audience. So give it about like, you know, 10 seconds there. If not, I'm going to wrap it up for today. All right.
01:51:40.190 - 01:52:01.646, Speaker A: I think that's it. So thank you, everyone, for listening in again. As I mentioned at the start, this has been recorded and will be uploaded to YouTube within 24 hours. I do these every two weeks. I probably going to change the time for the next one in two weeks because of the fact that daylight savings is just screwing everything. So I'm going to look at what times I can do, what makes the most sense for most of the world. But I mean, as I said, these things are recorded anyway.
01:52:01.646 - 01:52:14.164, Speaker A: So even if you can't make it, you can ask the channel pre, you can ask your question in the AMA series channel prior and kind to of listen to my answer on the recap. But anyway, leaving it at that, I'll see all you guys in the Discord channel. Thanks for coming. Bye.
