00:00:03.360 - 00:00:31.294, Speaker A: Hi everyone, thank you for joining. My name is Olga Fitiseva. I'm leading data at Calprotocol and today I'm going to be talking. I'm going to be sharing the insights on a topic that is especially relevant for small companies and young startups. We're going to be talking how to create a transparent business strategy using dual analytics and how to drive your company's success based on the public data. Let's get started. So, a little bit about the agenda.
00:00:31.294 - 00:01:22.550, Speaker A: So in the beginning of the talk, I will briefly introduce you what Cal protocol is and the role dune analytics played for us. Throughout the talk, I will walk you through how we build a data driven business strategy using dune analytics. I will introduce you how we introduce new features and literally build new products based on the data insights. So let's get started. How many of you here know what calprotocol is? Amazing. For those who are less familiar or in general, let's just get over a few key points. Cal protocol, or Cal Swap, is the primary product by Caudao and it is a metabex aggregator that combines all of the benefits of the price optimized trading with the features of mev resistant protocol.
00:01:22.550 - 00:02:31.640, Speaker A: Caboprotocol utilizes leverages intents, so the user submits a trade and then we have third parties, our solvers, who are looking for the best execution route for you and respectively, getting paid for that. So which role actually do analytics plays for us? In the era where data is king, it's crucial for young companies and startups like Calprotocol to harness the power of data driven decision making. But how would you get the data? You know, if you're a small company, you don't really have the resources or data available yet. Luckily, we're in the industry where data is publicly available and easy to get. So using public data on dual analytics, Cow Protocol has shaped its products and delivered the best features for its customers. And today we're going to see how CalProtocol has been relying on Dune pretty much since its inception. Dune analytics is our go to and one of the primary data tools used within the company and also outside of the company.
00:02:31.640 - 00:03:51.820, Speaker A: We're not only consuming the data, but we are also providing the data to doom and sharing with the community. You can see here our main June page, which includes already the links to the most important dashboards utilized within the company and also used by those who want to get a brief understanding of how calprotocol is performing, as well as dive deeper into certain features and understand something else already on this dashboard, you can get, if you scroll down, you can get the high level knowledge of our trading volume, the volume that is going through cowswap, as well as the surplus generated by the users, for the users and a lot more. And if you want to dive deeper, you can always click on the links a little bit above and understand way more. So one should be able to find pretty much everything and pretty much anything they're looking for. And if you were not able to find what you're after, you can always query it. Our data sources are available and very well maintained. It's easy to query anything we offer, from the features to our volumes, solvers, rewards, fees, pretty much everything you're after.
00:03:51.820 - 00:04:45.830, Speaker A: And obviously all our queries are public as well. Our data sources are very well maintained and as I already mentioned, we also contributing to Dune community. So our team members submitted over 200 prs to just Dune's spellbook to contribute and share with the community. Such integration with Dune has been instrumental in automating our workflows, understanding and enhancing our user understanding, planning and ensuring the transparency. So as I mentioned, it helped us orchestrate in our workflows. So let's see how recently our data team has shared a case study with Dune analytics on how we're automating our workflow and sending data back to Dune to calculate our solver payouts. As I mentioned earlier, Dune leverages intents.
00:04:45.830 - 00:05:37.026, Speaker A: So a user submits a transaction, I'll actually go here. Then a solver, a third party, finds the best execution route for the user, and then the transaction is executed. We record the data. So what do we do with this data? We send, we upload this data, internal data, to Dune, which is obviously publicly available. Then we use the combination of on chain and off chain computations to estimate, or to calculate accurately calculate our rewards for our solvers. And then once this is done, we upload the data, sent back the data to cow to pay the rewards. Basically, such calculation is done on a weekly basis and ensures full transparency and accuracy.
00:05:37.026 - 00:06:35.012, Speaker A: So anyone, not only the solvers and those who are affected by this payout, but anyone from outside, including everyone here, can go and check and verify this data. Here you can see just a little snapshot of the dashboard, but not only you can see the numbers yourself. You can also dig deeper into the query as the queries are also publicly accessible and understand how it's been calculated. But now you might be wondering, how does this data availability and transparency helps us to guide and drive the business strategy? So on the next few slides. I will walk you through how Kaloprotocol shaped its strategy and launched literally new products thanks to publicly available data. Let's get into that. As I mentioned earlier, we've been utilizing dune pretty much since its beginning.
00:06:35.012 - 00:07:26.394, Speaker A: Hence we've been monitoring our data all the time there. So in 2022 or earlier last year, we found out that the average transaction value on our protocol was way higher compared to everyone else compared to Dex aggregators, to dexs. And here you just can see a little tiny snapshot comparing to zero x one inch in uniswap. But actually we compared to a lot more. So this made us think that, you know, we have, our users are slightly different who are mostly whales. So we started digging a little bit deeper into the whales and trying to understand who are they? And we learned that a big part of these whales are actually daos. So we started trying to understand who are these daos, how to attract them more.
00:07:26.394 - 00:08:27.750, Speaker A: It became a really interesting audience for us. So once we dig a little bit deeper, earlier last year, we figured out that, and this chart is for 2022, we figured out that around 20% of the whole Dow market share was belonging to cow protocol. And that was at that point of time already way bigger chunk and way bigger market share than the whole protocol in general had comparing to Dex aggregators. So we started trying to understand a little bit more about this audience. So we learned that indeed daos are high traders, but the average transaction size weighs about $100,000. So it means that their transactions might be volatile for the whole market and might impact the price of the token, especially if they're trading the token with a low liquidity. So that would definitely negatively impact the price of the token, which they don't want.
00:08:27.750 - 00:09:33.160, Speaker A: On the same time, they're consistent traders, which means they're trading outside of bearable market just all the time. And they're also low users. They were already using cow protocol for its specific features, such, for example, as freely setting the slippage they want without being afraid of any attack, because they knew that the solvers would correct their slippage and so on. So based on this analysis, we started thinking, what other features can we introduce to daos to attract this audience even further? So we wanted to protect them from the token price volatility when they're trading high volumes. And that is how we decided to implement two new features. One of them is partially fillable limit orders, and another one is the TWap orders. I'm sure pretty much everyone here is familiar what this type of orders are, but let me just briefly explain why they're beneficial for daos.
00:09:33.160 - 00:10:35.610, Speaker A: So partial limit orders allow to set a certain price in the token and wait for the order to be executed. So if you're afraid that the token price would go up or down, you can literally set the price. You're comfortable trading with limit, sell or buy order and wait for the order to be executed. Why? This is great because, you know, if you're trading high liquidity and we're not managing to find the full, full liquidity for your order, we can partially fill it and once we get more liquidity, we'll fill you order consequently with time. So you'll get at least part of what you're looking for at the moment. And the twap order top is the time weighted average order, which allows to split the order in little pieces and execute it with a certain time that you've set, whether it's minutes, hours, days or so on. Which means that the impact on the token would be way less.
00:10:35.610 - 00:11:18.370, Speaker A: So as long as you execute smaller chunks, you won't negatively impact the price of the token. And again, why this is great for daos because daos usually have large, large treasuries and you need a team to manage these treasuries. So swap orders, allow to manage treasuries, allow to set simple strategies without too much human interaction. So that was another benefit for daos. So now let's look what happened in this year. In the previous slide I showed you the graph for 2022 and our market share of daos. So now we look at 2023.
00:11:18.370 - 00:11:51.560, Speaker A: So we launched these features in the first and beginning of the second quarter. And as you can see, our DaO market share in the Dex aggregator started significantly increasing. So immediately in the second quarter it reached 30% and then over summer it surpassed 50% and it keeps increasing. And actually this chart is taken from a few weeks ago. So October is not full. And I checked the stats for October and it's been obviously way higher than actually 40%. So you know what? It worked.
00:11:51.560 - 00:12:37.600, Speaker A: Being transparent with our customers helped us to attract and gain a true loyal audience and thrive in these competitive markets. So this just was one example how Goda utilized data to introduce new features. Now let's look at a slightly different example how public data helped us even further. Aligning product strategy is not the only thing you can do. Using dune analytics you can literally launch new products. And today I will show you on our own example how we did that. So as I mentioned, Caldao's main goal is to protect users from MEV or one of the main goals.
00:12:37.600 - 00:13:10.410, Speaker A: Thus cal protocol's principles, three main principles. So the main principles are. One of them is the delegated trade execution. As I mentioned that the transaction is rerouted for solvers who are obviously professional in their business, and they're doing everything possible for your transaction to be saved and protected from MeV. The second principle is the coincidence of ones, and this is where actually cow comes from. Cow. Which means that we're matching your order off chain.
00:13:10.410 - 00:14:16.468, Speaker A: So if there is an opportunity, your order would be matched off chain. And even if it's not 100% of the order matched off chain, even if we manage to match a little bit, it already reduces the risks of your order to being exposed. And last but not least, we are executing the orders in batches, which means that the batches executed within the same clearing price, which also kind of makes me exposure irrelevant. So since MAV has been always a concern for us, in the beginning of this year, in the beginning of 2023, we decided to conduct a research on the impact of MEV sandwich attacks on cow swap and other DEXs and Dex aggregators. We wanted to make sure that cow protocol was actually performing well, and we managed to confirm that. So indeed the number of transactions that were attacked, the solver transactions never the users, was below 1%. It was at about 0.8%,
00:14:16.468 - 00:14:54.600, Speaker A: which was great. So we confirmed that our strategy actually works. But what we also wanted is that we wanted to confirm that others are more impacted. So thanks to the publicly available data, we managed to compare our sandwich attacks on other DEXs and Dex aggregators. That's for example, and that's from 2022. We learned that over 3% of volume on one inch was MEV attacked, and over 6% of total volume on matcher was MEV attack as well. You know what? We also noticed something interesting from this chart.
00:14:54.600 - 00:15:49.558, Speaker A: And let me zoom in a little bit closer to the whole Ethereum chart of sandwich attacks. So as you can see, the frequency of such attacks after the merge has increased significantly. So attackers appeared before the merge, but the rate and frequency of their attacks has become way more severe. So we knew that Cal protocol is protecting the users, but we also wanted to protect those who are not yet on Cal protocol and obviously our solvers. So based on this data insight, we decided to launch a new product. So Cowdao decided to launch MeV blocker, which is a completely independent product from cowswap. It is a private RPC endpoint that protects from any transaction being sandwiched or front run, which is great.
00:15:49.558 - 00:16:31.120, Speaker A: So you can trade, you can add this as an extension on any of your wallets and trade on any projects you'd like without being afraid of sandwiched or front run. And the beauty of it, if the transaction generates a background opportunity, 90% of the gained volume is returned back to the user, which is awesome. But we're not stopping there. So, you know, obviously we decided to share our data publicly and everything is available on June. You can query. So this is our public dataset MeV blocker raw bundles. You can go in, explore the data, get the transactions, compare it with all the Ethereum transactions and so on.
00:16:31.120 - 00:17:33.994, Speaker A: But besides that, we're obviously providing the dashboard with the main analytics. So our dashboard is quite comprehensive and gives you understanding on how MEV blocker is working, how it's performing here below you can see how the number, the percentage, the share of all the Ethereum transactions that are utilizing MeV blocker is significantly increasing, and also how much the total Dex volumes protected. Actually, again, the slides are from a few days ago. So I checked right now earlier today, and we already protected over $25 billion in volume and then how much is saved and so on. So obviously everything is publicly available and you can verify it yourself. But what we also learned recently is that sandwich attacks still exist on other protocols, on other projects. So here, for example, I'm showing you a very easy way how you can get an insight of the number of sandwich attacks on other dexes.
00:17:33.994 - 00:18:18.462, Speaker A: And the way here, it's calculated, it's a very, very lower bound calculation, but it's quite easy to get using dual analytics. So, for example, if the token is traded multiple times within the same block from the same user, from the same address, with a significantly different gas fee from the rest of the trades within this block, it's most likely a sandwich attack. So this is the way this is calculated here. But obviously there are more other way more other ways to calculate that. And as you can see, it can give you at least the ratio understanding of that. There's still way more sandwich attacks on other taxes, and the majority of them here are coming from Uniswap, and it should not be a surprise for you. It doesn't mean that you're most likely going to be attacked if you trade there.
00:18:18.462 - 00:19:24.500, Speaker A: Not necessarily. Uniswap has highest liquidity, and hence most of the transactions are actually rerouted through there, right? So that's why they have a really high ratio. So what we learned from this inside, and what we could implement from this inside is that we actually recently managed to partner with Uniswap Wallet to integrate me blocker inside their wallet. So now when you trade on Uniswap wallet, all the transactions are actually rerouted through an EV block, which is great. So we learned a lot from this inside. So being transparent with our users and our customers helped us to partner with the best in this industry and actually generate great value for the users. So you can see the list of the partners imev blocker is partnering with today we looked at just two examples how publicly available data on Dun analytics helped Caldao to decide on the next steps for whether it's mev blocker or caud protocol.
00:19:24.500 - 00:20:15.458, Speaker A: And now we continue looking into the trends, understand our users, and drive the future of our protocol further. In the beginning of my talk, I mentioned that the stock should be very beneficial for small companies and young startups. And the reason is that younger companies don't usually have the resources or time available to set up the whole data infrastructure in house to start storing on chain data. It's very costly and very timely. So with the help of Dune analytics, we managed to do this within minutes without needing to create any additional infrastructure. So with Dune analytics, the process for us became very simple. It takes very fast from the idea to action, as I showed you on today's example.
00:20:15.458 - 00:20:19.170, Speaker A: So I'd highly recommend using it as well. Thank you so much.
