00:00:00.160 - 00:00:04.622, Speaker A: I think there's a realistic case that one of those is 100 billion or something. Like by the end of this cycle.
00:00:04.678 - 00:00:07.238, Speaker B: All of this stuff is a scam. It's all a scam.
00:00:07.326 - 00:00:10.834, Speaker C: No matter how I answered this question, I'm going to piss off a lot of people on the Internet.
00:00:14.614 - 00:01:07.144, Speaker B: Okay, we're back. We're back with something different, something new. It's called a blockmates orange. What does that mean? Well, it means we are going to be focusing on bitcoin. Rich and I have decided that we're going to get together and we're going to put together a whole lot of podcasts and chat about bitcoin, chat about what core is doing, how they plan on solving problems, and then looking at what other people are doing in the space and what the thinking is behind bitcoin, and more importantly, how bitcoin can solve a whole lot of problems that perhaps Ethereum is doing at the moment, that maybe bitcoin can do better. Maybe there's stuff that Ethereum is doing that bitcoin can do as well. And see where, you know, where those similarities lie and where the bridges can be built between the two.
00:01:07.144 - 00:01:36.714, Speaker B: Mister Ryan, it's good to have you. This is long overview for me, and yeah, it's good to have you back. We did a show together a couple of months ago and yeah, there was a good vibe and a lot of similar thoughts around bitcoin. And I mean, at the end of the day, I really do respect and love what bitcoin has to offer us, but then I also respect and love what Defi has to offer us, and that's why we're here. So welcome, sir.
00:01:38.134 - 00:01:44.834, Speaker C: Well, thanks again for having me. Really excited to bring this to the world. Chat, all things bitcoin, core and BTCFi.
00:01:45.974 - 00:01:58.514, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I think let's kick it off exactly that kind of like, what does BTC far mean in the context of BTC file? I mean, it seems to be quite straightforward, but it's not really, is it?
00:02:00.774 - 00:02:53.604, Speaker C: So here's how I would characterize it at a high level. So the originations of DeFi was really kind of rooted in some of the original bitcoin ethos, which was like trying to be an alternative to traditional financial system. Ethereum was never as hard of money as bitcoin was. Like, that was never really the goal. But there were similar kind of, hey, how do you build things orthogonal to what we have today without middlemen, without centralization? Like, a lot of those same core value drivers were the same, and a lot of that limitation was based on some of the programmability in the expressiveness of bitcoin. And I think there was kind of this idea that, hey, bitcoin is just digital gold and that's kind of a fine stopping place. However, as we've seen with like ordinals, BRC 20, so nfts and now tokens built on top of bitcoin, you've got runes, all these new protocols, protocols.
00:02:53.604 - 00:03:38.496, Speaker C: You're seeing that there actually is demand from a lot of these bitcoin holders for more utility. Like they don't just want to stop at digital gold. And I think part of that has been like this educational process, right, which is like, hey, there is this whole world out there. You can still transact in the hardest money that we've ever known. And you might have to do that on other rails, right? Like faster, cheaper solutions like core, maybe some of these new Bitcoin l two s that are coming out, right. There's a bunch of different kind of avenues there, but it's really kind of opening the Overton window on what you can do with your bitcoin. And I think if I was to kind of, you know, characterize what the opportunity is, it's bitcoin's a trillion half dollar asset class today, if only, let's call it ten to 30%, using some of the Ethereum numbers come into defi.
00:03:38.496 - 00:04:24.623, Speaker C: Bitcoin easily becomes the dominant asset by TVL, possibly this cycle, almost assuredly next cycle. And I think there's this ongoing debate between maybe the Ethereum and the bitcoin communities of what winds up being the defi asset of choice. And I think for folks who've been in crypto for a while, having bitcoin be that asset actually makes a lot more sense. And the goal for most bitcoin holders is to earn more bitcoin, not necessarily earn more dollars. So I think some of the goals there are also a little different kind of a final piece that I would caveat here is that PTC five means many different things to many different participants. And that's also an important thing to take into account here, where bitcoiners are actually not a homogenous group of people. Like people might think on Twitter, like, not everyone's a bitcoin maxi.
00:04:24.623 - 00:04:54.842, Speaker C: There's a bunch of people that will stop at non custodial bitcoin staking and earn passive yield. And that's actually still a huge boost. Think of the Ethereum staking and all the new protocols that got developed just based on that that I wouldn't even say are fully defi their protocol level. And that's a fine stopping point. That's super interesting. However, there's folks that want to have like five x levered trades on a decentralized purpose protocol collateralized by their ordinal. And that's totally fine as well.
00:04:54.842 - 00:05:03.294, Speaker C: Right? Like there's going to be different options for different folks and the key is having different solutions for all of these different, all these different actors.
00:05:04.634 - 00:05:53.898, Speaker B: Okay, so you didn't mess around with kind of like presenting the whole enchilada in what, in kind of like the last five minutes. And it's. There's obviously a lot to unpack, but let's just, let's just start at the beginning. Okay? So we've kind of like got this, this whole idea of peer to peer payments. That's essentially what the white paper has revealed to us. Is there, is there any other evidence within the confines of the white paper that indicates that bitcoin was specifically designed for anything else? Because obviously the store of value, something that we kind of like picked up off the last cycle, towards the beginning of the last cycle, and it's like something that can essentially protect against inflation. And obviously there was a whole lot of money printing going on and all of that, kind of like almost like there was this reinvention.
00:05:53.898 - 00:06:37.134, Speaker B: And obviously Peter Schiff and a number of people kind of like pointed fingers and said, but hold on a second, like, you know, is this like a peer to peer network or is this actually a store of value? What exactly is going on here? And I was just wondering, like, where is the distinction here? Is it, is it, is bitcoin something that essentially evolves with time? And I suppose that the easy answer would be yes, it is. But then why are we not kind of like revisiting kind of like the core, like, reason why bitcoin was actually invented as a payment system, as a p two p. So that's the first part of kind. Kind of like what I wanted to dissect before we carry on. So I'll just give an opportunity to kind of chime in here.
00:06:38.674 - 00:06:43.874, Speaker C: So no matter how I answered this question, I'm going to piss off a lot of people on the Internet. I take that.
00:06:43.914 - 00:06:46.974, Speaker B: I'm hoping that you do, and hopefully you will get a whole lot of people.
00:06:48.794 - 00:07:44.770, Speaker C: Totally. So I think if you go back to the original white paper, it is as you said, right? Like bitcoin was meant to be a better money and it was like a peer to peer electronic cash that's what it was designed to be. And I think if you go back through the early writings of Satoshi, all the way through, like the block size war, there was this huge internal debate on what bitcoin is meant to be, how scalable it's supposed to be, how backwards compatible it needs to be. But there were all these pieces that were pretty opaque, depending on your viewpoint of how it was originally written, to how it eventually kind of like, materialized. And I think there was kind of this change of view amongst the majority of bitcoin holders over time. That store of value was actually a fine stopping point. It didn't necessarily need to go from store value to medium of exchange, like down that path that was always described.
00:07:44.770 - 00:08:01.900, Speaker C: And I think this was like, best encapsulated in the block size wars, right? Like there were options that could have been taken to give bigger blocks which would have allowed for increased scalability, but there were kind of those options. And bitcoin core and what canonically is known as bitcoin did not go down one of those paths.
00:08:02.012 - 00:08:02.260, Speaker A: Right?
00:08:02.292 - 00:08:51.078, Speaker C: Like there were all these kind of competing proposals and, you know, I'm not going to go into why those didn't win or whatever, because I'm going to ignite the entire Internet on that one. But I think there was kind of this, this kind of conscious decision to kind of keep bitcoin more ossified from that level. And that's actually been very, very useful for bitcoin. I think kind of a contrasting viewpoint slightly, is there is this view, at least amongst a lot of bitcoin holders, that bitcoin still should be money. And it's just not clear necessarily how that leap can be made. And in emerging markets, a lot of the original peer to peer, cash based ideas are actually being stable coins, but there's a lot more stable coin demand in a lot of these areas than bitcoin demand. And part of that is because bitcoin is this really expensive, slow settlement layer, which is one of the reasons it has value as like a store of value.
00:08:51.078 - 00:09:08.544, Speaker C: Right. And I think that's been kind of this, like internal debate amongst a lot of bitcoiners trying to square that circle. We had lightning, we had some of these other options that didn't fully live up to that, but it's just been kind of this push pull that hasn't ever been able to be really solved.
00:09:09.804 - 00:10:26.070, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, once again, you've just presented a myriad of topics to discuss and hopefully in the weeks to come that we can kind of like get into it. I'd love to do a show on kind of like the block sizes and what that looked like back then and how it created this rift and then bsv and obviously all of that stuff. I think from a historical context, it's really valuable because it affords us the opportunity to kind of, like, not only learn from our mistakes, but also to improve the technology that's present. I mean, that's the case in point. In terms of, like, bitcoin, kind of like on a smart contract ideology, you know, how does that look? And obviously, you guys at core have. Have got some ideas around that, and we will obviously discuss that at length. But just coming back to store value and the distinguishing quality that is present within bitcoin, and it's kind of like, is there like maybe an argument or a discussion that can be made that bitcoin evolves accordingly and it lands up arriving at whatever place it arrives at, and anyone who actually predisposes or has a predisposed idea as to the way that it should be, irrespective of what Satoshi said and wrote, it's evolving.
00:10:26.070 - 00:10:55.384, Speaker B: The world evolves. Things change, economies collapse, economies boom. And then surely if bitcoin is to be a part of that whole process, it needs to evolve accordingly. And it seems that that's what's going on right now. And I think it's in, from my perspective, I think it's almost like, from a bitcoin maxi perspective, do you think there is maybe a little bit of being out of touch with that evolution that is just going to land up happening regardless?
00:10:57.044 - 00:11:35.298, Speaker C: So I think ultimately, these are demand functions. Bitcoin on some level, evolves towards what people want bitcoin to be? And I think there's kind of an embedded question there around, like, well, why did store value kind of like, become this stopping point or whatever? And I think, like, if you like, this is, again, kind of goes back to some of the original bitcoin ethos. It's still so different amongst bitcoin versus other assets today is bitcoin holders want more bitcoin. It's very different. Everything is bitcoin denominated. It's not like ethereum, like in the ethereum world. People, of course, like Eth, maxis want more ethereum, whatever.
00:11:35.298 - 00:12:06.746, Speaker C: But you think of, like, kind of the trade or defi use cases, you're totally fine with tether, you're totally fine with making more USDC. You are not totally fine like that as a bitcoiner. And I think that's one of these like big cultural differences. And that's created this like long bias incentive to really hodl your bitcoin that you don't necessarily see in some of these other assets. And I think it's arguable that there are no other store of value assets in crypto. Like, it really is just bitcoin. And kind of that nature has had it evolved differently.
00:12:06.746 - 00:12:35.614, Speaker C: I think there's also like maybe a kind of competing or like it's kind of somewhat aligned but also kind of somewhat competing. It's a lot of like the bitcoin as money use case has yet to have been realized. And one of that has, one of the reasons because of that is like we haven't been able to get there with lightning. There hasn't been fast, cheap, secure bitcoin rails that is now changing. But because of that, you've had like a little bit of this dichotomy where it's like there hasn't been enough demand for the money use case, but there's been a ton of value or demand in the store value use case.
00:12:36.984 - 00:14:05.888, Speaker B: Yeah, but there's also kind of like the Ethereum maxi perspective that says that Ethereum is more geared towards being hard money than bitcoin is because it has got that functionality. But then the counter to that from a bitcoin or even just from a logical perspective, irrespective of whether it's bitcoin or not, perspective being that it's still quite expensive to kind of do stuff on Ethereum and especially when the network is congested, there's obviously the scalability problem. But then the same problems occur with bitcoin as well, in that we've seen it with runes, we've seen it with ordinals, that there's obviously limitations in terms of how that scalability works. I think the question here is, because they both have limitations, what are the positives that both currently give us from an infrastructure perspective? I mean, obviously from, you know, that's another, that's another discussion on its own in terms of the security of the bitcoin network. And I know that you guys are doing some fascinating stuff with the miners and, and we'll get into that stuff in the weeks to come. But right now, what are the positives that both of these, let's call them entities, assets, whatever you want to call them, what do they both bring to the table right now that we can take and say, wow, both of these qualities are actually so damn kick ass that it would be really foolish for us to not take note so I.
00:14:05.896 - 00:14:22.512, Speaker C: Think it's important to think a little bit of the genesis of core here as well is like there are good parts of both bitcoin and Ethereum. And that was a lot of like the what if you're bitcoin had a baby, you get core was like kind of the idea the old tagline we used to use. So I'm not a maxi on any of these.
00:14:22.688 - 00:14:23.640, Speaker A: I didn't know that.
00:14:23.672 - 00:14:28.224, Speaker B: I didn't know that, by the way, before I asked the question, I didn't know.
00:14:29.684 - 00:14:30.744, Speaker A: All good.
00:14:31.684 - 00:15:44.438, Speaker C: But one of the pieces that's interesting is with that context, I think in the view of bitcoin being a slow, expensive, extremely secure settlement rail is viewed as a feature, but then in the Ethereum use case, being slow, secure, whatever is actually viewed as a bug. I don't know that I share that same viewpoint from the maxi point of view, but I think that is an important dichotomy, because with that it's like you're just using these things for different purposes. And with that, it's important to take the best of all worlds, which is, hey, what are the good pieces that we can use for both? And that's also where some of the opportunity now lies, is how do you take the hardest money we've ever known in the form of bitcoin, but transport it, whether it's swapping or bridging or whatever, into these other networks that can allow you to move faster, cheaper and give you that availability heuristic that is so important. And I think how I view these things as Ethereum has brought so many amazing things to the world. We have the EVM, which is easily the dominant virtual machine in all of crypto. It's gotten a lot more scalable. However, there's still a lot of meat left on that bone.
00:15:44.438 - 00:16:02.124, Speaker C: Two bdf, l two s are kind of the right way to go, or not. You had proof of stake get popularized through Ethereum while still being super decentralized. But there's a lot of wisdom, kind of what came out of the last ten years of Ethereum's evolution. And I think there's definitely positives on both sides.
00:16:02.424 - 00:16:04.048, Speaker A: I also want to clarify.
00:16:04.096 - 00:16:33.854, Speaker C: I think this is also an important distinction between Ethereum the asset versus Ethereum the rail, the same way we can make the same distinction with bitcoin between bitcoin the asset and bitcoin the rail. And I think we've seen that separation already occurred in the ethereum. L two space. Ethereum is the money in a lot of these. L two s they have their own tokens and whatever else, but at least it has transported. And arguably, that's what most of the bitcoin scaling solutions are also trying to do.
00:16:34.594 - 00:17:24.988, Speaker B: Preston yeah, I agree with that. And I think there's also the possibility that exists within all these ecosystems. What are the possibilities and almost the new inventions that have come out of this thing, you know, whether it's the ability to lend and borrow, the ability to, to trade accordingly, the ability to, to arbitrage. Like bitcoin is very, like, almost one dimensional from that perspective. I mean, like, right now, the network, it is the most secure network that human beings have ever created and the most prolific, and it's got. Nothing's got anything on it, right? And it's really, like, ticked all those boxes, but then there's nothing beyond kind of, like almost. And I'm probably going to be completely, like, roasted for saying this, but it is actually boring.
00:17:24.988 - 00:18:22.274, Speaker B: And it doesn't accommodate for kind of like, this exploratory and curious, like, approach to what does money look like? What does investing look like? What is real world assets and the idea of being able to tokenize everything. So if we are going to allow for blockchain to improve the way that we do things, whatever it might be, whether it's transacting, whether it's investing, surely there's got to be a medium of improvement compared to what it is that we've got right now. And what does that improvement look like? Bitcoin, kind of like, in its current state, it doesn't really fulfill anything past that point from my understanding of it. I mean, do you agree with me on that? Is it, like, where do you see its kind of, like, benefits and where do you see its limitations, just purely from a bitcoin perspective?
00:18:23.934 - 00:19:15.692, Speaker A: So I think we've seen a lot of experience, obviously, at a slower level than we've seen kind of in the Ethereum EvM world. But there's been a lot of experimentation on bitcoin, particularly in the last 18 months or so. Um, and. And I think people are kind of square pegging in a round hole a little bit to some degree of, like, creating so much on bitcoin l one while it's still being, like, so slow, expensive, ten minute mev window. Like, you've got a lot of issues of, like, doing some of that stuff on l one. But I do think that, like, kind of a contrasting point. The bitcoin l one, if we look at, like, some of these, like, BRC 20 mints or runs mints or like you name it, you have this almost perfectly decentralized ico nature where we didn't realize this originally, but bitcoin actually might be the fairest way to launch things to some degree.
00:19:15.692 - 00:19:56.050, Speaker A: And it just comes after that launch, then where does it go where it's faster, better, cheaper? I think that's where, again, we talk about separating the asset from the rail a little bit, where it's maybe one of the end states for the bitcoin base layer on top of being global settlement is actually for these minting processes and that sort of thing, and then they go to some of these other areas to move faster. And I think that's, again, a totally healthy separation. You've built this incredibly scarce asset that the world agrees is valuable from an individual and their retirement account all the way to Blackrock. And I think it's all about adding more utility there. But that doesn't necessarily mean it means needs to live on bitcoin.
00:19:56.082 - 00:19:56.814, Speaker C: L1.
00:19:58.774 - 00:20:34.764, Speaker B: So where do you think the whole idea of utilizing what ethereum has done versus what bitcoin has, where does that idea come from? Like, is it just, well, let the two. If they had a baby, this is what would happen? Or is it something a little bit more than that? Is it a whole lot more? I mean, where do you think that idea started happening? And, I mean, I don't know if it was kind of like something that. I mean, when was the first time that there was this kind of, like, let's see if we can bring the two together. Do you know what the historical context of that is?
00:20:36.144 - 00:21:23.732, Speaker A: I think the first, and I could be slightly wrong, but, like, you had some of the initial, like, hey, how do we do more top things? On top of bitcoin, you had colored coins, then you had, like, master coin. You had these, like, initial pieces, then you had, like, RSK in, like, 2017, 2018, which I think was the first merge mine side chain that tried to be mostly EVM. For the most part, I think that's where it really started. I think there was a bunch of different reasons on why RSK maybe never became the dominant bitcoin scaling solution. But I think there has been some sort of an idea now for five, six years of there is overlap between bitcoin and Ethereum. It's just all about the demand being there and then also the potential for it to be scalable and all these other pieces on top of it. But there is a symbiosis there.
00:21:23.732 - 00:22:42.494, Speaker A: I think if I was to try to capture it, there's so much innovation and learnings over the EDM. And all these pieces have been built on these ethereum protocols, including l two s over the last five, six years. Well, with all of those learnings, why can't there be a whole wave of bitcoin based products that not just match those, but are also more suitable for bitcoin holders? And the example that I have given several times, which I think is almost bearish towards defi innovation to a degree, but I think the largest DeFi protocol that we will see anywhere in the short term, and lets call that two to three years, whatever, is actually going to be a bitcoin maker or something of that, where it meets the biggest demands of bitcoin holders, which are I want exposure to bitcoin and then I want stable coins or leverage on top of it. And if that is also like yield producing bitcoin on top of it, great, now youre juicing it even further. But I think there's an easy path towards one of those like dwarfing aave in terms of like being the biggest DeFi protocol by assets or that sort of thing. And I think there's a realistic case that one of those is 100 billion or something like by the end of this cycle. And I think that's kind of the other highlight here is it's kind of, these bitcoin specific protocols have a very large addressable audience.
00:22:42.494 - 00:22:49.964, Speaker A: Right. Like it's just we haven't been targeting and tailoring solutions to these folks yet, but there's just so much meat left on that bone.
00:22:51.544 - 00:23:30.552, Speaker B: Yeah. So I mean, you looking at it, you're looking at it from both a practical and obviously a commercial aspect. You know, you see the value in attracting the TVL and then on the other side of the spectrum, it's kind of like, well, there's risk here. Like why would I want to do something like this if there's a whole lot of risk? And, and I think kind of like the, the flippant answer would be, well, if, if you want to make investment, there's always going to be risk. But you know, kind of like the very hardcore bitcoin maxi perspective is that like all of this stuff is a scam. Ethereum is a scam. It's all a scam.
00:23:30.552 - 00:24:08.724, Speaker B: And the only thing that actually like really matters is bitcoin. And what is generally your response to that kind of thing? You out, you go to a conference, you're having a couple of drinks, you bump into a hardcore bitcoin max, I'm sure you've got your, your kind of like your usuals that kind of give you your, the hard time. What is, how do you navigate that? You know, in what seems to be like a genuine, like you, you seem like you've got a genuine approach to this whole thing. Like, seems like you do care about where the space goes, whereas, you know, someone on the other side, like, no, no, you're, you're advocating scams. What is your response to that?
00:24:10.384 - 00:24:59.506, Speaker A: So I think a lot of the, like, everything besides bitcoin is a scam, is a dying viewpoint, which I think is really healthy. Not to say it doesn't exist. Don't get me wrong, I get flamed on Twitter and this sort of stuff frequently, but I think a lot of that kind of comes out of really loud Twitter voices versus a lot of informed decision makers that can actually participate in this new bitcoin economy. I think that's an important thing. The window has really shifted even again. If you go back to early 2023 to where we are today, there's so many people trying to participate in bitcoin defi in some way, and I only see that expanding with that context. I think it's also important to go back to some of the guiding principles of core, which is building solutions for all bitcoin holders.
00:24:59.506 - 00:25:23.052, Speaker A: What that means is you have to have different solutions that have different trust assumptions, different risk thresholds, and need to be very clear what all these things are. And people should only get involved with what matches their viewpoint and what they find acceptable. So to give you an example, it's like there's non custodial staking. It's totally trustless. It exists on bitcoin. L1 you never bridge over. You never do anything.
00:25:23.052 - 00:26:07.844, Speaker A: And with that, again, you maybe not earn the craziest yields ever, but you've got no risk. And for a lot of people, that's a totally fine stopping point. And we don't have any vested interest in saying, no, you should bridge, you should do whatever. It's like, no, this ecosystem needs to be welcome to everyone. For other people, they'll start there, and then maybe they'll mature down and they'll say, hey, or maybe walk down. The complexity ladder is probably a better way to describe it, where maybe you want to bridge over, or maybe you want to HTLC atomic swap over and then participate in some, like, low risk protocols. And then for other people, it's like full degen, like, you name it, whatever you want to do, and that's also totally fine, but we have to treat everybody as like a valued member of this.
00:26:07.844 - 00:27:01.458, Speaker A: So I think it's important to kind of fully consider that a lot of the like everything that's not bitcoin attitude or everything that's not bitcoin is a scam attitude is hopefully dying. And I think that's a good thing. I think a lot of like the former laser eyes, really loud voices on Twitter type thing is starting to die away, which I think is positive. I think the overton window on whats possible with bitcoin has really expanded, particularly since Casey and Cru brought ordinals and then later Domo and BRC twenties that really changed what people thought was possible. And its been a really healthy development for the bitcoin community. And I think on the other side there talking about the risk thresholds and that sort of thing, its important to have solutions for all bitcoin holders. And that means being very honest and open with what youre getting into, what the risk parameters are involved, and that it's totally fine to stop wherever you want on that ladder.
00:27:01.458 - 00:27:22.740, Speaker A: And for people that want to take, you know, absolutely no risk, non custodial bitcoin staking truly trustless never leaves bitcoin l one. You'll earn passive yield. That's a fine stopping point. If you want to bridge over, that's also totally fine. You can do low risk lending, all that sort of thing. And like again, another fine stopping point. However, if you want to be like a full degen and that sort of thing, that's also totally fine.
00:27:22.740 - 00:28:07.174, Speaker A: But to unlock the trillion and a half dollars, which is the totality of bitcoin by definition, we have to have solutions for all of the different people that can make up that group. Otherwise we're cutting some people short. And I think this is one of the advantages also of being a sidechain, is that you can allow people to participate in these different ways. It's not just a you must bridge over or you must swap over. And I think it's always important that people do their own research and they understand what the risks are when they're participating in these different environments. And you always have to be asking yourself, what are the trust assumptions? What am I getting myself into? Can I get my funds back if I want to unilaterally? These are really important pieces that we can also talk at length about.
00:28:08.234 - 00:28:37.694, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's the whole point. Right. So it's like, where are the different kind of risk profiles on the spectrum? It's kind of like, well, I don't want to do any of this stuff and that's cool. You can keep. You can keep your bitcoin on a hard wallet and it can be completely offline, and that's cool. And then there's obviously the different stages of this whole thing. And I think it's obviously really important that education is a big part of this thing.
00:28:37.694 - 00:29:11.276, Speaker B: We know that. It's also, you know, what is, what are the different scenarios of the future potentially look like? Because that, for me, is, like, the best part of this. You know, like, it's. It's all fine and, well, that you're creating content and you're talking about stuff and, and, you know, like, like, the one thing that, that angers me in many ways, but I also accept is the truth in other ways as well, is like, y'all, like, crypto is a scam. You know, like, you just got to take money out and don't put money in. And, like, there's a whole lot of that. That, and there's good reason for that.
00:29:11.276 - 00:30:18.864, Speaker B: But at the same time, there is something here, and we need to identify what that is. And hopefully, you know, this podcast will endeavor to answer those kind of, like, curious questions of what do you want to do with your money? Like, how do you want your money to work for you? You know, that whole idea around that. And, and does bitcoin do that for you? And I think it does. But then I also think that ethereum does as well. I think there's a whole lot of aspects there that, irrespective of whether you think it is a scam or not, people have made a lot of money, and they've done it, believe it or not, the honest way, and they've gone about it in, in many ways, the right ways. And we can't dismiss that kind of stuff when you've got the frickin chairman of the biggest asset management company on the planet talking about tokenizing stuff. And I'm sure there's probably going to be, like, a future where bitcoin is a part of that.
00:30:18.864 - 00:30:53.784, Speaker B: Beyond this idea of ethereum being the only thing. And I think this whole idea around what you guys are doing and, and, you know, smart contracts and the functionality that they bring to the space versus the security of bitcoin, for me, that logically, how can that not be a viable solution? How can that not be a step in the right direction for us as a. As a species to actually, like, transform ourselves away from government controlled money? And surely there's got to be a solution in that.
00:30:57.174 - 00:31:26.484, Speaker A: Couldn't agree more. I don't know if I have anything to add on that, but I think, like, at the end of the day, like bitcoin in particular is like freedom preserving technology, right? Like that. That was what it was supposed to be, an alternative to traditional financial system. I think it's. I think it's hard to find people who have good intentions, like good faith actors that view all of crypto as a scam. I think it's important to look at the value that it's brought. Obviously, with any new technology, you get bad apples.
00:31:26.484 - 00:31:59.274, Speaker A: That's just how tech waves go. But I think this uncensorable, unseasonable money that protects you from unstable governments, dynamic currencies, there's just so much power in that. Whenever you have changes or you threaten power structures, you get issues. I think that's where we're at right now. It's working through some of those structural changes. But I am really optimistic that we'll see clarity in a variety of different ways over the coming years that will allow this technology to reach its full potential.
00:32:00.454 - 00:33:12.604, Speaker B: Yeah, I think also what's really interesting about this is how do you create business beyond just the whole idea of being a protocol or being a project? When do we transcend the whole idea of project slash protocol into, I have a business, like, I have a business on the blockchain, and I think there's very few people that use that. I think Blackrock can, because they've got an ETF and they can say, well, our business is to essentially give opportunity to people who want to speculate on this market. But then when do we start naming our business as opposed to a protocol? When do we start naming chain link, you know, a business as opposed to a protocol? And I think that's going to be, I believe, probably one of the big turning points in this industry when, when we start looking at revenue base as being the indicator as opposed to the potential of revenue base or the potential of solving a problem, it's kind of like, well, I'm starting a business and this is what I'm doing, and this is what, it's what. What we plan on solving. And I look forward to when that becomes the norm. And the whole idea of a protocol is a thing of the past.
00:33:15.104 - 00:33:52.840, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it's a very healthy thing to call out, and I think that will be when we get a little bit further along the line, for what it's worth. But I think that's when crypto will have fully gone mainstream, if that makes sense. When people start doing discounted cash flows and that sort of thing based on protocol revenue. As much as I hate that as a startup guy, I do think it's very healthy. And like I use this analogy all the time that I'm sure will again, once again get me flamed. But I think like when you look at like the, like a maker or something else or even Aave, like you can be valued off your originations, right? Like you have revenue sources. It's very clear.
00:33:52.840 - 00:34:41.294, Speaker A: And then I think from like a l one point of view, the best analogy that you can really give is some of these platform businesses, right? Like the end of the day kind of looks like Salesforce, right, where it's like you've got a bunch of value added services, you get stuff to build on top of you, there's some sort of fee revenue that comes back off of that and it's all very modelable. We're not quite at that level of maturity yet as an industry, but I think it'll be very healthy when people start thinking that hey, you need to build a long term business versus just sell tokens. And I think I've seen over this cycle, like we are starting to mature that way as an industry, we're seeing less of kind of the 2021 craziness where the launch of a token is the final piece, right? That's just the beginning piece now. And, and I think that's healthy. But there's still a lot of, a lot of work left to be done there.
00:34:42.554 - 00:36:11.780, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean I've obviously, in terms of like the one thing that I want to explore in this, in this podcast is like this whole idea of why is it that we need to have a token as a starting point? Why is the token viewed as being kind of like the value add answers? It's because people want that speculation as opposed to why don't we find a product that fits the market so product market fits, and then determine how a token provides value within the context of that, but more importantly, not value for the protocol, but value for the user beyond the speculatory aspect of it. And I think that's once again the same as saying, well, we need to transcend the whole protocol project thing into a token that actually provides value for its users. And to the extent that users will not want to, or investors in inverted commas will not want to sell the token because of the value that this business brings to the table. And I think that's where the turning point really like that is the real turning point in this whole thing, because tokens and tokenomics are actually like they're actually pretty cool. Like there's a whole lot of really cool stuff there. But I think at the moment it's, it's, it's only about number go up and people need, well, not just everyone, but we all need to actually just accept that that's what's driving it. And then we need to think about other ways to provide value.
00:36:11.780 - 00:36:31.114, Speaker B: I think they are, they are protocols and hopefully I'll call them businesses in the not so distant future that I think that are really trying hard to actually like turn it on its head and say, cool. Well, this token is actually something that's going to provide value for the users and also for the protocol itself. Beyond this, beyond speculation.
00:36:33.574 - 00:37:13.854, Speaker A: Couldn't agree anymore. I think speculation being the first product market fit for crypto has been both blessing and curse. It's been at least the only like stable product market fit. I think some pieces like stable coins are now showing us new forms that hopefully will be very long lasting as well. Is we actually go down the adoption curve, which I think is very useful. I think it's important that there's also a little bit of a distinction between l one, I think, and maybe l one, l two, and then some of these protocols, your decentralized applications. I think for some of the platforms there's a little bit more of a clear what utility this brings.
00:37:13.854 - 00:37:51.294, Speaker A: Not always, but in a lot of cases that there is. I think governance on the DAP side being like the only value driver is hard as a long term selling point. But I think we're even seeing protocols like Uniswap, et cetera, that are talking about expanding fee revenue. And there's some other pieces there that will give these additional value drivers that will make it more sustaining. But I couldn't agree more that it needs to be more than just this shelling point for community and speculation. There has to be real world value that that's being derived a little bit easier on the platform side to tell that story, but still a lot of work left to be done there.
00:37:52.514 - 00:39:06.234, Speaker B: Yeah, I think. I think like kind of like an opening podcast, opening show and podcast to what it is that we plan on doing has obviously brought to the fore probably around 50 different topics just off the top of my head, and hopefully we'll explore most of them in the coming weeks and months. And I think that for me like the whole kind of like intention around these discussions is to, is to not necessarily like have a firm firms. From my perspective anyways, I'm sure you'll have some firm's stances around certain things, but for me, it's more around being, being flirt, kind of like the whole Bruce Lee thing about being water and just kind of exploring, like where are we going? Like, where would we like to go, like, with this whole thing? And I think we brought up some really good points today. And then what are the solutions around the problems that might exist within crypto at the moment? And, and hopefully we can answer those, you know, in the coming shows. I think from my side, I think we, we can wrap it up for today. We've basically spoken about pretty much everything.
00:39:06.234 - 00:39:31.584, Speaker B: It was to a certain extent, spontaneous. And at the same time, I think we've been grappling with these issues for many years. I know I have. And once again, yeah, thanks for listening to us. And rich, thanks for coming on this mission. I really appreciate it. It's been cool to, to share the ideas and let's see where this podcast takes us.
00:39:33.644 - 00:39:37.544, Speaker A: Sounds great. Thanks for, thanks for having me. Enjoy the conversation as always.
00:39:38.604 - 00:39:58.924, Speaker B: Cool chat soon. Yeah, thanks everyone for listening in. Please like and subscribe. Let us know what topics you would like for us to discuss. If we never covered them in this chat, let us know in the comments below. And you're very welcome to Flame on us on Twitter. It's easy to find us.
00:39:58.924 - 00:40:04.456, Speaker B: Yeah, take it easy and yeah, we'll connect next time. And yeah, thanks for your time.
00:40:04.520 - 00:40:09.760, Speaker A: All right, thanks for listening. If you enjoyed the show, please give us a like, subscribe and turn the notification bell on for next time.
00:40:09.832 - 00:40:10.104, Speaker B: See ya.
