00:00:00.440 - 00:00:47.068, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the daily refuel where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano, and today's the 27 January 2021. Alright everyone, into the news we go. So before we dive in, actually I just wanted to give you all a heads up that on January 28, so in a day or so from now for the US in, I guess like tomorrow for me at 07:00 p.m. Eastern time, I'm going to be doing a kind of guess like roundtable discussion in the Gitcoin discord server. So I'll leave this link for you in the YouTube description and you can go join the discord server and kind of like get ready for it. But basically just going to be talking about, you know, whatever comes to mind, you know, whatever's trending right now on the ecosystem, whatever you want to talk about, I'll be there answering questions and stuff like that.
00:00:47.068 - 00:01:26.758, Speaker A: So definitely, you know, come, come along to that. It's going to be really fun, I think. So Philip put out this really cool thing that he made today called collectible lists, which, which is basically a fork of Uniswap's token list standard. And this is basically for collectibles instead of just ERC 20 tokens, it's for ERC 721 and ERC 1155 NFT contracts. So for anyone who's been on Uniswap, you'll know that when you go to select the token list, you have a bunch of different lists to choose from. There's ones from Coingecko, I saw Gemini has one on there, know one inch has one. There's a, there's a ton of them out there at the moment.
00:01:26.758 - 00:02:27.808, Speaker A: And you know, this was done to protect users from scam tokens and accidentally kind of choosing scam tokens when going to Uniswap or, or inputting them now the wrong token address in and kind of getting scammed. So yeah, what Philipp has done here is he's done this for collectibles, right? So nfts and stuff like that, which I actually think are more prone to kind of scams than normally ERC 20 tokens are because there are a lot of different nfts, right? By nature, nfts are non fungible, which means that they are unique, right? They are not basically like, you know, they're not fungible like ETH, where every ETH is one ETH or other ERC 20 tokens where every link is one link, you know, it's the same, it's the same kind of thing. Every link is a link and all that sort of stuff. Whereas with nfts, you know, every single one is, is unique, right? Well, not every single one. There are doubles and stuff like that. But the whole point is that they, that they are unique. So, you know, it might be, get, might be very easy to get, get kind of scammed like that, especially if you're a newer user.
00:02:27.808 - 00:02:54.438, Speaker A: So, yeah, Philip put together this, this kind of collectibles list here, which I guess is in adjacent format here. So if you're a developer or someone familiar with that, you'll be able to go view it here, kind of view what he's done. I think this is just really, really cool. So yeah, if that's something you said, you can go check it out. I'll leave the link in the YouTube description before you go check it out. So Krugman, put this interesting tweet out today and I'll read the tweet out. So, open quote fact.
00:02:54.438 - 00:03:35.598, Speaker A: Over 90% of stocks underperform the s and P 500 in the long term, which is the stock index, the main stock index in the US that tracks the top 500 companies by market cap DeFi will not be any different. Many token pickers are finding out the hard way. Right now, I'm becoming more and more convinced in just using ETH and DPI and skipping gambling for ten times micro cap trades. End quote. Now, before I dive into this, I wanna say that nothing I say ever on the Daily Gwei's investment advice. So don't take this as that, but I thought it would be an interesting discussion to kind of have around. You know, you might be out there trading different things right now, like trading different tokens, trying to chase different tokens, you know, stuff like that.
00:03:35.598 - 00:04:08.246, Speaker A: And your benchmark, you know, could be us dollars. Right now, in a bull market, everything tends to go up with, you know, the majors. So like bitcoin and ETH, when they're going up in USD, everything else tends to follow, right, in USD. But if you start measuring it against another asset, right, and trying to outperform that other asset, things change. So in the crypto space, people like to measure their performance against BTC and ETH, right. That makes a lot of sense. If you're not outperforming BTC or ETH, then why are you even holding these other things? You should have just held know BTC or ETH, right.
00:04:08.246 - 00:04:40.640, Speaker A: For example. Now, I mean, that, that's true, right? That definitely does make a lot of sense. And it's the same kind of logic that we see in the traditional market where, you know, if you pick individual stocks, you buy individual stocks. Most people do underperform. Just the, the S and P 500 index, which, as I said, is an index of the top 500 companies by market cap in the US. Now, this index on average returns eight to 12% a year. You know, I guess, like averaged out over many, many years, many decades, because it's been around for quite a while now.
00:04:40.640 - 00:05:25.710, Speaker A: Eight to 12% might, might not seem like much to us in crypto. You know, we're spoiled, right? It went from, you know, I guess it started the year last year at 120, $30 or something like that. And by the end of the year, it was all, it was pretty much at 1000. So we are definitely spoiled in crypto, but that's because we're still so early. I think eventually, you know, those gains are definitely going to come down. It's not going to be like that for a lot of this stuff. But if we kind of take the, I guess the comparison here and say, you know, say you bought ETH at the start of the year and then you bought some other tokens at the start of the year, and then, you know, what outperformed, right? Did the defi tokens that you buy outperformed, did all of them outperform in aggregate? If you bought five different tokens, did those tokens all outperform ETH? Right.
00:05:25.710 - 00:06:05.922, Speaker A: If you, you can kind of measure this by saying, hey, what if I put like $1,000 into ETH and, and $1,000 into these five defi tokens by the end of the year? What would I have ended up with? More, right? Which one would have given me more USD? For a lot of people, the answer would have been ETH, because of the fact that it's just so hard to, one, pick tokens that are going to outperform in the long run. Two, make sure you don't trade away those, the gains that you get, right. You might see all these gains and you might be like, okay, well, I made some gain on this. I'll trade this and I'll go buy something else, and maybe I'll make more money there and then. Then end up losing money. Three, taxes. For a lot of us, right, in the western world, we have to pay taxes.
00:06:05.922 - 00:06:39.788, Speaker A: And by incurring these taxes, we also reset our cost basis. So if we're waiting for, like, long term capital gains to kick in, this is especially prudent for the US. And where I am in Australia, you basically have to reset the counter. So long term capital gains kicks in after a year. So if I buy ETH today and I wait a year, I get a tax discount on that, a capital gains tax discount. But if I buy that ETH in a month time, trade that ETH for a defi token, for example, I realize capital gains on the ETH gain, right? Short term capital gains, which is a very hefty taxes. It's the same.
00:06:39.788 - 00:07:05.144, Speaker A: It's taxes the same as your income tax without the discount. And then with that defi token, I start from day zero again. So my cost basis is day zero. So if I. If I hold that for a year, I'll get the discount. But, you know, we know crypto moves so quickly, so I'm not going to hold that for a year, most likely. So then when I trade it back to ETH, right, I owe tax on that and I owe short term tax on that, and then I reset my cost basis again.
00:07:05.144 - 00:07:43.930, Speaker A: So I start from day zero with the ETH again. So you can see how, you know, by the time you get into long term capital gains on a lot of this stuff, you know, you would have just been better off holding ETH from the beginning rather than paying the taxes going in and out. So that's something I think a lot of people forget, especially, you know, where you have to pay these higher taxes, is that that'll eat into your profits, you know? And of course, you don't have to pay taxes until a certain date, right? It depends on when the. When you have to pay them in your country. But, you know, you don't want to be gambling with your tax money, right? Like, if you make a gain and then you say, okay, well, I won't take it out to fiat just yet, or put in my bank account and leave it there for taxes. I'll use it within. Within crypto, right.
00:07:43.930 - 00:08:07.498, Speaker A: But then what ends up happening is that, you know, you may lose that and then you've lost your tax dollars, and you. And you're like, oh, no, I have to make this back now. And then you kind of like revenge trade. So you try to trade your way back up to where you were, and then you're trading emotionally, and then it just gets. It becomes a disaster. So this is why most people underperform. It's not because you can't pick the better, the better kind of assets, right.
00:08:07.498 - 00:08:53.279, Speaker A: You know, I think a lot of the Defi tokens outperformed ethanol over, you know, maybe the one, the last one to two years. But the problem is, is that buying and holding is so hard in this space for anything that moves so quickly. Like, I'm comfortable buying and holding ETH, right, for a long period of time. I mean, I never sold any of my ETH up until this point. Every single ETH that I've bought from when I first bought in early 2017, I have not sold and any, any of, like, the DeFi tokens that I buy has been with fresh capital, or I've, I think I've traded some ETH for it at times, but I've incurred tax there, and I've kind of not, not done that because I didn't want to incur more tax. But I've never sold ETH to fiat, for example, so. And that's simply because, like, I'm very comfortable holding ether for the long term.
00:08:53.279 - 00:09:22.640, Speaker A: I want it all to be a long term gain so that when I do sell some eventually, and yes, spoiler alert, I'm going to sell some ETH eventually. Like, you know, I need fiat, too, right? I can't pay my bills in ETH, unfortunately. And even if I was to pay my bills in ETH, I'm technically selling it, I guess, like, still disposing of it. So it's the same thing. Anyway. Anyway, I won't go into that, but basically anything else, really, even some of the top DeFi projects, I just don't feel comfortable holding those things for many, many years. I want to take profits.
00:09:22.640 - 00:10:00.896, Speaker A: I want to go into something less risky. So timing all of that is just so hard. And that's why most people underperform the benchmark being BTC or ETH, and it's just the reality of it. So, I mean, me and you, I mean, me particularly, I think I am confident enough that I can, you know, invest in some of these defi tokens and outperform ETH, but at the same time, I'm still mostly ETH because I don't, I don't know the future, right. I'm not an expert trader. I'm just like an investor who, who likes to invest in things that I find valuable. And you might, you know, you might be the same, right? But at the same time, for every one winner, there's like nine losers.
00:10:00.896 - 00:10:25.980, Speaker A: That's just, that's just the statistics from the stock market, from, from crypto, especially in crypto, because it's so volatile. But anyway, as I said, none of that's investment advice. And maybe I've ranted on for a bit too long there, but I have so many people talking to me, and they ask me, what should I buy? You know, when should I sell? Blah, blah. And I just. I never really tell them. You know, I never tell someone what to buy. For example, like, I don't go up and say, you know, for.
00:10:25.980 - 00:10:41.844, Speaker A: For your situation here, I think you should buy Ethan. I think you should hold it for a year to get the capital gains discount and then sell it. I never say that. I never will say that because I'm not a financial advisor, and even financial advisors can't tell the future either. So I. Yeah, that's. That's a whole other thing.
00:10:41.844 - 00:11:15.486, Speaker A: But basically what I do say is that obviously, the meme of do your own research applies here. But at the same time, if you just want diversified exposure to Defi, then buy the DPI, like the DeFi pulse index, that's going to give you diversified exposure to all the large cap DeFi assets, and it's relatively safe. Automated rebalancing, you know, passive exposure, you don't worry about it. You can just keep it in your wallet and you're. And you're good to go. Or by ETH, because you want exposure to the ethereum kind of network and all the growth that's happening, happening there. And then if you want to go venture into these smaller cap things or.
00:11:15.486 - 00:11:29.826, Speaker A: Or these kind of more risky bets, you need to be prepared to lose all your money. Right. You need to be prepared for the. For the emotional hardship that comes with that. Like, no one likes to lose money, and then you got to be careful not to over trade and start eating into your other positions. So it just. It's.
00:11:29.826 - 00:11:51.894, Speaker A: It's a mess. So that's why I normally. I mean, most of the time, I only talk about really ETH. Like, I don't. I don't want to talk about the Defi tokens that I. That I hold, because I do realize that I have a large audience, and I don't want to be kind of influencing kind of decisions that people make. So I rarely talk about the defi tokens that I hold unless I give a disclosure, because I'm talking about a project that I hold a token for.
00:11:51.894 - 00:12:09.254, Speaker A: But that's. That's also because, like, I'm no guru, I'm not a genius. Right. Just because I've been around for a while doesn't mean I know the markets better than. Better than you do or better than someone else does. What I do know is that I like investing in projects that I believe in, like, actually believe in. I'm not just trying to do a quick flip.
00:12:09.254 - 00:12:32.162, Speaker A: And I like. I like feeling comfortable holding them for the long term. So I always, I really just invest in people. At the end of the day, it's. If I really like the team, if I think they're doing amazing work, if I think their product is good and the team has the ability to ship that product and to keep growing it, then I will, you know, probably make an investment there. If I lose that confidence, I'll probably sell. And I think that's how you should kind of approach these things.
00:12:32.162 - 00:13:05.750, Speaker A: If you're not confident in something that you're holding, then you. You probably shouldn't be holding it. Um, again, I know I say this a lot, but again, not investment advice, and I'm probably going to stop there. But obviously, I have a lot of thoughts about this and I just wanted to share them with you all because some of you might be new to the ecosystem and it's very overwhelming, right, choosing where to park your money. And, you know, during a bull market, you might feel Fomo if you're only holding ethan. You know, ETH goes up five times, but then you see all these other things that go up, like 20 times, and you're like, oh, you know, I should have just bought that instead. That kind of thinking is just going to get you wrecked because you're going to over trade.
00:13:05.750 - 00:13:21.616, Speaker A: I've seen it so many times. I've seen so many people do it. You just need to come to peace with the fact that you are looking back at the future. Sorry. Back in the past. You are. You're applying hindsight to something that's happened, and you're thinking that you could have picked that and no one could have picked it.
00:13:21.616 - 00:13:44.464, Speaker A: Right. There are very few people that can pick that. Even a lot of the funds right. Don't get a lot of it right. You know, everyone's a genius in a bull market because everything's going up. But the real test is during bear markets, when you can invest in something and make money there, and there's very, very few people who can do that, especially within crypto. So just something to keep in mind when, when kind of investing in this space, but do make your own decisions.
00:13:44.464 - 00:14:10.272, Speaker A: Don't listen to anyone else. Definitely don't listen to crypto, Twitter, thought leaders, including me. We're not any more kind of like any more of an expert than you then you are. We just, you know, we've done our research. We've made our investments based on what we think, you know, is going to go up, and it's going to make us money. But at the end of the day, the only thing that kind of like I will shill and show a lot is ethanol because I really, really believe in ETH, right. And it goes hand in hand with the Ethereum network.
00:14:10.272 - 00:14:57.830, Speaker A: And I really do think that, obviously I think that it's going to keep going up, but I talk about it a lot because I think that the asset itself has been kind of brutalized over the last few years, and it's good to finally feel like I've been vindicated. And a lot of the ethereums have been vindicated by the price move up as well. Yeah. Anyway, I'm going to stop there onto the next thing for today. So Nick from Makerdao put out an announcement here that uniswap LP tokens are now available to be used as collateral within the Makerdao system. So if you're a liquidity provider for the WBtC ETH pair or the USDC ETH pair on uniswap, you can now use your liquidity provider token. So that token you have in your wallet, that's an ERC 20 token, that is basically an IOU for your liquidity.
00:14:57.830 - 00:15:46.038, Speaker A: You can use that as collateral on Makerdao to draw dai against. Now this is awesome. This is something that's uniquely enabled by DeFi and something that gets a lot of people excited about DeFi is this concept of, and Dan Ellitz coined this term a while ago, called superfluid collateral. What this means is reusing assets within defi, essentially. So what you're doing here is you're earning fees on Uniswap by providing liquidity, right? You're using your LP token, which represents those, those fees and that liquidity as collateral in Makerdao. Because if you do get liquidated, that LP token can actually be used to withdraw your liquidity in uniswap to kind of pay down that, that loan, right? But, but even still, you can draw Dai against it and you can go do whatever you want with that dai. A lot of people use it as a leverage tool.
00:15:46.038 - 00:16:32.156, Speaker A: They'll go buy a token or whatever. They'll go buy some more ETH or whatever you want to do. I just think that's amazing, right? That that is literally, you know, prior to all to any of this kind of stuff happening, the LP token in your wallet just usually sits there, right? It is accruing fees as the pool accrues fees and you get paid out from that, but it's doing nothing else. So why not unlock this this capital, right? Why leave this dead capital there? Why not reuse it? And that's exactly what you can do now with, with Makerdao by using your uni lp tokens here, which I think is just absolutely incredible. This isn't the first example of this, but I think this is one of the biggest because Makerdao is obviously the biggest DeFi project still. And Uniswap is one of the biggest too. You know, you have been able to put your, you know, YUSD into cream, for example.
00:16:32.156 - 00:17:05.632, Speaker A: YUSD is basically yield bearing USD from, from yearn. And that's been there. You've been able to put your staked ETH from Lido. So, Steve, into a curve finance steth pool and earn trading fees there and earn CRV tokens and earn LDO tokens. So people like to look at this, actually, and think, well, this is all house of cards all coming down. It's all a ponzi, right? Where is this money coming from? But if you actually track back the trail of where this money is coming from, you will understand. So let's take this uniswap Makerdao example.
00:17:05.632 - 00:17:26.976, Speaker A: So let's start from when you've drawn Dai and you bought ETH with it. So you're. The makerdao system is making money from this because it charges a stability fee, right? The stability fee is basically an interest rate. So where is that stability fee coming from? Well, it's coming from the person who borrowed Dai. Now, where are they getting the money for that? Well, maybe they bought ETH. ETH went up a little bit. Right.
00:17:26.976 - 00:17:48.648, Speaker A: And then they sell it, they make a profit. And then using the proceeds from that profit, they basically repay their loan. Right, with. With the principal. And then the profit, a little bit of the profit, it goes towards the fees. Right. Okay, so where did those fees come from? Well, someone else bought ETH from them, you know, with their own money at a higher price than the original person paid for it.
00:17:48.648 - 00:18:12.220, Speaker A: Right. Okay, so where did that person get the money from? Well, that person got the money from the, you know, the real world, right, from their job or. Or from another asset that they sold or whatever. You know, it say it's from their job. So they got fiat. Okay, so where did that money come from? Well, okay, the fiat came from the central bank that printed it, right? So you see, that's the, that's kind of like coming into paying down a stability fee. And you can track that trail all the way back.
00:18:12.220 - 00:18:43.504, Speaker A: There is no money that's being made up except at the central bank level, right, where it's already being printed at. And that's already how a lot of this stuff works, right, in the real world or in the traditional world. Okay, so let's go to the uniswap tokens now. So while the Uniswap LP tokens are being used as collateral, they are still generating fees on Uniswap. So every time someone trades in the USDC ETH pool, a 0.3% fee is taken by Uniswap, and that 0.3% fee is equally split among all liquidity providers.
00:18:43.504 - 00:19:23.236, Speaker A: So. Okay, well, where. So that that fee is coming from people doing trades on there. Okay, so where do the people get that money to do trades on Uniswap? Well, it's the same thing on Makerdao, right? They got money from, you know, getting paid right on their. In their job, and they went to uniswap, and they swapped the USDC for Ethan, and that's it. Right? So you can track the money on every single trail here. There is no money being created out of thin air except at the central bank level, right? So when I see a lot of bitcoiners kind of attacking defi and Ethereum and saying, oh, it's all money out of thin air, right? The absolute irony of that is that you're attacking the thing that you attack to pump bitcoin up or to.
00:19:23.236 - 00:20:04.124, Speaker A: To kind of, like, show the merits of bitcoin. If the only money being printed out of thin air is from the central bank is fear, right? Because it's feared all the way down, and then that's kind of like the capital in the system, but everything within the defi bubble is paid and accounted for. There is no accounting errors here, right? There is no money being printed out of thin air. Everyone's paying what they should be paying based on the fees associated with everything. And the Uniswap LP token has value because it is backed up by the tokens in the liquidity pool. So all of this is accounted for. And that's why Makerdao and other platforms feel safe using these things as collateral, because you can see on chain that it's all backed up.
00:20:04.124 - 00:21:06.830, Speaker A: There's been no rug pull, right? It's not like. It's not like a central bank that can actually take the money away, or even a bank in general or a centralized institution can take the money out, because Uniswap is decentralized. No one can take the money out of this liquidity pool except the LP token holders, right? Or unless there's a bug in uniswap, which is highly unlikely, but basically, if everything's working correctly, it's decentralized, so no one can, can take that money out and there's no money printed out of thin air. So that's what's really amazing about this, I think, and I think I've rambled on enough about that, but I just wanted to kind of give an example here because I see a lot of people just fighting this and it really annoys me because they just, they have such surface level knowledge of this stuff that they think that we're all just playing with monopoly money that we've printed out of thin air, when in reality the monopoly money is fear. And the reason why a lot of this stuff is going up actually lately, so especially crypto, is because the fiat money print is just going brrrr. Right? That mean it's just, it's going crazy no matter which country you're in, especially in the US, right? It's going nuts. And, and, you know, that's pushing a lot of the prices up.
00:21:06.830 - 00:21:36.478, Speaker A: But within the crypto ecosystem, there is no money being printed. There is, it is basically just all the fees being paid, all the fees being accounted for. So just wanted to run you all through that. So loopring presented their new LRC token model today. So they've revamped the whole thing. And I'll talk about looping a lot on, on the show here, but that's because they're doing so many amazing things from the, from the L2 exchange that they're doing and now their token economics being revamped. And the funny thing is, I don't actually hold LRC at this point in time.
00:21:36.478 - 00:22:23.626, Speaker A: I did once upon a time, a few months ago, but I don't hold it right now. So this isn't just me shilling my bags or anything like that, but basically the TRDR here is that the LIC token is being revamped and it's basically going to be a token that accrues fees, right, which we've all seen this before within Defi, it's going to be accruing fees from their L2 amm and order book exchange. And these protocol fees are going to be paid to the liquidity providers, the insurers and the loop ring dao. So. And the protocol fees that are accrued are going to be accrued in LIC and ETH. And if they're accrued in other tokens, they will be sold for LRC or ETH. And then the protocol fees will be distributed in LRC or ethanol and they will be paid on a monthly basis and changes to parameters in the future will go through the loop ring dao.
00:22:23.626 - 00:22:52.106, Speaker A: So it's a governance token as well. So I like this, I like, you know, shoring up the token, making sure that you, you know what it's going to do, you know what function it has within your protocol. Everyone else, everyone else knows it, right? And you know, fee sharing and governance is just like a standard practice. So the success of the protocol, the more volume running through, the more fees generated, goes to token holders. That's how it should be. And I think that's, that's what loop brings done here. But this is a lengthy blog post about eleven minute read from, from Matt Finestone here.
00:22:52.106 - 00:23:30.314, Speaker A: So I suggest going to give it a read to see kind of all the detailed information here and I'll leave a link in the YouTube description for all of you. So as I suspected, Devcon in Bogota has not been canceled, but it has been delayed. There is no date yet. So for those who don't know, I think Bogota, Bogota, I think that's how you say it. Anyway, the next Devcon was, was scheduled to be hosted in Bogota, Colombia in August. And I saw that and I'm like, I don't think that's happening. Obvious, obvious reason being the COVID-19 right? And the vaccine still not being rolled out and any kind of real capacity yet.
00:23:30.314 - 00:23:54.382, Speaker A: And you know, for me, I can't even leave my country right now and I don't know when I'm going to be able to leave the country. I think I can go to New Zealand. That's it. I don't think I can go to Colombia, that's for sure. But they basically put out this tweet and then a blog post describing that they, you know, made this tough decision, which obviously is pretty tough to make, but it makes sense, right? There's no way they're going to be able to do it in August. I don't know when they're going to be able to do it. Maybe it won't even be this year.
00:23:54.382 - 00:24:17.104, Speaker A: I just don't know. Because we don't know how fast the COVID-19 vaccines are going to go out. We don't know how quickly, you know, travel will return back to normal. I mean, I personally hope it happens much faster than, than slower because I really miss traveling. I really miss these conferences. I remember I hadn't gone to an Ethereum conference that wasn't in Australia. So I went to Edcon in Sydney in early 2019.
00:24:17.104 - 00:24:49.030, Speaker A: But besides that, I hadn't gone to an Ethereum conference until I joined set. And then I went as part of like business trips, and I ended up going to so many conferences between, I guess, like the second half of 2019 and like early 2020. ETH Denver was the last conference in February of 2020. And then COVID hit, and that was just like so disappointing because I waited so long and I really wanted to go to all the Ethereum conferences. I absolutely love them. And then this thing hit, and then people said, oh, we'll do virtual conferences. And it's just not the same thing for anyone who's been to one of these conferences.
00:24:49.030 - 00:25:16.530, Speaker A: You know how awesome they are. So I'm hoping that we get this, this under control for international travel sooner rather than later. I love traveling. Absolutely love traveling, more than anything. And it's been really difficult, not just for me, but I'm sure a lot of you, to be stuck in place. I don't know where in the world, you know, you guys are, but for me, in Australia last year, I had a three month lockdown where we couldn't leave our house except for essential services down in Melbourne. And that was very difficult.
00:25:16.530 - 00:25:45.634, Speaker A: We still had like an interstate lockdown where we couldn't travel between states. And now we can travel between states and I think we can travel to New Zealand, but, you know, we still can't go anywhere else. And, you know, I mean, I've been to New Zealand. I love it there. But I kind of want to go to these Ethereum conferences. So I hope that we get there sooner rather than later, because it's been a tough, I guess, like, yeah, and a bit for everyone at this point. And it'd be nice to see them see, see everyone at a conference, right? But we'll have to see how that goes and see how that plays out.
00:25:45.634 - 00:26:23.554, Speaker A: So an update from Yam and Uma, Uma protocol today. So they've continued their collaboration and launched, launched a Uvol BTC token, which is basically a synthetic asset that trades based on the volatility of bitcoin. So this is an exotic financial product. This is something that you will not get exposed to if you're just a retail investor in the traditional world. So basically, what this measures is the realized volatility of bitcoin, this one in particular. And what the volatility kind of measures is like. Sorry, what the volatility index kind of measures is the volatility of the underlying asset.
00:26:23.554 - 00:26:51.192, Speaker A: So we all know that crypto is extremely volatile but sometimes, or at least most of the time, actually, if you look at the chart, it just trends sideways. Right. So the volatility might be low, but then, you know, when there's a big move up or a big move down, that's when the volatility, you know, get goes higher or whatever. So, you know, when the volatility is high, people like to trade this. They like to trade the volatility on top of trading the actual underlying tokens. And you do this with a synthetic asset. And this is exactly what Uma and Yam have teamed up to do.
00:26:51.192 - 00:27:16.924, Speaker A: So, really interesting to see these more exotic financial products coming to DeFi, because DeFi is all about democratizing finance. Right. As I said, these products are usually reserved for non retail investors. I mean, they say it's to protect people, but I don't think so. I think a lot of it's got to do with kind of crappy regulations and kind of like, gating of financial products. So really great to see this. And yeah, you can check out the post in the YouTube description.
00:27:16.924 - 00:27:54.920, Speaker A: So Dy DX announced a $10 million Series B round led by three Arrows Capital and Defiance Capital yesterday. So, I mean, DydX is one of the OG Defi projects, right? They've been around for a while. For those who don't know what they are, they're derivatives exchange on Ethereum. They are working on a bunch of different things right now. They had an explosive year in 2020 in terms of growth, and they're working on a L2 solution with starkware right now, which should be going live very, very soon, I think. But, yeah, so it's funny because a $10 million Series B is quite a small round. And I don't think this is because no one wanted to invest in DyDX.
00:27:54.920 - 00:28:26.718, Speaker A: Right. I think this is because they're going to be doing a token soon, because when you do a valuation that's this low, so a $10 million series be around wouldn't lend itself to a very high valuation. Right. You want to keep the valuation low if you're launching a token soon. And, you know, I don't know who wanted to keep the valuation low, whether it was the funds, the investors, the team, whatever. But in general, like, when you see a Series B that's only $10 million, it means that they want to keep the valuation low. And I think that's because there's a token coming.
00:28:26.718 - 00:29:10.560, Speaker A: So the token will probably come, if I had to guess, very, very soon, probably in the next few months. And then I think you know, they'll probably do an airdrop with people who have used Dytx and things like that, which is going to be another big kind of thing there. And then the valuations obviously going to skyrocket from there, because this is crypto, and we love to speculate, but outside of that, it's really good to see them getting the money in the bank here, because I think that Dy DX is one of the best teams in Ethereum. They don't make as much noise as other DeFi teams, but they. They do, you know, have a platform that's growing rapidly, has been limited by the scalability on Ethereum. But with their L2 version going live, I think, you know, this year with Starkware, I think they're going to grow, like, very massively here. So really excited to see them get this funding.
00:29:10.560 - 00:29:38.360, Speaker A: And, you know, from the 3 hours capital, obviously a big fund in the space, and Defiance Capital, which is another big crypto native fund, that it was founded by Arthur Zero X, which has been a Defi native crypto investor, I guess one of the best DeFi investors in the space. And this is. This is what I was talking about before, how I thought there were very few DeFi investors that were actually kind of good and actually outperform the market. Arthur is one of them. He is early. SNX early are there. Very early.
00:29:38.360 - 00:30:08.270, Speaker A: And I'm talking, like, when there were 5 million, $10 million caps. He wrote thesis back then. He's been spot on about a lot of things, so really great to see him backing the IDX here. So a quick update from Zappa. You can now hide your small balances on the Zappa portfolio screen. So, you know, when you log on to Zappa, and then you see your portfolio on there, and you see all these tokens that are worth, like, $10, and it's not even worth the gas to trade them, and it's just annoying. Well, now you can filter those out, so you can actually set the amount that you want to filter.
00:30:08.270 - 00:30:31.274, Speaker A: So if you want to hide everything that's below $100, you can do that. And it'll do that on the interface, which I think is a pretty cool feature. Full disclosure, I'm an investor in Zappa, so just wanted to get that out there. But I think. I mean, I'm an investor because I use Zappa. It's a really great portfolio tracking tool. You know, it's a really great way to zap in and out of things or, like, enter and exit positions and stuff like that.
00:30:31.274 - 00:30:55.462, Speaker A: So, yeah, if you, if you haven't checked it out yet, I suggest you do so. But, you know, not enough shilling. I'm not going to show you too much on it. I just thought this was a cool little feature that they added here. Alright, last thing to talk about since I think we're going over time here. So I spoke about, I think, the last couple of refuels, the on chain metrics that I've been watching lately. Now, I was said I was going to cover this in the daily grade data pump that's coming out next week, and I still will.
00:30:55.462 - 00:31:30.732, Speaker A: But this is a bit of a spoiler for you guys, before I put that video out. So I had been watching this metric too. And what this shows, and what Coinmetrix is showing here on this chart is the number of addresses that are holding more than 10,000 ETH. Now, what this symbolizes, or, I mean, coinmetrix is saying what this could signal is that institutional investors are starting to buy ETH. It could signal that, but it could also just signal that big money is going into ETH, right? We've seen BTC coming down lately from its highs. We've seen the ETH BTC ratio increase. So that money, I don't think, is going back to, you know, the traditional world.
00:31:30.732 - 00:31:58.412, Speaker A: I don't think anyone expects another crypto bear market to happen anytime soon. So they're rotating into something that hasn't kind of gone up as much, which is obviously ETH. Now, you can see that the growth here has just been huge, right? Especially in the later parts of 2020, early 2021, the number of addresses holding 10,000 ETH has gone up significantly. Significantly. Now, it's not at all time highs yet. It was higher in, I guess, late 2017, which makes sense, right? It definitely makes sense. But we're almost back to that level.
00:31:58.412 - 00:32:44.990, Speaker A: And I think, you know, eyeing the chart here, it's about 1250 unique addresses that hold more than 10,000 ETH. So it's not just 10,000 ETH, it's anything over that. So some of these addresses could hold 100,000 ETH or whatever. If they're like mega whales, there might be some exchanges in there as well. I think they do filter out exchanges, but it doesn't matter anyway because there's only a handful of them. But yeah, the fact that this is going up is one metric that I look at, and I look at closely, because if the whales, who basically have a lot of capital, they, some of them can move markets if they're accumulating something after this downtrend, right. If we break out of this downtrend, then to me, that just signals that a price rise is going to come or continue to go up or it's going to continue to go up because the, the big money and the quote unquote smart money is betting on that happening.
00:32:44.990 - 00:33:06.630, Speaker A: So I think it's obvious that this is what's going to happen. I mean, I'm positioned for that, obviously. As I said, I've still got my, my ether. I never sold any ETH, but at the same time, non investment advice. But just something that I. One of the, one of the key metrics that I track when, when trying to, you know, find out when ETH is going to go up. And I think we saw that happen right end of 2020, ETH kind of.
00:33:06.630 - 00:33:24.790, Speaker A: I think ETH started pumping before. Before these people started getting exposure to it. So, you know, not every whale is a genius. They just have a lot of capital. And then when they see that a kind of market shift. Right, a shift in the markets from BTC only to, okay, well, eats now in favor, let's buy some ETH. And they rapidly do that, as you can see from this growth.
00:33:24.790 - 00:33:42.420, Speaker A: And it's actually gone up so much that I think a lot of. A lot of whales were underexposed to eat here. I think a lot of them, you know, were overexposed to BTC. And then when BTC kind of came down and cooled off, they were like, okay, well, I need to get some more exposure to Ethan. That's why we see this. This. This shot up in growth here.
00:33:42.420 - 00:34:02.004, Speaker A: So, yeah, that's one metric I'll be covering in more detail next week on the daily Grey data pump video. So look forward to that. And that's it for today's episode. So give the video a thumbs up. If you haven't yet, subscribe to the YouTube channel so you don't miss future videos. Join the Discord Channel, subscribe to the Daily Way newsletter, and I will catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
