00:00:02.970 - 00:00:38.710, Speaker A: In DeFi, our money is controlled by us, the user. While the apps we use are often created by different teams who share one common thread, the blockchain. And in most cases, that's Ethereum. Now, the first tool you need in Defi is a wallet that interacts with smart contracts and defi apps, so you can tell the app to do things for you. So let's look at those. Metamask is the most popular of these wallets and it works as a chrome extension on your browser. And that means you can go to a website, click on buttons to send small amounts of ETH in exchange for the app, doing things like trading, lending, borrowing or sending your money.
00:00:38.710 - 00:01:26.294, Speaker A: And it works just as a little pop up window. You sign a transaction and then that's how it works. And Metamask will also allow you to store your wallets and crypto assets on Ethereum, there are alternatives to metamask like Argent monolith, the Coinbase wallet and gnosis safe, to name a few. Secondly, we need a tool to track your on chain portfolio, and that's where tools like Zapper, Xerion and the bank come in handy. Now, each of these offers a defi dashboard by simply connecting your wallet and stringing together all of your money into a more traditional portfolio view like you'd find in banking apps. But again, without requiring your ID or any personal information, it just looks at your wallet address and says, this is what you have and this is what you can do. Finally, information is power.
00:01:26.294 - 00:01:57.946, Speaker A: Knowing where you can borrow, where you can provide liquidity, where you can automate, yield, farming and more is key. And that's probably why you're watching DFI 101. DFI moves quickly, so just keeping up on information with the defiant will help you stay updated on new opportunities. But just bear this in mind. Your money is yours. It's mobile, it can go wherever the best opportunities are and no one can stop you because it's permissionless. And the key takeaway here is knowing how to store your assets, how to interact with Dapps using a web3 Ethereum wallet, and then knowing where to go to try all these new applications.
00:01:57.946 - 00:02:18.850, Speaker A: Releasing in DFI you've been watching DFI 101. Do be sure and check out the other videos in this series and subscribe to the channel so you don't miss new videos as they drop. And above all, stay safe out. There's.
