00:00:03.480 - 00:00:58.104, Speaker A: Hey everyone, it's really great to be here. As Anna mentioned, I'm Shane Molador, I'm the CEO and founder of Forged, and today we're going to be talking about a pretty controversial topic within cryptocurrency sectors, and that's that price matters. It's one of these things that project founders tend to be really reluctant to talk about. It's sort of this internal taboo within circles of we want the price to perform well because we know that that's a positive aspect of user experience. But we're only allowed to talk about the technology. Today we're going to be talking about compliance strategies that you can utilize as token issuers in order to optimize both token and protocol performance, all while continuing to eat glass. You can still ship the tech, you can still ship good product while focusing on optimizing for price performance.
00:00:58.104 - 00:01:51.364, Speaker A: So I'd love to give the TLDR the too long didn't read if you don't want to listen to me ramble hear up on stage. Ultimately, we'll dive into some of the common pitfalls that token issuers find themselves in when they're launching, going through a token generation event or post TGE. And some of the common pitfalls are botched tokenomics designs. Aggressive supply side inflationary tendencies following TGE, botched relationships with market makers that can turn the relationship sour and even predatory or parasitic. And finally, we'll talk about issuance mechanisms. So how are you supposed to work with a centralized exchange or a decentralized protocol in order to put your project in the best position to succeed? Ultimately, we'll talk about some ways that forged can help. We can offer best practices.
00:01:51.364 - 00:02:42.272, Speaker A: We have a blueprint, we have a framework for optimizing all of these niche concepts. Optimizing your tokenomics, optimizing the way that you work with market makers and helping you find strategic partners, whether they're centralized exchanges or decentralized protocols, all to put the token in the best position to perform well, because that's what we all want. At the end of the day, sometimes we're just a little too scared to talk about it out loud. So why am I here? And why does forged existence we're a free to use platform. We're a public good for anyone building on Solana. We're already working with a handful of projects within the ecosystem. Our goal is to allow these talented entrepreneurs that have innovative ideas and groundbreaking technology to put their head down and continue shipping good product while we handle the rest.
00:02:42.272 - 00:03:36.734, Speaker A: We like the esoteric stuff we've done it plenty of times before. There is a blueprint for success. We want to help optimize your future performance while we focus on that more esoteric stuff. So get the ball rolling with an unpleasant and somewhat controversial truth within the ecosystem. And that is that I truly believe that token price performance is actually more important than any underlying technology or any fundamental value that a decentralized application or a protocol can build. See, tokens are the ultimate way to convert our customers into our shareholders. There are incentives that we utilize to really encourage users to allocate time, energy and resources to our decentralized protocol so that we can accomplish our end goals.
00:03:36.734 - 00:04:24.874, Speaker A: We have to remember every now and then that these individuals are rational actors. If you have down only price performance for your token, that incentive is going to be effectively meaningless for them. That's a really poor source of motivation in order to get them to do things that you need in order to scale your protocol. Ultimately, that poor token performance is going to catalyze a negative feedback loop that is ultimately net negative for you as the protocol founder. So it all starts with poor token price performance. When you have a down only pricing trend, that means whatever incentives that you offer to the end users are going to be hollow. There's no monetary value if the price continues to decline, regardless of the quantity of tokens that you're receiving.
00:04:24.874 - 00:05:04.886, Speaker A: If you have hollow incentives, you are unlikely to be able to attract customers to your protocol, and if you can't attract customers, you're not going to have a lot of protocol activity. Low protocol activity means that you won't generate lots of revenue at the protocol level. And if you're not able to generate any sort of revenue due to low protocol activity, there's no value that you're capturing and therefore no value that you can pass back to token holders. And thus we've got this negative feedback loop. It all starts with poor token price performance. As a result, you're getting hollow incentives. With no incentives, you won't have any users.
00:05:04.886 - 00:05:51.580, Speaker A: With no users, you're not going to have any sort of on chain activity, nor will you have revenue. And as a result, you're not going to have any sort of value to pass back to token holders. Therefore, the speculative demand for your token will diminish even further, thus further exacerbating this poor token price performance. When I hear claims in the ecosystem like token price doesn't matter as long as you're shipping good technology. Not only do I find them unproductive, but I actually find them to be very uninformed and they display a fundamental misunderstanding of why tokens exist in the first place. Right. Tokens exist in order to catalyze individuals and end users.
00:05:51.580 - 00:06:23.064, Speaker A: In order to perform activities that we need. In order to scale scale the network, the tokens need to have monetary value. Of course the technology is important. I'm not denying that we're all building groundbreaking stuff here. You need to build innovative technology. The product has to have good product market fit. But if you're not putting your token in a position to succeed, why would you even bother issuing one in the first place? When I talk to projects about the importance of price matters, oftentimes I've met.
00:06:23.064 - 00:06:56.864, Speaker A: I've been met with the pushback of. Yeah, Shane, like, I get it, the token price matters. But once I launch, things are kind of out of my hands, right? I'm building good tech, but maybe they don't recognize things. What do you expect me to do? Like manipulate the market post TGE? That's not what I'm suggesting here. I want to be clear, we talked about compliant measures. By no means am I suggesting that we engage in price influencing trade activity. What I am suggesting is that unbeknownst to many token issuers, you actually are in control of your own destiny.
00:06:56.864 - 00:07:31.434, Speaker A: It comes down to something really quite simple. What influences token price? Well, as you transition from the primary market to the secondary market via TGE, your price is going to be determined by the intersection between supply and demand through a process that we call price. Discussion. Buyers and sellers are going to interact with one another as they assess what they deem to be fair value of your asset, by extension, your protocol as a whole. So welcome back to Econ 101. Things are really quite simple. Intersection of supply and demand.
00:07:31.434 - 00:08:11.978, Speaker A: And what is supply and demand influenced by? Well, three major things, all of which you have complete control over. The first are your tokenomics. The second is the manner in which you collaborate with a market maker. And the third are the mechanisms that you employ in order to list and facilitate a token generation event for your project. Contrary to popular belief, tokenomics are more than just supply side graphs. Oftentimes when I speak with a project and I ask them to walk me through their tokenomics, they'll hand me a pie chart and emissions curve and essentially wipe their hands of it. Tokenomics are a hell of a lot more then supply side.
00:08:11.978 - 00:09:13.876, Speaker A: And understanding what tokenomics are will really start opening up your arsenal of tools and allow you to have more control over post TgE price performance at forged. When we think of tokenomics, we like to think of it as the study and the manner at which value is shared and distributed amongst network participants. When we solve a problem, value is created. So tokenomics dictate, and they set a rules as to how we share and distribute that value amongst network participants. So tokenomics are really encapsulated by much, much more than how your cap table evolves over time. We need to think through things like the token utility. What are our demand drivers? Why do people actually want this token? How do we capture value and distribute that back to network participants? Participants, what is the business model and what are the incentive structures? And then, last but not least, what are the supply side tendencies for this project? So let's move on.
00:09:13.876 - 00:10:31.048, Speaker A: Let's talk about some common pitfalls and how we navigate them properly. I'll start with one that most of us are very familiar with, at least at a superficial level, and that's low float, high fdv. We heard a lot about this after serum took the world by storm in August of 2020. And a lot of Solana projects followed that trend throughout 2021 and into 2022. But what does it actually mean? Why is it bad, and how do we mitigate the risks associated with it? Low float, high fdv means that a project is going to transition into the secondary market via TGE, with only a small percentage of their total token supply unlocked and in circulation. There's going to be a massive influx in demand in the secondary market, as individuals that are speculating perceive the market capitalization of this project as undervalued relative to competitors. So essentially what we're doing is we're constraining the supply side, but we're aggressively shifting the demand side outward, which will result in aggressive price appreciation, implying a market capitalization that makes sense based on what the project is doing relative to its competitors, but an absolutely egregious, fully diluted valuation at that point.
00:10:31.048 - 00:11:44.254, Speaker A: Thereafter, you're going to have a programmatic release and massive inflation as tokens are unlocked and enter the circulating supply. So as we shift that supply curve outward, we're going to see down only price action. So we actually did a study of projects issuing tokens in the Solana ecosystem following the rise of the serum ecosystem and into early 2022. And we found that, on average, projects were tgeing with roughly 5% of their total token supply in circulation, and the average duration of their emissions thereafter was a little over five years. So essentially what you need to think about, based on that emission curve, is that the project is communicating outwards, that they intend to increase demand by 1900% in that five year span, just to keep pace with the supply side shifts. I don't know about you, but as an early stage investor I might be hesitant to allocate capital to a project that has such aggressive projections in revenue growth. You should be thinking the same way when designing an emissions model.
00:11:44.254 - 00:12:51.474, Speaker A: Another example of low float high fdv is worldcoin, issued by Sam Altman OpenAI chat GBT. Just early this year they launched with 1% of their total token supply in circulation, and over the next three years they've communicated that there will be a 60 x in supply right. That implies a week over week increase of 40% at the current market capitalization. What that project is telling the outside world is that they intend to acquire $80 million worth of net new buyers, all of which that will have diamond hands every week for the next 150 weeks, just to keep the price stable based on the supply side tendencies. That's very aggressive. So what can we do as founders in order to mitigate these risks? Well, we should stop thinking of token emissions in the supply side of our tokenomics as just afterthoughts, programmatic ways at which we distribute incentives to network participants. Instead, we should shift the perspective and think about how much demand are we likely to have in the secondary market.
00:12:51.474 - 00:14:00.784, Speaker A: We need to be able to have that demand meet or exceed the supply if we want to optimize for token performance. As a result, you might be more conservative with your emissions curve, and you might be more conservative with the manner in which you distribute these tokens to the market. You should also be thinking about more conservative emission unlock durations and even milestone based emissions. Next, I want to talk briefly about predatory market making. A lot of projects know that they need to work with a market maker, but don't know the best way to structure a relationship with a market maker maker and a lot of projects will put themselves in a position to fail by engaging market makers through a relationship called a loan plus call option structure. Essentially, a market maker will get access to a large percentage of a project's total token supply, and that loan will carry with it strike prices, granting the market maker the option but not the obligation to purchase these tokens at some point in the future. Essentially, without going into too many gory details of what's going on going on the project is always putting the market maker in a position where they are incentivized to short sell the token.
00:14:00.784 - 00:14:58.404, Speaker A: There are different ways that they are incentivized to short sell the token. Perhaps it's to influence the price in order to lock in a more favorable strike price, or perhaps it's too short. Receive lots of proceeds immediately after TGE, influence the price downward, and then repurchase the tokens at a favorable price thereafter, and capture the spread regardless of the manner in which the market maker chooses to profit. Unless you taper the market maker through intelligent contract structuring and monitoring, they are likely to engage in this predatory behavior. Essentially, you are changing the appetite and the disposition of your supply and inducing lots of downward sell pressure into the market at a really critical time for your project immediately following TGE. So how do you mitigate the risks with this? First, you need to monitor your market maker. You should have insights into fill order volume, the direction and dispositions.
00:14:58.404 - 00:15:38.108, Speaker A: Are they buying? Are they selling? Are they a maker? Are they a taker? You should have real time monitoring for this. You should also taper the amount, the quantity of tokens that you're loaning out to these market makers. Don't give them as much influence in the secondary market following your TGE. You also need to have flexible loan structures. It should not be a three year fixed loan duration. You should have the ability to cancel or call back these loans at any point in time that you may be suspecting the market maker to aggressively short, therefore catalyzing them to cover that short and therefore recovering the price. As a result, it needs to be a balanced relationship.
00:15:38.108 - 00:16:40.884, Speaker A: The market maker needs to be incentivized in order to work with the project, but it shouldn't be so one sided and predatory. Last topic that I want to discuss is mispriced opening prints and the mechanisms that projects use to transition from primary to secondary markets. Mispriced prints refers to mechanisms that either centralized or decentralized platforms will use to their own benefit when supporting a project at their TGE. So, for example, centralized exchanges will facilitate a direct listing or initial exchange offering and list you thereafter. Many Dex protocols, instead of just allowing you to see the liquidity pool, will allow you to engage in a liquidity balancer pool or dutch auction in order to facilitate a small fundraise before listing you thereafter. The issue with most of these mechanisms is that they're introducing a lot of imbalance in terms of supply and demand once you hit the secondary market. So I want to use the example really quick of dutch auctions and LBps.
00:16:40.884 - 00:17:39.120, Speaker A: What dutch auctions will allow users to do is potentially purchase and invest in a project in the primary market during a phase of what they refer to as elevated price discovery because there's elevated price discovery. These are usually marketed as fair launches. The unintended consequence of fair launches and dutch auctions is that they're essentially sucking the demand out of the secondary market by satisfying those buyers in the primary market. Now, once the project lists on a decentralized or centralized exchange, the opening print implies a fair value, what a lot of buyers and sellers agreed upon. However, the tokens in circulation don't have any demand to interact with. Therefore, as people attempt to take profit, they have significant price impact and the price goes down only. Why? Because you've introduced an imbalance in the supply and demand.
00:17:39.120 - 00:18:38.462, Speaker A: You've allowed the buyers to buy in the primary market when people are accustomed to them buying in the secondary market. And what's the consequence of this? Well, people are going to see a lot of red candles following your listing, and they're going to take that as an indication of deteriorating fundamentals. They're going to say something's broken. Maybe the tech was overvalued, maybe the team rugged us because why else would the price go down, which is going to cause further price capitulation, which is again a poor user experience for us all. How do we mitigate these risks? Well, I don't suggest going live with fair launches or lbps. And when you list on centralized exchanges, you have to understand how they intend to prey on you in order to structure what's called opening order books properly with your market maker to prevent against large green candles followed by consistent red candles as the price declines. So, just a quick summary here.
00:18:38.462 - 00:19:14.630, Speaker A: First and foremost, you need to care about your token price. It needs to be a priority. That price is a reflection of supply and demand, and supply and demand is influenced by things that are very much within your control as token issuers and project founders. Specifically your tokenomics. Design the manner in which you collaborate with market makers, which for the avoidance of doubt, you need to do, you should, but you need to structure the right relationships with them. And lastly, the manner at which you transition from the primary to the secondary market with centralized or decentralized exchanges. Best part is you don't have to do this alone.
00:19:14.630 - 00:19:45.672, Speaker A: That's what forged is here. That's why we're a public good operating in the Solana ecosystem. We want to work with project founders in order to help optimize that strategy. So we like to think of forged as the ultimate toolkit to optimize token and protocol performance. Again, we're a free to use public good. You can deploy advanced market making strategies on various centralized and decentralized exchanges non custodial capacity. You can optimize your tokenomics with us, you can automate your token distribution via smart contracts.
00:19:45.672 - 00:20:23.524, Speaker A: You can monitor your performance in the secondary market with automated reports to keep your market makers honest, and you can learn about fundraising and a fully compliant capacity to help scale up that growth capital. We're working with a lot of projects in the ecosystem right now. We'd love to work with more founders that are learning more more about this very esoteric process to prepare for TGE and how to optimize your performance thereafter. I'm here with my team the rest of this week. We'd love to talk with anyone that's contemplating issuing a token or is currently preparing for TGE. Really appreciate you guys taking the time. Thanks for listening.
