00:00:00.720 - 00:00:37.718, Speaker A: What is up, guys? Taiki here. And today I kind of want to go over the recent Wonderland proposal created by Daniele to essentially restructure and take over Sushiswap. So if you like the content, please like and subscribe. Leave a comment in the comment section below. So I wanted to make this video just because I think it's important to document events like these. Just because I think that in the future this could be like one of the turning points where Sushi becomes a hated, broken project into something that actually has potential. So in order to understand why this is important and for you to understand the full context of what led Danielle to make decision, make this decision, you kind of have to understand two things.
00:00:37.718 - 00:01:17.918, Speaker A: First, the sushi swap drama and the scandal that existed in the past couple of weeks. And then the recent drama between Wonderland and Trader Joe, right? So this is on avalanche. So let's kind of go over the drama first just so you can kind of get an understanding of like, what is Daniela's incentive for, you know, taking over sushi. I mean, there are like, you know, like, I mean, if you read the test, I'll go over this. It like makes sense, right? Like, if you have a good understanding of Defi, if you have a good understanding of business, marketing, sales, development, just everything, growth, I mean, this makes a lot of sense. So, you know, I appreciate it from that point. But, you know, you have to understand the backstory in order for you to fully appreciate this.
00:01:17.918 - 00:01:54.334, Speaker A: So, first of all, there was drama, right? This was December 8, roughly five days ago, when Danielle initially said, hey, like, trader Joe, just calling them out, saying, you know, like, avax mim. Like, this pair has a much more liquidity and higher volume than Avax USDC. So why is the USDC pair getting 3.5 x higher incentives, right, the Joe incentives than our pair, right? Like, you know, the whole frog nation meme, like, depends on, you know, or it doesn't depend on anything but the narrative. The narrative is that, like, fuck the suits. Like, screw USDC, screw Dai, screw all these centralized things. Like, we are frog nation.
00:01:54.334 - 00:02:25.642, Speaker A: We are here for the people and we're all going to make it. Let's try to decentralize everything and give power to the people and whatnot. So Danny essentially called them out, like saying, hey, give more rewards to our pool, Avax mempool. Or at least even out a little. Why does Avax deserve a much higher multiple? And I think that's fine from Joe's perspective. I think a lot of people, right, if you did, like, a survey for 100,000 users. If you ask them, like, are you more comfortable using USDC or mim? I'm sure that, you know, over 51% will say they're more comfortable with USDC.
00:02:25.642 - 00:02:56.000, Speaker A: So, no, I think, you know, higher incentives is fine, right? Maybe you can adjust it over time. But, you know, the Joe devs didn't. Didn't appreciate this take by Danielle. So whoever was running this Twitter account or, I don't know, we don't know who this is, this kind of calls out, dang. Says, hey, like, you know, like, 70% of that liquidity is owned by you, right? It's owned by Wonderland. So even if we do increase those yields, it's going to dilute the yield for the average Joe, right? Trader Joe is the Dex for the average Joe. Together, we can change this.
00:02:56.000 - 00:03:39.196, Speaker A: We keep giving money to large mercenary funds, calling Danny Ala and Wonderland a mercenary fund. And that's how they keep winning, obviously, right now, at this point, they kind of divided themselves, wonderland versus trader Joe, which is kind of sad to see, just because if you look into the avalanche ecosystem, without Trader Joe, avalanche wouldn't be here. And, like, without Wonderland, avalanche would also not be here. So, you know, the top two projects, you know, beefing it out publicly, you know, wasn't the best look on Twitter. But, you know, it is what it is, right? I'm not here to give, like, my. My hard opinions, but, you know, just sharing what happened. And then Danielle was like, hey, like, you know, like, these sushi forks, you know, like, they give me so much shit, but, like, behind closed doors, they're the one figuring out, like, which pool gets how much incentives.
00:03:39.196 - 00:04:10.436, Speaker A: And then Trader Joe is like, hey, like, you know, I get so much shit for, you know, like, figuring out where the farm rewards go, but, you know, I don't. Like, nobody talks about the fact that the time devs choose how to spend their doubt money, I mean, which. I mean, they're both, like, reasonable arguments. I mean, I wish they settled this, like, behind closed doors. But I understand that, you know, on Twitter, you know, it's very easy to just be vocal about, like, whatever. Whatever your opinions are. And at the end of the day, like, wonderland, they market themselves as a dao.
00:04:10.436 - 00:04:55.622, Speaker A: And I'm sure they'll get there at some point, but in the short term, they're not a dao, right? I mean, in crypto, in defi, nothing is a dao. In fact, I am pretty bearish. Daos in general, I believe they can get there in, like, 510 years or something in the short term, in the next twelve, like, 24 months. I don't think daos can be that successful because these projects, they're successful for a reason. They're successful because the leadership, for example, Trader Joe, I mean, crypto, fish and Murloc, that team is super strong and without. If Trader Joe was a dao from the beginning, then all the people that were Joe, token holders, there's going to vote on proposals to pump their bags in the short term, and they would never become the Dex that it is today. Similarly, Danny, Ellie, Danny Ali, and his team is essentially the fundamentals behind Wonderland Advocate Avril and Popsicle.
00:04:55.622 - 00:05:16.262, Speaker A: A bet on Wonderland is a bet on Danye. A bet on Abracadabra is a bet on Danny, et cetera. Right? And when you invest in Wonderland, you're indirectly investing in Abracadabra and popsicle. When you're investing in Abracadabra, you're indirectly investing in time and popsicle as well. So, you know, there's no such thing as that. I'm sure you can get there at some point. And, you know, there's a lot of hate against Danny that, you know, like, goal.
00:05:16.262 - 00:06:01.398, Speaker A: Like, he's essentially figuring out, like, where the money goes. But I feel like, you know, if you're a time holder, like, would you rather have Daniele, who's like, the, like, the mastermind behind, you know, frog nation, to do what? To, like, figure out what happens? Or would you rather have, like, you know, 200,000 time holders vote on, like, governance proposals to only vote for things that will pump their back in the short term? Right. It just doesn't make any sense. So, I mean, those are my thoughts on, I guess, just dowels in general. And I think Danny Elias are saving, like, not that much. Like, too much hate on, like, I guess, making decisions on behalf of frog Nation. I think that's fine, right? I would much rather have Danielle figure out what happens to Wonderland's huge treasury than this random governance proposals frog is saying.
00:06:01.398 - 00:06:24.472, Speaker A: Yeah, this makes sense. In fact, Danielle should be making all the shots right now. But anyways, let's kind of move on. I don't want this to be too long a video, but knowing me, this might go to half an hour or something. But anyways, let's next. Let's go over the sushi swap scan, right? So you can kind of already see that, you know, like, maybe Daniela, he's not happy with Trader Joe, right? And how they're not. Like, their incentives are not aligned.
00:06:24.472 - 00:06:40.450, Speaker A: And Trader Joe is, like, saying, hey, like, we're not going to help you out. Like, we're like, don't. Like, don't. Like. You can't just, like, force us into giving you more rewards and whatnot. So, you know, that's kind of the background there. And then on the 6 December, this article came out on rect news, right? I really love this channel or this website.
00:06:40.450 - 00:07:07.654, Speaker A: It's like an article that goes over rugs and scandals and whatnot, right. I think it's, you know, pretty good, but it kind of goes over the fall of sushiswap, right, from essentially, you know, back in Defi summer, the chef Nomi forked uni. They did a vampire attack. Sushi became huge. And then, you know, chef Nomi, who was the original developer for. For sushi, he kind of rug pulled. And then, you know, he.
00:07:07.654 - 00:07:28.858, Speaker A: After he got death vets, he, like, returned the money. And then at that, .0 axe monkey essentially took over the project and essentially turned sushi from, like, a rug into an actual blue chip. Right. I think that sushi swap token went to, like, $0.10 or something. And then, you know, through zero X Maki, his leadership, his vision, Sushi was able to get to, like, above $20, right.
00:07:28.858 - 00:07:56.928, Speaker A: And now it's like, at $6 or something. But, you know, it was quite a turnaround. But recently, zero X Maki stepped down from the project, and this kind of goes over why he did that as well as, I guess, the shady behaviors of the Sushiswap team. Now, these are just going off of this article. I don't know. I'm sure there's, like, the other side of the story, but, you know, just going over the article really quickly. So right now, the team, or a week ago, the team was led by Joseph Day Long, Omakase Kano and Rachel, right? And their acronym is Joker, right? J O K R.
00:07:56.928 - 00:08:23.320, Speaker A: So essentially, when Maki announced that he's gonna be leaving sushi, he tweeted out that he's gonna be resigning. Right. He's gonna be stepped down. Right. And it kind of made it seem like, you know, he's taking a break. He worked too hard. You know, it kind of seemed like, you know, that they left on good terms, but it turns out that, you know, one of the team members on sushi, the internal team members, they were fed up with the Joker, I guess, and released these internal screenshots of the Sushi dev team.
00:08:23.320 - 00:09:13.410, Speaker A: And Maki essentially said that, hey, like, I was forced out. I didn't step down. And he only said he stepped down. Just so there wouldn't be too much drama. And speaking of more drama, apparently there were, you know, these are invoices for, like, team dinners at New York City, $9,000 dinners in New York, and $5,000 tickets to vc mixers, events for the Joker team where no funds were raised and the Dao never knew about it. And these are invoices. So you can argue that, no, I mean, this doesn't look good, right? I mean, the sushi team, they deserve to have fun and whatnot, and they deserve compensation for building all they're doing, but, you know, it doesn't look good, right? I mean, especially when Rex news announces this, and then, you know, like, there are other scandals on, like, you know, the sushi team, like, receiving tokens unfairly, yada, yada, yada, more internal drama.
00:09:13.410 - 00:10:15.116, Speaker A: So I'm gonna link all this, right? I'm not gonna go with everything, but, you know, it just seems like a really dysfunctional team, right? There's no leadership, and it seems like everyone hates each other, and token keeps going down. And the thing is, like, sushi devs, like, they don't really own the sushi token, right? So also recently, there was a governance proposal to give the team more sushi tokens. And when the price is perpetually going down, you know, like this, it doesn't sit well with the community, right? But it's also not a good thing that the team doesn't have any tokens, because if they don't have any tokens, then, like, what incentive do they have to, you know, make sushi go up? Anyways, this happened, right? Just so much drama. And then recently, Joseph Day long, the former CTO, sushi former, because he recently stepped down, he said, you know, like, I'm sorry, guys, I messed up. These are my failures reflecting back, you know, maybe I need to get some therapy. So I hope Joseph, I hope he recovers from this. Well, I really respect him, you know? And it was a good attempt.
00:10:15.116 - 00:10:31.680, Speaker A: Right? Sushi, great story. Back from 2020, they died, they went to zero. They had a resurgence, and now they're on their way to zero just because. And the leadership was incapable. Right. I mean, let's just be honest, right? It's. And we can give our commentary on that.
00:10:31.680 - 00:11:22.920, Speaker A: So, you know, Sushi going down and you can see that, you know, sushi, they don't really have a direction. They were just like, you know what? Let's just launch on all chains and hope. Hope it works out, right? But obviously, you know, if you know anything about business, you shouldn't, like, you shouldn't be a generalist, right? You shouldn't just like, spread yourselves to, then you should like special. You should specialize in one thing and just be really good at it, right? And then build horizontally or vertically from that. But, you know, there was just, I mean, no real vision, right? Like they have $46 of liquidity on hiko chain. Like what? Like why, why? Like, why are you allocating resources there? So that is when Danny, right, knowing the background where, you know, Danny knew the sushi team is essentially going to zero, right? They're very, very dysfunctional and trader Joe is not going to be on their side. So what do you do? Right? Do you go to Pangolin? Right? Maybe not.
00:11:22.920 - 00:12:23.778, Speaker A: How about, you know, how about Wonderland with a $750 million treasury? Like, what if they just take over sushi, right, and build products on top of sushi and integrate everything? And I think it's interesting just because sushi, the founding story of sushi is very frog nation like, right? Because, you know, there were no VC's involved. They started from zero. They forked something and they turned a simple uniswap fork into a plethora of projects and products that are, like, being used by, you know, a lot of people today, right? I mean, I use sushi sometimes just because it offers the best liquidity, but, you know, I was never a fan of the sushi token just because, like, the tokenomics were like pure Garbo. But, you know, let's, let's restructure sushi into the decks. It was more to be the Dex for frogs, build fire frogs. So that was really interesting and, yeah, so now let's kind of go over the restructuring, right? And, yeah, let's kind of go over the restructuring because I think there's a lot to unpack in this governance proposal. So I'm going to go through this and give my thoughts on them.
00:12:23.778 - 00:12:42.564, Speaker A: When I went through this the first time, it was, it was a great read, right? I was like, well, like, I was, I was like, actually inspired. I was like, wow, this is crazy. I feel like this is part of Defi history and it's. I mean, it's not guaranteed. I mean, this. If this takeover happens, right? Because, you know, it's not guaranteed, right? They have to vote this in. If this happens, then I feel like that's a right.
00:12:42.564 - 00:13:20.974, Speaker A: A step in the right direction for Daos in general. And if Danny can pull this off, then the cross chain meme for frog Nation and Abracadabra Popsicle wonderland, it's going to start to make a lot more sense. So frog nation proposes Danny to become part of the sushi project and with defined mandates to bring additional directions, their project to help continue what sushi has been doing, which is to be the decentralized exchange. And, you know, sushi, even though their business development skills were lagging, they did. They didn't make really good products. They were the first multi chain Dex. They created Cauchy.
00:13:20.974 - 00:14:09.612, Speaker A: Right? And the Abracadabra engine runs on Cauchy. Right? So even though, like, no one uses Kashmir sushi swap, the tech works, right? As like, demonstrated by Abracadabra, bento box, miso show you. And I'll go over that later, too. And he kind of goes over like, hey, like, there's like, no direction. Like, why are you on all these chains? In fact, maybe if sushi only focused on, like, the top five chains, maybe they would have done better, right? So, for example, if you eat eth, L2, avalanche, phantom, or, you know, and, like, you know, and polygon or something, right? Like, if they just really focus their efforts on those five chains, right, or those five ecosystems, maybe they would have done much better, right? Like, why. Why are you allocating so much capital why are you allocating so much capital into, you know, like, these chains that no one really uses, right? But, yeah, like you mentioned, a few of these chains don't ask. Significant volume.
00:14:09.612 - 00:14:28.176, Speaker A: It should be revalued. Right? So, like, you know, let's cut the. Cut the fat, right? Trim the fat. Let's focus on what actually matters. Kashi, right? Kashi has nothing. Only good things to say about Kashi, right? Because Abracadabra is essentially a fork of kashi with other no products built on top of it. Abracadabra has shown that the tech works, and it's fantastic.
00:14:28.176 - 00:14:48.170, Speaker A: And the general idea is that, you know, Popsicle finance is a liquidity director. Right, liquidity manager. And Abracadabra allows for leverage on yield bearing assets. So what if popsicle and Abracadabra can be integrated with sushi, right? I think it's an interesting proposition. So Miso is also. It's like a launchpad for token sales. Like, ygg and Bitda are based on it.
00:14:48.170 - 00:15:23.710, Speaker A: And it's actually, you know, it's. It's actually pretty successful. So he wants to keep it going and then show you is something that he wants to get rid of, right? It's trying to be a decentralized opensea, and you kind of get the. You kind of get this vibe that, like, sushi was trying to do everything right, and they were just doing everything like half acidly. In fact, maybe they should have focused on kashi, Miso and the Dex, right? And just focus on those things and maybe, and like also not expand to too many ecosystems and maybe they would have done better, right? I mean, obviously this is all, it's obvious in hindsight, but, you know, it kind of makes sense. And then tokenomics, the tokenomics are just not that good. It's a perpetual farm.
00:15:23.710 - 00:16:25.680, Speaker A: Token sushi did create the X sushi model, right? So for ex Joe, right, for all these x assets, it was innovative from sushi, right? The only problem with the sushi tokenomics is that they're offering inflationary rewards on literally all chains, which is like not a good proposition. And this is why sushi is never the number one Dex on any chain of. And whenever I bridge to new ecosystems and when I, whenever I do research, I know that sushi is always there, right, and I use it, but I always. But I know for a fact that at some point a new Dex will emerge in the new ecosystem and it'll flip sushi and TVL just because, you know, sushi can't offer like super high inflationary rewards to early, like liquidity providers, right, just because they're all, they're cross chain and they don't want to dilute current token holders. But if you can create a new Dex on a new ecosystem with a new token, you can just offer much better yields than sushi, right? So that's why Sushi will never be the number one Dex on any chain. And you know, sure, like investing in the number two or number three Dex on all ecosystems, maybe that has some value. But generally I like to bet on winners, right? I just bet on winners.
00:16:25.680 - 00:17:09.996, Speaker A: So no token MX X two, she is cool. But the rest of the tokenomics are kind of, kind of bad. And then, you know, the contributors, the team, you know, it's very dysfunctional. Let's, we need to restructured a team. The J O K R, you know that acronym, you know, that's a meme. Now, maybe those people, maybe they can continue to be contributors, but maybe they shouldn't have leadership roles just for, you know, just for optics, right? Because it's, at the end of the day, it's business, right? Like optics do matter and like people get fired all the time just because it doesn't look, look good for the, for the entire company and whatnot. So anyways, let's go over the proposal, right? And, you know, frog Nation and sushi there's a lot of brand alignment there.
00:17:09.996 - 00:17:30.606, Speaker A: Just because sushi is cross chain avocado is trying to be cross chain sushi. Like, no VC's. Avocado, like Wonderland. Like no VC's. So, you know, I feel like the. The sushi that the whole. The token holder base for sushi and the token holder base for Danny coins are kind of similar, and I just really do see, like, a bunch of alignment in the product and whatnot.
00:17:30.606 - 00:18:38.562, Speaker A: So, anyways, it's gonna go over here. So what's gonna happen? So, first and foremost, Frog Nation establishes a mandate for a new service collective for sushi and becomes a part of a combined ecosystem for advocate agra, popsicle finance, and Wonderland. Okay? Which makes sense, right? Like, let's integrate abracadabra and popsicle on top of sushi. And Wonderland can just be, you know, like a dao or like a hedge fund, or like, you know, like a pseudo know, people, frog led VC that invests in ecosystem projects to create more, like, token holder value for, you know, sushi, abracadabra, spell ice, and time holders, and interim, the service collects the service collective retains directory structured sushi and defines specifically the parameters for governance at an elevated tempo. So Danny is essentially saying, let me take over the project. You know, I'm going to restructure everything, and, you know, I'm going to move much faster than, you know, Sushi has moved in the past, and now we're going to share resources, and Sushi will always be its own project, right? And the goal is to be the Dex for everyone. So, you know, full focus on the Dex change in tokenomics, change the team, deprecate legal entity.
00:18:38.562 - 00:19:02.320, Speaker A: So let's see, what do I want to go over here? Right? So one thing that matters is to become the best x that exists, right? So, you know, Sushi was always the number two, number three Dex. Let's be the number one, right? Maybe you can't flip uniswap, maybe you can't flip trader Joe. Maybe. Maybe. I mean, maybe. But on Phantom, maybe sushi can become the number one dex. On harmony, maybe sushi can become the number one Dex.
00:19:02.320 - 00:19:35.100, Speaker A: Right? So those are kind of. Or end on, like, eth, L2 and whatnot. And you know what happened to Trident, right? Trident was supposed to launch, but I guess it's not gonna happen anytime soon after Joseph stepped down. But, you know, Trident is a product that the team has been working on. No, let's actually, you know, strip this and, like, strip it in a way that makes sense and in terms of improving governance. So I guess more governance continue to decentralize, and a proposal to deprecate x sushi. I just thought this was interesting just because I feel like x sushi.
00:19:35.100 - 00:20:17.368, Speaker A: I remember, like, back in 2020, I bought into sushi because I was like, wow. Like, I can buy sushi, stake it, and earn yield. That's insane. You know, I was a plug back then, but, you know, like that, that's kind of how I thought about it. But he answered that, hey, like, right now, let's not focus on exercise. Like, in the short term, let's just focus on, like, rewriting the ship, right? And exushi can always be introduced later, right? I mean, there's nothing wrong with deprecating it in next two months as the team transitions to frog nation. But, you know, let's just focus on what needs to be focused on and just improve tokenomics, improve team and whatnot, and then change parts of the team.
00:20:17.368 - 00:20:40.702, Speaker A: So Danny is going to be the visionary and strategist. He's going to essentially be the CEO, I guess, or maybe not the CEO, but the lead strategy officer or whatever and whatnot. Overall, grand vision. I'll kind of go over this. But this proposal is bold. It really is bold. And if there's anyone that can pull it off, I would bet on Danny.
00:20:40.702 - 00:21:09.004, Speaker A: It doesn't mean that it's going to work, but I still think it's a really interesting development in the Defi ecosystem. Yes, price is down recently, but I don't really care. I'm just farming. I'm really comfy. I'm just accumulating assets that I like. Who knows? Maybe we look back in six months, in mid 2022, and say, wow, this was a failed attempt, but I'm really happy that we tried this. Right? It was a great moment of history.
00:21:09.004 - 00:21:47.060, Speaker A: Or maybe six months from now, we look back on this and was like, wow, this was the moment sushi went from a shitcoin into a top 20 project or something. Who knows? I'm not here to make predictions and whatnot, but I'm just documenting this moment. The synergies make sense. If sushi becomes a Dex for everyone, then popsicle, the ice token, will accrue more value because it can be the liquidity manager. Abracadabra can, you know, offer lending and leverage and abracadabra, right. Their goal is to make Mim, the magic Internet money, a more liquid, stable coin. And I would assume that if they did take over, right, USDC die tether pairs would not exist anymore.
00:21:47.060 - 00:22:07.222, Speaker A: It would only be like, bitcoin, Mim, eth, mim, you know, like, Mim USD, like assets like that. And just, you know, like, go with the ethos and the narrative and the brand of, you know, like, fuck the suits. Like, we don't. We don't like the suits. You know, we don't like the suits. Yeah. But anyways, when I read through this, I thought I was very, very inspired.
00:22:07.222 - 00:22:24.970, Speaker A: I know a bunch of people aren't happy about this for particular reasons, but I think the sushi team is on board. So. Sushi. Their Twitter said, frog nation. Sushi. Sushi swap, right? Sushi swap. And a few of the team members from Sushi said, hey, I'm down.
00:22:24.970 - 00:22:47.550, Speaker A: Let's rewrite the ship. And like I mentioned, you know, like, there's gonna be integrations with the current products, right? So I don't really know how this accrues value to time, right. It's. It's kind of. It's really hard to value projects like omen time just because, like, do you just look at the treasury value and be like, okay, like, you know, it deserves a premium because Danielle. Or do you. Or, like, you know, like.
00:22:47.550 - 00:23:21.790, Speaker A: Because, like, it's really unclear. But I can definitely see the synergies between the sushi token, the popsicle token, or the ice token, and the spell token, just because, you know, it's gonna. Cause how ice and spell works is that as TVL grows, there's more value accrual to the token, right, because it generates more fees, and ice stakers and small stickers earn part of those fees. So I can definitely see the value accrual to popsicle and abracadabra for time. It's a little. It's a little unclear, but, you know, like, I really like the vision. I really like the.
00:23:21.790 - 00:24:00.754, Speaker A: The steps Danny is taking, right? I mean, like, wonderland used the ohm mechanisms to build out the treasury, right? And I think this is a. I mean, this makes sense, right? From a business business development perspective, from a defi user perspective, from a farmers perspective, this. It just makes sense, right? Because at this rate, sushi is going to go to zero. And then, you know, Danny's saying, hey, imagine if sushi was a full order book based on exchange on top of Zksync or l two tech with margin trading and options, right? So he's kind of laying up the vision, right? So, you know, like, sushi. No, let's save this project. Everyone loves sushi, right? Because I feel like Sushi is one of those projects that everyone likes. Like, no one hates sushi.
00:24:00.754 - 00:24:30.000, Speaker A: It's just that, you know, it's just, like, not doing well. And I remember back in 2020 and earlier this year, everyone was telling me that sushi is gonna flip uniswap, but, you know, it obviously didn't happen. But, you know, I think sushi has a long ways to go in terms of flipping uniswap. I don't really talk about Uniswap, and people don't really understand Uniswap just because they can't use it, right. Because it's only. But that team is ahead of. That team is way ahead, miles ahead of the competition when it comes to creating decentralized exchanges.
00:24:30.000 - 00:24:56.570, Speaker A: And they have a bunch of resources. So maybe it's too far fetched to assume that sushi can flip uni, but I definitely think that this is more bullish sushi than it is bearish, if that makes sense. And what is this? Yeah. And, you know, there's also, like, this hatred amongst Danny. I kind of touched on this earlier, but, you know, like, it's. It's not really a doubt, right? Because right now, you know, Danny sold Avax top. Danny bought the bitcoin.
00:24:56.570 - 00:25:27.576, Speaker A: Bitcoin in ether dip. And Danny is essentially using the treasury to create his own ecosystem to create token holder value. And, you know, like I mentioned earlier, like, would you rather have Danny manage the treasury, or would you rather have, like, a bunch of, like, you know, farmers, like. Like, tiktokers, like, manager, what to do to the treasury? Because anyone that's upset, anyone that's upset at this is only upset because they don't understand how important this is, right? Wonderland literally purchased 1.2 million convicts. Right? That's insane, right? This is uber bullish. Abracadabra.
00:25:27.576 - 00:25:56.762, Speaker A: This is uber bullish spell. And, you know, it's also a way for the Wonderland treasury to also, like, I guess, grow growing value just because, you know, they can stake it in, earn, yield and whatnot. So, you know, I'm not going to spend too much time on this, but essentially, you know, right now, Mim has to incentivize liquidity on curve by paying out spell tokens, right. I am currently farming spell by putting my stable coins onto curve. Right. The mim three pool. But obviously, you know, you don't want to pay out inflation rewards perpetually.
00:25:56.762 - 00:26:19.142, Speaker A: It's. It's like, it's not sustainable, right. For the token holders. So what you can do is, what if Wonderland buys up a bunch of convex. Right, just gobble it up, and then instead of paying out spell rewards. Wonderland and his team can redirect curve rewards onto the mem three pool, so they are no longer going to be paying out spell remissions. And this is how Danny gets to three.
00:26:19.142 - 00:27:02.482, Speaker A: Sorry. Gets to zero emissions for spell over time. And it's one of the reasons the spell token has done relatively decently well recently. You know, I really don't like how Danny, like, receives hate for, like, not being a dao, but, like, you know, if you're a time holder, like, you want this to happen, right? Like, you don't want, like, a bunch of, like, you know, like, 20 year old, like, Tiktokers voting on, like, you know, like, what happens to treasury? Like, you need a benevolent. A benevolent dictator to kind of, you know, lead you in the right way and maybe in the future it can be a dao, but, you know, and people just assume that Danielle is calling all the shots. But, you know, like, I mean, I talked to the team, and that team is super strong. It's not just Danielle.
00:27:02.482 - 00:27:39.680, Speaker A: I mean, they have a bunch of other great developers, like Sifu, like squirrel, etcetera. I mean, like, when you're betting on Wonderland, like, you're betting on the entire team, you're betting on the entire ecosystem. Because, I mean, he was very clear from the beginning. Like, occupy, defi, frog nation, people, maxi, like, all, all of his projects are intended to work together. So, like, you should assume that in the future, like, the Wonderland treasury is going to be used to create more value for spellholders and ice holders, etcetera, right? He even announced that $50 million worth of stable coins from the Wonderland treasury is going to be deployed on the popsicle finance. Right? I mean, he's like, he's. He's made it pretty clear, I think.
00:27:39.680 - 00:28:27.410, Speaker A: So I think people are upset at this is only upset because tokens down, right? Like, if price is down, if price is going up or it was stable, I think everyone would be like, oh, yeah, go, Danny. But, you know, just because people, I mean, their tokens are down, people just think that, you know, they, you know, there's this upset, right, that Danny is doing this, but, you know, you know, our, you know, our bears fucked. I don't know. Right? I mean, you know, maybe, you know, maybe, maybe Danny's about to have some sushi, a nice sushi dinner, you know, maybe. Maybe they are fucked, right? The despair seems pretty fucked from this image. But, you know, for my opinions, I think in terms of sushi, it's unclear if this is going to create more value for the sushi. Token.
00:28:27.410 - 00:29:29.136, Speaker A: But from a more fundamental perspective, I do think that, you know, it's more bullish than bearish and I think this is more bullish spell and ice than it is sushi. Right. And I'm not going to assume that I know how to value time, right. Just because such new asset class, the rebase tokens, like do you like value it based on the treasury? Do you place a premium on this man right here? So I think the entire ecosystem, what Danny and his team is trying to build, it makes a lot of sense. The longer you're in Defi, the more you understand business development, I think the more you're going to appreciate what he is doing just because what he is doing is unprecedented. And if you're trying to be a winner in the space, you're not going to make everyone happy. Right? I mean, sure, this doesn't look, I mean, depending on your stance, this might not look good for Danny La, but from a business perspective, it makes sense if you want to be a winner, if you want to just take over everything, you have to be very, very demanding.
00:29:29.136 - 00:30:04.240, Speaker A: This is one of the things you learn in negotiation and business school. It's like, hey, we've been partners. Can I ask more from you? Can you give me XYZ? Can you lower the costs? And if they say no, then like what do you do? Like do you just cave in? No, you just move on and you try to make a better product. And maybe you do do something like as grand is taking over sushi. Right. And, you know, it's impossible to make everyone happy and maybe people aren't happy because it's not actually a dao, but, you know, it is what it is. And, you know, I still think that what he is building is incredible.
00:30:04.240 - 00:30:15.444, Speaker A: Yeah. And I just want to make this video. So let me check how long this video has been. Oh, nice. Half an hour. Yeah. So I'm really good at, you know, making very, very long videos.
00:30:15.444 - 00:30:54.302, Speaker A: But anyways, hopefully this is kind of entertaining. Lots of drama, lots of scandals, but hopefully some good can come out of it. It'll be interesting, like what happens to Joe after this. Right. I still think that Joe has Lindy and, you know, even if sushi, like hypothetically offers like better slippage and whatnot, or like, you know, better swaps, you know, it's going to be hard for them to, I guess, overcome like the muscle memory of people just going to traderjoxyz.com to like, you know, make swaps. So maybe, maybe the sushi swap team or maybe, maybe sushi can, like, lower transaction fees, right? Especially if they're deprecating ex sushi.
00:30:54.302 - 00:31:07.134, Speaker A: Maybe, you know, they can lower transaction fees and whatnot to redirect more liquidity. Like, who knows, right? I mean, there's no way to know. And I'm sure. I mean, this isn't gonna, like, go. It's not gonna happen tomorrow, right? It's. They have to vote on it. There has to be a bunch of restructuring.
00:31:07.134 - 00:31:32.800, Speaker A: Maybe everything gets settled by the end of the year, and next year it's the holidays, but, yeah. Just wanted to make this video. I want to look back on this video in, like, six months, twelve months, and see how everything. How everything panned out. So thank you guys for watching and have fun farming out there. And let me know what you think of my ticks. I try to be as level hooded as I can, but I'm sure people can get upset or something.
00:31:32.800 - 00:31:34.200, Speaker A: But, yeah. Thank you guys for watching. Have a good one.
