00:00:00.160 - 00:00:23.182, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cesarno, and today's the 8 March 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So we have a new merge update today. So parathos here put out a tweet saying after four days of proof of work, merge Devnet five, which I mentioned the other day, hit TTD. Today. The chain continued finalizing post TTD as expected.
00:00:23.182 - 00:01:10.926, Speaker A: This means the merge was successful. We ran a few zombie miners, miners ran older versions that don't know about TTD and just continue mining post TTD. No issues were found. And then he continues by saying we should be releasing information about the killing test net in the next few days. So this is a big deal because as I mentioned before, this kind of like Devnet was, was to happen before the next kind of like Testnet was to be spun up, which is killen, which is hopefully going to be the last test net. And if all goes well with it, with the killing testnet, then we will have a kind of like main net window, I would say, which is super exciting, right? I mean the hilarious thing is, is that so many people talked about the merge for, you know, the last few months and then the market went quiet and we had just way less people in the ecosystem and then people went quiet about it. But you know, obviously I've been talking about it every other day.
00:01:10.926 - 00:02:14.170, Speaker A: I've been talking about the effects. It's going to have everything that's coming down the pipeline with regards to it and keeping you guys updated because there's still, I mean, as I've said, I've said this plenty of times, not going to repeat myself again, going to it too much again, but there is still all this work happening in the background, whether you're paying attention or not. So very, very cool to see that there were no issues found on the Devnet five. And as I said, if there are no issues found on the Killen testnet, then we're going to have a main net window, which, you know, as I've mentioned plenty of times, June is kind of like the target could happen in July, but if happens around then, that's just absolutely massive, right? That's a huge kind of like vote of confidence for ethereum's ability to ship and ship major upgrades without with kind of like no issues attached to them, you know, not to mention all the downstream effects from that. So very, very excited for all of that. And yeah, keep an eye out or keep an ear out for the kill and testnet details, which I will be covering once they're released in the next few days. All right, so some news out of Bloomberg today that says President Joe Biden is set to sign an executive order this week that will outline the US government's strategy for cryptocurrencies.
00:02:14.170 - 00:02:44.046, Speaker A: Now, for those who don't know, this has been in the works for quite a while. A, this is not an overnight thing. This is, while not a thing that's in kind of like, um, in response to the stuff happening in, in Russia and Ukraine and the sanctions and all that sort of stuff. This, I remember hearing about this a while ago, but it seems the Biden administration is ready to sign and this exec, or at least Joe, is ready to sign this executive order. And I think this can be a good thing. People expect this to be a bad thing. They think equip is going to get so heavily regulated and it's going to be really, really shitty.
00:02:44.046 - 00:03:36.036, Speaker A: And, you know, everyone's going to kind of like lose their, lose their money because his crypto is going to dump. I don't think that's the case, guys. I think what's going to happen is that this should give us more regulatory clarity, which will actually be better for the bigger players in the ecosystem and give them more clarity and make it just clearer about what can and can't, can't be done, especially within the US, where obviously a lot of especially defi teams based in the US are really scared of regulators. So scared, in fact, that they won't even air drop tokens to us citizens anymore, which is just crazy, right? So if this executive order can, can basically reverse that trend and make it so that US people are treated the same as kind of like anyone else or as same as most people, obviously there are still a lot of countries excluded from things due to sanctions anyway. You know, obviously like North Korea, Korea and Russia and all that sort of stuff. But the US is normally lumped in with those kind of, with those types of countries. And it's just crazy.
00:03:36.036 - 00:04:18.370, Speaker A: Whenever I see the list of banned countries from things and it lists the United States and North Korea, I'm just like, what the hell? And like about, obviously, there's a bunch of middle eastern countries in there as well. And I just think, you know, this is just very, very weird. Not, not, obviously not trying to get political here, but obviously the US is really, as far as I know, the only first well developed nation, especially the only kind of like developed superpower that, that suffers from these sorts of things, especially for their own citizens. Like there are teams in the US doing tokens and aren't airdropping the token to their us users or investors or anything like that, which is, which is obviously very, very crazy. So I'm looking forward to seeing what this is. As I said, I think it's going to be a positive. I don't think it's going to be a negative.
00:04:18.370 - 00:04:48.722, Speaker A: We have a lot of people in our kind of like, court here, especially in the arena of the political arena, because if you think about it, think about all the US based funds, the billion dollar funds that have massive skin in the game to make sure that this industry doesn't become over regulated. It does. You know, there's not bad regulations put in place, but not just that. There are, you know, think tanks like coin center that do a lot of great work, and they have the funding to do that as well. They've been given a lot of money recently, which is cool to see. There's a bunch of others out there. I mean, money, there's no kind of, like, shortfall of money here.
00:04:48.722 - 00:05:08.014, Speaker A: And people in crypto are getting more involved with. With politics as well. So as I said, I think this is going to be a positive. I don't foresee this being a negative, but we're going to have to see how it shakes out. Maybe it happens this week. As I said, maybe it doesn't happen till next week. Obviously, you know, Biden has a lot more on his mind than this sort of stuff, but we'll see if it happens this week, all the better.
00:05:08.014 - 00:05:43.966, Speaker A: All right, so immutable has announced an absolutely massive raise of $200 million in a serious c funding round, which values immutable at a $2.5 billion valuation here. Now, this is big for multiple reasons, obviously, but I want to just disclose here that I am an investor in immutable. I didn't invest in this round, but I invested in their series A round, which was a little while ago now. But, yeah, just a disclaimer there. So obviously, obviously I have some skin in the game, but essentially, why this? I think this is a big deal. Firstly, it's another L2 scalability project for Ethereum getting massive funding.
00:05:43.966 - 00:06:29.668, Speaker A: You know, always a good thing. Secondly, it's a. It's got a bunch of investors that haven't actually invested in crypto before, such as Tencent. As far as I know, Tencent hasn't invested in crypto before, especially not in the kind of like, NFT gaming area, which is huge because Tencent is an absolutely massive company. They had, they're massive in the video game industry, and they're doing a lot of, a lot of investments there, but they're kind of, like making their way into crypto now, and there's a bunch of, kind of, like, other investors here. These are the typical investors you'll see in these later rounds, like the Series B, Series C, Series D sort of thing, because they have, you know, a lot, a lot of money, and they're not, they don't, they're not, they don't, they're not the funds that kind of, like, take the early risk or at least majority of their funds don't take the early risk of the seed in the series A's and stuff like that. But then you can see there's some other investors here, like Alameda Research, which was disappointing to see.
00:06:29.668 - 00:07:09.138, Speaker A: As you guys know, Alameda is, is, is FTX's thing, and they're big on the salana ecosystem. So it's always bizarre to me that they one, invest in L2s on ethereum when they're all in on Solana and, and to the fact that these kind of, like, teams kind of give them the allocation and, you know, it could happen for any reason out there. I don't think it's, like, bearish for immutable that they got money from Alameda, just like, I don't think it's bearish for starkware, but, yeah, it's just kind of like the way it is at these kind of, like, levels here. But anyway, very, very cool to see this obviously immutable is, you know, kicking tons of goals. They're scaling nfts. They're doing a lot of great stuff there. I know people have been kind of, like, complaining about the token price.
00:07:09.138 - 00:08:05.456, Speaker A: I can't comment on that as I have obviously, a direct conflict of interest there. But, yeah, I mean, you know, just checking out the pricing that it's kind of, like, been down only for a while is unfortunate. But I think that's just the sign of both, you know, the kind of like the market in general and, and the fact that it's a riskier investment right into the day. But as I said, I'm not going to go into detail on that due my conflicts, conflicts of interest there. And the last thing I wanted to kind of, like, discuss about this, not particularly the raise, but just like immutable in general, is that when I look at kind of teams and projects in crypto, I look at the ones that have been like, and kind of like rank them and look at them and kind of like try to figure out which ones are, you know, long term, kind of like sustainable, going to be around long term, going to be around no matter if it's bear or bull market. And, you know, immutable is one of those companies, one of those projects. Because if you track immutable's history back, they've been around for quite a while now, um, you know, four, four ish years, I think, probably, or maybe more than that.
00:08:05.456 - 00:08:30.020, Speaker A: Um, and they've been building all that time and they haven't given up on their projects. They're still building gods unchained, which has been, you know, they're, they're basically their earliest project. They've been building immutable for immutable x for quite a while now. They're obviously raising large funding rounds to keep doing that. They're hiring like crazy. They're onboarding a lot of the traditional gaming space into the NFT ecosystem and they're doing this through, as I said, bull or bear. And that's what I look at.
00:08:30.020 - 00:09:22.750, Speaker A: And, you know, at the, at the kind of like, other side of things, though, there is that there are projects out there who kind of seem to like, feign as if they're building, still building or they're kind of like faking it. And this is true for a lot of the 2017 era projects, that their projects are dead, their zombie projects. They completely failed as they found no product market fit. It's better just to kind of like kill them off and stop wasting your time. But obviously, given that they have tokens, there's a bit of conflicting things there. Maybe they feel an obligation to token holders to drive value back to the token, or maybe they don't, they don't want to kind of like have regulators after them if they basically say, oh, well, it failed and, you know, our project's over, and then, and then kind of like the token goes to zero and then everyone just kind of like blames them and, you know, sends lawsuits their way and things like that. There, there are obviously multitude of reasons here, but don't mistake projects building for a while as being a good project.
00:09:22.750 - 00:09:55.518, Speaker A: Like, my point is that, you know, there are projects that have been building for a while that are seeing lots of success, but there are also a lot of projects that have been building since 2017 or even 2016 or earlier that are complete and, you know, objective failures and they really should just like, you know, stop beating the dead horse and stop. But a lot of them don't for the variety of reasons. Some of them I just outlined there. But anyway, absolutely massive raise from immutable. Congrats to them on this. Curious to see what they do with this money and who else they onboard into the crypto ecosystem. And speaking of, I guess like funding rounds for layer 2.0.
00:09:55.518 - 00:10:27.290, Speaker A: Had an interesting tweet today where they said just two Starkx application specific volitions have now raised close to $1 billion. Makes you question narratives from the Alt L1 mania a few months ago. Smart contract chains devour application specific chains. VC's will only find alt l one s and l one s are most valuable fpt. And then polly now goes on to say another tweet. In reality, app specific roll ups volitions are far and away the most efficient solutions. Not all applications, scenarios and users require synchronicity like Defi VC's will throw money at the kitchen sink.
00:10:27.290 - 00:10:58.776, Speaker A: Applications accrue most value exception monetary premium. I've been banging on about this stuff for a while for, you know, you regular refuel listeners out there, you will know exactly, exactly what I mean. But I want to address each of these points just like specifically here, because I think it's interesting. So there is a lot of, I guess was a lot of belief that smart contract chains would make app specific chains completely obsolete. It wouldn't make any sense. And then people would argue and say, well, no, that's not going to happen. You know, we have Cosmos, we have Polkadot.
00:10:58.776 - 00:11:29.330, Speaker A: They're doing app specific chains. It's going to be good. But my thesis was that app specific chains need to be done at L2. I don't think that it makes sense for an app to have to worry about its own sovereignty. And by that I mean spinning up its own validator set, because it is wildly inefficient, it is hard, and it takes focus away from actually just building the app at the end of the day. So that's why I've always been bearish on the Cosmos and Polkadot models and really bullish on the Ethereum plus l two model. Even if those l two s aren't generalized, they're just as specific.
00:11:29.330 - 00:12:02.054, Speaker A: Obviously, Dy DX and immutable are kind of like proving that out. And there are going to be other projects out there as well that prove that. I mean, loop, ring, diversify, they're all proving it out that the model works. And then Polynya says VC's will only fund Alt L1 s. There's another narrative out there. Of course, they're not only going to fund Alt L1 s guys, they have billions of dollars, they're going to throw it at the kitchen sink, as Polynya said. But also I think a lot of these VC's, they, I mean the way they operate is they obviously have to spread out their bets, right? They can't just like go all in on one investment and that's it, because that's just not how a VC firm operates and that's just not how VC works generally.
00:12:02.054 - 00:12:28.618, Speaker A: So they're spreading their bets out. But there are some VC's out there that get it right. They don't just kind of like do this bray and pray approach, they actually get that the modular approach to scalability, especially within ethereum and its L2 ecosystem, is obviously very, very healthy and then polynomials. Third point that l one s will be the most valuable. Valuable or are the most valuable. I've talked about this plenty of times on the review. I think that there are very, very few l one tokens that are going to be valuable long term.
00:12:28.618 - 00:13:12.660, Speaker A: ETH obviously BTC, I mean you could argue, I personally don't think BTC is going to be super valuable long term, especially once ETH flips it, but you could argue that it's obviously going to be more valuable than most of the other kind of like layer one chains out there. But I. Yeah, I just don't think long term a lot of these l one tokens are going to hold their value, especially not against ETH because at the end of the day ETH has natural demand, ETH has natural use cases. ETH is a amazing asset. It, you know, and ETH is kind of like a shelling point for the ecosystem, especially on the smart contract side. So. So yeah, I mean the thing is though, a lot of these, I guess VC's and funds, they're able to get in on these l one tokens really early on and you can obviously make a lot of money.
00:13:12.660 - 00:13:41.024, Speaker A: You know, a lot of the early investors on Avalanche and Terra and Solana made a lot, but at the same time those were available at public markets too. And you could have, you could have made a lot there too. But it's, it's all well and good to make a lot, but like a lot of what a lot of people end up doing is that they'll make the money but then they'll just keep holding, they won't actually take profits. And then over time these things just kind of like bleed out, especially during bear markets. I mean you go look at some of these charts. I believe Solana is down 70% from its all time high. Avax is down 50%.
00:13:41.024 - 00:14:10.322, Speaker A: Terra Terra is faring a bit better, but I think that's just because they raised money recently. So I'm not sure what's going to happen there. And as I've said before to you guys, I don't view terror as similar to a theorem, really. They're doing, Glenn, like, one thing, or at least one ecosystem of things, which is centered around there. They're stablecoin, obviously, but you go and look at the others, like Phantom, for example, that's just completely destroyed, especially against ethanol. And all these other ones, like, kind of like near Adam, they're all just kind of, like, bleeding out because the. The market doesn't.
00:14:10.322 - 00:14:43.984, Speaker A: Can't sustain that many, and people are just not interested in holding those sorts of things, especially because they know that there's not natural demand for them. They're just narrative trades. So. So, yeah, I totally agree with Polynya here that the narrative of l one s being the most valuable is not true for, like, most l one s out there. Um, and as Polly now says, except for the ones with the monetary premium, which is exactly what Ethan BTC have at current time, I am not convinced there'll be any other smart contract platforms that will be able to accrue monetary premium for their native asset. I think that there's only going to be one or two. And, you know, there currently only is two.
00:14:43.984 - 00:15:06.998, Speaker A: Maybe there is only one in the future, but, you know, two. Two, I think, will sustain for a while, but I don't view any of these other ones being able to kind of, like, get up to that. That level, basically. All right, so I guess I think the rest of the refill is going to be about L2s, guys. So a bunch of exciting L2 news today. First out of argent. So now their L2, kind of like, accountant features is available to everyone no longer in beta.
00:15:06.998 - 00:15:56.114, Speaker A: So, as they say here, you got low gas fee, super fast speeds, trade stake and earn bulletproof security, and 100 times less carbon emissions, which I like. I like the fact that the kind of, like, teams working with L2s are actually talking about this because of the fact that, you know, a lot of people are concerned about the environmental impact of crypto crypto, which is fair enough. So let's kind of, like, harp on about that and be like, look, these L2s are obviously much more efficient because they are not running proof of work. And then obviously, post merge Ethereum is going to be in that arena as well. But, but anyway, if you have Arjun and if you kind of like been waiting to have Argent, I guess like to, to play around with Argent, now's the time to do so because you can do it using a layer to account. No need to use layer one ethereum, no need to use the high fees. I mean, even at 20 way, like, the fees are relatively cheap compared to what they've been.
00:15:56.114 - 00:16:15.174, Speaker A: But that's still too high. I mean, a swap is what, still like $10, I think, you know, if I'm doing my math correctly in my head, that's still way too much. Right? So get on the l two s. Get on the l two s now, guys, because it's cheap to bridge in. It's never been a more perfect time, I think. But, yeah. Good to see Argent come out of beta here with their l two integration.
00:16:15.174 - 00:17:05.052, Speaker A: All right, so Arbitrum announced today they have released research arbitrum IO, which is a forum for arbitrary research development and ideas for, for improvements. Now, obviously, it's quite bare right now because it was just launched, but this is kind of similar to the e three search forum, for those of you who have seen that basically uses the same kind of like website templates. And this is all about arbitram, you know, as an ecosystem. And there are a couple of open topics that arbitram wants to tackle, such as compression in nitro, which is obviously what to do with coming, doing gas fees and core data compression and getting those gas fees down in their nitro upgrade, l two compute gas of pricing and support for BLS signatures in nitro. So you can go here and actually look at these threads like there's an l two compute gas pricing here as a discussion here. I mean, Ed Felton has started it, which is one of the founders of off chain labs who builds arbitrum. And then you have like a bunch of others here.
00:17:05.052 - 00:17:42.420, Speaker A: So obviously, as I said, pretty bare right now, but I expect this to kind of like heat up over time. Very excited to see an open research forum for a L2. That's definitely, you know, a welcome thing to see in the ecosystem. And I think that this is just the first step towards decentralizing these things because changes to the protocol should be done out in the open. Shouldn't just be up to the off chain labs core team for these l two s going for, and just l two s in general shouldn't be up to the core team. And this is how you get to that point. This is how you get to the point where you decentralize over time, not just with a token, but creating a culture of open building, open development, and publicly at that.
00:17:42.420 - 00:18:19.518, Speaker A: So very cool to see this. I'll link it in the description for you to check out. All right, so Lee file or leafy protocol here today have announced that they built a cross chain dapp that allows you to donate any token from any evm chains to the ukraine. Cause so you no longer have to worry about the ethgas fees. You can donate any amount and every dollar count. So if you want to do this, you can go to transfer two XYz Ukraine and kind of, like, donate there. You know, look, the reason I kind of, like, bring this up is because I wanted to kind of talk about how I really like how the crypto community has come together really quickly to, to do this for.
00:18:19.518 - 00:19:16.516, Speaker A: For not, you know, for Ukraine, obviously, but just in general, I think people underestimate, not underestimate, people forget why this industry was kind of, like, founded or what the principles that this industry was kind of, like, founded on, with bitcoin, then with a theory, and then with kind of, like, you know, other things out there. One of the major principles is helping those who have been either kind of, I guess, like, oppressed or suffering from. From, you know, war or kicked off the traditional financial system or, you know, sanctioned or kind of, like, banned from using the existing kind of, like, monetary instruments, all that sort of stuff. Those are kind of like the things that this industry is built on. Right. And on top of that, getting money to where it needs to be really quickly is another core, core principle that isn't talked about enough. And, you know, I know it's because we're all used to it by now, but the fact that we can send value instantaneously around the world with relatively kind of, like, cheap fees, especially at L2s, is.
00:19:16.516 - 00:19:51.954, Speaker A: Is amazing. I think it's. It's truly amazing. I think it's the most underrated aspect of this industry. And I think that, you know, it just kind of, like, shines when we kind of see, like, stuff like this where Ukraine can accept donations and get instant money without any government in the middle, without any other government. Obviously, the Ukraine government is a recipient here, but without any kind of other government in the middle and without them having to kind of, like, spin up any complicated infrastructure or get permission or anything like that, which I think is obviously a vastly underestimated benefit of Ethereum and just blockchain and crypto in general there. So if you would like to donate, this is just another option.
00:19:51.954 - 00:20:32.844, Speaker A: For you to do so. So I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out. All right, so starkware announced today or yesterday that they have kind of formed a strategic partnership with Alchemy, which reflects the shared commitment of their teams to build stock net and provide developers with the full suite of alchemy's proprietary platform infrastructure, products and services. Now I've talked about Alchemy recently when I was talking about the inferior drama from the other day. They provide infrastructure for Ethereum, for, I think, other chains out there and also for l two. So this is just kind of like formalizing a strategic partnership between starkware and Alchemy, which is, which is really, really cool. At the same time, you know, decentralized services are all well and good.
00:20:32.844 - 00:21:07.466, Speaker A: It's all, it's all totally cool and everything, but like, I want to see more of these decentralized infrastructure providers spin up. I know about pocket Network and I think maybe there's one or two others that I'm just not remembering the name of right now. But really, at the end of the day, this is like a massive thing. As I mentioned last time when I spoke about this, if all we have is like centralized infrastructure providers on top of these decentralized chains, it kind of defeats the purpose. So we definitely need to do more work, more work there. And I'm hoping Starkware maybe can, can help alchemy with this. There's no reason alchemy can't decentralize out or create like a decentralized version of their, of their product offering.
00:21:07.466 - 00:21:41.522, Speaker A: Maybe, maybe they don't want to because they make a lot of money from, from their centralized offering. But I don't know, I feel like there is something there that can be done and maybe stockware can help them with that. But cool to see this, I guess, formalized strategic partnership from them on to the next update. So connect have rebranded their x pollinate service to connect Bridge to consolidate their brand identity and to make it simpler for end users to use the network. I'm glad this was done because whenever I was talking about connects with people, I would say, oh yeah, you have to use x pollinate. And they're like, what's ex pollinate? You just tell me about telling me about connects. And I'm like, okay, well, yeah, it's connects, but like it's just a different name.
00:21:41.522 - 00:22:17.446, Speaker A: You know, it, branding is extremely important, guys. Like, I think this isn't, this is kind of something that people don't realize is, especially if you're deep into crypto branding is, is everything. And if you kind of like confuse users with your brand, they get upset, they get frustrated, they get very, very lost very, very quickly. So I'm very, very glad to see this and I just wanted to kind of like give a heads up to you guys because if you see Kinect Bridge from now on, that is basically what ex pollinate has been just with the new name. And the name is just simple, right? Connects the brand and bridge. It just describes what it is straight away. No need for users to get confused, which is obviously what we want to see here.
00:22:17.446 - 00:22:55.418, Speaker A: And then they have a little thread here, just kind of going through the context around this. But obviously a very, very good decision from Connext here. All right, finally, in the Altoo news, diversify have launched a bridge to arbitrum. So you can move your assets between arbitrum and diversify without ever touching layer one, which means no delays and no hefty gas fees. This is really cool because for those of you who don't know, diversify is a validum built using star quest technology. And now they have a bridge between them and arbitrum, which is obviously a totally different network, being an optimistic roll up. So not only a different network, but a totally different architecture as well, which is absolutely awesome to see.
00:22:55.418 - 00:23:23.192, Speaker A: So as I say, guys, these bridges, they're going to keep coming. There's going to be bridges between app specific l two s and other ecosystems and generalized bridges and blah, blah, all this sort of stuff. You won't have to worry about moving between these things for really any very much longer. And this was actually a drawback. People kind of like stated about l two s. They're like, oh, there's going to be so many l two s and they're all going to be fragmented and liquidity is going to be fragmented, interoperability is going to be hard, blah, blah. And I always used to say that I'm like, no, there's going to be bridges.
00:23:23.192 - 00:23:56.394, Speaker A: There's going to be plenty of these bridges. Yes, there's going to be an extra risk using these bridges, but over time that risk will get less. But we weren't even talking about risk. We're just talking about the other factors and they were like, oh, you know, that's going to be too complex for people. People aren't going to use those bridges. It's like, well, they are and they're using them a lot people, you know, there's billions of dollars in these bridges, for better or worse. So I think that the more of these that come online, especially, you know, tapping into Leadot finance, which I just spoke about, which is actually a bridge aggregator, you know, it's just going to be seamless, and then while it's going to integrate with it, they're just going to have one button, you click.
00:23:56.394 - 00:24:16.524, Speaker A: Everything's going to happen in the background. It's going to be totally seamless. And I think people who don't realize that it's going to be seamless in the future are just completely missing the forest for the trees. So I think kind of like when you can kind of consider all of that and you take it all into account, these problems are just kind of like fading away. They aren't even problems. They never were problems. But I'm glad to see that narrative shift.
00:24:16.524 - 00:24:51.430, Speaker A: Narratives change based on the, you know, you know, the current information and the developments and, and products and services that kind of like, get released. All right, finally here we have something that I just wanted to give a quick shout out to. So there is going to be a bankless Ethereum down under panel happening on March 21 at 03:00 p.m., PST, 05:00 p.m., EST and 09:00 a.m. Australian Eastern Standard Time. So this is going to be a kind of like Ethereum panel with Kane from synthetix, Robbie Ferguson from immutable, Pat McNabb from mycelium, and tracerdao and sid Powell from maple Finance.
00:24:51.430 - 00:25:24.636, Speaker A: All star lineup, right, guys? And these are all australian based teams. That's why I'm promoting this. Obviously, you guys know I'm australian and I'm actually going to be attending, as I said, the, the, the kind of like events in real life. So I'm actually going to be in Sydney on, on the 22 March here australian time, and I'm going to be getting up at 09:00 a.m. For those of you listening to the refuel long enough, you know that my usual wake up time is like 11:00 a.m. I never really get up at night because I'm, I stay up late because I got, I'm actually record, I record the refuel at like 11:00 p.m. My time and then I, by the time I put it out and everything go to bed, it's like 02:00 a.m.,
00:25:24.636 - 00:25:48.912, Speaker A: so, um, yeah, like getting up at 09:00 a.m. Or even before 09:00 a.m. Is going to be a struggle, but I do it for Ethereum guys. But anyway, enough about my sleeping patterns. What I wanted to say as well is that I know, you know, I spoke about kind of, like, the blockchain week yesterday and how those real life events and virtual events and everything like that. I. And as I mentioned, like, I think it was last week about the kind of, like, ETH down under event happening in December.
00:25:48.912 - 00:26:01.414, Speaker A: I'm super excited about all of this because we need more stuff happening in Australia. I know I promised the daily gray meetup in Melbourne sometime. That's still going to happen eventually. Guys. I just don't know when. I am trying to find time. I am so, so busy right now.
00:26:01.414 - 00:26:15.354, Speaker A: You know, it's funny, um, Kobe is in. Is in Melbourne right now, and he's been trying to kind of, like, meet up with me, and I'm like, dude, I'm so busy. I'm sorry. I just crazy, like, doing stuff around the house and everything like that. And you'll probably hear my dog barking. He's annoying the shit out of me lately. I'm Chad.
00:26:15.354 - 00:26:27.518, Speaker A: I've got to try, man. It's just. It's just a bit of a disaster with, with him lately. But he's all right. He's healthy and everything. But, um, anyway, enough about my life story here. My point is, is that I hope to see much more of these australian based things happening this year.
00:26:27.518 - 00:26:46.870, Speaker A: I really want to, obviously, do the daily Gray meetup. And if you know of any other meetups or any other things happening in Australia, especially in Melbourne, obviously, where I live, please let me know. I would love to. Love to attend, love to kind of, like, even speak at. Love to meet people there and everything like that. But anyway, I think on that note, I'm going to finish it there for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching.
00:26:46.870 - 00:26:53.334, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
