00:00:00.170 - 00:00:37.814, Speaker A: Hi, everybody, I'm Justin Alexander, community manager at Siren, and this is Adam Feather, contributor at Siren. Siren is a defi protocol that lets users trade options and earn yield. On any token you might be asking, why do you have two speakers? It's because we wanted to give you guys options. Haha. All right, we're going to talk today about options and how they're being brought into the defi space. Okay, let's start by everyone closing your eyes and remembering back to June 2021. It was the start of our second Covid summer, and you were probably starting to worry because your grandma asked you about what an NFT was.
00:00:37.814 - 00:01:18.102, Speaker A: But imagine entering the market at this moment. You have the knowledge, you know now what would you do? Well, I know that I would buy, right? So there's a couple of avenues for my entry into the market. I can buy the asset and I'd take profit. But remember, I not only have the belief, I have the knowledge that this market is going up, so I'd choose to leverage my position and take more profit. In a traditional leverage position, I'd probably need a sweater because I might lose my shirt. Liquidation is a real risk in a leveraged trading. So liquidations can occur when a trader holds a leveraged position and that market volatility increases the risk of the position.
00:01:18.102 - 00:01:59.220, Speaker A: The exchange could require a capital investment to continue holding this position. If the trader cannot meet these requirements, the position is closed and I e, liquidated. So in this hypothetical situation, I was directionally right, but my forecast was still I was directionally right in my forecast, but still end up losing. So in this graph, again, a trader leveraged through borrowing may have been required to deposit funds to hold the position because of the dip made the investment more risky. And if they could not meet their fund requirements, their position could be liquidated by the exchange. So this is where options truly shine. Right.
00:01:59.220 - 00:02:47.140, Speaker A: They give traders the opportunity to express their opinion in the market without fear of liquidation. So volatility has destroyed trader positions, even with the best guesses and directional movement. So what are options and what comprise them? Options are a financial instrument set between two parties to buy or sell an asset in the future at a predetermined price. The buyer of the option pays a premium for this, right? It is important to understand a few key factors on the options. So a strike price is a predetermined price at which the buyer of the option can buy or sell the underlying asset. In this case, we're talking about ETH, an expiration date. That's the predetermined date at which the buyer of the option may exercise their contract, let's say two months.
00:02:47.140 - 00:03:12.394, Speaker A: Volatility is the statistical measure of dispersion of returns for a given asset. So, I. E. Markets go up and down, and that premium is the fee to purchase a capital or, I'm sorry, a call or put option. It's the price paid for the right of the option provides. So here, these factors affect the premium. The cost of a strike price to the market goes up.
00:03:12.394 - 00:03:43.140, Speaker A: The premium price also increases. The closer to the expiry, the greater the effect on the price. And the greater the volatility, the greater the effect on the price of the premium as well. So there's two types of options, contracts. We got call options, and this is the right to buy an asset at a specific price, the strike price, within a specific time period. So the expiry calls become more valuable as the underlying asset increases. Traders often buy contracts rather than the asset itself.
00:03:43.140 - 00:04:17.002, Speaker A: The max loss is the total cost of the contract premium. You continue to benefit as the price goes up, but only lose the premium if the price goes below the strike price. So the increase of the upside, while packaging the risk through a known premium fee. Put options are the opposite. They give the trader the right to sell an asset at a predetermined price within the specific time period. So a put option becomes more valuable as the price of an underlying asset decreases. Investors often use put options as a risk management strategy.
00:04:17.002 - 00:04:46.754, Speaker A: The investor buys a put option to hedge the downside risk of an asset held in their portfolio. The premium itself is the cost to the hedge of their portfolio. Both puts and calls allow traders to express their beliefs in the directional movement of the market and volatility. So let's just hammer home a few of the specific use cases for options as whole. So again, leverage. A trader could utilize the capital to purchase options contracts over the actual asset. Next, we have hedging.
00:04:46.754 - 00:05:02.250, Speaker A: So use option contracts as a mechanism to minimize losses of assets held in your portfolio. And lastly, we have trade volatility. So trading based on the perceived volatility of the market to make your decisions. Now let's deep dive with Adam.
00:05:04.670 - 00:05:34.134, Speaker B: Hey guys. So I'm Adam, like Justin said, and I'm going to be your Murph guide into the DFI sea. So we're going to start looking at just like options within the realm of DFI. Now, crypto options have grown a lot over the past year. As we all know, in centralized finance alone, the trading volume was up about 443%, with the majority of trading happening on Dairybit. Total trading volume of crypto options was about $404,000,000,000, but DFI option trading volume accounted for only about 3.5 billion of this.
00:05:34.134 - 00:05:59.386, Speaker B: And this was a very small percentage of the total crypto option space. Most of the trading is happening from DFI option vaults or dovs. Is this chip. Oh, my bad, sorry. Scared of the mic? I guess so. DeFi option vaults or dovs, which is a fairly passive investment strategy. They operate on investors simply staking their assets into vaults, which automatically deploy their assets into option strategies.
00:05:59.386 - 00:06:48.474, Speaker B: The system is limited to short term, pre determined option series and do not allow for traders to buy and sell freely. As more protocols within DeFI allow for more active trading start to emerge, investors will be able to take full advantage of the options that they have to offer. This, along with increasing TVL inside of the option protocol, will allow for higher trading volumes on options within DeFi. So just like Justin said, there's a lot of upside with options. So what are the benefits of them within the DeFi space? Options within DeFi allow for markets that are permissionless, so anyone's able to start a market on the asset itself instead of being restricted to market makers and other financial institutions. Lps are actually able to earn yields on long tail assets as well, but they may not be able to get yields on alternative systems. It is also composable.
00:06:48.474 - 00:07:26.042, Speaker B: So it's allowing for anyone to build on top of these systems and also create innovative option solutions. So let's talk about some of the challenges that are here before we can actually take advantage of these solutions. These include, but are not limited to, low capital efficiency, low liquidity, inferior pricing, and some technical complexities. These all kind of run into one another. And so like low capital efficiency or over collateralization of protocols can result in low liquidity. And then the low liquidity, along with technical challenges, can lead to inferior pricing of premiums, making them a less cost effective solution to their centralized finance counterparts. This is why passive options strategies such as dovs are the first to be taking off in the DeFi space.
00:07:26.042 - 00:08:08.760, Speaker B: As the infrastructure of the space matures, you will see more protocols develop, similar to Dairybit, that allow for traders to actively trade options. So one of the solutions that we're looking at at siren is an amm for options. And so this is using a system similar to Uniswap's Amm. We're able to compute prices for the premiums without needing a traditional market maker, which is like one of the benefits as well. As LP is able to earn passive income by selling option premiums and receiving trading fees from the users. With the flexibility of an AMm, it is scramble, which will allow developers to create systems that are different from things we've ever seen before. For example, a developer would be able to create an Amm that can sell calls that are only out of the money, just like a bunch of crazy things we could start seeing with some of this, which is really cool.
00:08:08.760 - 00:08:45.810, Speaker B: An Amm is also composable, similar to just the rest of DeFi. And so products can be built on top of this, such as dovs and indexes, allowing for alternative ways for investors to earn income. So there's just a lot of different ways that you'll be able to earn your income, and it'll be not just like one or two ways. With regular trading that there is now on DeFi, you'll be able to have a whole plethora of new and alternative solutions. There are some challenges associated with this, though. For example, calculations of premium pricing being computationally expensive because of complex financial models being used on chain. And so this causes some of the developers and designers to have to choose between either accurate pricing or low transaction fees.
00:08:45.810 - 00:09:46.722, Speaker B: We're also in the works of developing better perpetual protocols, and this is to provide better risk management for lps to protect them against long term indefinite losses and then the reliance on oracles. So option protocols are fundamentally limited by the quality and availability of these oracles. And this creates both an issue with decentralization and accuracy for the option protocols, because if we're only getting our oracles from like two or three sources, this isn't really decentralized, which is kind of a large point of a lot of this. So let's take a little bit deeper, look into our amm that we have. As you can see, we have some crypto apes that are doing some trading and some crypto apes that are going to be providing some liquidity. So within siren, we have tokenized the buy and the right sides of an option, which allow option buyers and sellers or the writers to easily move in and out of their positions at any like, let's look at exactly how the amm might be used. A LP will deposit tokens in the liquidity pool, allowing for trading to occur on an option through our amm.
00:09:46.722 - 00:10:36.630, Speaker B: And this could happen with any asset because there isn't any restrictions with it like we were talking about. It's like programmable and it's composable. And then these tokens are then used as the collateral, as the option contract is minted and locked for those buyers. Traders are then able to buy and sell contracts through the AMM at predetermined prices computed by the AMM based on an underlying volatility and open interest. The market makers are also able to submit their own quotes for wholesale purchases, similar to the dovs. For a more passive investment strategy that we can work with the AMM to kind of get that working, just as whenever there's larger wholesale quotes going through, the lps are then able to earn their yields and selling premiums, able to earn yields through selling premiums as well as trading fees to the system. The AMM is addressing a lot of these challenges within DeFi because it allows us to simultaneously fulfill goals of decentralization and solving problems related to the liquidity on chain.
00:10:36.630 - 00:11:19.430, Speaker B: Sorry guys, hopefully by the end of this talk you realize that you don't have to travel to the past to have a full knowledge of the markets to maximize your trading. The use of the options in DeFi gives traders more buying power and freedom to express their market beliefs. Liquidity providers are able to earn yields on trades traditionally that would go back to the bank or a centralized exchange, and buyers have a more involvement within their trading system. Options are also able to create an ecosystem that allow for a more effective transfer of risk that is a cornerstone to any financial system. And having efficient, transparent, programmable options infrastructure is a huge step in the right direction for decentralized future. So that's kind of like what we're aiming for with all of this. Hopefully you guys got something out of that.
00:11:19.430 - 00:11:32.050, Speaker B: So if you want to contact us, this is our contact information. We'd love to hear from you. We'll be around the conference as well, so just come up and talk to us. So hope you guys enjoyed that. Bye.
