00:00:03.530 - 00:00:32.402, Speaker A: All right, here we are with Stani Kulichov. He's the founder and CEO of Ave, the second largest Defi platform by total value locked right now, which is amazing considering they started off the year at basically zero value locked. So I'm super excited to chat with you about what's going on in Ave and all the recent developments so far. Thank you so much for joining me in the defiant podcast.
00:00:32.466 - 00:00:37.394, Speaker B: Yeah, thank you so much, Camilla, for having me here. Glad to discuss some Defi related things.
00:00:37.532 - 00:01:07.090, Speaker A: Yay. Of course. So briefly, before we get into all the latest developments, I'd love to get more of the background on how Ave came to be because before Ave there was east lend and the ICO and going through all the roughness of the bear market. So can you first provide that background of the period before Ave?
00:01:07.590 - 00:02:34.110, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. So basically as a protocol, Ave protocol, we started this year in January, year before, basically we rebranded to Ave, but before that we used to go by the name of Eatlend, which is short for Ethereum lending. And basically what Ethereum lending was back then was just a small project that I basically founded while I was studying law in University of Helsinki, Finland, where I'm originally from. And what actually happened is that we started as a community project and we wanted to create basically the first lending protocol on Ethereum and kind of like test how we could create a bit more complex financial transaction than trading or transferring funds from one address to another. And one thing led to another. We had an interesting market back then, and this was ages before stable coins or liquidity pools and any kind of idea of total locked value. And I think the transition from Ethland to ave was kind of natural as kind of like we saw liquidity starting to pull together and we started to think like how we could utilize more this locked liquidity, locked value in a more capital efficient way.
00:02:34.110 - 00:02:37.310, Speaker B: And that is how we came with the Arbor protocol.
00:02:37.890 - 00:02:45.226, Speaker A: Because was Eastland more of like a peer to peer lending structure than a pooled liquidity structure?
00:02:45.418 - 00:03:41.630, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. So we started back then with the peer to peer model because we heavily believed and still believed that kind of the idea of decentralized finance. And for us it was just finance in terms of smart contracts because the term wasn't coined back then yet. But the idea is that you could actually democratize a bit, the interactions so anyone can build permissionlessly and participate permissionlessly into the ecosystem. And that is what's very fascinating. And basically we choose the peer to peer model also because we try to separate risks as much as we could, and basically back then, the tokens that were on Ethereum, for example, didn't have that much liquidity, so we didn't want to go with a systemic model. And now we see many models in terms of liquidity pooling, whether it's trading or lending.
00:03:41.630 - 00:04:02.374, Speaker B: That is actually a functional model. If you have incentives network for liquidations and kind of like these kind of incentives that will ensure that your protocol will be healthy. That's kind of like why we transferred from one model to another. As we saw it coming, the thing.
00:04:02.412 - 00:04:36.020, Speaker A: To do got it. And I thought when you first launched, it was interesting to see that you were kind of innovating right off with the A tokens, kind of building from what compound had done with C tokens, but modifying that structure a little bit. So can you explain when you launched Ave, what were the main things that you were trying to innovate with at the time?
00:04:36.870 - 00:05:58.554, Speaker B: Yeah, I think I'm really big fan of the C tokens and kind of like what I wanted to do with our team is that with the A tokens, that we wanted to somehow make interest tokens in a way that you could actually understand how much you're earning in terms of what you're depositing. And it's actually like our goal was just to kind of focus more on the end user user experience. That, for example, if I deposit 100 die into the average protocol, and I get 100 Adai as a kind of like an interest bearing token in return. And we wanted to have this one on one ratio so that you could actually understand how much is deposited. But also that whatever you're earning in the protocol, it actually grows with the balance. And this basically means that we add it into the atoken smart contracts and an algorithm that is based on the interest rate model of the protocol, which updates the balances of all of the a token holders. So you will constantly see, if you're holding a tokens in metamask or in some other basically wallet, you will see the balance all the time increasing.
00:05:58.554 - 00:06:59.618, Speaker B: And why it's important is that you actually know how much you're earning. And also it kind of gives you access to a global permissionless savings account, which is dollar nominated at the moment with the DAI, USDC and USDTO conversions. And that's very important in places, for example like Venezuela, in other countries, in Latin America, for example, Argentina is a good example, where you could basically, just by holding a tokens, whether by depositing or by buying them, you basically hold this permissionless access to basically savings account this way. And it's quite interesting because especially if your local currency has high inflation. And I think in one way it really democratizes and shows what you could actually do with DeFi with just this small interesting function.
00:06:59.784 - 00:07:52.210, Speaker A: Yeah, no, I agree. So for those listening or reading who are not that familiar with these types of tokens, it's a super interesting concept which is representing a lending deposit or tokens deposited in a lending protocol with tokens in your metamask wallet or in your Ethereum wallet. So it's kind of like a derivative of your token deposits. But what's interesting is that the token itself starts growing in value as you start gaining interest. So that's why they're called interest gaining tokens. And it's really cool that it does kind of democratize access to a dollar savings account for anyone in the world. And Ave and compound are two of kind of the main lending protocols offering these types of tokens.
00:07:52.210 - 00:08:07.590, Speaker A: So from there, from launch early in the year, value locked in, Abe has completely skyrocketed. So what do you think are the main milestones in this trajectory?
00:08:08.970 - 00:09:29.342, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, we weren't expecting this kind of like traction at all. I mean, if I in general has been growing quite a lot above my expectations, I always projected DeFi to grow a lot in terms of basing the things has been building what Ave has been building what others have been building. And kind of what I see now is that we get more and more adoption. And it's just funny because we're still in the very beginning in the sense that there's many things that could be still built and we will probably see quite interesting DeFi primitives on top. For us, personally, I think the biggest kind of milestone for us to see was to see flash loans to get utilized. In the beginning, we started to kind of introduce the functionality to developers that, hey, you could build very interesting defi composability things, which basically means when you take a couple of Defi building blocks, let's say you use Aave, you use compound uniswap, and you make some kind of like a product and you use flash loans to basically reduce the need of actually capital to do some kind of like a transaction. And we saw a few months ago that actually flash loans started to get a lot of traction.
00:09:29.342 - 00:10:14.094, Speaker B: And now on a daily basis we have quite a lot of flash loans and in some days we have over 100 million worth of flash loans. Amazing. And that for me is very nice to see actually, and other things that has been substantially important to our team. Is the amount of developers that are building on top of AAVE or are utilizing, for example, Aave. And I think that's pretty cool stuff. Yeah, and we're trying to just innovate as much as we can, create new products and services, and try to just make kind of like the Defi experience as seamless as possible and get most out of it for the users.
00:10:14.222 - 00:11:34.330, Speaker A: So I wanted to stop a little bit on the flash loans concept, which again, for those listening, it's this really interesting idea or ability for DeFI users to take out a loan on one Ethereum transaction, use that money borrowed to execute any type of trade in any other DeFi protocol outside of the platform that you took out the loan to begin with, and then pay back the loan on the same transaction, potentially with the profits that you made from whatever trade you're doing. So this needs to be automated and requires some level of skill because you need to kind of code these trades up. But it does allow anyone to participate in this system without having that much capital to start out with, because you're executing these trades with money that's borrowed and you get to keep those profits as long as you pay the loan back in the same Ethereum transaction. Let me know, Stani, if that was a good explanation for it.
00:11:34.400 - 00:12:06.658, Speaker B: Yeah, totally. I think that was exactly. Very good explanation. Flash loans is a functionality that mostly now maybe developers are using. There are kind of ways to use it with no con functionality. For example, there is an app called Photocombo that does that, that you can actually just drag and drop and make functionality. But it's all about developers building new products for end users to basically make them capital efficient transactions.
00:12:06.658 - 00:13:38.580, Speaker B: In ethereum, I think that's kind of like a key point where we are with flash loans, and flash loans are like, it's just a functionality, but it's part of the bigger picture of our protocol, basically utilizing capital as efficiently as we can with innovation. And one of the other things among flash loans and a tokens is basically credit delegation that we announced a while back ago. And basically that allows anyone who deposits into Ave to earn interest, to basically delegate their credit line to someone they trust, or to a smart contract that does some functionality, some kind of strategies that are pre programmed that basically there is less risk of failure. And this is like the idea of averagely we calculated that every fort user who is depositing into Ave, or let's say from the capital 20% is somewhat utilized and the rest 75% is available liquidity for nationals or basically non utilized and the credit delegation was basically a way of kind of like increasing that utilization rate by allowing other peoples that don't have collaterals but are in trust relationship, or building some smart contract functionality to actually draw that credit behalf of others. And for depositors that are actually delegating credit for them, it's pretty cool because they can earn additional yield. And that's interesting.
00:13:38.950 - 00:14:29.620, Speaker A: That's very cool. I thought this was a really innovative concept and a way to get around this dilemma in DeFi, which is that up until now, you kind of need a lot of capital to borrow. All of the loans in DeFi are over collateralized. And the reason why that happens is because for the system to be permissionless, you can't be checking somebody's credit score or doing KYC, or demanding salary and income statements or anything like that. It just needs to depend on the money you have. So that's kind of limited the number of users that can actually use DeFi because you're requiring to have money upfront. But this is a way to get around that, I think.
00:14:29.620 - 00:14:52.460, Speaker A: Right. By delegating, if you have capital, you can kind of delegate that collateral so someone else can take an unsecured loan. What I don't get is how does the person who is delegating their collateral know how trustworthy the borrower is?
00:14:53.150 - 00:15:58.366, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a good question because it boils down to the actual lending facility or like lending models where you kind of are entering into trust relationship. So basically the very interesting scenario, because there's different kinds of trust relationships, people lend money, for example, for their family members, friends. So there's some trust. There are business that are doing the same, but they're lending out to, let's say consumers, businesses based on the risk scoring. So as a function like the credit delegation idea is to kind of open the floodgates to delegate that credit and source defi liquidity out of protocols like AAve. But end of the day about the underwriting, it's kind of like opportunity for different kinds of protocol models or business models to create functionality where they can do some sort of credit risk assessment. For example, I think three very easy scenarios is where you're delegating credit line to someone you can basically trust.
00:15:58.366 - 00:17:21.350, Speaker B: You can even do that with just a verbal agreement, formal agreement with open law that we used, for example, with the very first credit delegation to diversify. And the second way, for example, you can use the very same thing, but for example, a group of persons or delegators could delegate to an entity that could be in the traditional finance. So they could delegate them to borrow stable coins that they convert into fiat, and then they lend it out basically into their clients, for example. And I could see that in the future, for example, our objective will be fulfilled if someone in the street who is walking, who bought a car or who basically bought a house partially of that purchasing power is sourced from DeFi with credit delegation and the underwriting. It's one own form of business model. For example, there is a project called union teller who are actually working on this kind of stuff where basically they're trying to bring efficiency in terms of underwriting loans in the decentralized finance and utilizing them. But I think we will see a lot of kind of various differences.
00:17:21.350 - 00:18:04.440, Speaker B: And the third one, which is actually even more fascinating to me, is that you could actually delegate credit to a smart contract that does some functionality. For example, we have a protocol called yearn in one of their vaults. So they have this kind of like a vaults that are doing some sort of strategy trading yield farming. And one of the vaults is based on basically a link token, which is delegated token of the A tokens to that vault. And that vault draws credit line with the delegation from Ari. And that's a good example to basically have, I think, like farming activities. So that's a good example.
00:18:05.770 - 00:18:57.270, Speaker A: Okay, wait, I'm not sure I got it, but first, let's kind of go over the other examples. So in the first case, which is kind of the simpler case, is that you're delegating your borrowing power to people, you know, like your friends and family. Then the second case, which I think is a way to scale up this operation, is for entities to delegate their borrowing power to their own clients. So for example, fintechs in traditional finance, who already do KYC on their customers and know that they are credit worthy, they can delegate their lending power and allow those customers to borrow through Ave.
00:18:58.510 - 00:18:59.066, Speaker B: Exactly.
00:18:59.168 - 00:19:19.440, Speaker A: Kind of. Okay. And then the third option would be to have smart contracts execute that loan. And you named this example with vault in wire. But I didn't get that part of the example.
00:19:20.290 - 00:20:23.938, Speaker B: Exactly. So what's interesting about this basically delegating to a smart contract is that basically you could delegate to a smart contract that can only do predefined functions. So let's say in terms of wire, you're basically delegating your credit to the vault wire vault. And what happens there is that you basically give the permission of that vault to draw credit line against your deposits into AAVE. So basically when the vault functionality is basically called, it draws credits from AAvE and basically deposits those funds into, for example, curve to yield farm. The smart contract can't do anything else. So that's the beauty out of it because it's a predefined strategy, it's immutable and you're reutilizing the capital that is basically looked as a TVL in ave in functions that basically can't be changed and it eliminates a credit risk there.
00:20:23.938 - 00:20:55.838, Speaker B: So it's kind of different than the lending to people that you trust or under legal agreements because actually the more you create different kind of functionality in smart contracts, pretty defined. And the more defi grows and these opportunities will come, we might see more scaling there into this direction. And I really love when we have basically smart contract based infrastructure and we don't need to resort to, let's say legal agreements and enforcement. So for me it's very fascinating what's happening on the smart contract side that I gave.
00:20:56.004 - 00:21:15.910, Speaker A: Okay, I got it. These loans would be used to execute different trading strategies by smart contracts. That's really interesting. Are there any examples of this happening yet? Or is it just something that you think would be a good way to use this functionality?
00:21:16.250 - 00:21:54.770, Speaker B: Yes, smart contract to smart contract based credit delegation is already utilized by wire. So they're drawing credit lines from AAVE and basically depositing into different protocols the stable coins to generate more yield. And that's already happening. And I will bet that this will be expanding in the future as well. And I think I made the first proposal I think was yesterday, into the iron community where actually we could create more of these walls and basically expand the credit delegation and those strategies. So that's pretty interesting to see how it will develop.
00:21:54.920 - 00:22:07.350, Speaker A: Yeah, so interesting. So how much would you say right now is being borrowed through this mechanism in general, like taking all these different strategies?
00:22:08.250 - 00:22:36.078, Speaker B: Yeah, I think the amounts aren't that big at the moment. I'm not sure quite the number because I haven't checked how much the utilization is there, but I would expect somewhere below 1 million still. Okay. I think in the future it will go, it might be more. I haven't checked how utilized it is, but it's interesting to actually follow how it's going to develop.
00:22:36.244 - 00:22:47.922, Speaker A: Yeah. With so many things in DeFi, these things tend to kind of grow exponentially and just pick up from one day to the next. So I wouldn't be surprised if.
00:22:48.056 - 00:23:34.366, Speaker B: Yeah, and the thing is that we always tend to focus on kind of like the permissionless aspect of the users. But what's happening in the permissionless aspect in defi in terms of development. That's even more interesting because anyone can develop these kind of products. I could imagine in the future in ave governance that someone can propose these kind of vaults and there could be like a credit delegation functionality that could be done in the user interface to kind of choose which vault you want to delegate and what kind of yields they give you. And I could imagine the ave governance voting on what kind of vaults could be approved into the system, depending on their security, depending on their risk assessment and so forth.
00:23:34.478 - 00:23:49.830, Speaker A: Yeah. Okay, so speaking of governance, I wanted to also speak about ave v two and transition to more decentralized governance. Would love for you to give kind of an overview of this upgrade of the protocol.
00:23:51.850 - 00:25:13.118, Speaker B: Yeah, what's interesting, like the actual narrative behind, because when we launched in January and we saw the protocol growing over the time, and currently have roughly 1.31.4 billion locked value in the smart contracts and the market size is even bigger, 1.5 and so forth, we see the stakes are very high and we feel that as a team, we cannot anymore basically govern the protocol in the sense that we have delivered the base layer of the infrastructure, basically. So we have a base layer of infrastructure now and we're updating it to version two, where we basically are adding more optimization in terms of gas and more functionality. But the underlying idea there is that now it's kind of the time that we give the power of making changes to the protocol and vote on the features and changes to the ave governance. And this is why we're having basically a token migration from lent to AAvE. And basically after that happens, and after we transferred keys to the Ave governance, it's basically up to the governance to decide what Aave the team will be building and what other developers could be built.
00:25:13.118 - 00:26:18.354, Speaker B: So in the future, anyone could build features, functionality into the core ave in the next upcoming versions or additional features on top. And that's what will make it very interesting. And of course anyone can propose as well these updates. And I think we tend to still underestimate the power of the governance, because the more we give the kind of decision making for the governance, the more we have expertise and the more we have vision how the project should be developed in the further. And this is like what got me into Defi and Ethereum in the first place, because it's not about anymore, two bankers deciding in cafeteria in London on how basically the company should be run. But actually now anyone can participate. And that also means that you need to build a product or a protocol that actually is suitable for all parts of the words and demographics.
00:26:18.354 - 00:26:20.374, Speaker B: So that is very fascinating for me.
00:26:20.412 - 00:26:38.730, Speaker A: Yeah, no, I agree. So in this new governance system, will it be kind of a Dao and token based voting? Like avid token holders will propose changes to the protocol and vote on those changes through a dow.
00:26:39.710 - 00:27:50.734, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly. So the most key thing about Ave protocol is that the AVET token holders are basically voting on decisions. And most of the decision because of the value locked in the smart contracts are based on risk. So they're already holding the risk of the locked funds there and the market activity, and they're also voting on the risk parameters and what assets could be added into the protocol. I could imagine there will be in the future, decentralized risk teams giving proposals how things could be changed. And when the AvA token holders are basically deciding upon this risk, they're also at the same time bearing the risk, which basically means that in our avenomics, which is so called like token economics, what we have is a functionality of staking where the token holders can stake their tokens into a safety module. And if there is some sort of like a shortfall event such as smart contract hack or a bug, or any kind of like a failed liquidation, or the governance sees that this thing led to deficit in the protocol.
00:27:50.734 - 00:29:06.438, Speaker B: Basically those stake tokens could be used to cover the deficit. And if it's not enough, basically there is a minting facility as well, and cover this kind of like a deficit. And what's important here is that the Avaton holders are kind of like setting those risk parameters and at the same time they're bearing that risk as well with providing the safeties. And the key component here is that over the past six months where we were designing the avenomics, we tried to think of what is the most important thing for DeFI or for Ave. And one of the things that ringed a bell all the time was like, we have to ensure the safety of the infrastructure, of the whole ecosystem and our protocol, and that is how we get adoption, when basically people can trust that the code has been verified and it has been diligently deployed. But also if there is some sort of like a shortfall event and something bad happens, it could be somehow covered and life can continue. And that was our idea on how we see risk playing a very major role in the governance.
00:29:06.614 - 00:29:35.330, Speaker A: That's interesting for avenomics, I guess the key difference with maybe other protocols is that you have this kind of token reserve that's made by token holders staking their tokens and this reserve is there in case anything bad happens and you need to cover maybe a shortfall in collateral, like with what happened with maker in March.
00:29:35.770 - 00:30:28.226, Speaker B: Exactly right. So basically what's interesting, during the past six months, we took a lot of inspiration from maker. We took inspiration, different protocols and from the backstop syndicate. The idea of that was basically to cover, to buy that maker tokens that were minted and kind of like build in that system as well. And also we're looking at other staking dollars. And one of the biggest kind of interesting inspiration for us was Ethereum, because in essence, what ether is, it's basically transaction gas, but also it's a way to secure the network. Basically miners who are confirming transactions, they're upholding the security for the Ethereum network and they're getting rewards via inflation and also the transaction costs.
00:30:28.226 - 00:31:18.002, Speaker B: And kind of like we saw that this kind of element, rather than focusing completely on rewarding liquidity providers for making the market, we need to also ensure that those liquidity providers are basically safe. And we have modules that kind of incentivizes them to deposit. And we can ensure that if there is such black Thursday event and fed liquidations, it doesn't create this kind of like a downside effect where people are leaving DeFi because of there's just too much risk and the risk is very high because all of the code that is developed, it's public there. So it's really important functionality we understood.
00:31:18.146 - 00:31:34.490, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. So can you talk about the token distribution and how much of the tokens will be as a percentage will be held by Ave team and early investors?
00:31:35.310 - 00:33:01.666, Speaker B: Yeah, so basically, I think in the current sense, maybe the ave team and early investors probably have one fifth of the token supply, which is very low. But it has kind of good perspective in the sense that the token holder base is quite decentralized already because we see a lot of projects when they start their D five project. It starts in a way where the early investors have most of the supply. And gradually with different kinds of liquidity incentives schemes, the tokens are going from, let's say the founding teams to the users, at least in terms of percentage. And what's interesting about the incentives is that we have actually very interesting system in a way that part of the incentives are for the stakers who are providing the safety and part are for the liquidity providers who are providing the liquidity. And now we have our governance, basically an open discussion like how to balance between the liquidity providers and stakers and what's the ratio should be and kind of like to incentivize the safety nays, but at the same time to bring long term liquidity providers. And this is like an interesting discussion that we have been discussing.
00:33:01.666 - 00:33:33.006, Speaker B: And kind of like we see that it's a bit like our community is very oriented into the safety ness. But what's cool about the avenomics is that if you provide liquidity and get rewards, you can compound them into the safety protocol. So if you are incentivized to do that, you might be a liquidity provider that cares more about the protocol health than for example, a liquidity provider that farms, let's say, tokens to just to sell them quickly.
00:33:33.188 - 00:33:53.762, Speaker A: Okay, so what happens here is that liquidity providers can then use those rewards to add staking, to kind of provide the safety net for Ave. And so maybe that way both incentives are kind of aligned like liquidity providers and the safety of Ave.
00:33:53.826 - 00:34:37.458, Speaker B: Interesting. Exactly. So our goal is basically when a liquidity provider steps into the other protocol, they basically are incentivized enough to kind of keep the healthiness of the protocol in mind and kind of see the protocol as a long term, kind of like an investment for them. And I think that's important because when we have different kinds of governance vault, it will be very difficult if on one side we have liquidity providers that they want quick returns, but on the other side we have basically people who want to provide safetiness. In this way you have incentives aligned and they're all basically towards providing more safety.
00:34:37.554 - 00:34:46.018, Speaker A: Right. But right now it's still in discussion how much each group will get of new avid tokens.
00:34:46.114 - 00:35:26.578, Speaker B: Okay? So whatever the community decides, we will basically implement it. So that's our kind of like a goal to start it. And interesting part is that those incentives can always change, the governance can vote again. And I think now, recently, for the past six months or even the recent months, we've seen governance working pretty well in different projects and kind of like creating proposals and kind of like looking at long term, I mean looking in general long term on all the protocols. Basically the decision making that I have seen in DeFi, in terms of governance has been very impressive.
00:35:26.674 - 00:36:45.450, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree. Yeah. These tokens have certainly kind of launched this really active community and incentivized them to really become involved in the protocols that they're using and propose different kinds of changes and participate in voting. I was really surprised to see something like the yam community really spring to action to save this token, which was kind of born overnight. So I think that was a really good example of kind of decentralized governance. But at the same time we've been starting to see the temptation that I guess some teams might fall into, or the risks of decentralized governance suddenly becoming concentrated again. I'm thinking about curve finance and how with the incentive to lock up CRV token, the team now holds like 70% of voting power because they were the first to lock in their tokens.
00:36:45.450 - 00:37:09.720, Speaker A: So, interested in your thoughts on this? How to balance keeping a governance system decentralized with kind of the obvious incentive for the team to also keep some level of control of the protocol, especially when stakes are so high with hundreds of millions of dollars locked, or billions of dollars in your case.
00:37:11.130 - 00:38:31.854, Speaker B: That's a very good question, because in terms of in the beginning, it's kind of like very flexible. If the team has power to make changes, especially when you need to do rapid sixes or just like decision making where action is needed and kind of like you need flexibility. But over the time when the protocol starts to grow and there's more and more assets and funds involved that are basically from external parties and from the community, I think it has to start already thinking like how to become more decentralized. And one of the best learnings I had past years is basically the more you give power to the governance, the more healthier and stronger your governance is. The earlier you can do it, the better. I mean, there's no reason for the team to keep majority control of a protocol. If the protocol code is safe enough and basically battle test it after few months and so forth, it is fair to already start kind of like transferring that power as much as possible.
00:38:31.854 - 00:40:02.842, Speaker B: And the way I have seen that only good thing happens, can't say only good things. I mean it depends on the communities, but I've seen very positive effects when you do that. And starting that as early as possible is very important for our plan was basically started even more earlier. But basically we're a very small team and we wanted to make sure that when we are shipping code or we are doing changes, we do them very diligently and we put a lot of effort in there. And also it's kind of like question of development. Now that the other protocol is holding vast amount of funds, our development process is a bit slower in the sense that we are innovating as fast as we can, but we also need to be very diligent when we're deploying things. And I think new protocols that are launching new products and token economics, I think they should really think about it in the very beginning, like how much time they need to keep power and to what extent do you even need the majority power in the very beginning and how you could decentralize it a bit more? Could you actually have some sort of like a time frame of, let's say, once you deploy your main functionality and after, let's say one month after that you could transfer the keys to larger audience.
00:40:02.842 - 00:40:58.654, Speaker B: And I think in terms of protocols, we have seen now it's more about question of fair distribution models. And we have seen models where basically the early investors, they have majority of the token supply. So you can't call it decentralized until you as a team can be challenged on every single decision you basically make or proposal you make. And once you reach that level, then you are decentralized enough, in my opinion. And that requires that the team and the investors and even like inner circle or kind of like if there is something like that, basically doesn't hold the majority of the voting power for me, that's the kind of like a landmark of kind of like being actually having fair distribution model and being decentralized enough.
00:40:58.772 - 00:42:15.240, Speaker A: Yeah, no, makes sense. I guess what you're saying is that when you're first starting with a protocol, it makes more sense to have the tokens and control of the protocol in the hands of a reduced number of people, of the team, so that they're able to make sure that it's being built in the safest way possible for users, and that they're able to quickly react if something goes wrong. But over time, as the protocol becomes more tested and safer, maybe when audits are done, then it's maybe the right time to start giving up that power so that the protocol can become increasingly decentralized. And you're saying that a protocol can only become decentralized once the tokens and voting power of the team are distributed among the community and not so concentrated in the team itself. And I guess it's maybe a subjective measure, like how much is too much of concentration, but that's something that the community itself can discuss.
00:42:15.850 - 00:43:06.338, Speaker B: Yeah. From my experience, honestly, the investors and the team, they don't need as much as they think, because what we are building is very big things and we should have as less concentration as possible. These protocols will be very big. What's different compared to traditional networks, payment networks, or any kind of like trading venues and facilities, is that these might become even bigger and you don't want to hold that responsibility. You don't want to be responsible of vast amount of funds, of kind of like end users. And definitely that's something that I have learned. Of course, you should not even deploy any code to the production without audits.
00:43:06.338 - 00:44:34.094, Speaker B: That's something that the community in Defi needs to kind of come together and just find ways to fund audits. There's ways to do that. But beyond that particular thing, I think people should kind of think of more innovative models, how you could kind of come up with variations of this fair distribution model, for example, and decentralization. Could there be a way, for example, that in the beginning when you deploy something, maybe there is 2030 persons from the community that holds a key, or like ten persons at the very beginning. And we have seen situations where you have one key into a smart contract which holds a few hundred million worth of value, and then the community starts to panic and arranging multi signature wallets for that with multiple persons. I think when you're deploying, it's not that interesting to copy paste what someone else done, but actually trying to improve a bit and thinking like what could be a bit more improved iteration of what basically has happened before. And I would really encourage people to kind of innovate on fair distribution model, how you could launch in a decentralized fashion and move towards decentralization.
00:44:34.094 - 00:44:47.110, Speaker B: You don't need to be aggressively like decentralization in the very beginning, but to a certain extent that you can actually, the trust and the concentration doesn't rely on a single entity.
00:44:48.010 - 00:45:59.310, Speaker A: Yeah, no, that's a fair point. There needs to be more innovation in this regard. I think we're so early in these new distribution systems that I doubt that we've arrived at the right model to do this. I wanted to touch on what you said on the need to deploy code that's been audited and how hard it's been in DeFi because of how expensive audits are. So I'm interested in this question of kind of balancing innovation with really secure and audited code. Do you think maybe there's a middle ground? Or how can a loan developer who's building a DeFi protocol go about deploying code without an audit and kind of handling those risks? Or do you think that they simply just shouldn't do it and be always on testnet before they can manage to get an audit?
00:46:00.450 - 00:47:19.642, Speaker B: That's an interesting one, because the way I see there's multiple ways to handle the audit. There is a way to basically attract community and actually ask from the community, can we basically split the funds or is there some community auditor that could help? And basically there's different models you could always reach older projects, for example, like Ave, and ask, hey, we're building this interesting thing and it's very important for Defi. Can you basically help us somehow? We have grant program available where you can actually ask grants for whatever you're building, whatever you're researching and basically including audits. So those kind of things we are helping out. But I think one of the things we can distinguish is that there has been this kind of like a way of deploying it without anyone knowing and creating some kind of like a rush into the project in a way that you want to quickly distribute the tokens and get quickly people involved. And this has had the function of not auditing some code and putting disclaimers, which is like, the disclaimers will not help. If you are kind of creating the rush there and your idea is to get people quickly to deposit it, will not help.
00:47:19.642 - 00:48:11.846, Speaker B: I mean, it's just like human psychology isn't capable of resisting that kind of things. People are led by greed sometimes, so doesn't help. So that is important for a developer. Every developer that is deploying into mainnet just to basically understand the risk and understand that everyone needs to do their best practices and to ensure that not audited code can go into mainnet for use. And I think just by reaching out and creating communities first, there is no rush into deploying code. I mean, I would rather see communities grow first and then the products grown there and kind of the communities coming together and basically helping out to get those audits, asking grants. And this is like the healthy way of getting funding bootstrap.
00:48:11.846 - 00:48:35.700, Speaker B: And if you want, you can always go to the venture capital. It's not the most preferred model and there's different kinds of ways. But definitely I see there's more potential in actually building communities first and then building the product and then launching. That's very interesting because the community will help your product to build and that's like substantial help.
00:48:36.070 - 00:48:53.190, Speaker A: Right. So would you rather see less of these protocols kind of launching overnight and getting a bunch of liquidity with these yield farming incentives and tokens before having an audit?
00:48:53.770 - 00:49:51.926, Speaker B: Yeah, because if your code is public and basically everyone can look at it for a certain period of time and launch, basically that gives more reassurance. There are people from the community who can audit the code and take a look before they implement. You can arrange partnerships if you're basically using different protocols and kind of discuss with their staff, their developers, they can basically read the code and review. So time only is kind of like a positive thing in Defi we somehow created an environment recently that you kind of need to develop quickly. Once it's ready, you need to deploy it into the main net. And then we have issues, and then we are kind of like looking like, okay, what happens now? If some exploits or box will be found? So there is no rush. There's many protocols which has been public in terms of code and have successful launches.
00:49:51.926 - 00:50:13.040, Speaker B: And this kind of like a more controlled, auditable environment is what the space needs. And this will help us go further and create bigger things. And even maybe there might be things that people might notice that improve your product. So definitely I see that more valuable than anything else.
00:50:13.830 - 00:51:23.800, Speaker A: Yeah, no, I agree. And I guess to start wrapping up, I'm interested in kind of your views of Defi going forward, considering this recent craziness where these protocols launching very quickly and drawing hundreds of millions of dollars have accelerated growth in DeFi, but at kind of a lot of risk, like you have highlighted going forward. What do you hope to see in terms of DeFi growth? Do you think it'll be like more sustained growth, like not so exponential, but maybe a more sustained kind of growth without so much risk? Do you see any risk of these protocols kind of producing some kind of crash which takes people away from DeFi for a while? What do you see coming up next?
00:51:24.970 - 00:52:32.030, Speaker B: So the risk is always there. And as a Defi protocol builder, for me that part of life is serious. It's always there for each and every protocol. It's our job to basically keep these protocols as safe and secure as possible and ensure that basically nothing like this should happen. And that's how we support each other in the space. But basically, of course, the recent developments aren't helping the kind of direction we should take, because the safer we are, the more we get adoption, and the more we get basically institutional adoption, where we get large amounts of basically deposits and capital injections, but also we get allocations from larger amount of mainstream. Because if a system is seen as safe, then it's very usable to larger extent because it takes long time to build reputation, but short time to lose it.
00:52:32.030 - 00:53:28.414, Speaker B: And basically what DeFi is now having is kind of like a bit of, I would say, testing in terms of principles that kind of like, if we are able to come together and basically improve the safety of the protocols, ensure that we have a way of deploying code into the main net that is basically secure, that is attractive. That's what gets people into the space. And we have a base layer for financial applications, products that we have never, ever seen before. Just because of the efficiency and the security that blockchain provides. And I really want to see that. And if there's something happens, the industry stalls with year or two and that will be very shameful because then all that we build it, we have to wait for the next kind of phase where the trust is regained again. And I will not like to see that happen.
00:53:28.414 - 00:53:53.974, Speaker B: I would like to see basically that the space will grow kind of like in a healthier direction. And it doesn't even mean that if you take the healthier path, it doesn't mean that we are going to grow slower. It actually might mean that we are passing more and more tests and are more battle tested and actually capital comes quicker. And I think this is something we all realize just.
00:53:54.172 - 00:54:19.680, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's a great point. Okay, great. And then last question is, we started the conversation highlighting how Ave went from zero value logs at the start of the year to 1.3 billion, now the second largest D five protocol after maker. Are you looking to overtake maker? Do you see that happening?
00:54:20.930 - 00:55:25.640, Speaker B: I think Maker as a protocol has done very substantial work in terms of the issuing the stablecoin and amount of value they have lock and how people trust them. It's more quieter in terms of the space because it's a very base layer and many of these things become a bit quieter at some point because you're providing the very foundation layer for the ecosystem. And I would see like, Maker and Ava will be like that in the future. I think the growth of the product and the brand, it really depends on the innovation that you create. Our goal is kind of like, we don't focus that much on other protocols, only to the extent that we can ensure that if a developer builds something on Aave, our composability allows them to use other things and basically build products that are using everything. That is like what DeFi is all about. And I think these protocols that we see now in DeFi, they will be there, if nothing like serious will.
00:55:25.640 - 00:55:45.830, Speaker B: I mean, I really love what we are doing now in the space in terms of those baseline protocols and I really love to see more. Yeah, I hope something that is built on top of maker and avid will become bigger. That will be interesting, more awesome.
00:55:45.980 - 00:55:56.590, Speaker A: Yeah. Well, sunny, it was really a pleasure chatting. Thank you so much for joining me again. And yeah, look forward to seeing all the innovation happening on Ave.
00:55:57.170 - 00:55:58.090, Speaker B: Thank you, Camila.
