00:00:00.250 - 00:00:54.718, Speaker A: Smart contracts have emerged as a highly secure form of digital agreement with the power to transform global industries from decentralized finance to fraudproof gaming platforms and parametric insurance products. However, smart contracts have a drawback. They are not fully automated and therefore cannot execute their own functions based on predefined conditions or time. Instead, they must be triggered to execute. This has forced developers to man intervene at all hours, or worse, build and maintain risky centralized infrastructure for DevOps automation that not only takes away precious development time, but is also subject to failure or adversarial exploits. Until now, Chainlink keepers enable smart contracts to automate key functions and DevOps tasks in a highly reliable, decentralized, trust minimized and cost efficient manner. Chain link keepers continuously and cost effectively check for when the predefined conditions you specify are met.
00:00:54.718 - 00:01:58.350, Speaker A: This could be based on time events, a computation, or any combination. And when conditions are met, they issue on chain transactions that trigger the smart contract's function to execute. And since Chainlink keepers run off chain leveraging Chainlink's highly reliable and decentralized infrastructure, they aren't restricted by expensive on chain fees. This means that any individual developer, decentralized application, and Dao can leverage chainlink keepers to perform a variety of DevOps tasks and off chain computations on behalf of smart contracts. For example, harvest yield in the most optimal conditions, automate trading strategies trigger asset distribution execute limit orders on decentralized exchanges, liquidate under collateralized loans, rebase elastic supply tokens. The possibilities are endless. Chainlink keepers enable smart contracts to scale their uptime guarantees through DevOps automation, achieve end to end decentralization, and provide more advanced functionalities to users.
00:01:58.350 - 00:02:08.020, Speaker A: They empower developers to unlock the extensive and largely untapped design space for smart tracked automation. Start using chainlink keepers today.
