00:00:00.200 - 00:00:16.614, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the deli Gray Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Sasano, and today's the 26 December 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I hope you all had a great holiday period. I mean, I guess it's still the holiday period, right? You've had a great Christmas. Looking forward to New Year's.
00:00:16.614 - 00:00:51.472, Speaker A: I don't know if you guys do Boxing Day, wherever you are in the world, we do that in Australia. It's kind of like a sales event, but it's not really that great. It's kind of disappointing. Just another excuse to have a, I guess, like people around and to have parties and stuff. So, yeah, I mean, who isn't a fan of that? But apologies for missing Friday's refuel. I had Christmas Eve dinner at my place, so I was setting up for that and I ran out of time to record a refuel, but back into it today and covering the last three days worth of updates. So we're gonna start with a tweet from superfizz who highlighted that Christmas Day was actually 100 days since the Ethereum merge.
00:00:51.472 - 00:01:37.458, Speaker A: And he says here 100 days ago the Ethereum network became a positive contributor to, to global health by turning off energy intensive mining. We didn't have to do this. We could have stuck our heads in the sand and created narratives to justify ourselves, but instead we just did the right thing. So obviously taking shots at bitcoin is there, but I think, you know, 100 days since the merge, it's kind of gone by pretty quick at this point. Like the mergers in September, obviously, and it's been 100 days since then, but the network has just kept chugging like there hasn't been any issues at all. I've, I've personally continued to spin up more ETH validators and there's been a lot of people that has been spinning up validators. They're kind of trickling in over time and we have withdrawals on the horizon and yeah, it just seems like a very bright future ahead for Ethereum post merge, as I've been talking about obviously over the past few months, I mean, since the merge.
00:01:37.458 - 00:02:23.406, Speaker A: Right. But I think the biggest thing about the merge for me is still the fact that it was just such a big event, but not really, you know what I mean? Like it was a huge event, a huge, monumental achievement for Ethereum, but the network itself just kept doing what it was doing. Like users didn't end, users didn't feel any different. The stakers obviously did because they were getting execution layer rewards. But other than that, the network just kept chugging, which, I mean, I know it might be, I might sound like a broken record because I say that a lot, but I think it's still worth, I guess, reminding ourselves of just how amazing the merge went and just how amazing the entire core development and research our team is to get us to that point there. But yeah, anyway, as I mentioned, withdrawals. So there's a couple of updates here about withdrawal.
00:02:23.406 - 00:03:03.444, Speaker A: So you got Merek here from Nethermind putting out a tweet saying last Shanghai news before Christmas from the Netherland team. So this was put out on the 24 December withdrawals hive test results. There is no room for mistakes. When Mario, who's another, when Mario is writing tests, I think. I don't know if Mario is part of Nethermind, but he does testing at the Ethereum foundation here. And you can see here all the 24 tests that they have for withdrawals have been passed. Now for those of you who don't know what this means, it's basically a series of tests on code, on code that I guess for, in this case for withdrawals that should be passed in order to have relative certainty that withdrawals are working the way you want them to be working.
00:03:03.444 - 00:03:40.154, Speaker A: And these are tests built for nethermind itself, not for the other execution layer clients. But it usually translates quite well there. But yeah, that's, that's really great to see. And then we also had another update here from Gijinder Singh who said, sinking EIP 4844, blobs on Devnet three with Lodestar and Geth. So a lot of stuff happening on the Ethereum core development front, of course, withdrawals. I mean, you know, I've been saying March, April, given how much work has been put into withdrawals already, given how the tests are passing, we will probably have a test net, you know, spun up in January. We'll probably do the hard forks on the test nets in February.
00:03:40.154 - 00:04:03.790, Speaker A: March. I put my money on March at this point. Right? Like, I feel like late March definitely. If not, push it into early April. But it seems like it's just ready to go and it's just coordinating it, just getting all the, all the validators and nodes to upgrade. Sorry, all the nodes to upgrade to support it, which is now, this will be our first hard fork in a proof of stake world as well. But stakers are usually pretty good with updating here.
00:04:03.790 - 00:04:36.894, Speaker A: But then we'll have withdrawals and then we'll finally complete that loop that I've been talking about with Ethereum proof of stake. And I've been talking about that great reshuffling event. I really can't wait for to see what that kind of what happens there, because we have no precedent to go on for this. Like, Ethereum is the only network that has gone from proof of work to proof of stake, and it's the only network that has had a period of time where withdrawals haven't been enabled. Right? Even for all the way from December 1, 2020 when the beacon chain first went live. That's how long withdrawals haven't been enabled for. And it's just a very unique situation that Ethereum finds itself in.
00:04:36.894 - 00:05:21.522, Speaker A: Now, I did say on the episode of Rocket Fuel, or I guess some, the Rocket, the, the guest series that whack whack attack does on his Rockefell channel. I did say last week, or we both talked about this great reshuffling event and really it's not just going to happen, right? Like, it's not like the withdrawal is going to be enabled and all of a sudden all this easy is going to get reshuffled around and we're going to have a much better and more decentralized beacon chain because of it. I think it is really going to take a push from the community to get to make people aware that, hey, you know, withdrawals are enabled now. So if you have 16 ETH, go set up a rocker pool, mini pool. If you have 32 ETH, why not try solo staking? And we have to not just encourage people to do it, but we have to help them with that as well. We need to make sure that our guides are up to snuff, which I think they are. As someone who's gone through a lot of the guides recently, they're, they're pretty good.
00:05:21.522 - 00:05:58.746, Speaker A: And obviously they could be more noob friendly, but there is a kind of balance there, because if you're trying to be like a fully self sovereign soloist, they could do it all from scratch, you know, not, not by a dap node or anything like that. Or not install dap. No, literally do it from a fresh kind of ubuntu box like I did. It's not going to be, I guess, like totally noob friendly. If you follow the guide, you can definitely get it done. You just have to copy paste things and you might run into some issues here and there, but there are communities to help you with that, like ETH staker, but it's not. And obviously on Rocket Pool side, there's a rocket pool community that helps you out, but it's not going to be like people think it's going to be like one click.
00:05:58.746 - 00:06:32.338, Speaker A: And the one click staking that we have is centralized exchanges, right? Or buying an lsd such as Areth or Steth. I don't know if we're ever going to get to a point just inherently to that point of like one click solo staking, simply because it's, it's an involved process. You need to make sure that you have a consensus layer and execution layer node live. You need to make sure that you've backed up your seed phrase and your password that you've used for your validator keys. You need to make sure your validator keys are stored in the right place. And all this sort of stuff, like a lot of it can be automated. Dap node does a good job of this and so does the rocker pool, I guess, smart node stack.
00:06:32.338 - 00:06:58.684, Speaker A: But there are still things you have to be aware of. You have to monitor for, you have to wait for like, rather than, I guess like buying an LSD token. You don't have to do anything, you literally just have to buy the token and that's it. Right? And then it's taking on a centralized exchange. They handle the infrastructure for you. So there's not going to be a world where solo staking or even staking with Rocketpool is going to get to a point. Besides buying the LSD, I meant like spinning up a mini pool is going to get to the point that it's as easy as a centralized exchange.
00:06:58.684 - 00:07:23.720, Speaker A: But in saying that it's still going to be, it's still going to be quite easy. Still, so sorry. Still very easy today and going to get easier over time. So we do have to push people towards these sorts of things. And in February, as long as everything goes well with all the. I think it's being audited right now, but that led upgrade that's coming to Rockerpool, will that be able to stake with eight ETH instead of 16 ETH, spin up mini pools. So I should say with eight ETH instead of 16 ETH and then hopefully four ETH, we can keep getting that down.
00:07:23.720 - 00:07:59.428, Speaker A: And then if we get solo staking down from 32 ETH to something else, which is probably going to take quite a while, I'll be honest, like it's not going to happen anytime soon, but that's going to help in the future too. But generally, I mean, I might have maybe when I was talking about the great reshuffling set this expectation that all of a sudden, you know, all the stakes just going to move itself around. No, it's not going to happen like that. There will be some of that. Of course, there'll be people who stake to centralized exchanges that now have the necessary stake to go with rocker pool or solo staking. But I think for the most part, we're going to need to just make a lot of noise about it. And we've proven before that we can make a lot of noise about something, in effect, real network wide change.
00:07:59.428 - 00:08:57.780, Speaker A: Like with the client diversity thing that we did last year, that not last year, so earlier this year that superfizz led the charge for we've proven that we can do this and we can do that across the entire network, not just solar stakers, but also centralized exchanges and LSD's and all that stuff there. And we've also proven that we can do it on the mev boost side as well, where we've really kind of made sure that we've got a bunch of ways to resist censorship and basically make it so that we can have new relay spun up that are non censoring and all that sort of stuff there. So that, as I've said, like plenty of times on the refuel, that social layer that ethereum has is incredibly powerful and there are certain things that we should use it for and use it for it at its fullest. And this is one of them. Like soon as withdrawals are approaching and coming around, I would love to see the community come together, band together and make a massive drive, an awareness drive for people to spin up mini pools as part of rocket pool, you know, spin up solo staking validators if they can. They have the necessary, necessary ETH for it because that's really the biggest barrier to entry. Right.
00:08:57.780 - 00:09:28.252, Speaker A: And making sure that we see that great reshuffling. But not only that, because with Lido, as I've explained before, they have around 30% network share. The only way their network share goes down is if they. If other network. If other network participants share goes up right now because there's no withdrawal. But once that closes, I would love to see people withdrawing from Lido and getting that down to, you know, as much, as much as we can, because we don't want any one operator having that much ETH state. And this goes for people who maybe these people don't have, you know, maybe they only have a few 8th, maybe two, three, eight or something like that.
00:09:28.252 - 00:09:57.236, Speaker A: Still withdrawing from, from Lido and going with someone else would be, would be worth it. Right. And if you have a thousand people doing that, it starts adding up. So we're going to have to see how that all shakes out. But yeah, definitely don't expect it all to happen on its own. We're going to need to push it as a community, I believe. All right, so Trendfan EPs here shared a new Ethereum repo that dropped over the weekend, which is basically a nice little explanation of the evolution of the Ethereum proof of stake consensus protocol over time.
00:09:57.236 - 00:10:39.952, Speaker A: So I've talked about this a bit on the radical before about where I guess, like Ethereum proof of stake came from, you know, the work that was scrapped to basically create the beacon chain and basically get to where we are today with the beacon chain being live. And obviously it's going to keep evolving into the future as well, with things like SSle and a bunch of other upgrades coming to it in the future. But you should definitely give this a read. I mean, it does get quite technical and there are equations and stuff in here, but it does have a bunch of really nice history behind it, too, that shows, like, where we kind of came from and how it evolved over time. And it's written here by Lucas and Olini, who I believe works at the Ethereum foundation. Yes, he's a researcher at the theorem Foundation. I think I've talked about him before, but I just wanted to highlight this for you guys.
00:10:39.952 - 00:10:59.408, Speaker A: Go give it a read. As I said, it is technical. There are equations in here, but still worth it. Even if you just skim over the equations and the, and the technical aspects of it. There is some meat in here for you to get some knowledge out of. So definitely go give that one a check out. All right, so Sam Richards here from the ethereum.org
00:10:59.408 - 00:11:21.378, Speaker A: team put out a tweet over the weekend where he said, my proudest ethnic ethereum.org statistic. Over the past year, non english page views have doubled from 14% to 28% of total page views. Thank you to the 2000, over 2000 translators who helped translate ethereum.org in 2022. In case you missed it, the site is available in 51 languages. I've talked about this before on the refuel, about how ethereum.org
00:11:21.378 - 00:12:08.642, Speaker A: is really committed to making sure that the website is translated into as many languages as possible. Now, obviously translating it is one thing, but getting people to come to the website and understand that they can view the website natively in their own language is another thing. And to see here that non english page views have doubled from 14% to 28% is amazing. Imagine if we get to 50%, right, over 50% or more first or 50% or more of the total page views are in different languages other than English. Because I've said it before, and I'll say it again, Ethereum is a global network. It's not just a network that appeals to English speaking kind of countries or areas such as obviously the US, but a lot of parts of Europe and South America as well. And where I am in Australia and New Zealand.
00:12:08.642 - 00:12:35.622, Speaker A: But there are plenty of other places with billions of people in them that do not speak English, or English is not their first language. Right. You have India, for example, you have China, you have the Middle east, you have a lot of, actually a lot of Asia, right? That doesn't, that doesn't speak English, English as their first language. And a lot of South America too. I mean, obviously Canada speaks English. I always forget about Canada. They're like the snow Americans, right, as they're called there, or snow snow Mexicans, people have called them before, which is funny to me.
00:12:35.622 - 00:13:20.556, Speaker A: Anyway, I'm going off on a tangent there, but, but yeah, I think when looking at this and looking at the translation efforts, looking at the fact that the page views have actually gone up with it is really great to see because it means that they're not just translating this for nothing. There are people engaging with it. There are people viewing the ethereum.org website in languages other than English, which is great for a theorems, I guess, claim of being a global network as a global network in terms of being distributed technically at a global scale is all well and good, but having people in every country on the planet, being able to view the ethereum.org website in their own native language is a huge achievement. A huge body of work, of course, but a huge achievement. And making sure that we can have everyone from around the world participate in Ethereum and not just English speaking countries.
00:13:20.556 - 00:13:49.680, Speaker A: And I've always been a big proponent of this. I wish more of the Defi front ends did this, or more of the, I guess, general app front ends did this. But translating especially natively, without just putting it through Google Translate is quite difficult, because if you put it through Google Translate, there's always stuff that kind of messes it up, and if it looks unprofessional, people are less likely to trust it and all that stuff there. But I think just having the ethereum.org website, which is an absolutely amazing resource, having that translated is very, very important. So a good work of the ethereum.org team here.
00:13:49.680 - 00:14:12.150, Speaker A: Great to see the adoption on this here. Now, speaking of websites, the Geth team has a new website that they've launched over the weekend here, which you can go give a. Go give a look, I'll link it in the YouTube description. I love this website. It really does kind of work with the whole geth theme, right, of being in Ethereum execution layer clients. It looks really cool. They have a little mascot here.
00:14:12.150 - 00:14:37.904, Speaker A: I just love it. Honestly, I think it is a really nice website. Really nicely laid out. There's a dark mode, of course, which looks really awesome, and a light mode here you have a link to downloads, downloading the clients and documentation, of course, to get started here as well. And yeah, I just thought it was a really, really great website that I wanted to highlight for you guys because they obviously put a lot of love and work into this website. And there's guides on how sorry, they link to guides like on running an Ethereum note as well on the ethereum.org website.
00:14:37.904 - 00:15:08.862, Speaker A: So there's a lot of love being shared here as well. But yeah, you can go check out this website for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Xerox not going to make it here from the DeFi llama team. Put out a tweet yesterday or today saying, by the way, at DeFi llama we've built a new tool for risk teams at DeFi protocols. It shows you how much liquidity there is on chain for any token, eg, showing how much would need to be dumped to drive price down 20%. Sorry, 10%, 20%, etcetera.
00:15:08.862 - 00:15:34.792, Speaker A: It's currently in beta access and you can diem zero x. Not going to make it for access here, but you can see the liquidity chart for uni. So you guys know that there's only a certain amount of liquidity in like amm pools. Like on uniswap, for example. There's only a certain amount of liquidity for each pair. And obviously, the more you sell, the more slippage you incur and the less kind of bang for your buck you get. You can see here on uni, this is just a preview of the uni token.
00:15:34.792 - 00:16:14.546, Speaker A: If you were to sell, I don't know, $10 million worth of uni, you would probably incur about 18% to 20% of slippage. Then let's go up to $100 million of uni. You're incurring a 90% slippage here and then over that. If you, if you go much higher than that, it starts getting, you know, starts getting pretty bad. But you can see the curve here get like, it's basically a curve that really slopes up really, really quickly after about what? Well, basically after $10 million, it starts sloping up extremely quickly here. And that's because this is how those, those amm pools work. And uni, v three changes this as well, because there's ranges, but in v two, I think this is aggregating them.
00:16:14.546 - 00:16:43.492, Speaker A: But in v two, there wasn't ranges. So the liquidity would just sit as deep as it could go based on how much was in there. But with v three, it can be, it can vary wildly from token to token. Sorry, token pair to token pair, liquidity pool to liquidity pool because of the fact that there could be a lot of liquidity in one defined range and then outside of it. And I think this chart is actually showing that as well. I don't know if they actually stipulated if this was v two, v three, or amalgamation of both. Um, but probably is like an amalgamation of both here or, or joining of both.
00:16:43.492 - 00:17:23.879, Speaker A: But, uh, generally, you know, what I like about amms and things like uniswap and other amms is that they're really good for the long tail of assets and they're also really good for just small users. Right. When, like whales, for example, they're going to have to use centralized exchanges and maybe a mix between centralized exchanges and on chain liquidity. But at the same time, like when you get to the $10 million mark, I mean, even on centralized exchanges, scaling in and out of that position, depending on the, on the token that you're trying to, to buy or sell, is going to affect the market to an extent. I mean, you can have resting orders on the order books. Say you, you want to buy $10 million worth of ETH, you have a resting order on the books. To do that, you'd probably have to DCA over time anyway.
00:17:23.879 - 00:18:04.720, Speaker A: You wouldn't get the same price. You know, you wouldn't be able to buy $10 million worth of ETH at a $1,000. Probably just on the book because, because people would say that the market makers would say that they'll probably keep putting the price up, chase it up sort of thing. Right. Um, but that's why there's stuff like OTC that exists as well, but that tends to play out in the market too. Like the funny thing about, like, thinking about liquidity and trading and size positioning on different things is that, uh, if you're taking a trade, so you want to buy $10 million of ETH, at a $1,000 because you think ETH is going to go up. But then what ends up happening is that if you buy it OTC, and then the OTC market makers like, well, I'm going to go and try and continue profit out of this, and maybe once they're done, the price dips below and then you have to exit that position.
00:18:04.720 - 00:18:41.012, Speaker A: You have to worry about it again, it just gets kind of crazy. This is obviously things that just really, majority of the time, whales have to worry about smaller users, and I'm talking users that, I mean, this isn't really that small, a million dollars or less, right on. Uni doesn't have that much slippage at all. But if you're talking about like between 10,100 thousand relatively small kind of trades here and even below that, it's really good for those users. And that's what I've always loved about amms, is that it's really good for that long tail liquidity and really good for the, those, those small users. And that's why things like Uniswap are so popular with retail investors. Because a lot of retail investors, especially during bull markets, they don't actually come with that much money to play around with, right.
00:18:41.012 - 00:19:03.314, Speaker A: They play around with anything from tens of dollars to hundreds to thousands. There are obviously people that go higher than that. But from what I've seen, and a lot of the retail investors or first time investors that I talk to, they don't want to put too much in. They always want to get their feet wet. And if they're doing stuff on chain, they're definitely getting their feet wet with like, not, not very much money here. Right. And obviously, gas fees can play into this too.
00:19:03.314 - 00:19:53.926, Speaker A: But it's great to see charts like this. I think this is going to be really good for as Xerox, not going to make it said here for risk teams at defray protocols. So, for example, if you're a money market that wants to onboard a token, you want to be sure that that token has sufficient liquidity so that when a big position gets liquidated, you're able to actually sell that into the market to make sure that you don't incur any bad debt. And as we've seen before, there is bad debt that can be accrued very quickly depending on the token, depending on how much liquidity there is. And the thing is as well, is that what makes this quite, quite, quite interesting is that liquidity can be removed within the same block. So if, for example, there is a big liquidity provider and they see that, or added and removed, and they see that there is going to be a big liquidation. Maybe they add liquidity in there because they want to eat the feast from that, and then they can probably make a fee.
00:19:53.926 - 00:20:14.174, Speaker A: So that's. And that's why those defined ranges are really powerful as well on v three for that. And you can do that all atomically in the same block, which is very, very powerful. But anyway, I've gotten a little bit of a rant there, but great to see this from Zero X. Not gonna make it from the Defi llama team. I thought it was very cool. All right, so a big thank you here.
00:20:14.174 - 00:20:41.466, Speaker A: Just a shout out to the pope a thon community for designing a pull up to celebrate me joining the Rockapool Oda. Now, you could mint these. There was 100 of them, but unfortunately they're all gone. These are the options that, that people were able to choose from. And we went with option ten. So you can see option ten, the bottom right here is my little penguin designed by crypto wife quite a while ago. My little penguin avatar sitting on top of a rocket, which I thought was very, very cute.
00:20:41.466 - 00:21:12.254, Speaker A: But yeah, there was only 100 of them and the funds were that were raised by this pop went straight to the purporthorn community. So I just to support their work here on this. But I thought this is really cool. For those of you who don't know poapathon or pope a thon, I guess there's different ways of saying it. They basically create pops for you and do do it by design contest and people come together and design pops for different people here. And they're really good at it. They're really great at coming up with a bunch of designs that you can choose from and they charge a.
00:21:12.254 - 00:21:44.368, Speaker A: I don't know if it's a flat fee for things, but I think $250 went from this mint to them. But you should definitely check them out if you want to get designs for your next pop dance. I just wanted to give a shout out there. Now, I have a few tweets here about Rockapool that I want to highlight. So one is a nice thread slash lengthy blog post from Jasper talking about our ETH flipping Ste. So this is basically Jasper's thesis on rocker pool beating out Lido in terms of an LSD market share. It's quite long.
00:21:44.368 - 00:22:17.436, Speaker A: As you can see here, there are eight different sections that you can read through. It is a lengthy read. I haven't gotten around to reading it yet. There is a summary thread that you can read and then the summary threads, 25 tweets still, but you can give it a read. But Jasper is probably the biggest RPL bull that I know of in terms of just being on there all the time, talking about Rocker pool, talking about the RPL token, talking about how it can accrue value and doing actual hardcore analysis on it. Right? I mean, this is a 50 page analysis. So that's why I like highlighting his stuff, which you should definitely go check out.
00:22:17.436 - 00:22:55.144, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But as I said before, when it comes to the great reshuffling, it is a thing that I believe is going to happen, but we need to kind of will it into existence and this is one way that it's going to be done. I think the rocketbook community is actually going to be quite loud here because they stand to benefit a lot from this. They stand to benefit a lot because they only account for 2.1% ish of the market share of all staking market share right now. So if they can get to the point where they get to like 10%, for example, that is a lot of RPL locked up, a lot of RPL collateralized, a lot of RPL demand, just natural demand from people talking about rocker pool. Rocker pool growing as a, as an ecosystem.
00:22:55.144 - 00:23:23.754, Speaker A: And the cool thing about rocker pool is that they've already promised as a community to self limit their stake. I believe it was 17% was the amount that they would limit themselves to so they wouldn't grow to, you know, above 17% there. But like, let's focus on obviously getting to 5%, 10% and then worry about that later. But they've already committed to that, which I obviously really care about as a, as someone who cares about the health of the beacon chain. And honestly, like, I don't hate Lidar or anything like that. I think Lido is a net positive. For Ethereum.
00:23:23.754 - 00:23:44.430, Speaker A: That might be a controversial opinion, but I still have that opinion. But at 30% of the network, they're not a net positive. I don't believe that. I believe Lido as a service is fine and cool and needed, but I don't think that they should have 30%, mark. I don't think anyone should have 30% market share, not even Rockerpool. Right. So if we can get lighter, especially down to 20% or below, that'll be a monumental achievement.
00:23:44.430 - 00:24:13.456, Speaker A: I'd love to see that. And I'd love to see a lot of those, that lighter market share going to Rockapool, because obviously they, that market share wants to be in the LSD space. It doesn't. Maybe a lot of it doesn't want to go to solo staking or centralized exchange staking. They want to stay in the on chain LSD space. Well go from Lido to Rockapool. Like convert over and I know I've become a bit of a I don't know if I'd call it a rocket pool shill lately, but honestly I've been so impressed by rocker pool just sending out my mini pools, get being part of the ODA and everything like that.
00:24:13.456 - 00:24:36.656, Speaker A: I'm not getting paid for any of this. You guys know that. All my odour rewards are going to public goods. But I really want to support the team here, the rocker pool team and community. Because they've been doing this shit for so long. They've created a service that they didn't have to create. They could have gone the easy path like other LSD's did, but they've stuck to their guns, have stuck to the the tenants of decentralization and now they just need the market share to match that.
00:24:36.656 - 00:25:05.514, Speaker A: So I would love to see rocket pool grow as much as possible before withdrawals and especially post withdrawals. But anyway, definitely check out this this research post from Jasper will be linked in the YouTube description below. Now two more tweets about rock a pool. So first one here is a quote tweet of of super fizz highlighting Joe from the rocker pool teams. A little set up here. So superfuse said, Joe is an engineer at rocker pool. When his power went out, he ran an extension cord from his Chevy bolt to his home.
00:25:05.514 - 00:25:30.602, Speaker A: Staking. He's staking on a custom piece of hardware that he calls the Proteus based on the rock five b board. Probably going to offer to sell them at some point, which he is. And I'll highlight that in a sec. But look at this shit. Like I quote tweeted this and I said this is decentralization at its finest. His power went out and he's like oh well, I'm just going to use a battery and I'm going to be able to use a battery because I've got a low powered device as my that running that runs my validators here.
00:25:30.602 - 00:26:07.636, Speaker A: And this is just so awesome. Like honestly, this is to me, this is decentralization because it means that even if your power goes off, even if the grid cuts you off, or for whatever reason it goes off, you can keep your validators online. Obviously you have to have these batteries available. Obviously you have to have a car that you can hook into and all the relevant equipment and probably the relevant experience. But the fact that you can do this is what's what the true meaning of decentralization is, right? The ability to do this, and I've always talked about this, how the ability to do these things is what decentralization means. The ability to run a full node on low end hardware is decentralization. It doesn't matter.
00:26:07.636 - 00:26:36.172, Speaker A: I mean you don't have to run a full node if you don't want to. But the fact that the ability is always there for you to do so is the meaning of decentralization. The ability of being able to run validated client clients on really low end hardware is what's, what decentralization means. And I think that when you really break it down, that that should make a lot of sense and it should resonate with people. But that's my view on it anyway. And speaking of his little setup here, Joe's little setup here, he is selling these now. So he put out a tweet later on.
00:26:36.172 - 00:27:17.628, Speaker A: We said, well, my power is back on, so it's time to share this with the world. After months of heads down development, I'm thrilled to announce the Proteus low power Ethereum home staking box is now open for reservations. Now the waveone reservations have filled out, but he's taking reservations ongoing. So you'll be in wave two or wave three and you'll get yours a bit later. But basically he's building these rock five b little staking boxes and selling them to people and making it so that people can just easily get started with staking on either Rockapool or I believe solo second, I believe you'll have, have two options here. So yeah, it comes preassembled with Debian eleven installed, the rock a pull smart note stack is already set up. Just configure it with your clients of choice and you're ready to go.
00:27:17.628 - 00:27:46.826, Speaker A: So that's very very cool. And there's also different options like fan calling or, sorry, active cooling. With fan or passive cooling. This is the stuff that we need actually, people creating these boxes for people. I mean, obviously we have something like stuff like Avado and there's nux as well you can buy. But having stuff pre installed for people and ready to go, especially from trusted community members, so you can be, so you can trust or have relative certainty that there's nothing dodgy going on here, is incredibly powerful. So definitely go check this out as a video here.
00:27:46.826 - 00:28:09.404, Speaker A: And there's also the thread that you can check out as well and possibly sign up for a reservation. I already signed up for mine. I'm probably going to be part of wave two at this stage, but I do have a Rok five B board on order now. They're out of stock right now actually because of the China supply chain issues. But once I get mine, I'll definitely kind of highlight my process of setting up. I want to put one of my validators on it actually. So I'll highlight my process of setting that up for you guys.
00:28:09.404 - 00:28:32.444, Speaker A: But definitely go check this out. We'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, finally here we have an update from l two beat, who said happy to list Zksync 2.0 as after many months of development, they launched on Mainnet. The current baby alpha version is for internal tests only, but we believe it's a huge milestone. We're looking forward to the Zk sync team removing the whitelist restriction. So yeah, ZK Sync 2.0
00:28:32.444 - 00:28:51.940, Speaker A: is now being tracked on the l two b website, which you can go check out. Maybe I can load up the website here just to see what it looks like right now. Yeah, you can see here ZK sync is in 7th place with about $54 million worth of tvL. Actually, is that ZK Sync 2.0? No, ZK Sync 2.0 is down the bottom here. That's just normal ZK sync.
00:28:51.940 - 00:29:13.414, Speaker A: But 2.0 doesn't really have any TVL in it right now because as I said, it is in baby Alpha, which means it's not open to the public or anything like that. But they are going to be doing opening that over time. So very cool to see them list on an l two beat along with a bunch of other l two s here. Of course you can go check that out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description, but on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:29:13.414 - 00:29:19.894, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
