00:00:00.330 - 00:00:43.898, Speaker A: In the last video I introduced mocha, the test runner used in the truffle testing framework. And in this video I'm going to introduce Chi, a JavaScript library for testing. It's not actually included in truffle, unlike for mocha, but usually Mocha and Chi works really well together. So it's a good idea to learn chi because you might want to use it in your truffle test. This video is part of full course on smart contract testing on IdWBlox Pro. In this course, I'll teach you how to use the test driven development approach to develop your smart contract with the truffle framework. If you want to have access to the source code of the free episode, go to the website of IDWBlox Pro and create a free account by clicking on sign up.
00:00:43.898 - 00:01:22.086, Speaker A: Remember that in the previous section I told you that all tests follow the arrange act assert pattern. Asserting means to compare the data returned by a tested function with the expected result. There are many ways to do this comparison, and what we call assertion libraries can help for that. Chi is one of these assertion libraries. It's often used in combination with Mocha in JavaScript project. The reason why you should care about Chi is because it's the assertion library that is used by the truffle testing framework. In order to use chi, you need to know chi assertions, which allow you to compare data with some expected value.
00:01:22.086 - 00:02:05.230, Speaker A: These assertions are grouped into three different assertion styles. Assert, expect should. Each assertion style has a different API and reads differently when you look at the test, you need to pick one style for your test. This choice only depends on your personal preferences, and all styles are equally powerful. Personally, I prefer the assert style. For example, some of the assertions that you can find in the assert style are equal, where you compare a variable against a value, length of where you compare an array to an expected length, or type of where you can compare a value with a type. If you want to know more about which assertions are available to you, go to the website of Chai.
00:02:05.230 - 00:02:14.130, Speaker A: That's it for this general introduction to Chai. In the next video I will show you how you can combine Chi and Mocha to do a very simple test in JavaScript.
