00:00:00.160 - 00:00:32.354, Speaker A: Our unlock is slightly different is really to focus on the business model, which is to say that, like, how do you understand these pieces of unit economics as they come together? And can we work with an exceptional founder to understand what each of those pieces are? And if we're able to understand that in depth and they're able to convince us it's deepen, I don't think there are areas that we wouldn't consider. Three offers a brand new petri dish. Our job is to buy great tech at great prices. AI is also libertarian right enable use case that people haven't been able to do today. The next hundreds of millions of players, they will come to the market.
00:00:32.814 - 00:01:04.146, Speaker B: My personal reason why I could be bullish in the next twelve months is. Hey everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. With me, your host, Jason Choi, angel investor and founder of Tangent. Now, as a disclaimer, nothing we discuss here is financial advice, and nothing we discuss is reflective of our respective companies opinions. We may also hold assets we discussed. Now, one of the areas I'm most excited about in crypto is using crypto networks to coordinate physical resources.
00:01:04.146 - 00:01:42.952, Speaker B: So in a way, bitcoin itself is such a network. It is a network that coordinates a network of mining machines. But turns out this concept can be applied to so much more, including storage like Filecoin and Arweave, compute and AI like a cache network and render to mapping services like Hivemapper and much more. Now, however, I know many people are also skeptical of some of these decentralized networks being able to compete with with large centralized web, two companies with a lot of economies of scale. So to tackle the entire vertical, one of the hottest narratives around, I'm very excited to be joined by Mahaj from EV three, a fund that focuses only on deep in. So welcome to the show, man.
00:01:43.008 - 00:02:05.124, Speaker A: Jason, it's so great to be on here. You know, I've been a big fan of everything you guys have been doing for a long time now and excited to dive into some of the nuances of Deepin. I know it's a sector that's getting a lot of attention right now, but it's also a sector that has a lot of underlying complexity to it in a way that I'm excited for the world to see over the next couple of years. So happy to dive into it.
00:02:05.464 - 00:02:29.284, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely, man. And I'm always really excited to talk to investors who are focused on specific niche, because that shows me that, first of all, they know what they're doing. And second of all, they have conviction. And usually the conversations there are the most interesting. So you guys chose to start a fund. You and your co founder chose to start Ev three as a deepin only fundamentally. So what gave you that conviction? Because around the same time, I think there are a lot of generalist crypto funds that are just trying to invest in everything.
00:02:29.284 - 00:02:31.904, Speaker B: Why did you guys go for just deepin only?
00:02:32.564 - 00:03:29.834, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a good question, and I'll give you a slightly longer answer than maybe you were looking for, starting with just background. But I've always been incredibly interested in religion and philosophy. Part of it was, you know, I had a super religious family growing up and spent a lot of time in ceremonies that I honestly just didn't want anything to do with growing up. And I think I got to age seven and eight, and I started reading a lot about economics. And, you know, I saw a similarity between religion and economics at that point that had always been super interesting to me, which was that they were almost incentive systems in a funny sort of way, that people used to control other people, you know, religion through divine providence, the concept of heaven and hell, economics through financial incentives. So I'd always be been obsessed with incentive systems at scale and how people have used them throughout history to build amazing things. And for that reason, when I found bitcoin in 2013 and then ethereum in 2015, it was one of those, like, aha.
00:03:29.834 - 00:04:20.904, Speaker A: Moments of oh, my God. This combines a lot of, like, the incentive components of economics with a lot of, like, the buy in components of religion with technology at scale, which was something brand new altogether. You know, that said, I had asian parents, indian parents, who wanted me to go get skill sets, as they called it at that point. So I spent a few years first in banking and then in private equity. And private equity was where I started getting a lot of conviction around infrastructure related ideas. I was at a firm called Apollo, one of the biggest private equity firms out there, really known for getting into the guts of companies and understanding how they work and doing a lot of underlying work on them. And, you know, the work that I was doing indicated to me that the last generation of telecom businesses and energy businesses just weren't as healthy as people thought they were.
00:04:20.904 - 00:05:17.890, Speaker A: And funnily enough, I kind of cross referenced that with my now business partner at the time, one of my best friends, Sal. He was an investor at Ribbot. So, looking at a very different end of the spectrum, but coming to some pretty similar conclusions, that, like, infrastructure would kind of have to be rebuilt from the ground up, and the way that infrastructure would be rebuilt, probably wouldn't look anything like the last generation of it. So, you know, we found deepin through healing in 2020 was super interested in the project, spent a huge amount of time with them, ran their grants program for a certain amount of time and just helped them scale. But, you know, as they moved to the multi Dao model, I think we became more and more convicted that this was a massive opportunity. And, you know, other projects could kind of use this mechanism of aligning capex, aligning rent, aligning service related costs across the platform to deliver a service that was just as good as the incumbents, but at a far lower cost. So I could talk for an hour.
00:05:17.890 - 00:05:22.386, Speaker A: So I'm going to take a step back here and see if you want to take in any direction.
00:05:22.570 - 00:06:00.884, Speaker B: Yeah, no, that's a really interesting origin story. I don't think I've heard a story quite like that in terms of having the basis of crypto in philosophy and religion. I thought that was very interesting. Thanks for sharing that. I think one thing that I'd like to dive into is this theme on Deepin today, because this is not a new theme. As you mentioned, you've noticed some of these projects way back already, and then you've worked with render so early on. And what I thought was interesting was Vitalik recently on Forecaster, I think earlier this month he tweeted, the question is deep in real because storage and Uber on chain, a lot of these ideas have been around since 2017.
00:06:00.884 - 00:06:07.504, Speaker B: So what's different now with Deepin this year versus like, when you first heard about Deepin?
00:06:08.204 - 00:07:09.954, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a great question. And I think people were super excited to see Vitalik post about Deepin. I think he is someone that is obviously so well revered within the space that to start seeing the attention kind of accrue is something that people were really excited about. But I think his point is a good one. Which is like, Deepin hits at a more fundamental idea, right? Which is that in a funny sort of way, businesses for the last hundred years have kind of been built in one way, which is centrally, you know, you hire a bunch of people, you create a product, you take it to market and you scale it. And then Uber, Airbnb and some of these platforms that emerged as a result of the app economy really started to play around with the fringes of that to some degree. Okay, what if you start taking communities of people, just everyday people that are doing work, doing their jobs, and find ways to have them fill the roles that employees used to do, suppliers, used to do.
00:07:09.954 - 00:08:22.302, Speaker A: And I think this is the start of a movement that will take centuries, because the transition of work at its fundamental level from this highly rigid, structural, corporate framework to a framework where people have a bit more freedom to, you know, maybe work across jobs, work multiple jobs, have many income streams, is one that sort of long stands and at the earliest stages of its transformation. So I think Vitalik makes a really good point, which is, you know, the first iterations of these, the Ubers, the storages of the world. I'll focus on Uber for a second. We're really working with the earliest framework for these primitives, which is like an app that was on your phone with bandwidth that was strong enough for you to actually be able to call the car and see in real time that the car was coming. But, you know, the systems that is the technology get more powerful. The coordination, therefore, gets significantly more powerful as well. And I think what we've seen is, with the advent of tokens and then the explosion of social media over the last ten years, there is this potential for a community native business model that software based crypto kind of enabled at scale, ethereum really enabled at scale.
00:08:22.302 - 00:09:19.674, Speaker A: And now the rest of the world is coming around to seeing could work for their platforms as well. So to take a step back and summarize, it really goes back to this transformation of work that's happening at a fundamental level, where people used to have one job, one career, their whole lives, and fill themselves to one role. But I heard this really great quote nowadays, that recently, that nowadays people almost prioritize their identity over their self interest. And that's a really poignant theme of our generation, which is like, people care so much about who they are that oftentimes they will trade off economic benefit for that. And for that reason, as that sort of continues to proliferate, I think people will continue to find meaning in different kinds of works across different platforms, whether that's okay. You drive a little bit for Uber, you host a helium router, and you make some money creating bandwidth. You contribute your excess resources from your computer to something that Aakash ends up creating, and you're monetizing your excess compute.
00:09:19.674 - 00:10:23.014, Speaker A: It's really amazing because it is fundamentally changing this paradigm of society, from people working for salaries and paying taxes to systems that let people be truly free and can even underlie the basis for things like Ubi over time, which is, in my opinion, a direction that we're already going in the income inequality that we're seeing in the world, and especially in the US. Is just part and parcel to that. So to your point? Yeah, I think Vitalik is spot on. It's been around for a while. I think Uber was taking advantage of the earliest primitives associated with these platforms. And as new metas come to market, whether that's token incentives, whether that's targeting as you've seen projects like Hivemapper use at scale, whether that's community based work, these are all sort of converging narratives that over time, I think are pillars of what Deepin represents. So, you know, at an overarching level, I think that's the vision of why this is so interesting and there's so many social factors at play that I think will drive this forward.
00:10:23.014 - 00:11:21.754, Speaker A: And then lastly, just very quickly, you know, the economic side of this is so important as well, which is that we've had businesses built one way for the last 100 years. Clayton Christensen, who's this HBS professor, has this amazing theory around disruptive innovation where he pretty much posits that, you know, the new grade of products are never built the way the old grade of products are built, because otherwise the big incumbent companies would just do it. That's one of the amazing things about crypto, right, is it's so different than anything else out there. Like you're taking fundamental regulatory risk and starting a company in the space that it just prices all the incumbents out of the market. So, you know, for social and economic factors, as I've talked about, but also just for competition factors, I've never seen a paradigm emerge that could be so disruptive to the face of how work is already done across the world. And I think infrastructure is this really amazing wedge because it's so important today that we can really use to start building some of these platforms.
00:11:22.614 - 00:11:53.464, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's a really good point that you brought up in terms of UBI, I didn't even think about it that way. So you're basically saying in the future, a lot of people are predicting that AI could replace a large amount of workforce that will fundamentally change what work looks like. So in your vision of the future, I could maybe not have a job, but I could be operating nodes for multiple deep end networks offering services, and I'm making my kind of salary through the rewards and fees that I earn from providing these services. Is that kind of the rough idea around that UBI concept?
00:11:53.764 - 00:12:36.614, Speaker A: Exactly. Look, I think we think about society as being really zero sum at the end of the day, when the fact is the stock market grows seven to 8% a year and seven to 8% over really long periods of time compounds massively. So I actually think over the last 100 years there's been a massive acceleration of techno capital whereby people have a lot more than they ever used to. And we're starting to get to the point where people can start monetizing that paradigm at scale. And yes, to your point, I think that's exactly it. Am I saying that people aren't going to have jobs 15 years? No, no, no, not at all. But what I'm saying is there will be big subsets of the population that can make ends meet just by hosting and deploying hardware services, providing people with things like bandwidth or compute power.
00:12:36.614 - 00:13:20.534, Speaker A: And I actually think in the medium to long term, it's in the government's interest to make sure people have that opportunity, because, you know, the world is in a tough place right now. I think the US is accelerating forward, but a lot of countries aren't growing. And even within the US, there's a ton of issues inherently and stability at the base of the pyramid. To make sure people have at least, like, the basics to make ends meet is super important. And I see this as one of the genuine avenues that companies, people, even the government, can kind of use to start solving these problems. So again, it's in the earliest stages, which is why I think there's still a huge amount of skepticism around it. And, you know, deepin, you can call it crypto, you can call it web two, that is the uber equivalents.
00:13:20.534 - 00:13:29.394, Speaker A: But it's this idea that you can decentralize capital and labor to create economic unlocks that give people better lives in the long run.
00:13:30.454 - 00:13:52.674, Speaker B: So I love to dive into the meat of things here. So we've talked a lot about the kind of theoretical benefits of deepin and what it can do for the supply side. I'd love to consider the demand side as well. So what kind of services are there in deep in today? I think in the intro we talked about decentralized compute, decentralized storage. What are some of the other examples or big categories in deep in today?
00:13:53.174 - 00:14:36.102, Speaker A: Yeah, no, it's a good question. I think this has been answered ten ways to Sunday by all of the different people out there that spend a lot of time thinking about this. My framework for this is kind of overarching three categories. I think there's hardware infrastructure, there's machine infrastructure, and then there's human capital infrastructure, and I'll dive into each of those to kind of elucidate, you know, starting with hardware infrastructure. I really think about this as either producing digital commodities or providing unique data that's getting created through hardware deployment. So digital commodities are what we've been talking about today. You know, bandwidth and compute power at scale.
00:14:36.102 - 00:15:04.180, Speaker A: Storage is also starting to enter the equation. You know, storage has obviously been around for a while. Filecoin is scaling with a compute product as well. Some really interesting things happening there. But I think compute and bandwidth are really poised to break out in the next couple of years for a few simple reasons. One, there is just an incredible amount of latent, as you mentioned, supply out there, especially on the compute side. You know, Akash is working with GPU's.
00:15:04.180 - 00:15:29.730, Speaker A: There's a lot of companies platforms that are coming up that can work across any sort of device, but there's so much idle compute power out there. I mean, think about the number of devices that we all have that are just kind of sitting around. I went through my drawer a few days ago. I have like four old iPhones. I mean, iPhones are pretty high powered devices. You know, Moore's law, at the end of the day, compute power scales or transistors end up decreasing in size, which scales compute power exponentially. Yes.
00:15:29.730 - 00:16:02.086, Speaker A: But, you know, even the iPhone eight to iPhone nine is still pretty valuable for what it's able to provide. So I think the supply side, as you mentioned, is already there. You know, the question on the demand side of where that's going to come from is a lot more poignant within hardware infrastructure and within digital commodities. The way projects have gone about solving that is twofold. To take bandwidth as a starting example. The big example, everyone knows is helium. There's another project actually called Andrena in the market that's doing some really interesting things as well.
00:16:02.086 - 00:17:17.506, Speaker A: While helium pursued this approach of incentivizing people to put up hotspots in order to bootstrap the creation of a network from scratch, what Andrina is doing is actually going and wiring up buildings to create a basic footprint, and then using their basic footprint to then incentivize people to create nodes. And what you end up doing through that process is you have a network that's already valuable, so you're not necessarily paying incentives that a user isn't sure will be monetizable in the medium to long term. You know, if helium is a massive networked approach across the US, I think of Andreen almost like a hub and spoke approach, like the energy market for solar energy, where you have these big hubs of production, and then you have these spokes of individual providers that are able to sort of contribute to that pool, I think Andrina is doing like $5 million of revenue today that it does from literally wiring up buildings and selling Internet services. And they can use that demand side revenue to support miners in the earlier days to start solving some of these problems that everyone's talking about around cold start. I think even in helium's case, for what it's worth. Look, I think the IoT network was a good idea that was a little bit ahead of its time. Everyone's kind of looking at saying where's demand going to come from? Well they have a phone plan that they sell for $20 a month.
00:17:17.506 - 00:18:07.070, Speaker A: I mean $20 a month is crazy. I think at and T, or, sorry, T Mobile's most basic phone plan is $60 a month. And on a product basis Helium's product isn't that different than T Mobile's. You know again I mentioned this earlier, there's this HBS professor, Clayton Christensen, he has this whole theory around disruptive innovation which is that the way incumbents get taken down over time is scrappier start startups iterate on exactly their product but with a far lower cost footprint. And that's kind of exactly what helium is doing. You know, if you have people host the nodes at the end of the day you align costs across rent because you know the telcos would have to go buy the land to put up towers. You align costs across the capex because the telcos would normally have to either contract with the tower company or actually like build the materials for the towers themselves.
00:18:07.070 - 00:19:06.036, Speaker A: And then there's also the spectrum license angle, which is a longstanding thing in the US that has changed a lot over time. But recently the government freed up a couple of bands of spectrum around the three to 4 GHz range, which creates some really interesting opportunities for retail to pursue some of these ideas. So long winded answer to your question, but I think there's a lot of ideas that are emerging within Deepin. I think a lot of the supply demand dynamics in digital commodities have really been scrutinized at scale and was part of the reason why I think helium token went crazy in the last bull cycle, ended up coming back a lot. But by the same token, there's some really interesting mechanisms that these projects are using to solve the demand side now that I actually think are scalable and actually wiring up buildings and having revenue coming from customers. Helium working with providers like T Mobile and Telefonica to create amazing nationwide footprints for low cost coverage. Those are going to scale the demand side massively.
00:19:06.036 - 00:19:33.060, Speaker A: I actually think in Helium's case question of marketing, which is something that they're thinking a lot about now as well. You know, I can hit the other two as well. They're a little bit more opaque. The other two categories being machine infrastructure. I think about this as being some of the AI based ideas. You know, Bittenzer is something that a lot of people in the market are really excited about. We host a podcast with a guy named Sammy Kasseb who is excited, as anyone have ever seen about a project about Bittenzern.
00:19:33.060 - 00:20:16.580, Speaker A: You hosted this breakfast recently and you're showing me like, the waitlist was like 600 people. It was crazy. But look, I think at the end of the day, it's a category that's a little bit more nascent, and the supply demand dynamics will play out over time. The last category is human capital, which is platforms that either create supply of labor or people to do jobs. I think we backed a platform called Nosh, which is decentralizing food delivery, which, you know, deals with some really interesting dynamics in the restaurant industry. And, you know, back to your original question of like, why do we even need some of this? I mean, take rates in ride share and food delivery are all over the place. They started around twelve to 15%.
00:20:16.580 - 00:20:21.584, Speaker A: DoorDash is now charging almost 50% take rates on transactions because they can.
00:20:22.364 - 00:20:58.362, Speaker B: That's an interesting point that I actually want to double click on, which is the unit economics of these networks. So you mentioned there's three types of deep end networks. The coordination of human resources, coordination of machine resources, and the coordination of physical infrastructure. So let's focus on the first one first, because that one, I think is probably the most established. Let's use either helium or Andrena as an example. So I guess, first of all, to zoom out a bit, for people who have no idea what these things are, you know, have no idea what a mesh network is, can you explain how these networks work? And then subsequently, how exactly, where exactly does the cost advantage for these things come from?
00:20:58.548 - 00:22:13.202, Speaker A: So just to explain how these work, very simply, telcos over the last hundred years have kind of been built in one way, which is you go buy a bunch of land, you go buy a bunch of metals, you go buy a bunch of chips, you put up those towers on the land, and then eventually, when you have enough of a footprint, you go and sell that footprint through phone plans to customers on really long lockups, and then you go borrow a lot of money because the cost of doing all this was crazy. And you probably spent, you know, in today's dollars between 50 and $100 billion doing this. That is the way every telco for the last hundred years has been built out at scale. What is different today? There's a couple of factors. One, the tower model that 4G used isn't really applicable anymore. You know, we have such high needs nowadays in terms of the amount of bandwidth, that small cells are becoming a far bigger part of the equation for these networks. The problem, though, is, like, Verizon can't go into 25 million homes and force people to install routers, right? It's just a massive human capital related lift and a coordination related lift.
00:22:13.202 - 00:23:13.978, Speaker A: So at a fundamental level, 5G has this issue where even the traditional model that's worked for 100 years probably isn't going to work in this latest upgrade, because it'll have to be a combination of these towers, these small cells. The second factor to consider here is that during COVID all these telcos borrowed a huge amount of money borrowed a huge amount of money to stay afloat, to finance customers and to buy spectrum licenses. So what is a spectrum license auction? I'll keep it super quick. The US pretty much forces you to, if you're a telco, pay for the radio waves you're going to use over a ten year period upfront. So, you know, the four big mnos in the US, T mobile at and T, Verizon and Dish, borrowed something like $100 billion to go buy these licenses to be able to use 5g over a ten year period. It's been two and a half years, there's no 5g yet. So they're sitting here saying, well, hang on, we spent all this money on these licenses.
00:23:13.978 - 00:24:19.706, Speaker A: Are we ever going to actually be able to use them? It's unclear whether the answer to that equation is yes or no today. So, you know, it is a framework whereby incumbents have a huge amount of debt, their cash flow is down from where it was at the peak, and they have this massive rebuild at hand. Then on the other side of this equation, you have these protocols like helium and adrena. Okay, why are they interesting? Well, what they actually let you do is crowdsource and crowd deploy that radio piece that's so complicated for telcos to do, going into people's houses and either putting up Wi Fi offload mechanisms or CBRS radios in order to actually drive peer to peer Internet connectivity. So what these platforms let you do at scale is become that tower provider yourself. And, you know, that tower provider used to be a big company that would spend millions of dollars to put up the tower and then sell the footprint to a telco or partner with a telco, be able to do it, get paid back in eight months for doing that. It's a good economics business.
00:24:19.706 - 00:24:50.114, Speaker A: Now, you get to do that, the customer gets to do that, and the customer gets to do that at scale. Why is that interesting? Well, let's think about the three big cost buckets that we were talking about. There's the rent, which is, you know, these tower companies in combination with telcos are going and buying and renting huge amounts of land to put up the towers. You don't have to do that. In a helium case, people are providing that. The second is the actual capex for the infrastructure. I mean, historically, again, tower companies, telcos would spend hundreds of billions of dollars to do that.
00:24:50.114 - 00:25:33.970, Speaker A: Today, customers are paying for it, customers are being compensated on a variable cost basis for it through tokens. So the economics are still there for them. But it ends up being a framework where, you know, telcos have a tough rebuild to do versus these low cost providers like helium that, you know, are able to just get 100,000 people to do exactly that, day one. So you save a huge amount of cost on capex, you save a huge amount of cost on rent. And then lastly, there's the spectrum license point, which is that, you know, people are paying huge amounts of money for spectrum licenses. Helium is able to use free spectrum today. And in partnership with T Mobile, which is the partnership they have today, they can even contract to make T mobile spectrum useful in the long run.
00:25:33.970 - 00:26:05.954, Speaker A: So across all three of those buckets, we think there's like 30% to 50% points of margin that, you know, traditional incumbents deal with today that these new players are going to be able to take out. And, you know, we're extremely excited about that. To the extent that it works at scale, these things will start as offload mechanisms for big mnos will make good unit economics. But long run, the unit economics are so much better at a fundamental level because you've aligned across those three points that we think these things will scale nationwide and become really, really, really big.
00:26:07.024 - 00:26:58.624, Speaker B: And this is really interesting because I think in the beginning, when we first started looking into deep in, one of the concerns was, okay, there's probably some concept of economies of scale with the bigger incumbent companies versus these very, I guess, less efficient, decentralized networks. And it doesn't seem like that's the case for these kind of mesh networks like helium. But would you say that also extends to decentralized compute networks? So, for instance, networks like Akash where they are basically coordinating clusters of GPU's. I'm not a expert in AI, but my understanding is that there is some benefit to having clusters of GPU's sitting in the same place versus coordinating a very decentralized network of GPU's. Is there type of structural disadvantage that decentralized networks might have over more centralized clusters?
00:26:58.964 - 00:27:45.156, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a good question. I think as of today, the jury's still out today to some degree. There's this big issue around the speed of light, which is that, like, when you end up having clusters that are too far apart across the globe, like, you start running into physics issues and the speed of light being fast enough to like, actually transmit the information. I think as you look at the space today, generally, the players that are working at scale are players that are us based. They aren't necessarily globally based, and are working with infrastructure that is already fundamentally pretty connected. So, you know, to your point, I think there is some sort of an unlock that comes from running a decentralized compute network. I think the jury's still a little bit more out, though, versus the bandwidth networks on the efficiency that kind of comes out of this.
00:27:45.156 - 00:28:40.300, Speaker A: I think one of the amazing opportunities here is just around utilization at the end of the day, which is that, you know, we have a GPU shortage right now. There'll probably be a glut on the back end. To the extent that that glut plays out with very low utilizations, you can see how compute networks like Akash can actually be extremely valuable in redistributing a lot of that connectivity that would otherwise just be sitting idle. And I think that is a monetary unlock in itself at scale, because you're creating coverage that's worth something that wouldn't otherwise be worth something. But by the same token, the other side of that is, is it as clean on the unit economic side as something like the helium provider, the bandwidth providers like helium, where you can just kind of point to things, it's a little bit harder. But, you know, the other side of that is it can scale a lot more fast because, you know, you're not necessarily forcing people to buy a piece of hardware that they don't already have. You can let people start using hardware that they have lying around.
00:28:40.300 - 00:29:24.244, Speaker A: I think, you know, Akash, pursuing the GPU route is an interesting one. I'd be very interested to see over time if, you know, a lot of these general compute clusters end up getting off the ground that can use any device and support different types of computation. But I'm very bullish on Akash. I think it's a project that has a killer use case that could get to scale in the next six to nine months as a function of how quickly to scale the BD side. I mean, they're doing almost a million bucks at ARR right now, which is pretty impressive with only I think like 150 GPU's if I'm not mistaken, that are like actually actively used and leased. There's a question of how do you end up scaling the supply side of something like this. But I think that glut that I talked about should, to the extent that it ends up coming through, will solve a lot of those issues.
00:29:24.244 - 00:29:49.064, Speaker A: So again, to answer your question, it's a little less clear than the bandwidth providers of the world, at least as far as we can see it, to just point to where the unit economics are really, really different. But I think the compute providers are solving a different problem, which is that there's a huge amount of latent capacity out there across devices that could be monetized, which is different than the bandwidth providers, which are solving a new market issue of how do you create five g?
00:29:49.964 - 00:30:24.282, Speaker B: And it sounds like for the bandwidth networks like helium, like Andrina, the cost savings is much clearer. There's a structural business advantage to doing these things in web3 versus web two, whereas for the compute networks like Akash and render there is demand currently and a lot of that is driven by shortage of GPU's. But it's not as clear that there is a structural efficiency advantage over time. I guess looking at other verticals in DPN as well. Are there other verticals where you also see as clear a structural advantage as you see in bandwidth providers?
00:30:24.458 - 00:30:51.438, Speaker A: Yeah, no, it's a good question. And look, I don't want to. I'm not trying to fade compute networks. I actually just think it's a kind of different proposition. Bandwidth providers look a lot like even the new ones, like their business model still looks a lot like central businesses. They're selling phone plans to people, whereas with the compute providers, it's like a very different underlying product that they're providing to the customer. Which is why it's a little bit harder to point to sort of the medium to long term of, one, how the unit economics look and two, like how these things end up scaling.
00:30:51.438 - 00:31:29.544, Speaker A: I think the range of things that the compute could be used for and compute providers could plug into is massive. And I think that's where a lot of like the theoretical opportunity lies. It's just a little bit harder to point to the underlying unit economics because, you know, telecom businesses have existed for 100 years, and Helium's phone plan is still a $20 a month phone plan versus, like, Akash's ability to, you know, sell. You compute is, sure it's priced, but it can be on a more variable, variable basis. And it's also a function of, like, what the underlying supply of the network is. So a couple of factors that are important to consider there. You know, I think there are other networks as well that could be extremely valuable within the space.
00:31:29.544 - 00:32:26.278, Speaker A: You know, I spend a lot of time on the human capital side of this because I think those are networks where, again, like bandwidth providers, you can kind of see the unit economics from web two businesses and understand how they'll comport to web3 businesses. You know, a project that we had never sort of considered web3 or, sorry, we never considered deepin. But then they branded themselves as deepin. And we've sort of expanded the category since this is brain trust, which is, you know, this labor based platform that really works to connect pools of part time laborers with people that need labor to some degree. And, you know, they've really focused on software architects and compute providers or, sorry, people that can provide technical skill sets to some degree. But it goes into this future work hypothesis at the end of the day, and to the extent that brain trust feels that they're deep in and they expend this core category a lot, I think they should be considered deep in. You know, I think that's a project that took a lot of flack over the last couple of years.
00:32:26.278 - 00:33:20.810, Speaker A: They have continued to scale revenue, they've continued to show really high retention, and we're pretty excited about where it's going. And then the last one to hit very quickly is, you know, Nosh, which is this decentralized food delivery platform. I think very simply, the problem with the incumbents lays in the statistic I gave you earlier, which is like, doordash has gone from 15% fees to 50% fees. And everyone else on the network, all the other stakeholders are sitting there like, holy shit, where did all my economics go? So I think that creates a really interesting opportunity that didn't exist before, given that the driver side of this equation has almost been commoditized by the fact that you can just plug into an Uber or a Lyft API to build something that's very different, that has structural unit economic advantages. That comes from, in Nash's case, the fact that a lot of the network is owned by the actual restaurants that are providing the service. So you have a little bit more give and take around take rate. You have a little bit more give and take around how much each stakeholder makes.
00:33:20.810 - 00:33:35.094, Speaker A: But at the end of the day, I think it is something that will end up balancing the incentives across the platform a lot better than traditional models are able to. That is the most important factor here of building sustainable businesses over the long term.
00:33:35.834 - 00:34:02.154, Speaker B: When you guys go out and look for these deep end networks and you try to be early to them, I'm curious what the process is. Do you have kind of a pre existing few categories that you think, hey, this is the type of network that could be get, that could be disrupted by Deepin, or do you kind of do a more bottoms up approach where you look at the uniconomics, is this thing actually structurally a cheaper option for consumers, and then you kind of just make decisions from there?
00:34:02.534 - 00:34:35.084, Speaker A: It's a good question. Look, I think it's a starting point. We are crypto investors through and through, but we spend a lot of time on business model. And I think, you know, crypto is going through a maturation process whereby business model is getting more and more important. But there are a lot of industries where you can just point to kind of what it looks like. So, you know, to answer your question, we have a starting map of all of the areas that we think could theoretically be disrupted by deepin. But the fact is that such a big map that it's kind of irrelevant in the context of our thinking.
00:34:35.084 - 00:35:31.384, Speaker A: I think what matters to us when we are actually pursuing an underwriting opportunities is sort of threefold, like, what is the structural take rate of the incumbent industry versus what the deep in challenger intends to solve, and how are they realizing that? Difference in take rate, I think, is one of the most important factors. Two, I think having founders, obviously, that, you know, are passionate about the industry, but also understand a lot of the nuances around unit economics informs our thought process more frequently than, you know, you would think. I think we had sort of a more narrow categorization of deepen coming into this. And we've just been told by founders that we respect a lot. Like, hey, no, we are deepen also for these reasons. And it's been a pretty amazing experience to kind of watch people even walk us through that to some degree, because it helps us understand these projects at such a deep level. So, you know, the business model and unit economics are important.
00:35:31.384 - 00:36:28.900, Speaker A: The founder and what the founder wants to do with it is super important as well. And then, as I mentioned, you know, the incumbents and the take rate is like, the thing that we look at to judge whether the opportunity is something that is, you know, monetizable on a short to medium term basis. I think if all of those three things come together, it's a pretty good bet that at the very least, they will create something that is interesting and different than everything else out there, and we'll start to accrue some basic value. You know, whether it ends up crossing the chasm to full adoption, unclear. But that's how we get to at least trying to figure out what we'll get at least early adopters at scale involved. But again, it goes back to I always love that old Marc Andreessen quote, which is to have, like, strong opinions loosely held. And that's kind of how we approach deepin, which is people can convince us that things are deepen if they're able to, and the fact is, if they're able to, we will look at investing in it at scale.
00:36:28.900 - 00:36:36.264, Speaker A: But, you know, those three categories that I mentioned make up our original market map for how we think about navigating the space to begin.
00:36:37.144 - 00:36:57.684, Speaker B: I'm curious, like, based on all the work and conversations that you've had with these deepen networks, are there specific types that you find yourself more inclined to say yes to in terms of investing? Are there specific categories that you kind of not deliberately kind of categorically rejecting everything, but you just happen to be less convinced about projects coming out from that category?
00:36:58.064 - 00:37:41.270, Speaker A: Yeah, I think this is something that the fact is, at the end of the day, we're 28 years old, where we started this firm two years ago. We have the benefit of having some incredible mentors at the end of the day that have taught us a lot. But it's a learn as you go process. And as we sort of put it, our north star is really the founder and has to be the founder at the end of the day. So to your point, no, there is no project within deepen that we just wouldn't look at because we think it's, like, not going to be relevant. I think if the founder is extremely strong and, like, can really articulate both the reasoning and the unit economics, as well as the vision for why it could be interesting. Like, it is still something we would think about pursuing.
00:37:41.270 - 00:38:31.834, Speaker A: But to invest in it at scale, you're right. Like, we would have to be able to underwrite the unit economics or be able to get our head around it ourselves. I think, you know, there is an amazing proclivity within crypto for projects to get backed and for those projects to not necessarily turn into businesses. I think a lot of the best vc's in the space have come up with really smart frameworks around how to get around that. That focus to some degree on the founder and the community. I think our unlock, which is slightly different, is really to focus on the business model, which is to say that, like, how do you understand these pieces of unit economics as they come together? And can we work with an exceptional founder to understand what each of those pieces are? And if we're able to understand that in depth and they're able to convince us, it's deepen. I don't think there are areas that we wouldn't consider.
00:38:31.834 - 00:39:08.686, Speaker A: By the same token, what's really interesting to us, we spend a lot of time in digital commodities right now. I think it's an area that is structurally underinvested in. The Internet's been growing at a 25% compounded rate since 2000. And the fact that Biden's throwing $5 trillion into infrastructure spending, I don't think is going to slow it down. And some of the entrepreneurs in the space are just absolutely exceptional that are coming into the digital commodity space. So I think maybe if you're asking us where we tend to spend a lot of our time thinking that that's where we spend a lot of time thinking about digital commodities. But there's some crazy new sectors that are coming up that like, I'm still struggling to get my head around.
00:39:08.686 - 00:40:01.534, Speaker A: You know, one is security, finance. So you know, there are these like platforms out there that allow you allow anybody to become like a white hat to some degree and like run code audits across platforms. You know, there's this platform called Oticon out there that literally lets you mint nfts, that enshrine bugs that projects have using their sort of product to literally sweep the project to understand if they're bugs. And then they create a marketplace for that on the back end to funnel those insights to companies. I mean, you can find incredible ways to start crowdsourcing cybersecurity if, if you get a motivated enough crowd and the AI models are strong enough that people don't actually have to do a lot of work other than like putting in a URL and press and go. So, you know, the space continues to proliferate. I think there's a ton of interesting ideas at scale.
00:40:01.534 - 00:40:38.174, Speaker A: We tend to focus on digital commodities because it's a space that's so big, as well as some of these human capital businesses, because it's a space where the unit economics are easier to get their heads around. But, you know, I see things like security, finance, which is just so different than anything that exists out there. It really hits this community idea at the end of the day of people at scale going out and doing a very basic piece of work in order to earn a monetary reward that could be substantial if it's incredibly valuable. And I see that as an amazing democratizing force that still drives a huge amount of financial value that wouldn't otherwise exist. And that's really the paradigm that we are looking for and that we're looking for at scale.
00:40:39.274 - 00:40:54.236, Speaker B: Got it. Mash, just to kind of close us out here, I have two questions for you. So I guess number one is in terms of a few networks in deepin that you think are the flag bearers that are the most interesting to you. Can you name a few here so our listeners can go check them out 100%?
00:40:54.420 - 00:41:32.420, Speaker A: Look, I think across the three categories, there's a bunch of interesting ideas. I think the ones that people know a lot about are within hardware or helium and hivemapper. I think those are two really interesting projects that are doing some pretty cool things. You mentioned Akash is a really, really strong founder with a great vision for how he wants to build this. I would definitely encourage people to check that out. And also, Andrena, you know, it's a project that doesn't have a token yet, but it'll be launching its token in the next couple of months, and it's just a different approach to what helium is doing. But again, a lot of those characteristics that I mentioned that, you know, makes us pretty bullish about it across machine infrastructure.
00:41:32.420 - 00:42:06.400, Speaker A: You know, Bittenzer is somewhere that we've spent a lot of time as have a lot of sort of our partners in the ecosystem. The fact is there's a lot of opacity there, and what they're doing is very, very different than anything that exists anywhere. That is like crowdsourced incentivization and funding of just new AI use cases. Is there something there? You know it. I go back and forth to some degree, but undoubtedly the things that are coming up are really, really cool. The question is, you know, can you turn those into businesses? We'll see. There's a platform called autonomous within machine infrastructure.
00:42:06.400 - 00:42:55.412, Speaker A: It's one that I am extremely bullish on just because I see people building things with the protocol that I don't see anywhere else, like what is autonomous? That it's a very simple agentic framework to be able to spin up on chain agents to do various activities, but like, their first product was a prediction market agent that like, literally uses your trading history to run investment strategies from you. Their second product was like a governance product that like, automates governance for Daos, which I think is one of the most important things in the market today because Dao governance is an absolute mess. And again, really strong founder that's super passionate about what he's doing. Highly recommend people check that out. And, you know, the security finance thing, it's super early. It's unclear whether any of these things are going to take off, but that's kind of what makes some of this stuff exciting. You know, we spent a lot of time on Oticon and Aegis.
00:42:55.412 - 00:43:30.312, Speaker A: We don't know the founders, they are anonymous, but, you know, the protocol works and it's a pretty interesting thing. So highly recommend people go check it out. Last couple of things, I'll leave you with human capital. You know, Nosh is this decentralized food delivery platform that is going to be launching in the next couple of months in Colorado and then nationwide is doing some really interesting things. They just got backed, I think, by 16 z is crypto startup school. So fingers crossed for how that goes. And then brain trust is one that's kind of been in the market for a while, but they've really chewed glass to come up with a product that is pretty different than the upworks and the fibers out there.
00:43:30.312 - 00:44:20.404, Speaker A: And they're scaling revenue pretty quickly. So that is a lot of projects for you. Hopefully that gives your listeners the couple of things to go look at after this conversation. But I think more importantly, like, the space is growing so quickly that there's new stuff coming up every day and new stuff that you can't put in these meat boxes. And that's part of the exciting thing here, which is that, like, you wake up one day and you see something like security, finance, and you wake up the next day and you see a different use case. And I think that's something that's really special about deepen, which is that, you know, it has become a sector that has almost become a flag bearer for all of the founders within crypto that didn't find, like a nice, neat community within DeFi or gaming or L1 s. It's become a catch all community for people that are really interested in pushing this boundary of decentralizing capital and labor.
00:44:20.404 - 00:44:28.844, Speaker A: And that's what I'm super excited about at the end of the day because, you know, communities of like minded, motivated people are really what make growth happen in the world.
00:44:29.254 - 00:44:56.326, Speaker B: And Mahesh, my last question to you now, just to contextualize how early we are, so deep in right now is ranked number 20 in terms of categories by size. If you go on Coinkatco and you sort by categories. So it's about $30 billion in market cap if you add the value of all the tokens together. Now, in comparison, Defi is about 120 billion. Stablecoins alone is like 150 billion. And layer one is obviously the biggest is to 2.2 trillion.
00:44:56.326 - 00:45:03.194, Speaker B: So if you were to kind of, you know, pinpoint a number here, how big does Deepin get within the next two years?
00:45:03.534 - 00:45:35.254, Speaker A: It's a great question, and it's. It's a question that I spend too much time thinking about. And the fact is, all I have for you are kind of loose frameworks to think about it, just to give you a statistic. I think as of right now, deep in is less than 10% of total altcoin market cap. In the last bull market, DeFi went as high as 40% of altcoin market cap. I am still extremely bullish. Defi.
00:45:35.254 - 00:46:38.874, Speaker A: I think there's a couple of things around financial regulation that make it a little bit harder to make scale in the next couple of years that make me think Deakin is going to be a category winner if we have a real bull run the way we did in 2021 and 2017 and 2015. So, conservatively, my framework for thinking about this is I think Deepin will be somewhere between 30% to 40% of total altcoin market cap. At stablecoins. Now, you can then do the math to figure out what that's going to be as a function of how big you think crypto is going to get, whether that's 3510, 20 trillion, but that 30% to 40% of all coin market cap is something that we think this can consistently get to, especially because the underlying use cases of crypto are so dependent on this infrastructure to begin with, that is bandwidth and compute power. So that leaves a huge amount of room. I mean, you know, there's room for crypto to five x from here, and then there's room for deep into forex within that. So.
00:46:38.874 - 00:47:53.196, Speaker A: And that just doesn't even speak to how a lot of these things will end up working together over time, which I think you'll start seeing a lot of cross sector collaboration. I think you'll start to see some of the projects within social and deepen start to merge. I think you'll start to see some of the l one's and deepen start to merge as well. And, you know, at the end of the day, I have the saying that a lot of it is going to be deepen. And I'm generally super bullish that it will be more than anything because I see these as killer use cases that have to come to market regardless, and to do so that is provide them at such a structural cost advantage isn't something that I think in the medium or long term companies or governments are going to pass up. So, you know, I'm actually bullish that if there's a segment of crypto that governments end up being able to find commonality with, it's going to be this one. And that could drive not just attention, but I think more importantly, stakeholders that are thoughtful and who have their finger on the button to some degree into crypto in a way that I just don't think they are right now.
00:47:53.196 - 00:48:20.414, Speaker A: So I'm excited to see that happen. I think there's still a huge amount of work to do, and this is going to play out over the next few years. But by that same token, the world is extremely short infrastructure right now, there's a reason the government is spending $5 trillion to shore up our infrastructure. And I think structural ways of creating that at far lower costs are always going to win, especially if they're empowering people to be more free and to have more income in their lives.
00:48:21.314 - 00:48:37.484, Speaker B: Yeah, and I think that's a great way to kind of close this out on. Thank you so much for giving us that high level overview and also diving into the specific names. So for listeners out there, we'll include some of the tickers below as well that you can go check out. And we'll also plug your Twitter below for people to follow you. So thank you so much for coming on, man.
00:48:37.824 - 00:49:01.778, Speaker A: Yeah, that would be great. We run a platform called Deepin Ninja. If you're ever interested in the statistics around this stuff, revenue numbers, we map all the projects across the space. We've got like 800 of them right now, so go check it out if you're interested in Deepin. And we also host the proof of coverage podcast where we talk to some of the smartest founders in the space. But yeah, I'm Monero Mahesh, and this has been awesome. Thank you so much for having me on.
00:49:01.826 - 00:49:39.344, Speaker B: Hey, thanks for supporting another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. If you've enjoyed this episode, please give us a five star rating on Spotify and Apple Podcasts or whatever platform you're listening to this on. It really helps us a lot or if you prefer YouTube, you can subscribe to our channel and YouTube as well to not miss an episode. I'd love to hear from you guys as well, and I personally make sure to read every single comment on YouTube or tweets that are directed at me, so feel free to leave a comment there. Let us know what project you want us to bring on or what trends you want us to talk about or tweet at merjacenchoi or heblockcrunch on the platform previously known as Twitter, currently known as X. And thank you so much for supporting and I'll see you in the next episode.
