00:00:15.510 - 00:01:19.520, Speaker A: Okay, thank you and welcome. As I said, tough competition with perfect weather in Paris, vitalik talking downstairs but still excited to talk about stablecoins. Today I'm working on Celo and we describe Celo as mobile openreal mobile means Cello is a mobile blockchain that enables ultra light client type of transactions from a simple phone. Very efficient. It is open source, it is a EVM compatible layer one which is proof of stake and it is fully permissionless and it powers real use cases. Real use cases means since for example, transactions settle very fast within 5 seconds and gas fees are very low, it is for example, very suitable for peer to peer remittances payments. So these are the real use cases we would like to support.
00:01:19.520 - 00:02:43.642, Speaker A: At this Ethereum conference we announced optics which is an interoperability network bridges to any other EVM compatible chain. So we have nearby this location here we have the League of Bridges events and a second location if it's too crowded here, which is currently not the case, where you can also get a coffee and where also if you have very technical questions, a lot of the cello developers are and you can ask them also questions on the interoperability. So welcome to the mobile first movement. But today here I would like to talk about stablecoins. I'm an economist and I'm always interested in research on stability, on stablecoins and the economics behind. So if you're also interested in doing research here's, my telegram handle or my email, feel free to reach out. We are excited about research and would like to do more of the topic of the talk here today is, as I said, stablecoins and especially the different types of stablecoins that are out there.
00:02:43.642 - 00:04:14.950, Speaker A: So for example, senori type of stablecoins, decentralized stablecoins or algorithmic stablecoins and as I said, I'm an economist, I spent my career before blockchain working in research and in traditional finance. So I am especially interested in for example, the risks of the different stablecoins that are out there and would like to talk about them today. So I'm also interested in stablecoins because after the Cello dollar, which is a stablecoin that is following the value of the dollar, there was a second stablecoin that was recently launched on Sello, which is the sello euro. What you can see here on the slide is the sello euro price in US dollars in blue. So it's basically the exchange rate between sello euro and dollars and in orange you can see the euro dollar exchange rate on the FX market. So it just launched, it is pretty new but in this short history of time it is following the value of the FX exchange rate and it's interesting because there are not too many euro based stablecoins and therefore it's especially interesting to talk about that here in Paris. But I want to look at stablecoins in a bit broader sense.
00:04:14.950 - 00:05:50.360, Speaker A: I would like to introduce stablecoins in general, why they exist and what different classes of stablecoins are out there, what are the risks of these stablecoins? And I want to talk a bit about supply and demand, since this is especially important for, for example, algorithmic stablecoins that exist, and also happy for any questions you might have. And when interviewing why stablecoins exist, mostly you see that people talk about the volatility of other crypto assets out there. So what you can see here on this chart is the Bitcoin implied volatility of implied options with different maturities, one month, three months, six months, one week. And you can see that the volatility of Bitcoin, for example, is between 50 and 250%. So this is nothing new, that maybe if you want to do a peer to peer transaction or if you need a currency that should be a store of value, then maybe Bitcoin or also ETH is not your currency of choice since there is significant volatility in these assets. And this is why, then at some point stablecoin emerged. Mostly today, especially in crypto space, traders use stablecoins to get into a risk off mode and reduce their risky holdings in certain times.
00:05:50.360 - 00:06:43.062, Speaker A: But the big question is, are these stablecoins actually stable? And I'm sure that you've heard stories, especially recently about different stablecoins that haven't been stable all the time. And here on the slide, you can see an example of the iron stablecoin that is actually a senorit type of protocol. And the Senorich coin that should take up the volatility of the iron stablecoin is the Titan token. And what you can see here is the price development in June this year. So pretty recently. And what you can also see here is basically the problem when you have a stablecoin, but not the use cases for it. So it could be that the stablecoin and maybe also the Senorich token loses in value because there's just no demand for it.
00:06:43.062 - 00:07:33.246, Speaker A: And in this case here, iron holders got Titan token for holding iron as a reward. And there's a point where this whole Titan system collapsed where there was just too many Titan outstanding, but not enough demand. So the price of Titan decreased very quickly, which opened up a lot of arbitrage opportunities for traders out there. And at this moment, then the iron stablecoin collapsed. But there are also many other stablecoins out there and some of them have been fairly stable and some of them have not. And if you look at this chart here, you can see there's USDT, USDC, two very popular dollar based stablecoins. And there are also others like Dai Fay Iron and also the Celo dollar.
00:07:33.246 - 00:09:05.070, Speaker A: It's nice to see that the sello dollar so far has been stable. But we also see that especially when we look a bit further back, that also the Fiat backed stable token have been pretty volatile at certain times and therefore, because stablecoins not always have been stable, it's for me very interesting as an economist, to look into what are the risk factors of the different types of stablecoins and to explore why do they deepak at certain times? And what you could also see on the previous slide is that most stablecoins out there are actually dollar based stablecoins. There are different reasons for this. It's also one reason that a lot of trading in crypto is dollar denominated. But especially for the large stablecoins like USDC or USDT, there's also another reason, and this reason is pretty simple. And this is the red line here on this chart, which is actually the deposit facility rate, or here in this case, the effective federal funds rate of the US dollar, which is in the positive area. So if you're an issuer of a fiat backed stablecoin and you take in collateral and you put this collateral actually into a bank, you basically earn everything, the whole area under this red line, because you earn positive interest income on your collateral and there's mostly no interest on your stablecoin.
00:09:05.070 - 00:10:22.054, Speaker A: And therefore you probably rather issue a dollar based stablecoin than a euro based stablecoin because on euro on average interest rates have been negative for quite a period now. And therefore you would have to pay interest if you would issue a euro based stablecoin as in a fiat backed version. And therefore we see much more dollar based stablecoins than euro based. So that was the intro. Why are stablecoins out there and also why do we see more dollar based stablecoins? And also that some of these stablecoins haven't been stable in the past. And to talk about the different risk factors of existing stablecoins, we need to categorize stablecoins in some way because they all have different risks and as we've seen on the slides, quite substantial risk. So the bank for International Settlements has a very specific differentiation of different stablecoins.
00:10:22.054 - 00:11:41.154, Speaker A: So they differentiate by the user interface, you have to access these coins. They also differentiate by transfer mechanism, if it is for example, a stablecoin that is based on decentralized ledger, or it's more a centralized stablecoin, if it's open source or closed source, if it's a public or private stablecoin, if it's a permissionless or permission stablecoin. And they also differentiate by the stability mechanism of the stablecoin. And the stability mechanism, what they look at is basically who is the issuer? Is it a decentralized protocol or is it a central bank or is it a centralized entity? But they also look at the governance of the overall network where the stablecoin is based on. They look at the entities that interact with the stablecoin, they also look at the technology if for example, the network where the stablecoin is based on is actually smart contract enabled or not. And for me, very important part is on the bottom right of this slide, they actually also look at the stability mechanism of the stablecoin. So looking a bit deeper into the stability mechanism and this is now not from the bank for International Settlements anymore.
00:11:41.154 - 00:12:33.590, Speaker A: This is a bit how I think about the different types of stablecoins. You can see that there are fiat based stablecoins, there are cryptocolateralized stablecoins, senor share stablecoins, like this Titan stablecoin I showed you before. And there are also algorithmic or hybrid stablecoins out there. You probably all know the fiat backed stablecoins, Tether USDC are very prominent examples. And in the case of Tether, you have a protocol that promises you that maybe somewhere there is some collateral for this stablecoin in a bank. Therefore, the governance of the stablecoin depends on that trust in that promise that the collateral is actually there. It should be in some form regulated, because the collateral for the stablecoin is actually bank credit.
00:12:33.590 - 00:13:56.234, Speaker A: And the most important part is that bank credit has a certain risk namely a counterparty risk depending on the bank that is holding collateral, depending on how this bank actually manages other things, does business, stays in business and therefore, depending on the estimation if this bank in future will be able to give back collateral if a lot of people want their collateral back. So with these fiat backed stablecoins, the governance is centralized and it's also not transparent. So I don't have the opportunity to audit the bank to see if the collateral is actually there and to estimate if this bank actually would have enough liquidity to give fiat back. So fiat backed stablecoins are very easy to explain because the PEC is just based on the collateral in a bank, it's based on credit. So people can actually simply understand what a fiat backed stablecoin is. But the risk actually is very hard to understand because it's hard to estimate what the risk of the bank is. And therefore we saw crypto collateralized stablecoins that came up and crypto collateralized stablecoins are decentralized in terms of governance.
00:13:56.234 - 00:15:13.394, Speaker A: So, for example, Dai, also the Senor share stablecoins on this slide, like Terra and also Cello, all these stablecoins are decentralized. There's a decentralized base layer where they live on, and they are also more transparent. More transparent means in contrast to I have to analyze the credit worthiness of the bank and the counterparty risk of the bank in a decentralized stable coin, I actually have to verify if the smart contracts that are governing the stablecoin are actually doing what they are supposed to do. But when it's an open source project or an open source blockchain, then it's easier to verify that than to evaluate a bank. So in contrast to having a counterparty risk and a liquidity risk that is based on the bank, now you have different types of risks for these other types of stablecoin. Now you have, for example, for the cryptocolateralized stablecoins, you now have crypto price risk. Most of these stablecoins have a reserve that holds some crypto, and this crypto is volatile.
00:15:13.394 - 00:16:03.398, Speaker A: We've seen this before in one of the first slides, the Volatility of Bitcoin is between 50 and 250%. So now we have a different price risk which depends on crypto. But then that's a good thing. These decentralized stablecoins are more transparent and I actually can then hold the stablecoin and evaluate if I would or I'm willing to take that risk or not. I've also next to Dai, which is a crypto collateralized stablecoin. I added some examples for Senoritage type of stablecoins. Senori share stablecoins always have not only a stablecoin, but a Senorich token that should take up the volatility of the stablecoin.
00:16:03.398 - 00:17:25.038, Speaker A: And Basecoin was an early example of this. At some point they stopped the Basecoin development. Terra is another example and also the Titan token, Fay, they are all examples of these synoriv type of stablecoins. Now, as I said, in contrast to the counterparty and liquidity risk, in addition to crypto price risk, you now have a risk that is based on the demand and how quick the demand for stablecoin changes. And what we've seen with this Titan example I had before is here we had a drastic change in demand and actually demand for stablecoin there was probably none, or almost none, because there are no real use cases where you can easily spend stablecoin, which could be then a risk for the stablecoin itself. So if you want to build a robust stablecoin protocol, you also have to build use cases for it, a community that would like to use it and a community that has trust in it. And therefore that's a nice thing about building open source, because then it's also easier to excite the community about your stablecoin.
00:17:25.038 - 00:18:09.950, Speaker A: But I'll talk a bit more about supply and demand in a second. Since we are in Paris, I also want to briefly mention that here in Europe we will see regulation in the markets in crypto assets. That is actually what Mika stands for. Markets in Crypto Asset Regulation. This is a regulation that is currently in voting stage by the European Commission. And the interesting thing is that the European Commission is also talking about exactly that. What I just talked about is that, for example, fiat backed stablecoins, the major risk is based on the creditworthiness of the bank.
00:18:09.950 - 00:19:29.814, Speaker A: So the European Commission would, for example, say if a person in Europe holds a Fiat backed stablecoin, then they have to understand what the risk behind the stablecoin is, depending on the risk of that bank. And as a regulator they would say then maybe we should regulate this bank. So now here in this room, we can then all guess if Mika comes by the end of the year and the European Commission then to allow, for example USDT in Europe, we can take a guess if the Tether project would allow the European Commission to regulate the bank that holds the collateral. Maybe yes, maybe not, let's see. But if not, then the European Commission would then probably regulate those venues that offer that stablecoin exchanges, custodians, cash in, cash out solutions, they would regulate it differently because people have to understand that there's a certain risk. But it's always tough how the regulation actually turns out and will look in the end. The good thing is that the European Commission understands the difference between decentralized stablecoins and fiat backed stablecoins and therefore also will treat it differently.
00:19:29.814 - 00:20:26.878, Speaker A: I think that is a very good news for the overall industry. And I'm not a lawyer, therefore I should stop talking about regulation. So I started to talk about algorithmic stablecoins and I also started to talk about supply of stablecoin and demand for it, because supply and demand was actually a problem in that titan example. And supply and demand actually is a very easy story in economics. So supply and demand meet at the price and this price then holds on this market. So if you look here on this slide, for example, at the intersection of this blue line and this green line, it actually meets exactly at one. And what you can see here is for example, a stablecoin supply of 20 million and a stablecoin demand of 20 million.
00:20:26.878 - 00:21:35.810, Speaker A: People have demand for 20 million in stablecoin to do transactions. And if this supply and demand meet at this point, the price of stablecoin in this instance is actually one. Now, what could also happen is that we don't have this supply of 20 million, we only have a supply of 19 million, but still have demand for 20 million of stablecoin. So it could be that if there's less supply or more demand that the price is just higher than one. And we saw this on the slide before where stablecoins depact also in positive terrain where just there was more demand for stablecoin than there was supply. And now the price of the stablecoin in this example then depends on how steep this curve, this blue curve actually is, which is the demand function. So it could be that it is very steep and if the supply is 19 million instead of 20 million, then the price goes from one to two.
00:21:35.810 - 00:22:24.274, Speaker A: Or it could be it's not so steep and it goes from one to 110 like in the example here. But the major thing about this curve is that it is very hard to estimate how this curve actually looks like. It's almost impossible if you would like to do that. To estimate how this curve looks, you would have to do an assumption or an estimate on the demand function. And only when you can do that, then you can guess or estimate what the right supply in each second or in each instance is. But as I said, it is hard to do. And this is probably also one of the reasons why basecoin stopped the development on Basecoin itself, because they found out that it's almost impossible to estimate how this function should look like.
00:22:24.274 - 00:23:26.150, Speaker A: So if it's hard to estimate this function, then it's also hard to estimate the amount of stablecoin you would have to issue or buy back once your stablecoin deviates from the pack. So, if basecoin would trade at 0.9 or if basecoin would trade at 1.1, you would have to estimate how this function looks and then you could estimate the amount you have to auction off or buy back to bring the price back. But this is almost impossible and therefore hard to solve and even more difficult because demand is actually changing every instance, every second. So it's not only changing between one auction and the next auction, and auctions could take time, or it's not only changing until someone locks up collateral to Mint new stablecoins. Demand is constantly changing and therefore price can constantly deviating from one.
00:23:26.150 - 00:24:46.186, Speaker A: And because of this constant change, it is hard. Again, it's not only hard to estimate how steep this curve is, this demand function, it's also hard to do that because you actually would have to do that constantly. And this slide just shows like simulated demand for a stablecoin, which is taking out of a stability analysis that you can also find on the cello webpage where we simulated these market behaviors and actually looked like how stablecoins react to different market behavior. So when designing Sello, we went a different way. We also agreed with the community that it's impossible to estimate how this demand function looks like. But we also think that since supply and demand or demand for stablecoin is constantly changing, that the only way how to solve this in a way that is keeping the price stable and also sustainable in future, it has to be in some form market based. And therefore on sello you find a on chain mechanism that is called mento like Mint in Esperanto.
00:24:46.186 - 00:25:38.418, Speaker A: And this mentor allows you to constantly exchange coin for the governance asset. So you can constantly exchange one sello dollar for $1 worth of cello and sello is the governance asset on the blockchain. And you can also constantly exchange one sello euro for €1 worth of this governance asset. Which means if at a centralized exchange, at a certain instance in time, the price would deviate from one, for example, you could buy a stablecoin for $0.95, for example, then you could buy it as long as you get it for ninety five cents and then go to this on chain mechanism and sell it. And what you get there, you can immediately trade at Exchange, and you have this closed arbitrage loop. And therefore it's a different way.
00:25:38.418 - 00:26:26.570, Speaker A: You basically get rid of these auctions because, as I said, these auctions take time. And these auctions, the amount you have to auction off is hard to estimate. And therefore you have something that constantly works. We did a lot of research on this mechanism and on different mechanisms. And if you would like to look at different types of stablecoins and estimate their risk, you can do empirical or theoretical studies, which is always nice, but maybe these theoretical studies don't show you the real life risks. For example when looking at a fiat backed stablecoin, that depends again on the credit worthiness of the bank. You could also do scenario analysis versus forecasting.
00:26:26.570 - 00:27:43.394, Speaker A: Forecasting can be very hard and also historical analysis can be very hard because you don't have a lot of data in these markets. Many stablecoins are just around for a year or so and therefore finding historical data to properly analyze how it behaves in different market environments can be very hard and therefore you could for example do simulations. For simulations you would need to generate scenarios. And the scenarios I showed you a few slides back, these ones here, they are based on a certain stochastic process and when you look at different stochastic processes then you need to basically also look at the distribution of these stochastic processes. Are crypto assets normal distributed or are they maybe heavy tailed because they are extreme in sometimes. And what we did is basically we used different scenario generators, we used geometric brownian motion, Einstein Uhulenbeck process which are just different stochastic processes. Then we included jumps because the market in crypto sometimes is extreme.
00:27:43.394 - 00:28:38.780, Speaker A: And what we are currently adding is also if you do that in a scenario analysis, you always assume that the market is very rational. It can be rationally to exaggerate at some point and can be rationally to seeing a demand that goes down to zero, but it somehow always assumes for example, a certain distribution also. So what we are adding now is you should also simulate for example attacks on a network because this is what we've seen in the past very often that there are coordinated attacks on these type of networks and therefore you should also simulate these attacks. And this is some research we are now kicking off. We will open source also this research. And as I said before, we're always interested in research. So if you also like to do these type of research, feel free to reach out.
00:28:38.780 - 00:29:42.046, Speaker A: We would be happy to include also other designs in the research. Currently we of course focus on the cello design, but it would be interesting to learn also more about other, for example, algorithmic stablecoins. If you use for example a geometric brownian motion, it is nice because it can generate you a lot of different scenarios. So if you want to forecast something, for example the demand of tomorrow, you just don't have to guess a certain demand at the next day. You can use this stochastic process to simulate it and you can actually do this 100,000, 1 million, 10 million times and therefore look at many different scenarios you would like to simulate. The problem then with the geometric Poundian motion is if you assume a certain mean and a certain standard deviation then for example, what you can see on the right here, we assumed a mean of 0.5 and a standard deviation of zero point 75.
00:29:42.046 - 00:30:52.310, Speaker A: Because there are a few paths that go up extreme, a lot of the paths have to go into a different way to make up. So for example, no, the graph on the left where we have a mean of zero because there are a few paths that go to infinity. You have to have a lot of paths that go to zero to be on average at zero. And this can make your simulation or influence the results of your simulation. Then you can try out other processes, like for example, the geometric Einstein Beck process, which not only looks at the distribution at the end, but basically has some mean reverting parameter in it. So that basically you can get your paths back to a mean and you don't get too extreme results. So if you look at these simulations and this is maybe the baseline of that story here, and if you want to do simulations, it heavily depends on what type of scenario generator you use because the type of scenario generator you use influences the results you get significantly.
00:30:52.310 - 00:32:02.374, Speaker A: And if you then would like to analyze results, it always makes sense then, for example, to look at percentiles of the worst and the best paths in your simulation to actually see if that happened, what you actually wanted to happen, that your stable coin is stable at one. But it's maybe when you use 10 million scenarios or more, it's maybe tough to look at each scenario. Therefore, looking at the percentiles and then evaluating them makes a lot of sense. And this is basically where this old paper ends and where we now kick off research. What we now would like to do is now introduce these attacks into this simulation so that you can actually see now we have how the system behaves on average over 10 million paths. But in a few instances we have an attack on the overall system and then we would like to learn how the system copes with it. So I said this before, we really like to do research on stablecoins.
00:32:02.374 - 00:32:45.020, Speaker A: We like to do research based on the different stablecoin designs out there, based on the risk factors that drive stablecoins and based on, for example, scenarios to analyze stablecoins. Since we have a small crowd, I went through the slides pretty quick and I just got the sign I have a few minutes left. So do you have ten minutes left? Nice. So do you have questions, something we should chat about? Let's start in the front. Okay, let's start there.
00:32:45.790 - 00:33:17.220, Speaker B: Hi, thanks for the presentation. So I have a question for your stability mechanism. I mean, it's kind of a standard, but if you have a problem or a bank run, then it seems that it gets broken, right? Because let's say people will get rid of, for whatever reason, of cello dollar. Then you'll sell it for the cello at some point, the cello will get more cheaper and cheaper and cheaper because there will be more of the cello in the market.
00:33:18.470 - 00:34:05.154, Speaker A: Yes. So it's basically there's a limited amount of cello in general and there's an unlimited amount of stable token. And of course, as I said in the beginning, the risk now with a system like that is not a counterparty risk anymore, but the risk is now similar to other stablecoins out there that are based on an algorithm and a reserve is based on the crypto volatility in the market. The reserve that is underpinning this expansion and contraction mechanism is made up of the governance token sello but it also contains bitcoin ethereum dai in future also other assets so that it not is fully dependent on the price risk of right.
00:34:05.192 - 00:34:07.470, Speaker B: But all of them are very volatile.
00:34:07.630 - 00:34:09.614, Speaker A: All of them are volatile, and therefore.
00:34:09.742 - 00:34:15.298, Speaker B: The reserve dai is backed by, I don't know, like, now, 40% of the volatile assets.
00:34:15.394 - 00:34:39.806, Speaker A: True. Yeah, dai is also volatile. That is true. And the thing is therefore, because you have that crypto risk, you have to start with an overcollateralization. We've seen this with other partially collateralized systems like Titan or Faye. They break because they are not overcollateralized but based on crypto and crypto has price risk. So the reserve started out at an overcollateralization of 20.
00:34:39.806 - 00:35:42.894, Speaker A: Currently, after the market now came down, the overcollateralization is around seven or eight times the outstanding stablecoin. But you need other mechanisms that bolster the reserve. So for example, if the reserve of this stablecoin design would approach two, then a larger part of block rewards would be deviated to the reserve so that the reserve is constantly bolstered. Then there's a second mechanism that in this on chain mechanism where you can always exchange sello dollar for sello or sello euro for sello, there's a spread and this spread also bolsters this reserve. The allocation of the reserve and also the spread are all governable parameters. So the community can vote on these parameters, how they should look like. And the idea of the reserve in general is that we would like to add in future more asset classes to the reserve that basically the crypto price risk is not the highest risk in that reserve.
00:35:42.894 - 00:36:48.582, Speaker A: So currently there's a governance proposal by the community to also add tokenized carbon credit to the reserve because it's very not related to the crypto market. But carbon credit is maybe a nice asset to have because it sets off carbon emissions and is still a liquid asset class. And this is just a start because in the end the idea, and you can find this in the initial white paper of sello was always that it would be nice to see currencies in future that are backed by something we would like to see more of. So for example, when fiat currencies are backed by gold, a lot of people started to mint gold because it's like printing. Money. Therefore it would be nice in an ecosystem like this to see fiat or to see currencies backed by, for example, forest, because then planting more forest and having tokenized forest in the reserve is then something people would do more of and we would see more of and therefore it would be good for the environment. So yeah, you're fully right.
00:36:48.582 - 00:37:23.966, Speaker A: A system like this depends on the volatility of the crypto market. There are some mechanisms in place that support the reserve, but in future we really would need to see more and different assets in that reserve. And here also this initiative of the League of Bridges. The League of Bridges is building bridges between all EVM compatible chains and Cello already helps because now you can have all these different assets also in the reserve that live on these other blockchains.
00:37:24.078 - 00:37:46.474, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks. I like the idea about backing, I mean having fundamental values like environment values as a collateral. Very quickly, second question so could you comment on the Senoritage based stable coins and what you're thinking about it? Are you planning to do something with it at Sello or not?
00:37:46.592 - 00:39:12.342, Speaker A: So celo as a governance asset, the Sello native asset, since you can always exchange sello dollar for Cello and sello euro for Cello, is part of a Senorage token since it's part of the reserve and it takes up the volatility of the stablecoin. But Cello has also other assets in the reserve, which is important because of that price risk. We've seen Senorge protocols fail because they only depend on the price of the Senorich token and therefore, in the end, if a system survives or not is based on is there really demand for the stable token. This is especially important for the Senor rich type protocols because in Fiat backed protocols, if the collateral would actually be there, if the bank would actually be safe and credit risk would be low and liquidity risk would be low. Even if there's no demand for the stable token, you still have the collateral and can get the collateral back. In the Senorich type protocol, if there's no more demand for this, we could see the overall system fail. And we've seen this and therefore I think a large focus of the Sello project is to generate real use cases where people actually would like to use the Cello stablecoins for transactions, for remittances, so that we see real demand for it.
00:39:12.342 - 00:39:42.442, Speaker A: And I think in terms of creating these use cases, it's very important to have a stablecoin that is easy to use. So for example, on Sello, transactions are fast. The block time of the proof of stake blockchain are 5 seconds. So if I send a stable coin to you, it arrives within 5 seconds. Gas fees are very low. But the nice thing, and a very important thing is if I send you sello dollar, I can also pay in gas for sello dollar. If I send you sello euro.
00:39:42.442 - 00:40:05.906, Speaker A: I also can pay in gas with Cello euro because for non crypto natives, it's a very difficult concept that you send a stablecoin, but then you have to pay for gas in a different currency and this different currency is volatile and the amount of gas is as well. And therefore having this already makes it easier and therefore helps with real use cases of these stable coins.
00:40:06.018 - 00:40:06.582, Speaker B: Thanks.
00:40:06.716 - 00:40:11.320, Speaker A: Sure. Thank you.
00:40:11.930 - 00:40:24.918, Speaker B: Thank you. So, I have a question about calibration of your model. Do you have any insight? Did you have a specific method of choosing the parameters of your formulas or was it more trial and error?
00:40:25.014 - 00:42:04.406, Speaker A: Yes, that's a great question because this is actually the reason why we started off this stability research, this paper we've written. So basically, we built out the Smart Contracts, the blockchain, everything, but at the same time we duplicated everything in a simulation environment. So in that case, it was the blockchain and the Smart contracts are built in solidity and the duplication then in Python, because Python we used for simulating a lot of things. And working on this simulation, we learned about these parameters and could actually make a lot of sensitivity analysis of what parameter actually helps for stability in many different scenarios. And I think in future, since all of these parameters are governable, this simulation becomes super important because in the end, you would like to have an educated community that can make the right decisions in governance when, for example, these parameters are up for vote. I think one part of the stability mechanism, that it is market based and based on arbitrage is super important because, as I said, demand changes constantly and therefore expansions and contractions in the system can also happen constantly. But other parameters, like for example, at what point maybe a higher percentage of block rewards should go to the reserve to bolster the reserve, these parameters are governable and can change and therefore having this analysis and constantly expanding this analysis.
00:42:04.406 - 00:42:14.830, Speaker A: Also, now, adding this agent based simulation to the analysis where we have agents attack the system is super important for finding these parameters.
00:42:15.490 - 00:42:16.190, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:42:16.260 - 00:42:20.400, Speaker A: Sure. You also had a question, right?
00:42:23.830 - 00:42:59.214, Speaker C: Thank you for the talk and the answer to all these questions. So my question was already answered there. But I have a follow up question. So is there a tendency that the stablecoin market evolves towards like a winner takes all model? Because you say it's mostly dependent on the demand on a stable coin. But I, as a user of a stable coin, I'm mostly interested in maybe like the history of the coin and trustworthiness of it. So wouldn't I go for the most popular one and in that scenario. So, what are determining factors of how a stablecoin can remain a success?
00:42:59.332 - 00:43:52.378, Speaker A: Great question. I think one part of it I partly talked about is how easy it is to use the stablecoin. So, if you're non crypto native and would like to do a transaction and have only an Android phone and you don't have a Coinbase account, then maybe you're a user that would like to use a mobile wallet. And since you're non crypto native it's important for you that you are able to pay for transaction fees in the same currency. This is something we look at a lot when working on sello make it very easy to use. Another part of that is there's an interface how you can identify other users. On the Cello blockchain a hash of the phone number is linked to the public key of a wallet.
00:43:52.378 - 00:44:53.618, Speaker A: So if I just know the phone number I can send you a stablecoin, I can send you a Cello euro and if you have a wallet already, it arrives in 5 seconds and you have the stablecoin and I can pay you back for coffee. If you don't have a wallet, you get a text message saying you should get a wallet to unlock the stablecoin. So it's making it easy to use. But on the other hand, there are this crypto natives that maybe care not so much about the ease of use, but care a lot about liquidity. And there are of course super liquid stablecoins out there. For example, tether has huge amounts of liquidity and maybe for you it's more important that you can transfer 10 million tether or 100 million tether very quickly because you want to do a large transactions across border and therefore liquidity for you is most important. And here I see in the longer run also liquidity in the stablecoin world is an important factor, but maybe also changes.
00:44:53.618 - 00:45:31.114, Speaker A: So there are other factors, like for example, regulation. Will it be allowed in future to have a Fiat backed stablecoin that is backed by a bank credit where the bank is not regulated? I don't know. Probably in many countries of the world it's not allowed to use them. So then you have to find an alternative. So I would say it's ease of use and also how fast you can do transactions. So I think for us this five second block time is very important. Stablecoin payments settle within 5 seconds and they are less than a basis point in fees.
00:45:31.114 - 00:46:22.870, Speaker A: So if I send you a sello dollar or sello Euro, I pay less than a cent in gas and it arrives in 5 seconds. I think this is very important for end users and gas. I think this is also something where all the blockchains now have to look at. Because if you want to cater peer to peer transactions then gas fees shouldn't be higher than the transaction itself. But if you're an institutional player and would like to send around 100 200 million for you, maybe only liquidity is important. So it's like these factors. Are there any other questions? If not, thanks for spending time with me at this wonderful day in Paris.
00:46:22.870 - 00:46:40.958, Speaker A: Have a great day. And feel free to reach out if you have any questions. And always feel free to come by. The Cross Chain salon. It's a three minute walk from here and all these League of Bridges projects are there. And talk about interoperability. So if this is of interest, feel free to stop by.
00:46:40.958 - 00:46:41.180, Speaker A: Thanks.
