00:00:00.400 - 00:00:56.020, Speaker A: My name is Lee from today I will talk about elevating DeFi flexibility including statability, mobility and stability. This is all right today. So first I will use partisan security and we can consider three dimensions of Trileigma and then finally we will post our solution cover and we have some categories in the end. So this is a slide to so what is Defi? This is the ability to significantly combine different DeFi protocols. So as a user like me and experience the compatibility by swapping ether to direct tokens and passcode. Direct token token. Right.
00:00:56.020 - 00:02:05.924, Speaker A: So in this video use one manner and how they work together and implement a powerful DeFi application. So as a developer, how do we build something awesome product for our users and how do we leverage the device in this field. So first you can leverage it by the creative what does it mean looking like you can builder product will be portable on top of other CC ones. So such as Ian and convex build some main protocols and build on purpose one. And the second way is you can utilize the functionality of protocols. So it means that you can build a system that vary with different protocol functionalities and that users can your transition to utilize those protocols in a single transaction. So some systems I will control and device levels and this talk we will focus on the second part.
00:02:05.924 - 00:02:56.652, Speaker A: So what we want to achieve is how to rebuild a more open system. And as developer can leverage the default compatibility and legibility user. So there are some main advantages for user, right. So what is the best method actually for those users? So the first, the users can be more efficient to build extra attention on top of proposed such as. Such as vetting and agile service and the money sent in your smarter sensor. So this is bad. For example if you are a company you want to distribute your desires to your employees.
00:02:56.652 - 00:03:34.054, Speaker A: You can start research to create this token and understanding of usage token to impose areas in a single succession. That starts with me. Right. And the second advantage is it helps users to mitigate the market value. What does it mean? This means we can build a x or venture indicators to split user trade into multiple products and we can promise each driving prices are expected in this service. So it provides a crucial analogy. So the next advantage is innovation.
00:03:34.054 - 00:04:48.920, Speaker A: We are using many many use cases comes from diagram. Clearly the first one is very strong you might have. So in first one we can ask users to borrow access without variable and as long as we get along the same sensation and use cases such as cash one purpose one and declaration or. So even though we have lots of advantages for users who can enjoy what as a developer how do we provide those products provide those cases for users. As a developer I faced some challenges. So the first challenge is we need to start changing the right so thinking that we need to aware of new protocols and I need some very protocol or protocol to make my whole the second challenge is I need to master the smartphone development so in that if I want to connect with different protocols in my product I need to create an extra config. So when I introduce the new config I also introduce new control for my users.
00:04:48.920 - 00:06:02.506, Speaker A: So this is a headache for developer to create a new concept in that application. The third one is every protocol installer. This only has this effect mindset so it's different from developer to understand each token. So there's no good basis to excel portal for those developers info start from different tags this is headache for developers so what we want to do is we want to address those challenges for developers more technically. So here we can configure three dimensions of trail so the trend line is including so if you have a good integrate new core course in doing one. So this means assistance can be better and better when they integrate more and more protocols. The second innovation helps you help reduce the stress and reopen you can sleep well because the country is unavoidable.
00:06:02.506 - 00:08:37.446, Speaker A: So it also protects users when they affect your token profile because you are developing worry about all the contours working upgrade and my user may be dropped by the system right. Next one is the so it helps you developers to safely and easily relay attention on top of that so it may provide improve the developer experience when they're building their product especially when they want to create more known product. So in the final slide would like to give two examples of protocols between hotels how to make adjustments and the first example is released last year so in 2000 their country will define use products and fm demand basis in their contract. So 6 seconds defined as contract everything so let's know extensibility so you won't be doctor by the upgrade of the and they also provide SDK to help developers to build a product upgrade. But if I'm here I'm going to such as blood come to my face I mean as the paint research team could do a blur press and so I can, I can relate it to my system this is part of the thing to redeploy or developing countries for its users and the second example is Labic and the data service which is difficult the reason they get out the system is because they realized that they need to develop and deploy contracts for each product. So each contract are independent and there are many many entry points in this system. So it's hard for developers to build and it's also things that when they integrate more and more protocols it has made the purpose gonna and they also provide API to developer tool and a new purpose.
00:08:37.446 - 00:09:36.470, Speaker A: But if you are developing you need to be aware of new content because each content is obviously right. So you need maybe a little bit of the new content. So I want to know do we have a more general solution to act as a checkpoint effectively so we can help developers don't worry about the function and they can combine different protocols. So yes, great solution. So here we process. So in this data it is good at processing any kind of protocols such as 20 mt or any procedures. So it also provides flexibility for developers to connect any protocols in the application.
00:09:36.470 - 00:10:51.824, Speaker A: So how does the consultant select is using a local the context so there's no availability in the context. And the most interesting design is even though the country are global and we don't, we let countries are agnostic to protocol addresses and configurations. This means that we can, we don't need to define any problem areas such as visual areas in context. However we define those possible related codes in an SDK. So if you have heard of vibrant applications giving lags with less objects, decay and API, two composers protocol, addressable computer analytics and engineering lamp and put it into info function. So here's the simple fire. So as a community or any developer and contributor to the cryptological SDK in this SQK, it defines a basis protocol, a basis and protocol functionalities in this SDK.
00:10:51.824 - 00:11:45.500, Speaker A: So if you are developer, you can build your own application and use the SDK over the official console API to build your product. So you can add users to use your application UI and data sensor, data signature data and sensory. So in this system there are two main components on this system. The first one is the larger container and the second one is the photograph. So what we want to do is how we access virtual mapping by separating those three dimensions into two components. So the two components including the contract and basically so those countries are equal to biofuel, right? So those countries hold use approval token program. So this is very easy.
00:11:45.500 - 00:13:08.576, Speaker A: As a developer you really can't in the context of the field is the developer concept where we develop you very very worried about that. On the other hand, the SDK is more flexible for developers to add more protocol and it is easier to update upgrade for developers. So first concepts are there's no total edges or continuous inside of the concept. So there's no tendency or we can put the tendency on SDK. So each SDK, the SDK can easily integrate more and more for them. And factory has these studio using less novel designs to their product on top of this system in a new component. So what we want to do is go to the right component and the right dimension to optimize the forces.
00:13:08.576 - 00:14:11.280, Speaker A: Even though we cannot, we can put revised on the right dimension. So the interesting part or the key of the composite is how do we let concrete in utopia, but also totally nasty. So the first question is we want the contract can support a wide range of protocols, including the simple or future integration. Even though we don't know the impression at the moment and we need to stimulate in the future, we cannot review the contract. And second, we want to guarantee the user open. So in this simple code we can see that there's a lot of function for the router and every function called f two. So part one for a truth is we want to combine different protocol in a single chain test, right? So there is two arrays and data.
00:14:11.280 - 00:15:15.416, Speaker A: So we ask the doctor to CO2 any two edges with any data. Yeah, this is what we call the color analysis because we don't find any two edges in the container. Okay, so here we approve any tokens, say $100 million for this dollar. Anyone can explore the book by giving the true address country and that data to be a transfer from data. So even though this helps us to do a programming, but the council is very pleased. So the challenge here is how do we make a country and enjoy. So then we can come let the more and more protocols.
00:15:15.416 - 00:16:10.220, Speaker A: But we also want to keep the user century keep the user local proof on this consistent. So the final thing I would like to give three attempts and finally we'll present all final. So let's check out this the first time it's very trivial, we just check the data. So how do we do this? We just added this time, so we make sure that the data should not be the transfer translation. Yeah, it's very severe. So we can prevent the previous attack we mentioned earlier. However, is this cat set across different representation of is this year 20 or the future year 20? Yeah, I can promise since I don't know the actual international of those hundreds thousands of years 3.4.
00:16:10.220 - 00:17:01.690, Speaker A: So this is not good idea. So let's check out the second attempt. The second attendant is approved to a span. What does it mean? It's been that we let users to open you guys token towards the standard contract instead of the contract. So this idea is only the user who goes to a realtor can use the approval. And this approach you if you have seen other context there are many this widely approach used in many data projects such as Parasol. So this reduces the hacking things of the simple content.
00:17:01.690 - 00:17:55.092, Speaker A: The simple spreader content hold the user so the span contract don't hold any last year. So it is easier to review a contract and ensure the contract is. So we just simply added two cabinets to a router and the router should not go to the spanner area to prevent my shareholder. And we ask the router to call the spender to draw a token from users to the router. So here the message okay, on the right hand side. So the spender just holds a token from users and the spender has the token function to transfer from user to the router. Yeah.
00:17:55.092 - 00:18:46.490, Speaker A: Only in this approach since the spending contract is very easy and without any business. So the spender holding the user of the stand since only the spender channel from here and this one must be the main spender which is the user cost for gaussian. Yeah. However this approach when it comes to the browser we can reduce the. For example if you want to add more functionality such as our way barro. So in our way barrow functionalities we need user to put their navigation to our function. So this means that when we add more spaniard function we need to update the contract.
00:18:46.490 - 00:19:28.920, Speaker A: So we need to update it and then we refer it. So it reduces the intensity of the system. So how to dissolve that? So we have FM three. The FM three is advanced approach of attempt two. So each time we produce address in the local storage and we can create microscaddler scheme. So the idea is we can use the address in the beginning of the presentation and output can refer to the recorded edits to prevent the output attack. And the router can be federated.
00:19:28.920 - 00:20:10.424, Speaker A: So in this approach we can add more and more scanners without updating the logical settings. Those vectors such as gas 20 nt spreaders or other compound spreaders as well. So next we enter the storage user the dowser container. And when the user accurate function we just set the mixture to the user storage. And what we say there. So we let the thousand code and calls to any two edges. You notice that in here we don't need to define any special edits in this context.
00:20:10.424 - 00:21:45.512, Speaker A: So this one approval and the second one host like such as array barrel dedication. So in each span those check the basic center should be allowed to prevent micro denmark persecution and post center transform or viral user and so what we talked about, we achieved this, all countries are neutral and we can add more emotions better without completing lots of things in the public. And we can get all users to using the doubter, since the user. Yeah, it's always great, right? But actually there are some cosmologies, as we know, the delta will be empty after a loop. However, the doubter host tokens during a user transaction, right. So if I hacker, I can click config router to approve my hacker contract in advance. This means that I can manage my hacker contract and exit out to go through maximize 50 tokens to my hair concept.
00:21:45.512 - 00:22:55.500, Speaker A: So the data is full. So in this case, if a user translation the hacker contract getting the control over user transaction, in the middle of the transaction, the hacker contract can hack the tokens and the dolls. It means that headcrab is called tensorflow and from the temporary token on the dots and those tokens will be in the video. So you may ask what scenario is the heavy function heavy control during the sensation. That is many scenarios such as. Unfortunately the heavy user sensations involve callback on the heavy content. For the hacker creator tends to gaze into pool and the research is important this pool and malicious data in the purpose.
00:22:55.500 - 00:23:40.428, Speaker A: Yeah, so even though this approach help us to test all functions and we achieved the product enhancement, this is a dream to be concerned. Yeah. So finally we generate the simple NDX solution of 1081 edges. So in here the idea is we want to avoid the massive code data in a shared of context. So this means the product and math code can be shared by all users. Because this may be attack during the user transaction. However, we can manuscript into waste based out and forward those data to its own agent.
00:23:40.428 - 00:24:32.322, Speaker A: So each user has its own agent contract. So those agents can hold users approval on their agent. It means that agents are good things for one. So then we create a meeting in the documentary and we then operate user generation to the dolcer function will get from the user. So. And also don't do the following and ask they just very hard to verify agent. So agent can safely execute with any two edges and that isn't invoked by the user.
00:24:32.322 - 00:26:12.204, Speaker A: This agent is not shared by all users. So it is simple and effective approach. We can add all from default and there is no predefined address. Yeah, so we can actually by looking at no country to support any hello protocol and we can find protocol related code in better. So here's a simple file. So again use the PS 20. So now the users can post product and agent with the logic is what they want to do in multiple purpose and since we need to create each agent for each user this may be many cases so we can create agent for all agents to development cost and finally we can add agent to cocaine protocol overflow go to retail country and do some xis over the agent can also operate soon and close to the agent itself yeah so eventually we have put in all and we define a protocol as a protocol from so these are two takeaways.
00:26:12.204 - 00:27:27.890, Speaker A: The first takeaway is even though we can't softer Thailand against China only we can put right components say concrete and SDK and right I mentioned ecosystem so we can let developers do on top of the system and enjoy coming different protocols in marijuana and secondly webpage developer to build your application on top of your development time to request protocols and it also and it will reduce your resources so welcome to visual me as the child and we're talking about how to build your application on our part actually welcome to join so you can handle and get the pointer and any questions from office. Thank you. Thank you.
