00:00:05.440 - 00:00:45.954, Speaker A: I'm crystal presenting from bd lead for map blocker. Today I'm here to share with you building the ultimate map protection RPC. Map blocker is the number one RPC for map protection. It is built by the OG experts of MdV in the supply chain, including agnostic relay, Beaver Build and Cowdell. Today we'll cover what is MeV? Why does it matter? Maybe raise your hands if you still have some energy too, if you know MeV already. Okay, great, then I can save my voice. We'll do a quick recap here on what is MeV.
00:00:45.954 - 00:01:33.684, Speaker A: Well, MeV is the maximal value that can be extracted. Oops. Yeah. Maximum value that can be extracted by block producers in the blockchain network by including, excluding or changing the order of transactions in the block. When a user submits transactions in Ethereum, it first goes through the public mempool, which is a collection of all the pending transactions. Validators then pull the transactions from the public mempool and add them to the block when it's time to build. Historically, block producers would order the transactions by order of gas fees, but when MEV searches comes in, block producers are now extracting additional value by taking advantage of their ability to reorder transactions.
00:01:33.684 - 00:02:21.024, Speaker A: Searchers look into the public manpool in pricing and timing their transactions accordingly. They create these bundles and then pay. The validators are high tip in order to include these transactions ordered in a specific way. These searchers typically run algorithms to detect these profitable MEV opportunities and run bots to capture these profitable transactions at the expense of the users. So there are different types of MEV. If searcher paid to have the transaction go before the user one, it is up front running. It is harmful because all the users lose the opportunity that they detected first or they lose the ability to execute the transactions completely.
00:02:21.024 - 00:02:56.480, Speaker A: Back running is harmless. One searcher pay to have their transaction go right after the user's one. It's harmless because it doesn't affect the user's transaction itself, but then they're trying to capture the price impact of the user's transaction. The worst of all is what we call a sandwich. It's a combination of both front running and back running. Well, who in here has been attacked by MeV before? Raise your hands. Okay, well, the good news is, or those people who didn't raise their hand is probably.
00:02:56.480 - 00:03:28.472, Speaker A: Why don't you find out? Go to zeromath.org and organization dedicated to MuV research. Well, you'll find out whether you are have been sandwiched. While ignorance is bliss, you can look into a block analysis to find out. Here you can basically find out whether you have been sandwiched by in two main ways. One is if the transactions are not ordered by their natural gas order. So typically the highest gas fees will come first.
00:03:28.472 - 00:04:10.228, Speaker A: Then there's a high likelihood that there's an MEV attack. The other way that you can detect an MEV in a block analysis is if you see the same trading pair being traded multiple times in the same block. Here the actual user transaction is the middle one. The user is trying to trade swap weth to dai and Uniswap V three, but then it got front run by a searcher and then thereafter a reverse trait diet to weft as a background. This my friend is called sandwich. Well this sandwich caught our friend here $15, which is not bad. It's a mini sandwich.
00:04:10.228 - 00:04:51.956, Speaker A: But while this is a mini sandwich, let's look at what can happen when it comes to a professional sandwich bot. Here, Jared from Subway, known sandwich bot. According to Egan Fee, which is a data platform that conducts data analysis on MeV, he has captured a profit of 6.3 million in just three months. Well, this is just one mev bot. Imagine many more MEV bots and many more blocks over the network every day. It matters because it's essentially a hidden text on many types of Ethereum transactions.
00:04:51.956 - 00:05:46.954, Speaker A: Whether the user is trading on defi, or selling and buying NFT, or lending tokens in liquidity pool, there's a chance that these MEV bots will opportunistically take advantage of it, manipulate the trades, profit from them, result in failed transaction, unfavorable price and making users trade worse off. And to date, Mev has been responsible for more than 1.3 billion lost on value for ethereum users. Well, enough of the problems we're here to talk about solutions building the ultimate map protection RPC fortunately, there are growing number of map protection rpcs. These are the top ones. Number one is math blocker, next one is flashbot protect and blink. There's also a lot of map protection aggregators here.
00:05:46.954 - 00:06:37.246, Speaker A: Laminotes, block native have have included map blocker into their RPC aggregator. Blocks are out here too. Today we're focusing on the details on how map blocker is designed and built to make it the ultimate map protection RPC. Let me give you an overview. MaF Blocker is an RPC endpoint that aims to protect users from front running and sandwiching attacks so the harmful ones and then give users a kickback from back running opportunities created by the users trait, so the harmless one and speedily settles the transactions. Here's the order flow logic for map blocker. Starting from the left side, user submits a transaction.
00:06:37.246 - 00:07:47.776, Speaker A: The transaction first go to map blocker's private map pool where a mapblocker system would decouple the user transaction into two parts. One part is the payload and the other part is the signature. Then Mapblocker system shares the user transaction information without the signature to all searches connected in the network, along with AI generated noise transactions for preventing probabilistic attempts by searchers and exploiting the order flow. Map blocker system proceeds then gather these kind of what it does is it auctions off and the searchers would submit bids for the right to background these transactions. The winning bundle is decided by one that gives the most value back to the users. Math blockers then proceeds to gather these bundles created by searchers and then add the signature and then forwards the bundles to all the major builders in the network. Builders select which bundles to include into the block and once it's included, 10% goes to the build and proposer validator fees to quickly include it into the network.
00:07:47.776 - 00:08:32.238, Speaker A: The 90% goes as a rebate to the user or the project connected to map blocker. When the transaction and the block is executed, let's take a close look of the design choices we made. So instead of sending your transaction to a public mempool which is prone to mev or to a private manpool connected that is. Well okay, so basically it connected to private Manpool. It is therefore de facto protected from any harmful meV. Then instead of losing money to searchers, what you can do now is earn money from searchers. You get rebates from searches that are connected to mat blocker.
00:08:32.238 - 00:09:23.550, Speaker A: Because math blocker auctions off this right to background to the searchers. Remember, 90% of it goes back to the users of the projects strong network of builders instead of single builder. So instead of sending to a private manpool limited to one builder, map blocker effectively acts as a builder aggregator, aggregating all the major builders that controls 95% of the Ethereum blocks. This secures fast inclusion time instead of some RPC endpoint which leave the users a lot of technical decisions. For me, I'm not super technical. It helpfully helped me decide on all these decisions already. For example, users don't have to choose what kind of new builders out there to connect to.
00:09:23.550 - 00:10:34.104, Speaker A: Map blocker decides create this list and vet for you. We have very simple defaults, so by default we go to the fast RPC so depending on your needs fast allow transactions to get on chain as fast as possible while also generating background and rebates. While the no revert focuses on making sure that there's no revert possible in case your transaction is no longer valid, it will stop being broadcast to builders at no cost to the user. If you are super mindful of your privacy and want no one or no searches to look at your transactions, you can take the full privacy endpoint which focused on getting transactions into on chain directly via builder. This method does not offer a rebate, but well, this is your full privacy endpoint. After all this, why is Mathblock better? Well, for one, we have superior rebates. Maplocker is designed to be very easy for searchers to integrate.
00:10:34.104 - 00:11:19.224, Speaker A: Unlike math share map blocker does not require new on chain search logic based on very limited public information tradition. No searcher algorithm is sufficient to integrate with map blocker. What it means is that searchers find it very easy to onboard into map locker. It means that there's a robust competition for searchers and drives superior trade rebates. In fact, it's ten times better. How so? 600 ethereum has been returned back to users and in projects already and that is ten times more than any other solutions in the market. Low late oops, low latency and fast inclusion time.
00:11:19.224 - 00:12:06.684, Speaker A: Remember, we're submitting to builders that control 95% of the Ethereum block. We also vet them all the time. What it means is that 90% of the transactions are processed in the next block within 12 seconds, if not very very likely. The block after built by experts with deep know how, Map Blocker is a collaboration project by Agnostic Relay, Beaver Build and Caldao. Mapblocker is built by all the OG experts of Meva supply chain. Well this guarantees that it is technologically sound. Overall, Maplocker has the best speed balance with best production and offer remembered ten times more rebates.
00:12:06.684 - 00:13:05.404, Speaker A: Here are some stats since our launch in April this year, Maplocker has already protected 24 billion Dex transaction volume over 9.5 million transactions covering 440,000 users generated and growing rebates to users or projects. So why with users of projects is that if your project says submitting order flow to map blocker, you can add the refer to capture the rebates yourself instead of the user. Now some closing notes here. So you might think why not just send to multiple endpoints? Mathlocker sounds great. That's what most people tell me after my bd call. It's like oh, map blocker sounds great but then, I don't know why somehow my project's already submitting to flash.
00:13:05.404 - 00:13:50.552, Speaker A: Great. Why don't I just add math Blocker and submit to both? Well, that sounds, in principle, great protection. In fact, it is. To say it's not ideal as an understatement, when you're submitting to both map blocker and flashbot protect, you're risking leaking information benefiting the searchers. Remember, this, Flashbot's privacy model relies on sharing very limited information about the transactions, making it super hard for searcher to front run out of the bundle. Math Blocker shares practically all information about the transaction and additionally use some AI generated noise transactions to distract them to prevent them from exploiting order flow. Now, let's say you're a searcher.
00:13:50.552 - 00:14:44.544, Speaker A: You're listening to both map blocker and Mapsearcher. What will happen is effectively great. You can get a way around the system. Both systems, in fact, Maplocker will tell you all the core data that Flashbot is trying to hide, and flashbots will tell you, hey, these are the fake transactions to sell spams. And effectively what it means is that you're left with much less protection. Sending through RPC aggregator is acceptable if they channel to map blocker and only to map blocker, but if they again send it to multiple endpoints, the same privacy leakage happens. And if they end up sending it to an inferior version of the Map protection RPC, and I'm sorry, you won't get rebates, and you have much less well protected.
00:14:44.544 - 00:15:44.834, Speaker A: Well, Ethereum's MEV challenge is a testament that to the complexity in building decentralized, secure and fair blockchain network. While MEV does pose significant challenges, Mav Blocker is here to offer opportunity for us to collaborate and basically protect the users. These are some of our partners, and it's continuously growing more as MEV problem becomes more and more known. And for everyone here as well, we'll be able to collaborate together and make this place a fairer place. These projects prioritize the user's interest first and integrated the best map protection RPC. Okay, so we welcome you all to join us as users. You can scan this QR code on the left and you can integrate the RPC within a minute.
00:15:44.834 - 00:16:01.394, Speaker A: And for wallets and web3 infrastructure projects, you can add me on Telegram. I'll be here all week to make sure that you get integrated ASAP. Thank you everyone for your time and appreciate your evening. Precious time. Thank you.
