00:00:00.680 - 00:00:53.924, Speaker A: Thanks Christina, and thanks Christina Fritzoff and Rluka and Thomas for organizing this meeting and inviting me. And happy birthday, Mark. It's wonderful to be able to contribute from here. And I've been enjoying the talks and the discussions and it's really struck me how much warmth and appreciation there is at this event and it's really special. Like Christina said, I first met Mark as an undergraduate student. I first met a lot of people in the room, first as an undergraduate student in the mathematical biology summer school in 2002. And at that time I was a mediocre biology undergraduate student excited by my field studies at the Banfield Marine Sciences center.
00:00:53.924 - 00:01:33.882, Speaker A: And I thought math was cool and I had a little bit of training in it, but not much. And it was that summer school that really got me excited about mathematical biology. And here I am now more than 20 years later. So Frank was talking about all the things that Mark does for undergraduate students and his mentorship in that summer school, and that was very influential for me. And that was a good cohort that summer, too. We had Marjorie Wonam was in that summer school, Andrea Dawson, Jean Sebastian, Lausanne Guy and me. We actually did our first model.
00:01:33.882 - 00:02:17.914, Speaker A: I did my first model with Jean Sebastian and Mark at that summer school on range expansion of sea otters in California. And we actually went on to publish that a couple of years later. Okay, so I'm going to talk a little bit about our work that we've done on salmon disease in British Columbia. And it's going to be, got some pictures that I'll share and then I've changed my title here just a little bit. I'm going to try to slip in a new model towards the end. Well, it'll be a new model to you and it's a model that Peter and I and one of my former students was working on. Melissa Arabco.
00:02:17.914 - 00:03:48.132, Speaker A: So one of the things that's really been a big part of my research with Mark has been that almost everything we've done has been very interdisciplinary. This is the team here that I had as my group of, as my group of mentors as an early graduate student, and I continue to work with all of them. And there's quite a range here. So Larry Dill, a behavioral ecologist at Simon Fraser University, Alexandra Morton, who's a local independent whale biologist turned salmon biologist and advocate for salmon conservation, and then Mark and then Neil Fraser, who comes at this from a physics perspective and my co advisor as a PhD student, John Volpe, who is an ecologist very interested in the ecology of food and the thing about the interdisciplinary science, I can think back to my. I think it was my first year of graduate school, and I was really hustling to up my game in mathematical biology and mathematical modeling. And I was taking one of Mark's classes. It was models in ecology.
00:03:48.132 - 00:04:47.372, Speaker A: And we were also. I was taking math classes also. And Mark had worked through the likelihood function for what was just linear regression on the board in that class. And that was a real breakthrough moment for me because I had, until that point, thought about science in a very compartmentalized way. You do your experiment and you structure it for an ANoVA analysis, or you do your model and your dynamical model, and it's independent of data. And when I made the connection between my models and data by really deeply understanding the concept of a likelihood, all those boundaries of these different compartments of science, they just disappeared. And it opened up the door to be so creative in the types of analyses that we did, both modeling but also field work and experimental work.
00:04:47.372 - 00:06:21.540, Speaker A: And mathematical biology, for me, in many ways, has been this way of connecting all of these different ways of doing science and thinking about doing science, from good old gumboot marine biology that I'll talk about all the way to mathematical modeling and things like stability analysis. So when that concept of likelihood sunk in for me, that connects mathematical models and data, that's when the rubber really hit the road for me, and. And it's been a core element of everything I've done since. So Mark is famous for his work as a mathematical biologist, but what might not be appreciated so much in maybe in this room is that he's also an accomplished marine biologist and has been moonlighting for decades as a marine biologist. So here's a picture from one of my first field seasons that was taken by Alexander Morton. And we're out there collecting juvenile salmon and data on their sea lice parasites, which was what I did my PhD work on. And so for the last 20 years or so, MarK's been involved in fieldwork, and he comes out to the field, he makes sure that he can understand the fieldwork at the same level that he understands the math.
00:06:21.540 - 00:07:20.022, Speaker A: Right? We sit together on the boat and count parasites together, and he's as good at differentiating the sea life stages as me and many of us in the field that do this. He comes out and he makes sure that he's got it down. So here's some pictures of us in the field doing some beach seining to collect juvenile sAlmon. Here's Mark and one of his PhD students, Peter Harrington. On Mark's fieldwork boat, which is brilliantly named aftermath. And so there was fieldwork and a lot of experimental work also that we've done together down here at this facility, which we call the shanty, which has been a real data generating machine for understanding the effects of sea lice on juvenile salmon. And it's not just Mark in the field.
00:07:20.022 - 00:08:28.272, Speaker A: There's been lots of members of Mark's lab that have gone to the field, not just me. And this is a legacy that has continued with graduate students like Peter. Here's Emma in the field and her prawn work. Andrew Bateman, Marjorie, Stephanie Peacock. All of us have had a fieldwork dimension to the mathematical biology that we've done here himself in the field on his boat with our. And all of this work has been supported and connected to this very special place, to me, called the Salmon Coast Field station, which has emerged out of the research that we've done and was originally Alexandra Morton's home. This is Alex here, and has been a real hub for the marine biology aspect of the work that has come out is part of our board of directors, Alexandra, Sean Godwin.
00:08:28.272 - 00:09:12.682, Speaker A: There's Andrew Bateman and me. We just took that picture a couple of days ago. On Sunday we had a little retreat. And so this has been a hub for science. And here's an example of mark in the lab at Salmon Coast Field station, and my good friend Brendan Connors here, who's now a stock assessment biologist at Fisheries and Oceans Canada, enthusiastically explaining his experiment to Mark, who's thinking about the analysis of it. And I think this conversation turned into a binomial test for the effects of sea lice on their susceptibility to predators. This is the dock at Salmon Coast Field station, where we come and go every day for fieldwork.
00:09:12.682 - 00:09:47.964, Speaker A: This is the station itself. This is my fieldwork boat, Madrona, our lab boat. And that's where I am right now talking to you from the harbor in Santula. I thought it would be fun. If I can't be there in person in Toronto, I could at least give my talk from a boat. Okay, so a LitTle bit about the work that we've done, lots of work on juvenile salmon and sea lice in british COLUMbia. This is the region where we've been working.
00:09:47.964 - 00:10:41.014, Speaker A: Known as the Brautenar capacity Pelago. It's an area with mountains and streams and wild salmon that migrate to the ocean and back. And it's also an area where salmon aquaculture has developed as an industry. And each one of these dots here, never mind about the colors are a location of a salmon farm where there's maybe 500,000 or a million domesticated Atlantic salmon that are held in a net pen. And wild salmon migrate through the area twice a year, once as juveniles as they're heading out to the ocean, and then again when they come back as adults to spawn. And during those migrations, they can exchange their parasites and diseases with wild salmon, and farm salmon can exchange their parasites and pathogens. This is a picture of a juvenile chum salmon with the sea lice parasites on them.
00:10:41.014 - 00:12:07.196, Speaker A: 20 years ago or so, our colleague and friend Alexander Morton, who's the local marine biologist, began blowing the whistle on this issue that there were these infestations of juvenile salmon happening and the populations were collapsing. And that's when we came in to start doing our, our fieldwork and applying mathematical biology to some of the crucial questions that we're facing these fish. I was thinking about some of the conversations we've had at the workshop about how and why we do models inspired by biology, trying to get at general results, or inspired by mathematical innovations. And I think it would be fair to say that for most of the work we've done on this issue, we're nowhere near generality. These are place based models that are motivated by the biology. They're inspired by a strong conservation concern and a management need. And when I started as a graduate student, the big question was, where are all these parasites coming from? We've got juvenile salmon that are covered in these sea lice parasites.
00:12:07.196 - 00:13:17.784, Speaker A: That's quite obviously having an effect on their survival, but the parasites are naturally occurring. So you catch a wild salmon, you'll find sea lice on them. And they were here long before the salmon farms were here. And the big question was, how much do the salmon farms contribute to the infestations that we're observing, and what can we do about it? What's the magnitude of the transmission? What's the spatial extent of the transmission? And for 20 or 30 years, all around the world, people have been trying to get at that question. The geneticists have had their go at it, trying to use population genetics. People have tried stable isotope techniques to get at it. And what you're looking at here is the only successful work that has actually inferred and disentangled the transmission of the parasites from the naturally occurring sources of wild hosts in the environment versus the transmission from the farm salmon, which are all concentrated in a particular location.
00:13:17.784 - 00:14:17.522, Speaker A: And the model here is inspired by the local biology. It's inspired by these long, narrow inlets and we can model the dispersal of the parasites and the movement of fish as if they're traveling along a single, along a straight line, which really simplifies the analysis. And the model is highly tailored to that seascape or that landscape, and is tailored to the biology of the parasites. We've got a stage structured model of the copepodites, which are the baby sea lice. We've got the middle aged sea lice, the calami stage, the motiles down here. And by sampling the fish at each one of these stars as they migrate out to the ocean and past these salmon farms, we can fit a model that has sea lice coming from the salmon farms, but also coming from the wild fish that are distributed in the environment and back. Calculate where those parasites are coming from.
00:14:17.522 - 00:15:08.398, Speaker A: The red line here is the parasites that were coming from the salmon farm. And the black line here is the natural level of parasites in the environment. And then the second hump is the second generation of parasites, after the fish have migrated and the parasites have reproduced. This is the only case where we've been able to tease apart these sources of wild versus farm sources of parasites. And it's because of the modeling and it's because the models are so tailored to the local biology. That was fieldwork and my first model that I published with Mark, and it had a splash. And that was just for one year.
00:15:08.398 - 00:16:10.374, Speaker A: But over time, you can see the connection between the parasites on the farm fish and the parasites on the wild fish. This is some work from Stephanie Peacock's PhD. And the general story is that when salmon farm management, when management of the parasites on the salmon farms is effective, you see a reduction in the parasites, both on the farm fish and the wild fish. And then you have other situations where management is less effective and you have these infestations that develop. And we've done loads of experiments at the shanty and in the field looking at the effects of sea lice on different aspects of behavior and fitness of juvenile salmon. All of which suggest that we should be expecting an impact on the productivity of the populations, on the overall survival. The number of adult salmon that are coming back to, to spawn is likely affected by this host parasite interaction.
00:16:10.374 - 00:17:21.778, Speaker A: Probably some of the most high impact work we've done is to try to model exactly that. So bringing fisheries science, spawner recruit models to bear on this issue, where we're comparing the spawner recruit relationship of the wild salmon under conditions with high parasite infestation levels, low parasite infestation levels, or between areas with and without the salmon farms. And these were, there's been lots of papers that we've put out like this and brought in some of the big guns from fishery science on this. So ransom Myers, a long time ago, now worked together in the early stages of developing this model. Ray Hillborn later joining in. And so these are policy relevant results, right, because the impact of the parasites here is on the changes and recruitment of salmon is larger than what the fisheries harvested in the first place. And in some instances, when the infestations are very high, persistence of the wild salmon is not possible.
00:17:21.778 - 00:18:49.166, Speaker A: So these are very relevant for or management these results. More recently, we've expanded beyond the sea lice question and looked at a diversity of viral and bacterial pathogens here. There's 20 species using environmental DNA methods and collaborating with molecular biologists. Andrew Bateman's had a big role in this, and this is work that was led by my PhD student, Dylan Shea, and with a very fun collaboration with the Sea Shepherd Society, if anybody knows them, this is a hardcore conservation group to work with and one of the most exciting fieldwork projects I've ever done. And what we see is across the board, for all these different species of pathogens, there's an increase in their occurrence in the marine environment associated with these clusters of domesticated atlantic salmon that are in this shared environment with wild salmon. Look at the variation across the species there. And that's where we're trying to get to now, is why do some species have such a large amplification in the environment and others not? And which ones are more important or less important for salmon conservation? And there's a lot that's coming down the pipeline from this type of work I'm going to have to speed up here.
00:18:49.166 - 00:19:44.664, Speaker A: So we've had impact, this work has had impact, had some media attention. We made the New York Times. And one way of gauging your impact on is whether you make it into the political cartoons. And we did quite a few times, actually. This is just two examples. And so a dimension of the work that I've done with Mark is about science, communication and talking about your, your results when they matter for management and policy. Endless meetings with stakeholders and rights and title holders from the indigenous, the first nations in this area, and conservation organizations and managers from fisheries and oceans Canada.
00:19:44.664 - 00:20:20.404, Speaker A: And there's been impacts on management and policy. Things like limits to parasite abundance have been implemented. There was a moratorium on industry expansion on the central coast and north coast of British Columbia. And we can't claim that there's the direct connection between our work and those outcomes. But you can look at this graph of British Columbia. And the red line here is the production of farmed salmon. And it was around 2000 when our colleague Alexandra Morton began blowing the whistle on the sea lice issue.
00:20:20.404 - 00:21:16.318, Speaker A: And right around here is when Mark Lewis started to work with me and Alex and John Volpe and apply the tools of mathematical biology to this problem. And you can just eyeball that and see the effect on the expansion of industry. And I think the science that we've done has been a part of that and lots of other factors as well. Okay, I'm going to have to wrap up, because I'm going too far here. But this. This slide, or going too long, this slide was a motivation also to think about the model that I wanted to present, which is a bioeconomic model, where we've shown you some of the ecological effects that we have documented of salmon farms influencing wild salmon through their shared parasites and pathogens. But there's also an economic incentive.
00:21:16.318 - 00:21:54.438, Speaker A: As the fisheries are declining, there's an incentive to expand aquaculture industry. Cause it fills that gap. It utilizes the boats and the fish processing plants, and there's a demand for fish in the markets. And, of course, that's gonna incentivize the growth of salmon aquaculture. And so you have this ecological interaction, but you also have this bioeconomic interaction. And so, very quickly, this is the work that we did together with Peter and Melissa Arabco. It's a bioeconomic model of the interactions between wild and farm salmon.
00:21:54.438 - 00:22:25.378, Speaker A: This is our model for the wild fish. This is our model for the farm fish over here. So the wild fish are growing. It's a very simple logistic growth with harvesting. So this is a Gordon Schaeffer model from classical fisheries. And the tweak that we made here is that there's an effect of the farm fish on the survival of wildfish. Just model this as a type one interaction here, the simplest way that we can represent this.
00:22:25.378 - 00:23:13.814, Speaker A: And then we model the growth of aquaculture through the economics. And we considered two scenarios. One of rent dissipation and rent maximization. According to this utility function, where you've got your revenues from the farm fish and the costs of the farm fish. Got a little equation for how the prices work in relation to consumer demand and how much fish people are willing to eat and pay for them. And long story short is that if that ecological interaction is sufficiently high, then it's hard to. It's not possible to get a stable coexistence of aquaculture and wild fish.
00:23:13.814 - 00:23:56.006, Speaker A: Instead, what you have is between an aquaculture dominated state or a wild fisheries dominated state. So keeping that ecological interaction small is what's needed, according to the bioeconomic theory, for the two sources of seafood, aquaculture and wild fish to coexist stably. And this is a really result that's preserved across the two different growth scenarios of aquaculture. I'd be happy to talk more about this anytime. I'm just going to skip over that. That was the resilience of the wild fish equilibrium. And of course, all of this is motivated by the conservation of wild salmon.
00:23:56.006 - 00:25:06.954, Speaker A: They're important for the coastal ecosystems, they're important for the people that live here. And when I think about Mark's work and the impact of the models that we've put together, the two of us, and with our students and the impact that it's had, you know, we've had the impact on the science. Marks one of the highest sighted authors in the tiny world of sea lice biology and the impact we've had on management and policy. But I'll end with saying that I think the biggest impact is through the scientific community that's grown around the work that we've done in this area, this amazing group of ragtag mathematical biologists on the west coast that are bringing fieldwork and data together with mathematical biology. That's, I think, what's really moved the needle on this issue, and, and it's something that's going to. That is continuing to provide new science and that is informing management and policy. So I'll finish up.
00:25:06.954 - 00:25:12.754, Speaker A: Thank you, Mark. Happy birthday. It's been wonderful to work with you all these years.
