00:00:01.850 - 00:00:53.786, Speaker A: Hello, and welcome to this week's crypto roundup. From a bug lawsuit and false bitcoin ETF approval rumors to the crypto community's backlash against Uniswap and Reddit. And what appears to be a huge victory for Ripple, there was no shortage of drama this week. I'm Michael del Castillo, a night badgered fellow at Columbia University, and this is your weekly crypto recap. In a sweeping legal action, New York Attorney General Letitia James has filed a lawsuit against cryptocurrency firms Gemini Genesis Global Capital and its parent company, Digital currency group. The lawsuit alleges that these companies defrauded more than 230,000 investors, including at least 29,000 New Yorkers, out of over $1 billion. The core of the case revolves around an investment called Gemini Earn, which was promoted as a low risk venture.
00:00:53.786 - 00:02:12.418, Speaker A: However, internal analysis revealed that Genesis was financially unstable, a fact that was not disclosed to investors. On Thursday, New York Attorney General Letitia James alleged in a statement that, quote, these cryptocurrency companies lied to investors and tried to hide more than a billion dollars in losses, and it was middle class investors who suffered as a result. The lawsuit also implicates Soichiro Michael Moro, former CEO of Genesis, and Barry Silbert, CEO of Digital currency Group, accusing them of attempting to conceal over $1.1 billion in losses. The legal action being pursued at the same time, James is prosecuting former US President Donald Trump for alleged fraud, seeks to ban all three companies from the financial investment industry in New York, and is asking for restitution for defrauded investors. The US Securities Exchange Commission has dismissed all allegations against Ripple CEO Brad Garlinghouse and executive chairman Chris Larson, the company said in a statement on Thursday afternoon. This marks the third consecutive victory for Ripple following a July 2023 ruling that the programmatic sales of XRP tokens to retail investors through exchanges are not security transactions.
00:02:12.418 - 00:03:01.142, Speaker A: The SEC had previously attempted an appeal, which was also denied. While many saw this as bullish for ripple, crypto lawyer Catherine Kirkpatrick offered some caution. She wrote, quote, the SEC has voluntarily dismissed the case against Ripple execs. This means they can proceed to appeal the ripple decision much sooner. Otherwise, they would have had to wait until the conclusion of that trial. In late spring, the crypto community experienced a rollercoaster week, beginning with heightened optimism last Friday, the US securities and Exchange Commission chose not to appeal a court ruling on Grayscale's bitcoin trust conversion to a spot ETF fueling investor confidence. Bitcoin saw an immediate reaction narrowing Grayscale bitcoin trust discount to 12.5%,
00:03:01.142 - 00:04:04.566, Speaker A: according to Y charts, meaning there are more shares in the market than people who wanted to buy them. That's a far cry from the 43% premium GBTC was trading at in July 2019, also according to wide charts, but a 74% increase from the all time low last December of a 49% discount. However, the jubilance was short lived. Early Monday, a tweet from news site Cointelegraph falsely claimed that BlackRock's bitcoin ETF had received SEC approval. The misinformation propelled bitcoin from $27,900 to over $30,000 within minutes, only to revert to $28,103.80 after the tweet was first edited to read reportedly, and then deleted altogether. In the meantime, $136,000,000 worth of short contracts liquidated as the price rose, according to data from Coinblass, and another $51 million was lost when it dropped.
00:04:04.566 - 00:05:39.354, Speaker A: Cointelegraph later issued an apology, claiming an internal investigation was underway and that their standard procedure for verifying sources was not followed. The false news led to some on social media to wonder if the market may have been intentionally manipulated. On Monday, Uniswap Labs, developer of the open source Uniswap protocol, announced a 00:15 percent swap fee on the user interface it built for the Uniswap marketplace, including those on trading pairs ETH, USDC, USDT and wrapped eth or weth, among others. Founder Hayden Adams wrote on social media that the fee aims to, quote, continue to research, develop, build, ship, improve and expand crypto and defi, end quote, and is separate, importantly, from the Uniswap protocol fee governed by Unitoken holders, the fee applies only to trades made through Uniswap Labs web and mobile interfaces, which account for about 35% to 40% of all trades on the platform. Notably, the move comes after a failed governance vote earlier this year to activate fees to use the Uniswap protocol itself. The uni token holders were promised governance rights and the ability to propose and vote on code changes to the Uniswap protocol that now ties together a network of 300 applications built on the open source software. Importantly, each app is able to monetize how its developers see fit.
00:05:39.354 - 00:06:52.154, Speaker A: Despite their role in governing this ecosystem, Unitoken holders won't benefit from the new revenue stream. The gray area that arises from Uniswap Labs both building the protocol itself and the largest app on the protocol, has sparked a heated debate within the crypto community. Supporters like AJ Warner, chief strategy officer at off chain Labs, commend the fee as a positive step for Uniswap's continued development. Critics, however, argue that the fee neglects unit token holders, who originally acquired their tokens through liquidity provision, purchase on exchanges or via airdrops. Investor Adam Crockren went so far as to joke that thanks to the shift in focus on rewarding app users, the 24th largest token by market cap, Unitoken, with a market cap of almost $3 billion, should now be featured in the meme coin section of coin Gecko. Speaking of meme coins, this week Reddit announced the discontinuation of its community points program that sought to help hosts of Reddit communities called subreddits create their own tokens. The decision caused immediate market repercussions.
00:06:52.154 - 00:07:56.574, Speaker A: The Ethereum based tokens moon and brick, specific to the r cryptocurrency subreddit and r Fortnite Br subreddit, saw their values plummet by 84% and 40%, respectively. The abrupt end to the community points program has left many questioning the platform's commitment to its user base. The decision has been met with strong backlash from the Reddit community, with users expressing sentiments like, quote a rug pull is not taken lightly, end quote. End quote. You guys crushed thousands of people's dreams and fortune within seconds. This week, the crypto industry experienced a concerted effort to combat illicit activities. Tether, the issuer of the world's largest stablecoin USDT, froze 32 addresses linked to suspicious activities in Israel and Ukraine, containing around $870,118, newly appointed Tether CEO and longtime figurehead Paolo Arduino wrote in a blog post on the company's site.
00:07:56.574 - 00:08:52.262, Speaker A: Quote cryptocurrency is a powerful tool, but it is not a tool for crime, as reports indicate that Hamas may have raised millions through crypto ahead of the attacks in Israel. US Senator Elizabeth Warren joined over 100 lawmakers in sending a letter to the administration of US President Joe Biden expressing concern over crypto finance terrorism. The letter urged, quote, strong action to thoroughly address crypto illicit finance risks, end quote. The US treasury also imposed sanctions on Gaza based crypto businesses for alleged support to Hamas, according to a Coindesk report. FTX bankruptcy estate put forward a significant update in its ongoing chapter eleven case. According to a court filing dated October 16, FTX aims to pay out an $8.9 billion quote shortfall claim end quote, to Ftx.com
00:08:52.262 - 00:09:53.114, Speaker A: customers and $166,000,000 to FTX us customers as early as the second quarter of next year. John J. Ray II, CEO and chief restructuring officer at the FTX Debtors, described the settlement as a, quote, major milestone, end quote, adding that it, quote, created enormous value from a situation that easily could have been a near total loss for customers, end quote. The plan proposed to divide FTX's assets into three pools, one for FTx.com customers, another for FTX us customers and a general pool for other assets. Customers who withdrew over $250,000 within nine days before FTX's bankruptcy declaration will see a 15% reduction in their claim value. While the plan estimates that both priority and nonpriority claimants could receive over 90% of the distributable value, it also notes that customers will not be fully reimbursed with FTx.com
00:09:53.114 - 00:11:09.730, Speaker A: customers expected to face a greater percentage loss. FTX's founding CEO Sam Bankman Fried last year told Forbes he received, quote, bad legal advice when he filed for the bankruptcy. And as we learn more about Bankman Fried's failed management strategy through an ongoing criminal trial, this latest development does beg the question, if a company is capable of paying back 90% of its debts, did it need to file for bankruptcy at all? The official filing for court approval is expected by December 16. In related news, the FTX estate staked $122,000,000 of Salana tokens, countering concerns of potential liquidation and impacting the asset's market value. Binance US announced significant changes affecting its american users in an email posted on social media, purportedly from finance. The platform will no longer allow direct withdrawals of us dollars, but perhaps more notably, the funds aren't insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC. While news coverage of the change to the terms of service has claimed the funds are no longer insured, a closer read simply says they aren't insured, leaving the door open to the possibility they never were.
00:11:09.730 - 00:12:10.530, Speaker A: In the wake of Voyager digital getting in trouble for falsely claiming its customers assets were insured, it's worth taking a closer look at this now deleted 2019 post, from finance and to a seemingly nuanced change to the terms of service across the pond, finance has temporarily halted accepting new customers in the United Kingdom. The Financial Conduct Authority blocks Binance's compliance plan, which involved partnering with the FCA authorized firm rebuildingsociety.com. Existing UK customers will maintain access to current services, but won't receive new ones during this pause. And that's all this week. Thanks so much for joining us today. Stay tuned to Unchained for unparalleled coverage of the Sam Bankman freed criminal trial. Laura is in the courtroom delivering firsthand observations and in depth analysis of this pivotal case with daily podcasts, videos, and written updates.
00:12:10.530 - 00:12:38.240, Speaker A: Unchained is your go to source for all developments that could redefine the crypto landscape. Visit unchainedcrypto.com and never miss an update. Unchained is produced by Laura Shin with help from Kevin Fuchs, Matt Pilchard, Juan Aronovich, Megan Gavis Shawshank, and Margaret Kiria. The weekly recap was written by Juan Aronovich and edited by myself, Michael del Castillo. Thanks so much for listening and looking forward to chatting with you next week.
00:12:42.690 - 00:12:57.330, Speaker B: Unchained is now a part of the Coindesk podcast Network. For the latest in digital assets, check out markets daily seven days a week with new host Noel Atchison. Follow the Coindesk podcast Network for some of the best shows in crypto.
