00:00:00.200 - 00:00:18.766, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan Thieves Asano, and today's the 27 June 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I still may sound a little bit funny on today's video. I'm still sick, unfortunately. Don't have COVID. I've tested myself a bunch of times and just negative every time.
00:00:18.766 - 00:00:47.926, Speaker A: But I seem to have a regular cold, so it's annoying because my. I can hear my voice is not great and I keep kind of like having to clear my throat and stuff. But, you know, I guess it is winter down here in Melbourne, so it kind of, kind of makes sense there. But anyway, let's get through through what we have to get through today. The first thing I wanted to start with was basically a tweet that I put out over the weekend. And that kind of shocked some people, I think. So I said, it's sad that I can't be critical of other ecosystems without people just calling me an ETH maxy or some other such nonsense.
00:00:47.926 - 00:01:29.084, Speaker A: For what it's worth, ETH is less than 15% of my net worth and I've never sold any ETH, so I don't just like Ethereum because of bags. Starting an a non account is looking better every day, to be honest. And there's a couple of other tweets that I'll kind of like, read out as well, where the second tweet was basically me saying, you know, that 15% number may shock some of you, but it's still a lot in dollars terms. The thing is that some of my other investments paid off a lot more than ETH during the bull and I took profits on those around the top. I'm never selling my ETH, just throwing it all into staking as I stack it. And then the third one, I guess, like, I'll go over once I finish going over the first two. So I want to explain to you guys what I kind of like, meant by this tweet, what I was trying to do with this tweet one.
00:01:29.084 - 00:01:54.548, Speaker A: I was trying to, as I said, like, tell people that, or try to signal to people that, like, I'm not just in a theory, I'm. I'm not just kind of like all in on a theorem because my whole net worth is tied up in a theorem, but it's never all been tied up in a theorem. I've never been like 100% ETH. I think the highest I've been. Is probably, like, 90% or something like that. And. And the thing is, is that I don't think that just because you've got, like, 15% of your net worth in.
00:01:54.548 - 00:02:18.626, Speaker A: In ETH, as opposed to, like, say, 90% or 80% or 70, I don't think there's any kind of, like, number on that that actually, like, materially means anything if you're actually in it for the technology, like, for me, you guys know, I'm in this for the tech, like, first and foremost. Even when I kind of, like, what? I didn't really have much money, I was still in it for the tech, for the most part. Yes. Okay. I was making investments. I was trying to make some money here. But the tech has always been what's fascinated me most.
00:02:18.626 - 00:02:48.850, Speaker A: Right. So there's that aspect to it. But there's also the aspect of people miss the fact that this 15%, I mean, that net worth number is inclusive of everything, not just my crypto holdings, right. It's inclusive of everything that I have, like, that I own every kind of, like, asset that I own in and outside of crypto. So it was, like, outside of crypto. It includes my house, my car, to other stuff that I have, rather things that I consider to be assets that if I wanted to, I would. I would be able to resell them for, you know, the same more or just a little bit less.
00:02:48.850 - 00:03:10.922, Speaker A: Right. I'm not talking about, like, other assets that I have, like, you know, electronics and things like that, which obviously rapidly lose their value. But, yeah, I'm including my, like, everything. Like, I'm including my retirement account as well, which has, like, I have a bunch of money in there from previous jobs that I've worked. The way it works in Australia is that your employer contributes to your kind of, like, retirement account. And I can't touch that until retirement age anyway. But I included that, too.
00:03:10.922 - 00:03:47.114, Speaker A: Right? So that's inclusive of everything. And then in the third tweet that I put out, I kind of clarified this, and I said, that's, you know, as I said, it's inclusive of everything. But if I just include, like, if I just kind of, like, talk about my liquid crypto holdings, it's about 70% right now, ethan, so it's still quite high. Right. But let me give you kind of, like, a rundown of how 15% it arrived at 15% here, how the kind of, like, number got this low, I guess, so to speak, as opposed to what some people thought it was. You guys know, as I've said, like, when I read out these tweets, I'm never signing my ETH. So I've said before that I bought most of my 8th between 100 and $200.
00:03:47.114 - 00:04:17.810, Speaker A: ETH is like 1100 bucks right now, $200 right now. Guys, like, if, like, my hundred dollar buys are up, what, 1112 x? Right. My $200 buys are up half of that at this point. And if I've never sold my ETH, but I've sold other things and then put the money from those other things either into kind of like savings or into a house or into something else that doesn't lose, you know, a lot of its value, 80% of its value in, like, a. In less than a year. Like, ETH has, like, aether's lost 80% of its value in, what, seven, eight, eight months or something like that, right. Of course, the.
00:04:17.810 - 00:05:00.620, Speaker A: The way the kind of, like, portfolio is going to be constructed is that ETH is going to end up being a lot, kind of like, less of my portfolio simply because of the fact that I didn't sell any, I didn't cash any out. I didn't kind of, like, hold that value when it was much higher, obviously, when it was at, like, almost five k, I was up 50 x on my $100 buys. Right. But then once you do the math now, it's very, very different. And that's how it got to these 15%, because I cashed out other things that I had made money on, put them into more kind of, like, stable assets, and, and then kind of like, if you calculate that and put it all together, it gets to this number here. Now, on that topic, the reason why I cashed out things and I bought other things with it and kind of like, have, I guess, like, things that I own outside of crypto is, is because that's just good risk management. And I go on about risk management a lot on the refuel, like, a lot with you guys.
00:05:00.620 - 00:05:18.940, Speaker A: You guys know I'm all about risk management. I'm not going to keep 100% of my net worth in ETH. Like, it's just not, it's not a good risk management strategy. It's just silly. Especially for me, who's been in this game for a while. It doesn't make sense for me to keep that in all my net worth in ETH, especially when ETH can still lose 80% of its value in, like, seven months. Right.
00:05:18.940 - 00:06:04.912, Speaker A: As bullish as I am on ETH, I'm not bullish enough to kind of, like, sacrifice or, or take, like, these massive risks for my own personal well being in order to kind of like, I don't know, get some outsized return later on or something like that. Like, I'm still buying ETH as much as I can, but I do it in as a kind of like a part of a balanced portfolio. And I, I never believed in, like, diversifying too much. I don't think kind of like, you should be diversified across 100 different kind of like public investments and things like that. I do have a lot of private investments that I've done, but look, the amount of money I put into that is nothing compared to what I put into, to kind of like ETH here. Um, but, you know, in terms of just constructing a portfolio, it doesn't should, it shouldn't just be one asset class either, right? Like, as I said, I have, like, my retirement account, which is basically all stocks. I don't touch that.
00:06:04.912 - 00:06:26.472, Speaker A: That just sits there. I don't even put my own money into that. That's just there from old jobs that I had, but that's there. I have my house, I have my car, have some, a bunch of other possessions and things like that that I consider to be valuable and investment were investment grade possessions. Um, and that's just kind of like risk management. At the end of the day, guys like, and as, as people call me, an 8th Maxi, and people say, oh, he's just all in on ETH. That's all he cares about.
00:06:26.472 - 00:06:41.560, Speaker A: That's why, you know, his net worth is all tied up in eat. That's why he's an ETH, Max. It's like that, that's not the case at all. Like, at all. The reason, I mean, ethereum is the tech. The reason I love a theorem is because I believe it is the best shot we have at creating a truly decentralized world. And, you know, you guys know that.
00:06:41.560 - 00:07:07.938, Speaker A: You guys know that. That's what I'm, what I'm all about. So I think I just wanted to clarify that for all of you, because I know, you know what? I know that people who know me well, which I would consider you guys that listen to me every day and watch on, on YouTube every day, would know me quite well at this point. But I think that people on Twitter were just kind of like, shocked by it. Like, oh, my God, he's this guy promoting ETH all the time, and it's only 15% of his net worth. It's like, yeah, guys, because, you know, of the, all the reasons I just outlined. And also, as I said, it's good risk management.
00:07:07.938 - 00:07:37.912, Speaker A: Not to be kind of like over positioned on something. And, you know, then in my last tweet here, I said that I had too many people contact me about this and dm me about this. And then I explained how it was 70% of my liquid crypto net worth. Now, the key word here is liquid crypto net worth, because, as I said, I have made a bunch of angel investments over kind of, I guess, like the last couple of years, and that most of them are not liquid. Most of them aren't trading. I have no idea if they're ever going to trade or not as a token or on the stock market. Nothing.
00:07:37.912 - 00:07:53.864, Speaker A: Right. At least for most of them. I don't really. No. So I don't include those in, in kind of like my, my crypto net with. I don't include what's liquid, what I can, but I can basically see in my, in my zappa, so to speak. And when I looked at it, looked at everything I had, I was like, okay, well, like, I'm 80, I'm 70% ETH.
00:07:53.864 - 00:08:28.096, Speaker A: And the reason why I don't talk about what other assets kind of like, I own and the percentage on those assets is because I don't want to give a signal to people that they should own this thing or they should buy this thing. Like, you guys know, I hate kind of, like, people who do that, because I just think that it's not really responsible to do that. I think people can find things on their own. They can read between the lines. They can kind of, like, discover their own investments and things like that. And the reason why I'm comfortable always being bullish on Ethan, talking about ETH is because of the fact that I'm never selling it. Like, that's like, number one reason for me is, like, I'm not going to be, I'm not promoting ETH just so I can get, like, everyone to buy into it and I can dump on them.
00:08:28.096 - 00:08:45.624, Speaker A: Like, no, that's not what I'm doing at all. Right? And same with kind of like, any of the other projects I'm invested in. I'm not doing that. I'm just, like, talking about projects that I like, giving updates to you guys that you may be interested in, and then going from, from there. So that's a bit of clarity around that. Sorry if I was stumbling a little bit there. As I said, I'm still sick, so my brain's a little bit mushed right now.
00:08:45.624 - 00:09:22.946, Speaker A: But, yeah, I just wanted to clarify that for all of you. And, look, I'm not hidden in the business of giving investment advice. Like, I'm not an investment advisor or anything like that, but every single person that you talk to that has had experience with investing, especially like maybe 510 years experience, especially investment advisors. At some point when they're talking to you, they're going to mentioned risk management and it's going to be part of pretty much like the entire portfolio construction. If you are getting investment advice from a professional, like that is just a cookie cutter thing. It's like bread and butter of investing is, is managing your risk and making sure that you don't blow yourself up, as I've mentioned plenty of times. And that's all part of managing it.
00:09:22.946 - 00:09:49.510, Speaker A: And I've talked about leverage and things like that before as well. And that's what I try my best to do. I've had people in my life have very, very bad experiences taking risks, very, very bad experiences with things like debt. And that's why I stay dear clear of leverage. I learned from those experiences and I just, I'm adamant not to repeat the same mistakes that people around me have repeated and also my own mistakes from the earlier days as well. And I try to impart as much as that as I can onto all of you. But as I said before, you have to learn some of this stuff for yourself.
00:09:49.510 - 00:10:35.826, Speaker A: You have to go through it yourself. You have to basically be positioned how you're comfortable to be positioned. Like, I'm comfortable with ETH only being 15% of my overall net worth, but at the same time, I would like to increase that because I am really, really bullish on ETH. So, you guys know, like all the, I'm buying lots of east down here profits that I get from other things, I roll into ETH as well. But I figured that, like, I needed to secure my, myself in my own, kind of like, uh, in my own life with, like a house and, you know, things for that house, right? Like, you do furniture and things like that, right? Um, and, you know, not throw everything just like, into ETH. Eventually you got to kind of like, uh, take profits and, like, spend them on things. I just think that there's this weird kind of, like, thing that maybe comes from the old bitcoin days or I guess, like, you know, way back in maybe 2012, 2013 about, around Hodl.
00:10:35.826 - 00:10:46.402, Speaker A: It's like always, Hodl. Hodl. No, don't sell ever. Like, just because I'm not signing my ETH guys doesn't mean I'm trying to tell you not to sell your ETH. Like, it's up to you what you want to do. You don't have to sell all of it. If you want to take profits, you can sell half of it and keep half of it.
00:10:46.402 - 00:11:06.426, Speaker A: It's up to you what you want to do. But, like, the huddle thing is literally just a meme. Like, you shouldn't always huddle everything forever. Like, you know, you haven't have an investment that you make, choose your time horizon. Choose when you want to kind of, like, take profits on it and then stick to the plan. Like, don't just kind of chap chop and change things and say things like, ah, you know, I'm just gonna go all in on this. Like, screw it.
00:11:06.426 - 00:11:32.778, Speaker A: Like, I'm, like, I'm gonna make all my money from this. I'm gonna sell here. It's gonna be awesome because you're not investing at that point. I would consider that gambling. And I think the number one mistake people make is price targets. They always say, oh, I'm gonna buy this asset and then I'm gonna sell it once it reaches this price. That's, that's, in my experience, the worst way to do it because, like, nine times out of ten, it's not going to reach that price and you're not going to sell, and then it's just going to dump and you're not going to, you're not going to make much money or you might lose money as well.
00:11:32.778 - 00:12:04.142, Speaker A: So the way I did it personally was that I didn't have a price target for each of my investments. I had a target for. Okay, well, you know, is this kind of like, money enough from my initial, initial investment? Am I happy with the profits here? Yes. Okay, take it. But I also took in a bunch of other signals. One of the biggest signals for me was like, am I, do I feel like this is overheated? Do I feel like this trade or this investment has run its course for now? Am I still bullish on the project? You know, sometimes I was, sometimes I wasn't, and I just took profits from there. There's nothing wrong with doing that.
00:12:04.142 - 00:12:26.398, Speaker A: But when it comes to ETH, like, I just can't bring myself to do it. Like some people said, oh, you could have sold at then bought, like, so much back. Now it's like. But, but, like, that's a trader. Like, I don't trust myself enough to do that. Like, honestly, if I sold it four k, I probably would have bought back at two k. Like, and the thing is, after, after paying for accounting for tax and everything like that, um, you know, it probably wouldn't have been worth it for the amount of risks that I had taken on then.
00:12:26.398 - 00:13:01.442, Speaker A: So I think when people say that, I'm just saying it's just much easier for me to stack my ETH as I can whenever I can throw it into staking and stick to my strategy that I've had for a while. But anyway, I'm gonna leave it at that. I spoke about that a bit longer than I intended to there, but I just wanted to provide color for all of you because I know a bunch of you were talking about this in a discord channel over the weekend and a bit today as well. It's something that I think a lot of people can get a lot of value out of just talking through this stuff, learning from other people. But I always stick to my kind of like, rule that you need to learn for yourself. You need to just go and do it yourself and kind of like learn from your own experiences, your own mistakes. Because I can tell you, like, what my experiences are.
00:13:01.442 - 00:13:18.322, Speaker A: I can tell you kind of like what I learned from a million times, but at the end of the day, you can just freely ignore that. You don't have to listen to me. And the thing is, like, you may think I'm wrong too. Like maybe I am wrong, I don't know. Like, I'm just giving you my kind of like, view on all of this. So anyway, going to leave it at that for now. Got a bunch of other updates to get through.
00:13:18.322 - 00:13:53.806, Speaker A: So the sepolia public testnet, the second public testnet that will be running through the merge transition will be happening on July 6. Now, I mentioned this before, but I'm going to be hosting a live stream with eight staker for this. It's going to be similar to the Ropston live stream. We're going to have a bunch of people on the Zoom call. It's going to be going on YouTube and we're just going to all watch it happen live and celebrate and just, you know, have a fun time. I don't know if that's if song a day man is going to be on there, if he's going to be singing us in or ringing us in, he probably will be. If we kind of like have another one there so that there'll be some of that and there'll be a bunch of entertainment.
00:13:53.806 - 00:14:25.714, Speaker A: Maybe Vitalik will join and have like a really bad mic again and give us all kind of like hurt all our ears and things like that. But I don't know, I'll get. I've have more details on that soon around, kind of like where it'll be hosted on YouTube, all that sort of stuff. I think it's going to be hosted on either my channel or a staker's channel. Just depends on what happens there. But yeah, July 6. Is that kind of like a transition? And don't forget, June 29, a couple days from now, the execution layout Ethereum execution layer is going to be going through on a hard fork to delay the difficulty bomb by two to three.
00:14:25.714 - 00:14:39.078, Speaker A: Two to three months here. So you have, if you haven't upgraded your ETH one execution layer nodes, be sure to do so. I spun up a couple of new Nethermind nodes over the weekend. Very simple to do. They're humming along really nicely. They're very happy with that. So, and the nethermine is a minority client.
00:14:39.078 - 00:15:25.150, Speaker A: So definitely if you're running geth right now, it might be worth running a minority client or switching over instead of just kind of like upgrading geth because obviously we want better client diversity there. But regardless of what you do, make sure you upgrade because if you don't, you'll be kicked off and you'll be on a stale network. All right, so there was another all core devs call on Friday, and that's where the sepolia kind of like announcement came out of. But Tim Baiko had a really quick TLDR on the shadow fork number seven. So Mainnet shadow Fork seven that I spoke about, it went mostly okay. There was really just some non merge related issues in clients that showed up, such as shadow fork related peering issues for Aragon and a database related issue for Besu, both minority clients. Again, shadow Fork eight will happen in two weeks from June 25 with configs to avoid hitting these.
00:15:25.150 - 00:15:57.316, Speaker A: So this, that means that I believe this next main net shadow fork will happen after Sepolia. So we'll have sepolia, then Mainnet, shadow Fork eight, and then maybe another one before girly, and then hopefully mainnet from there. So yeah, people were asking kind of like about this and basically how the shadow Fork seven went. I mean, it was basically uneventful, except for these sorts of things, and uneventful is good at this stage. We don't want glaring issues, especially merge related issues, to be showing up at this point in time. And it doesn't seem like they are. It seems like the clients are pretty much there.
00:15:57.316 - 00:16:29.928, Speaker A: There are small issues with minority clients that will get ironed out. Like, I don't think that they're kind of like showstoppers or anything like that. And I think we're at the point now where I'm pretty confident in saying that September is looking really, really good for emerge pending these kind of like two final public test nets. But you know, I'm, I'm pretty happy. I'm pretty confident in September at this stage. But as I said, like pending the, the kind of results of the public test nets, pending how the core developers kind of feel. I know there's still a bit, some hesitancy about because of these kind of like not these issues in these minority clients, but I mean I get that.
00:16:29.928 - 00:17:12.320, Speaker A: And I get we want these minority clients to kind of like be up to scratch because we want people to kind of choose them over get for client diversity and things like that. But I think that even if they're not totally up to scratch, it might just be worth running through the merge transition and then post merge worrying about getting the, you know, these non merge related issues ironed out. Because I think that just generally we need to get the merge out of the way so we can work on the other things. Like I, you know what, guys, like, I'm not even wanting to get the merge out of the way just so we can get it kind of like done. I mean, I'm sorry just for all the reasons why I've outlined before about how it's bullish for, for ethan Ethereum and all that sort of stuff. I just want to get out of the way that we can focus on the even cooler upgrades coming like proto dank sharding and a bunch of other things as well, and beacon chain withdrawals too. So just got to get it done.
00:17:12.320 - 00:17:29.016, Speaker A: As I said, I'm pretty confident in September as I have been. I think mid September is more likely than early September. It could happen as like in late September, September 2. But mid September September is looking likely at this point in time. That's my own estimation. Please do not quote me on that. And don't say it's an official thing.
00:17:29.016 - 00:18:08.724, Speaker A: It's just my own estimation. We'll have to see how superlia goes, how the mainnet shadow forks go and how girly goes, of course, here. Alright, so speaking of upgrades coming after the merge, Vitalik has kind of, I guess, put together a blog post called the road to account abstraction. So this is, account abstraction has been kind of like an upgrade that has been a long time coming. It's been I guess like chopped and changed a bit, kind of put on the back burner. People wanted it before AIP 1559 but then it got put in the back burner for that. And then it kind of like fell on the wayside and now it's been turned into an ERC instead of an EIP.
00:18:08.724 - 00:18:57.706, Speaker A: Now for those of you who don't know the difference, an EIP is basically an Ethereum proven proposal, which is something that requires a hard fork to go into the network and kind of like become part of the core protocol, whereas an ERC is a spec basically, or a kind of like, sorry, I should say a standard basically. So ERC stands for ethereum requests for comments, as far as I am aware. I think that's what it stands for. And basically anyone could create an ERC. And like, as long as people adopt that standard, it becomes a standard, basically. So for example, ERC 20 is the token standard on Ethereum that everyone uses, but you could just as easily create another token standard which people have. Like the NFT token standards have different numbers, they're different ercs, but you can create another token standard called ERC whatever, right? And you, and as long as people adopted it, it would become a standard there.
00:18:57.706 - 00:19:32.134, Speaker A: So that's what this is attempting to do here. ERC 4337 is attempting to do the same thing as ERP 29 38 with kind of like account abstraction here. So you can kind of like read this kind of post from Vitalik here, describing kind of like the road to account abstraction through this ERC instead of an EIP. And kind of like how it can, how we can kind of like get there with a roadmap here. So short term, medium term, long term and an alternatives as well. So definitely go check this out if you haven't already. It's a pretty interesting upgrade that could be coming through ethereum very, very soon.
00:19:32.134 - 00:20:15.618, Speaker A: All right, so Tatums here from the ENS team has shared a guess, fresh look at the new ENS web app here. So basically you can see that they're redesigning the whole thing here with different new layouts on both mobile and kind of like desktop and things like that as well. Load times have been collapsed as well, which is really, really cool to see. So some major upgrades coming for, for ens here on the interface front. And this is v three of the ENS app, and it's basically entered alpha as of this post, which is cool. Obviously after that will come beta and then, and then public kind of release there. So I think this is cool because obviously Ens plays a lot into the decentralized identity space and having your own kind of, own kind of like web3 identity and things like that.
00:20:15.618 - 00:20:53.284, Speaker A: And we want to make that as easy as possible, people to play around with and interact with. And especially for people who coming into this ecosystem through things like nfts, I've actually noticed a pretty big overlap between people who own, well, technically an Enf name is an NFT, but just for the sake of argument, technically they own like an NFT, such as like a collectible or a gaming item or something like that. Like, you know, you know, they're the perfect picture, nfts, things like that. And they'll also have like an Ens name because that's part of their identity. Like, you can't just have the profile picture NFT, you need the ens name to go with that. You need to on train verifiable proof or identity of who you are. So it's very, very popular with those kinds of people.
00:20:53.284 - 00:21:39.352, Speaker A: And I think those kinds of people are less interested in going or jumping through a lot of the ux hoops that we've put there for people with, you know, over the years. And they just want something really, really simple to use. And I think that's what Ens app v three is trying to do here, just make it really easy, really kind of like web two feel, I think in terms of design, which I think, you know, the one good thing about Web two is that they've got the UI and ux, like down path, like, I mean, because there wasn't really much innovation happening, kind of like on the product side, it's mostly innovation that has happened on the UI UX side of things. And even then it's kind of like become a bit boring. But web two has this really good thing where it's like one to two clicks to do anything on any of the really popular apps out there. And that's what we need to get crypto to. We can't just have people doing like ten different clicks to do anything in crypto.
00:21:39.352 - 00:22:08.450, Speaker A: It's just going to turn most people off. And most people just don't want to have to do that. They don't want to have to learn all these new things to just do something simple. So if you could register an ans name in a couple of clicks, I think that would be the best way to do it. And do it, you know, really easily so you don't have to mess around with kind of like record name records, reverse records, all that sorts of stuff. Because I think most people don't want to have to do that, especially ones who are just coming into the ecosystem to have a good time to be entertained through nfts, maybe they don't even care about defy. We need to make things easier for them.
00:22:08.450 - 00:22:37.290, Speaker A: And I think that's what Ens is doing here. So really cool to see this. Looking forward to seeing this progress. All right, so Bartech has a really great thread that I think all of you should read because this is very relevant to questions that I keep getting asked. And Bartech starts this thread by saying, by now you must have heard that roll ups derive their security from Ethereum, even roll ups that have a centralized sequencer. So why would you want to decentralize the sequences? Surely it adds complexity and can slow down the l two block production. And you can read the thread for his kind of description about this.
00:22:37.290 - 00:23:18.688, Speaker A: But the reason why I say I get a lot of questions about this is because I think when people hear me say that L2s inherit security from Ethereum, layer one, they think for some reason that L2 can't be hacked, right, or can't be exploited. And that's like, couldn't be further from the truth. As I've explained before, a L2 is like a set of smart contracts on Ethereum. It's the same thing as a smart contract that is maybe a Defi on layer one. So for example, you know, a Defi smart contract on layer one, or any smart contract on layer one. Ethereum is technically secured by Ethereum because the blockchain is secured. That those smart contracts are on is secured by the miners in the future validators.
00:23:18.688 - 00:24:11.856, Speaker A: But that doesn't mean that it's secured against an exploit. Like if there's bad code in the smart contract, or if there's code that allows for the exploit to happen, then it's going to happen. Same is true for L2s. If they have bugs in their code, if they have bad code, if there's an exploit there, it's going to get exploited, and it doesn't matter if it's secured by Ethereum or not. That's not kind of like what, what, what's kind of like protecting your, your funds there, right? But what benefit you get of being secured by Ethereum is that you get that ultra security and decentralization that Ethereum's kind of like network gives you, right, that it gives you a layer one, it gives you the same thing at L2 without the high cost, but it can still be exploited all the same because of the fact that these things are just still smart contracts like when you bridge into a L2, you're locking your funds on Ethereum. Layer one, you're being issued the kind of like an IOU on, on L2. Say it's an optimism or an arbitrum.
00:24:11.856 - 00:25:02.810, Speaker A: But then advantage of L2 because it's, it's kind of secured by Ethereum. Layer one is that you can have escape hatches or you can have things where even if the L2 went completely offline, you could use this escape hatch to get your funds back and you wouldn't need to rely on any kind of like centralized operator to give your funds back. And that is the key benefit. Whereas something like another chain, like if you were to bridge to the avalanche sea chain, for example, well, if that chain goes offline or if an exploit happens there or whatever happens, right, your funds are lost on ethereum layer one because you technically don't own them there because the, the ownership belongs to the avalanche sea chain, which has either been kind of like exploited or something's happened there. So you didn't have a theorem security, you had the avalanche sea chain security, for example. So I've gone through this before, but I felt like it was worth clarifying because I think people get the wrong idea. And you should read this thread from Bartech.
00:25:02.810 - 00:25:41.568, Speaker A: It goes into even kind of like more depth, especially around sequences. So definitely give that a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description. Alright, so if you want to learn more about the protocol guild, you can go catch this video. Trent van Epps, the one of the people running the protocol guild here, presented at protocol labs where he, it was called funding the Common, sorry, at the protocol labs, funding the Commons event. And Trent talks about Ethereum and its public goods, existing funding mechanisms and their limitations, public protocol guilds design response to those limitations, and the one year pilot. I've talked about protocol guild a bunch of times before, so I'm not going to rehash it here.
00:25:41.568 - 00:25:54.744, Speaker A: You can definitely give this video a watch. I think it's about half an hour. Trent goes through things very, very cleanly. I enjoyed it. I think he described it quite well and kind of described his vision for it quite well as well. So you should definitely check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description.
00:25:54.744 - 00:26:31.926, Speaker A: Alright, so Coinbase announced that they are supporting polygon kind of like main net here. And I kind of like went over this last week when they announced that. But cool to see Polygon kind of like sharing this here where they said you can send them receive to polygon Pos chain directly on Coinbase. As you know, the seamless user experience for using Dapps on polygon and polygon PoS becomes the first network to go live on coinbase.com. And I think they meant like first kind of like Ethereum scalability network here. As I said last week, you know, optimism arbitrary, bunch of L2s are coming. I expect that to happen soon, but I wanted to kind of focus on what Polygon said here around seamless user experience for using Dapps.
00:26:31.926 - 00:27:04.372, Speaker A: Like this is a UX barrier, the bridging part of things, like when. When a user wants to get onto optimism or arbitrum or any other L2, for example, I always bring up optimism arbitrary because I think they're the most kind of like, progressed L2 ecosystems right now. But when people want to get onto these places, even the polygon Pos chain, they usually have to go through Ethereum, right? Theorem layer one. And that's usually costly, it's usually cumbersome, it's usually slow and clunky, because a theorem layer one just, just is that way. Right. It's not supposed to be the user layer, and because of that, it kind of turns people off. It's a bad user experience.
00:27:04.372 - 00:27:33.212, Speaker A: It's not great. But if users can go directly from a centralized exchange to these networks and bypass Ethereum layer one altogether, then that is like the best user experience in terms of kind of like bridging. I think now there are obviously other bridges people can use, like hop and connects and things like that. But, you know, in terms of like, the most normie friendly stuff, it's definitely bridging from a centralized exchange into these kind of like networks. And people can do what they want from there. And we obviously want not just a withdrawal, but a deposit bridge as well. So people can kind of do that whole loop there.
00:27:33.212 - 00:28:08.510, Speaker A: So again, very cool to see this, and I'm hoping coinbase supports the other networks sooner rather than later. All right, finally, here we have bash. I think that's how you say their name from Rainbow, saying first Rainbow swap on L two for me, optimistic l two transaction hash details. So this is just a link to a transaction that happened on the Rainbow app on l two, where there comes kind of like a bunch of kind of swaps done here, but very cool to see that optimism should be supported on kind of like Rainbow soon enough. And for those of you who don't know, Rainbow is a mobile wallet app. One of the kind of like best mobile wallet apps out there. Very, very seamless UX.
00:28:08.510 - 00:28:59.826, Speaker A: As I was just saying, these UX barriers need to come down for the everyday user to want to actually use these sorts of things and this is just another one of them. Just seamless. Swapping in a kind of like an app on L2 or in a mobile app on L2 is pretty much like that one to two click that I was talking about where users can basically, I guess with Rainbow say like the user flow is deposit funds, whether that's from a centralized exchange or basically deposit kind of like fiat, or use a fiat payment processor to buy crypto and then immediately be able to swap that for whatever token they want on optimism using kind of like Rainbow swap feature so that most of us only a few clicks there, really seamless user experience and that's exactly what we want to get to. So just wanted to kind of like highlight that there today. But I think that's going to be it for now. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:28:59.826 - 00:29:05.234, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
