00:00:02.010 - 00:00:39.930, Speaker A: Okay. Hey, the survivors. So I'll tell you about Holographic Consensus and basically their protocol way to scale up DAOs or generally speaking, to scale up decision making. So who is already familiar with Dows quickly, who is familiar with Dustack? Or about the whole graphic concerns before? Okay, kind of that's good. Okay, so I'll try to run really briefly on that trivial stuff, maybe even just to altogether skip them. But DAOs on the blockchain. When we say Dow on blockchain, we mean ownership and digger center system to handle that ownership.
00:00:39.930 - 00:01:17.482, Speaker A: Ownership can be external assets such as the Dao holding ether tokens. You'll see internal asset, the tokens of the Dao itself, external rights such as reputation or voting power in another Dao controlling another platform and so on and so forth. Or internal rights. So Dao has its own reputation system contract. It can manage. Then of course, governance system is simply a system that makes decision about proposals. Yes no agents are saying yes no and then the Dao decides the different voices of agents are weighted differently.
00:01:17.482 - 00:02:03.074, Speaker A: Whatever your voting system is, if it's reputation based, token based, et cetera. And then the Dow is just making a decision no or yes if the majority of reputation or voting power is yes or no. So this is like the simplest form. I won't get into many details here on that. But this is kind of like slightly sorry, this is slightly I won't touch it again. So this is like slightly a few, just one or two slides about the technology that we're using for the Dow stack. Basically you have the you have the Dow stack that I will tell you slightly more about.
00:02:03.074 - 00:02:26.540, Speaker A: Then you have the arc. Well, here the infra that I'm not mentioning there. This is just governance primitives. So for example, the whole voting system is just one primitive. This is a full framework that takes all those primitives into a complete structure of an organization. You can ignore that this is a caching layer and eventually you can build easily DApps directly from JavaScript using those frameworks. Okay, this is really, really fast.
00:02:26.540 - 00:03:21.482, Speaker A: This is just one slide how that framework works, it's not directly related to Holographic Consensus, but just in case you want to use Holographic Consensus in your organization. So this is a structure of an organization. These are logical schemes for a yes logic. So a yes logic means that if such and such will happen, such as if I will propose a proposal and those people will vote yes, then the proposal will be approved and be executed by the actors. So token will be printed, reputation will be minted, or the avatar that can control any other external contract out there. Okay? And these are negative or no schemes, which means that no matter what, if you are deploying that scheme, means that no matter what will happen will not go invalidate that scheme. So if that is no printing more than a million dollars.
00:03:21.482 - 00:04:08.470, Speaker A: No matter what, this will approve that. That will not print more than a million dollars. Okay, so basically you have a library of positive schemes and a library of negative scheme. You can deploy which modules you want to have in your organization and eventually you get a full organization that can control anything on the blockchain. Okay, so now Holographic consensus will be implemented via a single scheme over here which itself is made of like a couple of contracts. Okay, so why scalable dows to begin with? What's the problem? Firstly, before that, what do you mean by scalable? Scalability in what? So what a Dow can be scalable at so of course the simplest is scalable in the number of people participating or effective voters. I would call that decentralization.
00:04:08.470 - 00:05:02.522, Speaker A: So if you have a wide distribution of power to thousands of people, I would say it's a decentralized organization. Then you can have a scalability in terms of the governance throughput so people are proposing thousands of decisions every month and the Dow actually need to scan all of those thousands of decisions and make a decision on each and every of them. So this would be what I call scalability. So the scalability of governance throughput or decisions made in a unit of time or frequency of decisions. So with that so imagine you had this machinery, so imagine you had like this magical machinery, whether it's AI or it's like artificial intelligence, that you have a black box that just gets a lot of questions and then just say yes, no, yes, no, yes, no. So this black box is actually a community intelligence rather than or collective intelligence rather than artificial intelligence. But still you need to have that machinery that thousands of proposals can be shoot on that machinery.
00:05:02.522 - 00:05:39.142, Speaker A: Those machinery which is made of thousands of agents and somehow magically those thousands of agents need to shoot out decisions quickly. Right? Try to imagine that situation like 5000 collaborators collaborating in a single Dow proposing 5000 decisions every month and running through all of them all the time, like hundreds of decisions a day and shooting them out. Okay. Sounds impossible, right? I hope. Who thinks it doesn't sound impossible? By the way, who thinks it sounds impossible? Impossible. Okay, great. We have optimistic crowd.
00:05:39.142 - 00:06:09.486, Speaker A: Thank you. Okay, sounds hard. Okay, great. Yeah. I also added meritocratically. Right? So meritocratically means that it's not just randomly saying yes, no, but actually weighing people according to their reputation or whatever you call reputation is like voting power, whatever you define voting power with. So voting power defined meritorially by when you make a contribution to the Dow, you gain reputation.
00:06:09.486 - 00:06:43.098, Speaker A: But it also be like token based. Like if you're hodling, if you're locking your tokens in the dao tokens in your contract, you're getting voting power. So whatever system you've chosen. Okay, so that imagination over there has some problems, which is the scalability problem of Dows by the way, which is completely analogous to scalability problem of blockchain. Blockchain is a governance system. It just decides one kind of things which is the blocks but the scalability problem of that is the same. It's just a lack of attention or the finiteness of the resource of attention.
00:06:43.098 - 00:07:25.482, Speaker A: And it's the usual trilemma between decentralization scale and resiliency which well known from blockchain but is also true for governance. Which means that naive decentral governance system simply cannot be scalable and resilient at the same time. And just to understand that better, what do we mean by each terminology so decentralization? We mean exactly wide distribution of voting power to a large number of effective influencers which are autonomous. So large number of influencers you cannot form decision by two people. This will not be decentralized. If you actually need the attention of 100 people or 1000 people, this will be decentralized. Now, you don't want really to have that attention because you cannot expect all thousand people to look at each and everything.
00:07:25.482 - 00:08:12.360, Speaker A: But in principle, if you want to get the majority of our reputation to say yes on something this should acquire like 1000 people then when we say scale again we mean the governance throughput the frequency of decisions that are made and finally resilience. I want to give really precise definition because many people say resilience all the time but we never have a definition. So I want to have a precise definition. So when I say resiliency, I mean representativity which means by definition, if we want to have a scalable doubt, we want to shoot on that machine like thousands of decisions or hundreds of decisions a day. We want to get those answers. By definition it means that not everyone can look at everything, right? That's for sure. So I don't know, maybe that decision will be made by ten people.
00:08:12.360 - 00:08:46.642, Speaker A: Still I want that decision to be representative for the rest of the dow. If it's not, it means it's not resilient and it can be attackable and manipulable. Okay? So resiliency is exactly very well defined. It's representativity such that if we just hold time, we say okay, time, stop please. Now we just got a decision saying yes, now we stop time where now have all of time of the world. We are asking those 5000 people what do you think? They are patientfully looking at that, giving an answer, all of them. Then we are checking if that decision that was made is in line with what everyone will say.
00:08:46.642 - 00:09:21.246, Speaker A: If the answer is yes, then we have representivity. If the answer is no, we do not have representivity. It's a very precise definition. Okay, so you're putting all that together. The claim is that you cannot have large number of people that are well wide distribution of power. So large number of people deciding very very frequently in a representative manner that's the claim, okay? It's a naive claim and the proof so this is a big, big problem for big DAOs. And if Dan Aorin is not a real person I think nobody got a joke last time.
00:09:21.246 - 00:09:37.730, Speaker A: Use it. So it's just a result of scarcity of attention. And it's very easy to prove. Lots of fully engaged people means lots of proposal. Lots of proposal means little attention. Each one. If you have so many proposals, you have just ten people voting on each on average.
00:09:37.730 - 00:10:16.366, Speaker A: And then if you have little attention on each proposal, it means that each of them will, generally speaking, will not be representative. Okay? Anyone not convinced by that proof? It's almost a trivial truth, right? So in a simplest word, you would say that in small Dows everyone looked at everything while in large Dows no one looked at anything. That's very, very true. By the way. I don't know if you have a hunch, but how many people the first largest experiment was I mean, we made an experiment with real doubts with 100 people. I'll tell you about that. But Aragon actually had one vote with 20,000 voters.
00:10:16.366 - 00:10:43.740, Speaker A: How many voted on the on the vote? Not like 5000 votes, like a single vote. How many voted roughly? As far as I know, I think I've heard 60. And that's when we have one vote. What would happen if we have 5000 votes? How many would vote on each vote? Just a few, if we are lucky. Okay, so it's a real problem, really. Nobody looks at anything. I think you're technical enough to skip that.
00:10:43.740 - 00:11:26.962, Speaker A: What's there? So the solution by definition, the solution we call Holographic Consensus, which means that we must allow, we must enable decisions to be made locally. So when I say locally, I mean by relatively small amount of attention. Maybe five people over here in this room can make a decision for the entire Dao. So you decide how to spend money that you're not owning, that the entire Dao is owning and you make decision. So we have to allow that without allowing that there is no chance for scalability like you're just banging your head to the wall. So we have to allow local decisions. But by definition, for sake of representivity, for sake of resilience we need those decisions to be globally representative.
00:11:26.962 - 00:11:50.986, Speaker A: That's logical definition. I haven't said anything. I just rephrased the previous statement in nicer words. And this is what we call Holographic Consensus. So that's easy. Again, I will jump that. But the big question is how do you do that? How do you allow for quick decisions by small amount of reputation such as they actually represent the global majority? And that's what you call Holographic consensus.
00:11:50.986 - 00:12:55.330, Speaker A: So Holographic Consensus is achieved by turning a social arbitrage into an economic arbitrage. So what do we mean by social arbitrage? Social arbitrage is the exact situation we're trying to avoid where a small group of people are making a decision that is not representative of the majority. I would call that a social arbitrage. Now how do we solve for not having those situation? Well, we are translating, we are mapping that into an economic arbitrage and we know that the markets already know how to deal with economic arbitrage. Okay? So basically we're making a situation that anyone that is successfully identifying and staking against this mismatch, this misalignment there are 5000 things happening this week and there is now a crowd of predictors, there's a crowd of stakers ready just to hungry to find those mismatches and they are just now saying oh this decision here is not reflective of the global majority. I'm betting against it and they will make profit from identifying that. Okay? So we're translating social arbitrage into economic arbitrage.
00:12:55.330 - 00:13:22.190, Speaker A: And we've designed that protocol about a year ago. This was Genesis 0.1. It was not sophisticated, was pretty simple. We knew that there are some well not major major but some holes or some failure modes and recently we've upgraded into Genesis 0.2. It's still not perfect in all means but it's quite closed. And we would say that there's no severe failure modes or attack vectors. So it's called the Genesis Protocol genesis 0.2
00:13:22.190 - 00:13:50.450, Speaker A: which is the Holographic consensus I would say minimal viable protocol basically. Okay, we have three kind of actors in this game. We have of course having proposers anyone can make any proposal. I can propose a dow to spend money to that project. I can propose a Dao to sign that transaction. I can propose Dao to vote in another Dao. In that way I can propose the Dao to whitelist token on Dachx platform if the Dao is the owner, happen to be the owner of the Dachshund platform and so on so forth.
00:13:50.450 - 00:14:12.880, Speaker A: I can actually propose to the Dao to open a sub company of argon platform. I can do anything. Okay? So it's complete model or interoperable and the Dao can do any transaction on the blockchain and it doesn't cost anything. So we'll have a lot of ideas because it doesn't cost anything. You're not risking anything. Just make a proposal. Of course if it's not interesting it will be down the line somewhere and nobody will see it.
00:14:12.880 - 00:14:46.674, Speaker A: So the beauty of it is that you're not really spamming anything, it's just becoming there will be a queue of like thousand proposals and you'll be somewhere down the queue. You just paid for the gas and nobody care. Right? You'll get get there there we'll you need to see how that could float up. That's the point. But if you just want to propagate your proposal in your social media you have a link to the proposal. Great, welcome to do that. So voters, voters are basically this is a permissionless.
00:14:46.674 - 00:15:14.366, Speaker A: This is permissionless. This is permission in a sense that voters are weighted by their reputation. And again whether it doesn't matter if the reputation was derived from meritocracy contributions or from token locking hoddling or something else. Each Dow has its own reputation system or voting power system and then voters votes weighted with their voting power. And if you don't have voting power, well you cannot really wait. You can vote but it will not count. And then the new actor is the predictors.
00:15:14.366 - 00:15:45.994, Speaker A: So anyone can make a prediction. So I'm proposing a proposal. It's now live and now you can make a prediction deciding if you think that is representative or not representative. If you think that it's not representative you can make money from predicting that it's not well actually sorry, opposite. If you think that it's representative you can make profit from identifying that and betting that it's going to pass. That's the idea. Now if you have made that bet now you can also make profit from saying no this is actually not representative and I'm betting against that.
00:15:45.994 - 00:16:39.446, Speaker A: Okay? So in order to bootstrap well I'll mention that later but in order to bootstrap the profits for this prediction game, the Dao itself is downstaking each and every proposal. So the Dao says, each proposal that comes up says no it's not representative, it won't pass. I'm just putting that and you can see, you can follow the logic as we'll go and you'll see that eventually the Dao will pay that money only if eventually the proposal will pass. Which means that Dao is really paying for the governance cost for each successful proposal that will go through the mechanism that I will tell you about the boosting, then the Dao will pay. And it's really a pay for a real resource that was consumed. It was paying for outsourcing the navigation of the collective attention into an external network of predictors and they actually do real job. So how it works predictors, they are placing predictions on what voters would decide.
00:16:39.446 - 00:17:00.194, Speaker A: This is really important. Predictions are not making decisions. They don't have the incentive to say what they want to happen. The only incentive they have is to say what they think voters will say. Okay? So they are completely detached. This is different from Futurkey for example or from token curated registries where the predictors or stakers are also eventually making decisions. Here they are not.
00:17:00.194 - 00:17:49.266, Speaker A: They are just predicting. They only have the incentive to predict for the future, for the future of voters. The way that they're doing is that by staking gen tokens they have two ways to stake gen tokens either as upstaking or downstaking, which means staking claiming that it is a representative or claiming that it's not representative. And of course at the end of the game, once the voters casted their vote, the right predictors win the gen of the losers. That's great. And in order to bootstrap that crypto economic game, the Dao downstakes each and every proposal. And of course the higher the downstake of the Dao in a way the more incentive for predictors to predict and such better security.
00:17:49.266 - 00:18:48.574, Speaker A: So it's kind of like security level that the Dao requires and that's a process. So the process is that every proposal that is issued by anyone is by definition a regular proposal which means just sitting in this infinite queue that nobody cares about if it just stays there you can still execute that proposal. So if somehow voters come and say oh that's so amazing and you get absolute majority so 50% of your reputation holders say yes absolutely do. So just execute the proposal you have Insured representivity right? Because if you have 50% of the majority of reputation holders saying yes you have Insured representatives and it lives for a long time. It's a parameter. It could be a month, two months, three months. Now you have a new status which is called boosted proposals and the new thing about that status is that it requires only relative majority of the voters in order to be approved.
00:18:48.574 - 00:19:16.250, Speaker A: So there's a shorter time frame for the voting period. Okay? So maybe a week, maybe three days depending on the use case on what are the things that you're approving. You have like a week for those voting. Whoever votes votes depending on the attention, the shooting of the proposals on the topic and so on and so forth. And then at the end of that time if majority of those who voted say yes Dow executes. If they say no, Dow reject. So you have guaranteed resolution.
00:19:16.250 - 00:20:24.238, Speaker A: And now the question how do proposal gets boosted to this situation? How do they move from absolute majority long time into relative majority short time? And the answer is well we have boosting conditions so let's see what the boosting conditions are. So we said before the Dow downstakes every proposal and now people can play the game, can UpStake downstake and so on and so forth. And we're looking at this C which we call confidence which is the ratio between upstakes and downstake, the total upstakes over the total downstakes. And why do we call it confidence? Because it is actually the confidence that a predictor need to have in order to not change something. So if this is four it means that a rational player should predict if he thinks that well should think that, the confidence should think that the statistics of that to actually be approved by voters should be four to one. And if he thinks that it's five to one he has incentive, statistical incentive to actually increase UpStake. If he thinks it's three to one he has incentive to increase downstake.
00:20:24.238 - 00:21:19.400, Speaker A: So eventually there is saturation of the prediction market and there is a cumulative confidence level in the market that says C. And now if that C is large enough and I'll tell in a moment what large enough means it does see large enough only then that the proposal gets boosted. So there is a large economic signal that predictors things and not just things but willing to stake that this is going to pass. Now notice that it's really important that you have the initial downstake such that large enough is defined with respect to that initial downstake. That's why I said that it's a security level. And of course, after you have that level of upstakes, maybe you get more downstakes by others who think that so it can spread above. But this would be the minimal required upstakes, the minimal stake that will be in the system before it can boost it.
00:21:19.400 - 00:21:57.966, Speaker A: And now high enough. This is just parameters, this is the difficulty parameter basically and we added here a very aggressive protection formula. You can lower it to polynomials but this is exponential. So it's the parameter, this is parameter slightly larger than one. So let's say 1.21.3. And it goes exponential with NB, where NB is the number of proposals that are currently boosted. Because the more proposal you get that are already boosted, in a way, the more the collective attention of voters is diluted, the more it needs to protect from having a mismatch, the more you need staking to fix for that mismatch.
00:21:57.966 - 00:22:37.146, Speaker A: Possible mismatch. So that's why it makes sense and we took exponential protective aggressive formula to begin with. The resolution is very simple. Well, as I said before, regular proposal can be resolved in three ways either they are boosted in a time frame or they are resolved with absolute majority or that are dismissed. If timing out, let's say after two months, then boosted proposal are resolved by definition at the end of the voting period and they're resolved with the majority, with the relative majority to one of the other ways. And I'm adding here, given a quiet ending. So in the last period of the voting, you need to have quiet.
00:22:37.146 - 00:23:06.930, Speaker A: So not shifting. And if you have shifting, the vote keeps extending. Every time there is a shift, it keeps extending in another quiet ending period that ensures saturation. And as we said before, the right predictors gain the stakes of the wrong ones prorata and let's just skip that last point. It's not relevant for now. And the most interesting world kind of like that's the promise I just want to deliver now on my promise. I'm not always doing that, but in this case, I will try to deliver my promise.
00:23:06.930 - 00:24:22.666, Speaker A: So I promise that this process will be creating representivity, right? So why do we have now representivity? So let's take like one step by step. So a proposal can be decided by relative majority only if it gets boosted, right? So where the non representivity risk comes from if things has been decided by absolute majority, by definition they are representative. So the only case where a proposal can be executed in a non representative manner is if it got boosted, right? But a proposal can be boosted only if it had sufficient UpStake. Remember that the UpStake over the downstake confidence was large enough so it had sufficient UpStake at least in relative to the Dow downstake, which is the minimal S minus is the minimal downstake. But once you had this sufficient UpStake, you just created the crypto economic incentive for people to identify that this is a hack, that this is a mistake. Right? Because if, for example, let's say that the downstake is $20 and now you need the confidence level of five so people are upstaking $100. Now I can earn $100 from simply putting $20 or I can actually earn $50 because I will compete with the Dow down stake.
00:24:22.666 - 00:25:12.686, Speaker A: I can earn $50 by putting $20 and say, no, this is an attack, it's not going to pass and get that money. So once you have sufficient amount of upstakes, you create economic incentive for people to put down stake. But then once you have those two sides of the staking so you have upstakers and downstakers. And now the realty vote, short vote begins. Now they have the incentive, the predictors have the incentive to call out for voters if they think the process is not representative. So let's say that I've predicted for it, I think that it's going to pass and now the vote goes on and now it seems to converge to a no and then I'm going to lose a lot of money. So I'm calling Alex that has a lot of reputation in that Dao and I've just noticed that he hasn't voted and I know that he will approve it.
00:25:12.686 - 00:25:42.178, Speaker A: So I'm calling say, Alex, there is an attack over here, the little group here that's making a decision that is not reflective of the majority. Please cast your vote against that attack. Okay, so we have people stakes on the two side of the equation to protect for representivity and that's exactly the outsourcing that the Dao is doing. So at the end of the day, the predictors have three roles in the Dao. The first role is fishermen. They need to fish out the good proposals. There's a huge queue.
00:25:42.178 - 00:26:21.830, Speaker A: Someone needs to look for those proposals and the Dow is paying for that. Okay? You can also promote them in your social media, but eventually they are the fishermen. So the first role of the predictors is to find out the good proposals and amplify them by staking. The second role is to protect and signal that there are mismatches. So I see that you're upstaking something and I think you're either attacking or just don't understanding the culture of that Dow and I'm going to bend against that. So I'm kind of like signaling that there is a mismatch. And even then, if it's going to be boosted, my third role will be since I'm already staked will be to call out the voters that I think will put the influence where it should be and thus protecting for representatively.
00:26:21.830 - 00:26:56.386, Speaker A: Yeah, quite ending just kind of like helped that as well. I've just said all that and it looks in the picture, it looks like that there is like a stream. This is like the shooting of thousand proposal coming into the Dow. This is the prediction game. People stake up and down and suddenly we have a good signal over there that something is going to pass. This jumps to the boosted stage. There is the clock ticking, people placing votes at the end of the timer, we have a decision and so on and so forth and then we resolve the prediction game.
00:26:56.386 - 00:27:41.598, Speaker A: So that's how it looks like. And now we can kind of wrap it all back together and try to put that back into this statement. Holographic consensus. The fact that you get small local decisions made in a way that in a high frequency but in a way that ensures representivity of the large majority. We achieve that by creating this crypto economic gain that essentially translates a social arbitrage into opportunity into economic arbitrage. And the free market, of course, will take care of the rest. And with that you can imagine, I hope that you can imagine now 5000 Ethereum developers that are working on increasing the scalability solution of Ethereum and they are working all together and co managing a fund.
00:27:41.598 - 00:28:35.502, Speaker A: By the way, imagine that you could have Dow ability in ethereum itself. So imagine that you could have increased 1% of the ethereum economy distributed to those who will solve scalability problem. Who thinks that the token the Ether will go 1% up at least if we solve scalability, only that oh my God, I think it will go like 100 x up. So if we believe that the Ether will go at least 1% up if we solve scalability and if Ether is $10 million, it means that we are essentially managing a fund of $100 million. And imagine we can actually manage that fund. We print 1% of ether to those who solve scalability. We can now 100,000 people can co manage $100 million and basically reward those who will give the best implement the best idea for scalability and really build up a huge funding machine.
00:28:35.502 - 00:29:56.542, Speaker A: So for that we'll need Holographic Consensus because we'll need to run thousands or hundreds of thousands of decisions every month, year and so on so forth. So try to imagine that. Thank you. Any questions? Yeah, thanks. Okay, yeah, very good. So firstly just one comment. It's actually I would rather not try not to put it as a category inside Future Key because Future Key is in a situation where the predictors are eventually also making a decision and that's part of the reason why it's actually somewhat manipulable.
00:29:56.542 - 00:30:20.102, Speaker A: It's a long, long conversation. Future Key may work for some use cases but not a generic one. So I'm trying to separate holographic consensus from future key. So Genesis Dow? Yeah, Genesis Dow was launched in August 2018. We launched it with 50 people with this model with a fully working interface on the main net. So that basically about 230 proposals were. Submitted.
00:30:20.102 - 00:30:57.922, Speaker A: About half of them were accepted. About half of those who were accepted were asking for reputation. So newcomers that wants to play the game which was completely organic, we didn't do anything with that. This grew from 50 people to about 130 or 120 and another half about 60. Proposal were asking for funding. The Dow was managing about $15,000 I think every month. Or no, sorry, maybe somewhat less, I don't remember exactly, but something like that ballpark they've been building the initial definition were really to build just any contributions to this project, to the ecosystem in large and so on and so forth.
00:30:57.922 - 00:31:24.160, Speaker A: So people build two interfaces with that funding. People organize five meetups with that funding. Two books, content, videos and a portrait handle paint portrait of vitalik buterie true. So far it was pretty loosely defined. Okay, so you could also see the contribution pretty loosely achieved. Now the next stage. So now it's down.
00:31:24.160 - 00:31:49.158, Speaker A: We are upgrading. In about a couple of weeks we'll have live again the second version of the apps which will be the beta. The app is called Alchemy. It's an interface for DAOs. We'll have Alchemy beta much faster, better protocol, much better design and so on and so forth. And sometime after we will launch Genesis beta. So a new version of the Dao that is now aimed with much grander goals as per your questions.
00:31:49.158 - 00:33:01.198, Speaker A: So the goal that we see for that Dao would be to basically take us the next big step towards decentralization of the project. So from the beginning of that project we had in mind that this project should be eating its own dog food and we are trying to reach that stage as soon as possible with the advancing of the technology. So the way we think about it is we think about it as grand alliance that eventually is owned and managed by the biddlers clients and hodlers supporters of the project. So those who either of those sectors will be part of the decision makers want to be the very grand Dow that then fund those initiatives. Fund either in ether or dai or in gen tokens in the tokens of the project itself. Actually locked token because we want to fund people to be stakeholders for the long term and basically support contributors of all kind that are building the growth of this ecosystem, whether it is develop infrastructure or communicate or organize events or build bridges to other technologies, such like build a bridge between Dowstack and Argon or Dowstack and Claros. And we are very much encouraging these kind of bridges.
00:33:01.198 - 00:33:15.600, Speaker A: So these are like the thing I think would suit best. These things. Yeah. Thank you. Thank.
