00:00:04.760 - 00:01:23.394, Speaker A: Hey, everyone. So right now at Cube, sad not to be doing nfts. If you asked me a year ago if I would be doing an exchange before break point, I would say, no, I'm not stupid, because exchanges are kind of tricky, and I really didn't want to do it, even though before Solana, I worked in traditional finance for like ten years, Citadel and a bunch of investment banks, and I had fun with nfTs. But then during the breakpoint last year, this thing called FTX happened and things kind of changed. And I was pretty sad during the conference that something like that happened, and I wanted to do something about it. So we sat down with the co founder, Larry, he's the CT, and started thinking, what can we do to prevent things like that from happening in the future? So first we started thinking, okay, what was wrong with FTX? Why did it happen? And the main kind of answer at the beginning is, we shouldn't trust people on the inside. But that's already answered by the centralized exchanges, and everyone could be using them.
00:01:23.394 - 00:01:55.160, Speaker A: So then we went to the next question. It's like, why people are not using decentralized exchanges in the wider sense. And I think there's a couple of reasons for that. One is self custody is really hard. In one aspect, it's pretty easy. You just grab the ledger or grab phantom wallet or backpack and start using it. But on the other hand, it's pretty tricky because you need to make sure that you are doing the right things.
00:01:55.160 - 00:02:36.976, Speaker A: And if you are from outside of crypto, it's kind of scary where I think I have all my tokens on ledger, and then kid at my house grabbed the ledger that's like real story, and actually threw it in the washing machine. And the next day I'm like, oh, what happened? The ledger is in the washing machine. Doesn't work. Pretty sad. And that's like real story. And so the first thing that we did was we need to solve that problem somehow where people are afraid of using self custody, and that's why they are not going to the Dexs. And the Dexs are also maybe like expensive and whatnot.
00:02:36.976 - 00:03:15.754, Speaker A: But there's like, I think that's the main reason people like onboarding to centralized exchanges. I have the email and I know I can call someone and they can do something with things. So we build this vault, like MPC vault for people. When they are onboarding, they go through standard KYC process, like centralized exchange. But then the whole custody is delegated to the MPC infrastructure, which stands for multiparty computation, where you. Where your tokens are actually secured by the widened network. And the other thing where I think it's missing from decentralized exchanges is liquidity.
00:03:15.754 - 00:04:09.624, Speaker A: And both me and Lara, we come from traditional finance and started asking ourselves, ok, why market makers prefer trading on centralized exchanges rather than decentralized exchanges. And I think there's a couple of reasons for that. The interface, how they interact with it, but also the guarantees in terms of how they can cancel their orders when they are actually making markets. And when you are a market maker, the main thing you are thinking about is not when you are placing the order and you are trying to trade. The main thing that you are worrying about is when something happens in the market, how do I get out? You want to guarantee those cancellations as quickly as possible, so you dont get run over. And at that moment in time, even the milliseconds or the microseconds are especially important. So this way we decided to tackle both of those things together.
00:04:09.624 - 00:05:48.724, Speaker A: And the way we did it was by effectively creating both on chain component and offshake component, similar kind of todoidx. The off chain component runs in a fully centralized way, where we build from scratch matching engine in rust, the traditional API that you would get for market makers with fixed connectivity and websocket and rest, which is what the crypto market makers are interested about. And then we added on chain component with this MPC infrastructure where you actually store all your tokens and to ensure that you actually have this super fast performance when you are trading with the constellations, we created this netting system where if you trade on the matching engine, we go to this L2, effectively that is using Solana validator client, similar to Pivnet, where all the gross traits are recorded and then they are netted to different layer ones. And I think that aspect is pretty interesting, because when we started also asking about why not dexs? A lot of people actually want to trade bitcoin, Ethereum, Solana and maybe tokens on avalanche in cosmos. And when you go to dexs, most of the dexs force you to trade wrapped assets. So maybe you trade assets on Ethereum, but then you need to wrap bitcoin. And a lot of trading firms and traders in general, they are not comfortable with that, because you have this unknown risk of who wrapped the asset.
00:05:48.724 - 00:06:33.564, Speaker A: Is it the bridge? Is it some entity that's managing directly the minting process? So we wanted to avoid all of that. So the NPC layer that we built with this L2 that we have, it actually nets all the trades between the traders and the MPC wallets to different layer ones. So when you deposit bitcoin and trade bitcoin on cube, you actually trade bitcoin. It's not some wrapped asset, and it's the same with Solana. So you could actually go to the exchange today and buy bitcoin with USDC that's traded on Solana. So a little diagram how it works. It's pretty complicated.
00:06:33.564 - 00:07:23.634, Speaker A: So you have these two layers. The one on the right hand side, behind me is Kube exchange, where you have all the client accounts, the matching engine, the market data feed. This is all familiar to the traders. They connect to it just like they would to bybit or binance any of the traditional crypto exchanges. And then on the other hand, you have the settlement layer, which I think the settlement was really the problem with FTX, because once they were settling the trades, some of the assets would disappear into some other entity, and then the settlement layer, it could be decentralized in terms of you could have the MPC wallet and you could have all of that. But if that's all controlled by the Cube exchange, it wouldn't matter. It would be just intellectual dishonesty.
00:07:23.634 - 00:08:09.254, Speaker A: So what we decided to do is to onboard a bunch of guardians. They are similar to validators of Solana network, where they land, actually Solana validator client for the Kubenet, but they also run the MPC infrastructure. So when you want to sign the trade, like you want to withdraw assets or deposit assets, they actually manage that wallet for you on the layer one. So each account and subaccount that you have on Kube ends up with a dedicated NPC wallet on each layer one. So you'll have, like, bitcoin address and like Solana address, for example. And Cube doesn't actually run all the Guardians themselves. We are using people from outside of the company to run that.
00:08:09.254 - 00:08:41.628, Speaker A: And usually those are fairly well established entities that are running it. So when the trade happens, you basically go to the exchange that goes through the matching engine. The matching engine then publishes that information to Kubenet where all the gross traits are happening. And then the settlement part is independent. And one way to think about it is clearing risk. The trade already happened. And in traditional finance, if some of you come from there, you have the settlement period.
00:08:41.628 - 00:09:21.694, Speaker A: Sometimes it's very quick, sometimes t minus two. And on Kubenet, it actually depends on how quickly the blocks are produced by each layer one. So bitcoin will be slower, Solana will be faster. So you could actually settle portion of the trade faster than the other. So if you are buying with USDC, the guardians will settle that really quickly on Solana and then you will receive or lose control of the bitcoin that you have on the other network. And we are integrating multiple blockchains directly. And everything for the MPC wallet was built from scratch.
00:09:21.694 - 00:10:18.294, Speaker A: So in terms of the lesson learned, I would say it's harder than I expected. If you ask me. When we started in December, really coding it, I thought we would be done with spot trading probably in May, and we are finishing it right now and not boarding users right now. So definitely a bit more complex than I thought. And I think for spot, the long tail of assets is integrating individual blockchains. So for example, integrating bitcoin was much harder than I expected. So then why am I talking about this on Solana conference? So one, we are using Solana validator client, but two, we are allowing you to one, buy with USDC bitcoin natively using Solana technology.
00:10:18.294 - 00:11:07.558, Speaker A: We integrate it with this thing called banksa where you can actually take your credit card, buy USDC on Solana and buy bitcoin immediately with it, which I think is pretty unique. Because if you asked me a couple of months ago, how would you buy bitcoin if you are on Solana without going through a bridge or a centralized exchange? There is really not a good answer to that. And I wanted to make sure that people that actually have money on Solana can do that. And first, free MPC storage wallets for Sol and SPL tokens. So there's plenty of NPC solutions out there like fireblocks and others, but they all charge you money for using it. And I then invented it. You can actually go read the papers, GG 18, GG 20.
00:11:07.558 - 00:12:01.304, Speaker A: And I believe the MPC wallet, you shouldn't charge for it like the cryptography should be free, and people that want to just use it to secure their assets, they shouldn't be paying for it. So everyone on Kube will get an NPC wallet for free on every blockchain. And I can do a little demo of how it looks like. So there's a couple of cool things that we did. So this is actual production, those are actual trades, and you can create an account and start trading with it. This view that you see in front of you is equalizer view. And the reason I'm excited about it is no other exchange is showing you this level of granularity of data.
00:12:01.304 - 00:12:35.102, Speaker A: What we are showing you here at every price level is how your trades are lined up in the queue at that price level. So you can actually know if someone is trying to spoof you. If you have a bigger order in front of you and someone pulls it to try to trick you into executing, you can actually see it. Our bots will battle. Yes. And then something that some traditional traders from finance would know, the depth trader allows you to do, like, one click trading. So we added it here.
00:12:35.102 - 00:13:23.574, Speaker A: Most of the crypto exchanges don't have it. And you can start placing orders, like, right here. So this in production, each arrow represents the order that I placed. I think I'm running out of money. So you can see all the servers are running in Tokyo, and I'm connecting on the wifi here. You can see it's pretty snappy, and you can see on the equalizer how the traits have been created. So then you can ask, okay, why do I have gaps here and see price levels at every center? And this is pretty unique view because it allows you to actually see the exact view of the market, and you can place the trade or orders in between the levels.
00:13:23.574 - 00:13:53.394, Speaker A: So most of the crypto exchanges, they don't show you that. They would show you this traditional view that collapses the levels. So if you wanted to place the order between seven and five, like at six, you would need to type it manually. And from this view, you can actually start submitting those without doing, like, really anything. Wow. All right, thanks.
