00:00:00.240 - 00:00:24.750, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and the Nissano today, 29 April 2023. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So it's a Saturday. It's not a weekday, but this is a special episode going out on the Saturday because I missed yesterday's episode, and I also missed Monday's episode last week, so I didn't want to leave you guys hanging until Monday. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode.
00:00:24.750 - 00:00:57.414, Speaker A: It was due to my microphone not working. I thought my microphone died, but turns out it was some issue with my computer. I spent like an hour getting it to work and fixing it. By the time I got it to work, it was too late to record an episode yesterday. So I'm recording one today for you all and there's a bit of news to get through, so let's get right into it. So you guys will remember that Coinbase had received a wells notice from the SEC a little while ago now, I think a few weeks ago. And it was obviously kind of a surprise to Coinbase because they had been working with the SEC for quite a while, I think.
00:00:57.414 - 00:01:47.216, Speaker A: I think two years. And they also were given the go ahead to go public, obviously, two years ago. And Coinbase is a publicly traded company now. Well, the, the chief legal officer, Paul, grew all here who I've talked about before, and Brian Armstrong basically made a, I think, ten to 15 minutes long video accompanied by, I believe there's a, there's a blog post as well, while the video has the meat of the information. But basically what the video does is it's got Brian and Paul basically speaking to all the stuff that they have done personally and at what Coinbase has done with the SEC in order to be completely. In order to kind of play by the rules, so to speak. And they've basically repeated throughout the video that they've done everything they can and yet the SEC is still treating them like, like this, basically sending them wells notices and not playing ball with them.
00:01:47.216 - 00:02:47.982, Speaker A: And I just thought it was a really, really strong kind of message that's being sent not just to the SEC, but to, to everyone that, hey, you know, Coinbase, the biggest us based crypto company, publicly traded, has tried and tried and tried many, many times to work with the SEC. And the SEC is just putting up a brick wall, basically, and has apparently, especially since FTX collapsed in November, has turned completely sour on the crypto industry and is basically waging war on it now. You guys will know that Gary Gensler had actually cozied up to SPF, the founder of FTX here. So you have to wonder if Gary Gensler isn't trying to repair his reputation by going after every other crypto company because he missed SPF and FTX. That seems like an obvious thing to me, but I think there's more to it than that. I obviously think that not only is Gary trying to repair his reputation, but he is also trying to get a promotion. Basically, he wants to go to the treasury, right? He is looking after himself, and himself only.
00:02:47.982 - 00:03:16.270, Speaker A: And crypto is just collateral damage in that he doesn't care about crypto. I mean, it's kind of funny how his opinions have changed so dramatically over the years as well, because a few years ago he was lecturing on crypto, and I believe that at Stanford or MIT, one of those, one of those colleges, and he was talking about it as if, like, you and I would talk about it. He was excited about it. He was educating on it accurately. He wasn't calling everything a security or just saying really dumb things and gaslighting everyone. He was being quite genuine. And he was being, I mean, his courses.
00:03:16.270 - 00:04:05.832, Speaker A: I've gotten feedback from people that said that they enjoyed the courses because they're available online. But today's Gary Gensler and today's SEC does not play nice with crypto at all. We all know that. And they're actively going out of their way to try and Stonewall crypto, at least in the US, as much as they can, or wherever they can. Now, as I've mentioned before, this is forced companies overseas, Coinbase is going to launch their derivative exchange offshore. Now I believe in Bermuda, which is just ridiculous because Coinbase is, as I said, one of the biggest companies in the US, definitely the biggest crypto company in the US, is publicly traded, generates a lot of economic activity for the US, and is now being forced to launch products overseas because the regulatory environment in the US is too harsh for them, which is just insane. But anyway, I highly recommend you go watch the video for yourselves.
00:04:05.832 - 00:04:51.952, Speaker A: I'll link that in the YouTube description below, as well as Paul's tweet thread here for you to check out. All right, we had another all core devs call number 160 happened. What was this like yesterday or the day before? And as usual, Tim Baikker has a thread recap out for you to peruse. I'll link that in the YouTube description below, but there's also a TLDR too long didn't watch here that he screenshotted a discord message that he put put out. So what was discussed in this all core devs call? Well, the scope of Cancun, the next Ethereum upgrade, and of course you can watch the stream for yourself. But I believe the eips that are going to be included have been decided. Now, I spoke the other day about how EIP 4844 is the driver of this upgrade, whereas these other eips are passengers.
00:04:51.952 - 00:05:54.850, Speaker A: So right now we have 4844 included. We have 6780, 1153 and 6475 which are all going to be included in Cancun at this stage. Now, as I mentioned the other day, these things except 4844 are passengers, so they could still be removed up until, you know, pretty close to it going on Mainnet. So just because that they are approved for inclusion doesn't mean that they will 100% be included, it just means that they've, they've gotten to that, that point and they can still be removed later on. Now there are other eips that are CFI'd or considered for inclusion as well. So AIP 4788 and 6493 considered for considered for inclusion, but the decision was also made to remove the EOF ERP, which were the ones that were meant to actually go in the Chappella upgrade but then got pushed to Cancun and has now been pushed for Prague, which is the upgrade that's going to be happening after Cancun. So next year now, and they'll be discussing 6493 more on the 48 44 call next Monday and next all core devs call.
00:05:54.850 - 00:06:36.150, Speaker A: I don't know what each of these eips match to by the way, except 40, so you'll have to look up the numbers for yourself or read Tim's thread to to see. But I believe 1153 was the EIp that Uniswap and just defi teams in general were trying to get in. That didn't go in with Chappella, but he's now going to be included with Cancun. So that's great to see. And other related updates were that the 4844 Devnet five was launched with 1000 validators and six clients. Tooling is available at that URL there and they expect more clients joining soon as well as fuzzing and testing and all that good stuff there. So yeah, as I said, you can go check out Tim Biko's thread on this for all the relevant details and links to everything you need.
00:06:36.150 - 00:07:01.656, Speaker A: But great to see that planning for Cancun is well underway and we already have four aips that are included. We already knew that 48 44 was, was pretty much 100% going to be included. I mean, I've been discussing that for months now. It was just a matter of would it be ready in time, like everyone wants it, right? It is a massive upgrade for ethereum scalability. So that's, that's happening, obviously. And the other eips here, as I said, they're included right now. They could be removed later.
00:07:01.656 - 00:08:06.282, Speaker A: There could be other eips that get included because there are still two here that are considered for inclusion, which you can find more details about in this thread, which I'll link below. And there was also a TLDR tweet of what each of these things are as well, which I'll link in description below for you. All right, so trend fan epps from the few different places, you'll know him from the protocol guild, you'll know him from the KZG. Well, he put out a blog post detailing if you wanted to start something like the protocol guild. So he says here, check out my newest piece for primitives that, that funding mechanisms depend on why the guild is shaped like it is, and things to consider for your domain. So if you are someone that is considering spinning up something similar to the protocol guild for your own domain or community, whatever else it is, who better to get advice and guidance from then Trent himself, who is, I guess, one half of the protocol guild? Tim Bico is the other big champion of it. I mean, it's not just Trent and Tim, there are other people involved, but I believe Trent and Tim are like the, I guess, main stewards of the protocol guild.
00:08:06.282 - 00:08:48.522, Speaker A: So definitely there is no one, probably no one better than Trent and or Tim to get the information from in starting something like this yourself. So the blog post itself isn't too long if you want to read about it, even if you just want to read about it to get more context around the protocol guild and the thinking that went into it, then it's a highly recommended read. I really enjoyed it. And definitely you can reach out to Trent on Twitter if you're interested in learning more about these sorts of things, and you can join the guild Discord channel for further discussions here. So, just something I wanted to highlight for you guys. The link is in the YouTube description below. All right, so the KZG ceremony is still ongoing, and I mentioned a few days ago that the nonce requirement had been dropped to 64 from 128.
00:08:48.522 - 00:09:21.786, Speaker A: And you can see here that the lobby size over time is, is much, much smoother than it has traditionally been. And I believe actually I was looking at this the other day, we are approaching 100,000 unique contributions. So you can see at the top here, we are at almost 92,000. And I think I remember saying on the refuel when the KZG ceremony first began that I would, I thought we were going to easily hit fifty k and there was a chance that we would hit 100k total contributions as well. It seems like we're going to get there. I mean, there's still 78 days left of this new round here. There's not many people in the lobby.
00:09:21.786 - 00:10:07.118, Speaker A: There's only 19 people in the lobby right now. So if you haven't contributed yet, or you feel like you want to contribute again with, with a new source of kind of entropy, you can do it. And it should be a lot easier to get included than it traditionally has been, as long as you have an address that has a nuns of 64 or more. So yeah, I'll link the link in the YouTube description below for you to check out. And as I said, if you have had trouble participating in the ceremony before, you shouldn't have any trouble now. All right, so Christine Kim here from the research desk at Galaxy has put out a tweet saying, or a tweet with a chart saying. Since the genesis of Ethereum, the network has undergone 18 hard fork upgrades, 15 on the execution layer and three on the consensus layer.
00:10:07.118 - 00:10:33.620, Speaker A: On average, Ethereum core developers have shipped two and a half hard forks per year over the last seven years. I really like this chart. It's a really great way of visualizing Ethereum hard forks. The only thing I would say is that I think taking the average here doesn't really make sense because there has been long periods of time, as you can see on the chart, where there wasn't really any upgrades. You can see here that there was actually no upgrades in 2018. And then we had an upgrade. We had two upgrades in 2019.
00:10:33.620 - 00:11:08.950, Speaker A: One of them was only, sorry, I should say, one of them in 2020 was only to push back the. What was it, the difficulty bomb, the ice age. And then we had the beacon chain launch, which wasn't on the ETH one side of things. So you can see it's not really something that you can average out and you can see that it's actually gotten a lot faster. So it's kind of funny how this started out. This chart was really interesting to me when you look at the start of Ethereum. When Ethereum went live in July of 2015, there were lots of forks and there were like, obviously the Dow fork, which happened wasn't a planned fork.
00:11:08.950 - 00:11:34.658, Speaker A: Right. And then there was tangerine whistle, which also wasn't a plan fork. It was done to address the Shanghai dos attacks, and then spurious dragon and Bison Byzantium before 2018. So it seemed to be much faster in the beginning. And then we kind of had this lull period from basically, I guess you could say mid 2017 or like October 2017 till really the Beacon chain launch. We had this period where not much happened. As I said, Istanbul was just.
00:11:34.658 - 00:11:56.754, Speaker A: Sorry. Muir Glacier was just the hard fork to push back the ice age. Istanbul. I remember exactly the naming here, which one I think Istanbul was. That was a third inning. So he basically reduced ETH supply by a third or 8th, new issuance by a third. But then when the beacon chain launched, we started having a lot more hard forks, obviously, because we had the consensus layer to fork as well.
00:11:56.754 - 00:12:45.040, Speaker A: But generally, the cadence has gotten a lot quicker, and I think it's gonna get a lot quicker going forward as well. I mean, we just had Chappella in April, in early April or early mid April, and then we're gonna have Cancun probably by the end of the year. So if we can get at least two hard forks, network upgrades a year, that is miles better than what we've had in the past. And it really speaks to just how well oiled of a machine that the Ethereum core development and research process is right now. It is a night and day difference between what it was, I guess, in the last bear market in 20 19, 20 18, 20 19, and even most of 2020. It was very different and a very, very, very different landscape than, than it is today. I mean, for anyone who was around back then, you know what I mean? But if you joined maybe late 2020, 2021, you probably don't have any context around just how different it was back then.
00:12:45.040 - 00:13:13.628, Speaker A: It was, it was. I mean, to put it, to put it into some perspective for you, just so you can understand what I'm, what I'm talking about here. There were a lot of worries about how to fund core development, right, because there was a massive bear market. ETH was down 94% from its all time high. The Ethereum Foundation, I believe, didn't, didn't cash out as much as they should of they had cash, but it was kind of like, okay, we don't know when this bear market's going to end. We don't even know if it's going to go up again. And the Ethereum Foundation's treasury was mostly ETH.
00:13:13.628 - 00:13:38.206, Speaker A: So for them, they were, they were kind of thinking, okay, well, we need to make this money last. So the pay was kind of met. There wasn't much work being done because not many people were being hired. The client diversity wasn't that great, especially on the execution layer side of things. But then things started slowly coming together. We started having more and more teams join. The market started recovering, obviously in 2020, and then it just kind of like, went on from there.
00:13:38.206 - 00:14:10.034, Speaker A: And then we had like, things like the protocol guild spin up for core development, and it just snowballed from there. And now it's in the best position it's been in by far. I mean, it's, it's just 100 times, at least 100 times better, which is just amazing to see. And it kind of happened over a long period of time. So sometimes I have to reflect and see how far we've come because you may miss it. If you've just been so involved with this ecosystem because it moves so fast, you may have missed just how much things evolved. But reflecting now, reflecting back on how it was, is pretty cool to see how far Ethereum core development has come.
00:14:10.034 - 00:15:01.412, Speaker A: All right, just one other tweet from Christine Kim here today as well. She says, excluding partial withdrawals, the cumulative number of new ETH stake deposits has surpassed the number of full withdrawals by 72% as of April 27, 2023, indicating that more validators have entered Ethereum than exit exited since the activation of Shanghai. What did I say, guys? What did I say? I think I even gave the timeframe that I said within like a couple of weeks, we would be back to up only of ETH steak going forward. And it's just, I don't like tooting my own horn, I don't like inflating my own ego here. But it has been absolutely amazing to see just how prescient, I guess, like, my predictions have been, but also not just mine. I mean, I'm not the only one who predicted this. There are a lot of people in the Ethereum community that deserve credit for predicting stuff like this and informing my views on this stuff as well.
00:15:01.412 - 00:15:36.940, Speaker A: Because a lot of my views, especially that I give on the refuel, I talk to other people about, like, I have a group of friends that, you know, you guys probably know that know them all, but I'm not going to name them. I talk to them a lot. We bounce ideas off of each other, and I just kind of take all those inputs in and distill my own thinking around it. So it's not just me that kind of thought of these things. There's a lot of different people, but it just feels so good to have been so right about this. Not, not because of tooting my own horn, but because it feels awesome to see that the ethereum ecosystem is so, is so bullish. It just wants to keep growing there.
00:15:36.940 - 00:16:09.760, Speaker A: There is not many people who actually want to withdraw ETH from staking and just leave the ecosystem. There are more people wanting to enter the ecosystem and be part of this amazing experiment that is Ethereum. Now, of course, there is a downside to this. The downside is that operators that are already large, such as Lido, have continued to grow. Now, this is obviously due as well to the fact that Lido hasn't enabled withdrawals yet. So we don't really know how much ETH is going to be withdraw from, withdrawn from Lido until they enable withdrawals. But they have gotten a lot of, a lot of inflows.
00:16:09.760 - 00:16:41.592, Speaker A: But on the other side of things, Kraken has gotten a lot of outflows because they are forced to. Same with, I believe, binance as well. And then rocker pool has gotten a lot of inflows, which has been awesome to see. But I would love to just see. I mean, I'm really looking forward to lido enabling withdrawals because I want to see how much ETH comes out of that. I think that getting Lido below 20%, which is what I ideally would like to see because I'm being realistic here, getting Lido below like 10% would be at this stage. I don't know if I'd call it impossible, but it would be very, very hard to do so.
00:16:41.592 - 00:17:09.676, Speaker A: Because as I discussed a couple days ago, the Ethereum staking ecosystem and the landscape is like turning a big ship. Actually, someone memed to me that I shouldn't be using the Titanic as the ship because the Titanic sank. Okay. I don't know any other big ships. I, I'm not into boats. So I'm just gonna say big ship, it's. Steering the Ethereum staking ecosystem as a big ship is going to take a long time, right? So I think that Lido can get below 20%, maybe.
00:17:09.676 - 00:17:49.654, Speaker A: Like, you know, if there is kind of the, the bull market comes back and everyone's trying to do restaking and there are vampire attacks and all this sorts of stuff, I think it can happen, you know, within like twelve to 18 months. If there wasn't like a withdrawal queue, it could happen a lot faster. But because of the withdrawal and the deposit queue, it can only happen. It's basically rate limited we know how fast it can happen and we can give kind of rough estimations about that. So that's why I'm saying that it takes a long time, and you shouldn't be disheartened by things not changing from day to day or even, like, month to month, because it has to change over longer periods of time. We could see, for example, constant outflows from Lido, but to get. For them to get to 20%.
00:17:49.654 - 00:18:08.446, Speaker A: So. So let's. Let's put this in perspective. If, for example, there were only outflows from lido, no news, no new ETH was staked with lido. From. For Lido to get from 32.2% that they're at right now to 20% would take more than a year at least, because it has to go through the queue and it has to go through the queue with everyone else.
00:18:08.446 - 00:18:26.924, Speaker A: Right. And it's not going to all happen at once. There's going to be people withdrawing at different times. So even if there is no new inflows to offset those outflows, it's still not going to change very quickly. It's going to take a long time. So I think people need to be patient here. They need to understand that, because it took a long time for it to get to this point to begin with.
00:18:26.924 - 00:18:46.394, Speaker A: I mean, the big and chain has been live since December 2020. I don't know how long Lido has been live for, actually. I'm not across when they launched as a. As a protocol here, but it has been quite a while since they've been live. I mean, it's not a new thing, it's not a recent thing. I believe they went live in potentially 2020. Sorry, 2021.
00:18:46.394 - 00:19:22.820, Speaker A: I think that makes sense to me, but I'm not sure someone can correct me on that. But even if they went live in 2022, it's been like, at the beginning of 2022, it's been like, what, 15 months since then? So it's not like this has happened overnight. Right. And again, this has also happened because it's been an up only thing because of no withdrawals being enabled. So once lido withdrawals are enabled, let's revisit twelve to 18 months. If Lido still has the market share that they have now, and if it's grown, especially if it's grown, then I will concede that my thesis around there not market share coming down was wrong. But I'm not going to concede it after, like, a week or a month, because it doesn't make sense from.
00:19:22.820 - 00:19:43.448, Speaker A: From the way Ethereum staking works. Now, in saying all of that, I don't think that we should just pick on lighter. I think I'm only picking on lighter because they're the biggest right now. But I wouldn't like to see any service be this big, even a service like Rockerpool, a decentralized staking service. I wouldn't want to see it this big. I ideally don't want to see any service over 20%. That's my own personal preference here.
00:19:43.448 - 00:20:06.990, Speaker A: But it doesn't matter what I want. It doesn't matter what I would like to see. What matters is the reality. But what also matters is realizing that the reality can take a long time to to play out, and we have to wait for that. So I'm going to keep monitoring it. I'm not going to monitor it a day to day, week to week. But as time goes on, as things change, I'm going to monitor it as much as I can and report it for the refuel for you guys.
00:20:06.990 - 00:20:49.214, Speaker A: All right, moving on to a blog post here from paradigm research that Georgios shared so he said here on Twitter. Motivated by the recent unbundling attacks against MeV searches, I teamed up with the Ethereum foundations Mike to investigate the interplay between MeV Boost and Ethereum proof of stake consensus and enumerate some of the possible paths forward. And you can see here, this is quite a meaty blog post. If you're interested in all things MeV, this is definitely something that you should read. Now, of course, I'm not going to try and give a TLDR or a summary of this because it is quite technical and there are a lot of moving parts to this. So I just wanted to highlight it so that you guys could go read it. As I said, we'll be linked in the YouTube description below.
00:20:49.214 - 00:21:30.020, Speaker A: And there's also something else you should read after that. Tony here from the Mevboost Pix website, who I've talked about a lot on the refill before, has put together a few charts to kind of show this sorry, a chart and a thread to kind of show what was going on and what was talked about in that blog post. So these things can be read back to back. I highly recommend doing so. They'll both be linked in the YouTube description below for you to do that. But generally, you know, I think that a lot of these kind of posts, especially the ones that are more technical, I've said this before, but I don't think people should feel bad if they don't understand what's actually written in these posts. I often highlight these things on the refill just because I think they're interesting and I think they're worth reading.
00:21:30.020 - 00:21:55.536, Speaker A: But I'm not saying that, hey, you need to understand this on the first read and if you don't, you're a complete noob and you know nothing and you should just delete your account. No, I'm not saying that at all. I'm just showcasing interesting things. Do I understand everything that I showcase on here to like the fullest, 100% extent? Of course I don't. I'm not a protocol researcher. I'm not a cryptographer. I am someone who reads a lot and tries to keep up with Ethereum as much as possible.
00:21:55.536 - 00:22:23.618, Speaker A: But there are a lot of things that I still don't understand. But by reading these things, by listening to podcasts, by getting exposed to them again and again and again, you retain more and more of the information and you can learn these things as time goes on. And that's how I'm able to. To educate on these things because I just. There's a lot of repetition involved. I just retain the information and I formulate my own opinions about it. But when it comes to like the super technical cryptography stuff, I'm not going to sit here and lecture you on that because I don't understand that.
00:22:23.618 - 00:22:41.962, Speaker A: Honestly. I understand the high level stuff. Of course. I understand how proof of stake works at a high level and maybe a bit deeper, but I couldn't tell you the details behind the cryptography itself. Right. I couldn't tell you the details behind some of the bleeding edge mev stuff. But I can tell you the high level, which is, I think, what a lot of people want from, from the refuel.
00:22:41.962 - 00:23:19.050, Speaker A: So that's why I do that. But if you want to dive deeper, there are always these posts to do so. And of course I'll link these in the YouTube description below for you to follow for yourself. All right, so on April 27, Op Labs has announced that Bedrock entered consensus plus five feature freeze. And they say here we are committed to achieving two weeks of code stability before announcing the date for op's mainnet upgrade to bedrock. For the most up to date info on bedrock, see this mission control page, which is something that I highlighted the other day. So I maintain that we may see bedrock go live on Mainnet in May, probably late May, but it could push to early mid June.
00:23:19.050 - 00:23:44.836, Speaker A: It just depends, right? Depends on a variety of things, like if there's bugs or if the team doesn't feel comfortable. Whatever else. But, but yeah, I expect to see this in May or June. No later than that, to be honest. Unless there's some kind of critical bug that, that requires them to rewrite a whole section of code and test it again, anything like that, I don't foresee that happening, but it could. I mean, there's always a chance of that happening. But yeah, be prepared for bedrock to go live in either May or June.
00:23:44.836 - 00:24:20.876, Speaker A: And for those of you who need a refresher on what bedrock is, you can visit this link, which will be in the YouTube description below. But just to give you a TLDR, it's basically optimism's version of arbitrum nitro. It's a massive upgrade for the network. It brings with it a host of new features and upgrades. And you can obviously read all about those in the link that I'll link in the YouTube description below. All right, our last second last year, Astaria has introduced their closed beta, which is now live at Astaria XYZ for whitelisted LSD NFT holders. And then they said, yeah, get ready for an revolution in NFT lending.
00:24:20.876 - 00:25:03.156, Speaker A: And that's what Astaria is. They are an NFT lending protocol which I should disclose I am an investor in. And they have entered beta here, which you can play around with if you have the, the relevant LSD token in your wallet here. All the details for that are in the blog post, which we linked in the YouTube description below. But you guys know my general view on NFTs that I think that the NFTs themselves are really, really hard to like invest in. They're really hard to, I guess, spend time on because things can be so fleeting. There are very, very few NFT projects that have actually, that have cultivated a lasting community and even those over time have lost their community.
00:25:03.156 - 00:25:57.794, Speaker A: So, for example, if you look back to even a year, a year ago, there were massive communities around certain NFT projects. And I'm not going to name them all because honestly, I couldn't name them all, but over time, because those projects either don't do anything because they made enough money, they don't care anymore, or people lose interest or whatever else, they fade away. And they fade away not just in terms of mind share, but also in terms of price. Now, the ones that stick around, I mean, they're the ones that obviously keep their value and they're the ones that people continue to care about. I think that I can name a couple here like crypto punks and even the bored apes, but there is no guarantee that in the future those things are still going to be, I guess, relevant and popular and valuable. So for me, when I look at investing in the NFT ecosystem, I like to invest in the infrastructure. And I mentioned this before, and that's why I've really, only, when it comes to NFTs, put money into the infrastructure side of things rather than the NFTs themselves.
00:25:57.794 - 00:26:25.700, Speaker A: Now, that's not investment advice generally, but that's just how I think about these things. And astaria fits the bill on that, of course, in spades because they're building infrastructure for NFT lending. But there's also been a bunch of other projects that I've invested in as well. You guys know, like immutable X and, and there's a few others out there. I'm not going to name them all because I don't want to shill, I don't want to shield everything. But that's how I think about these things. And that's why I think that the NFT ecosystem is, is, is very, it's very crazy.
00:26:25.700 - 00:26:57.872, Speaker A: I mean, if you don't actually know what you're doing, you're going to get wrecked. I mean, so the same is true for any market. But I think in nfts it becomes even more pronounced because the things that you're buying, like, they don't, because they have like pictures attached to them, because they have like a, I guess, like an ecosystem attached to them. It can be very different to just random ERC 20 tokens that you might buy on uniswap or something like that. It's very different because people start attaching their identity to these things. They do that with, with certain projects in crypto, but not to the extent of, of nfts. For nfts.
00:26:57.872 - 00:27:21.538, Speaker A: For example, if there's a profile picture NFT project, you know, a lot of the community will change their own profile picture to one of those NFTs on Twitter or wherever else. Whereas with a project, say you're a really big fan of a project. Like, for example, I'm a really big fan of, of, of Ethereum, obviously. I mean, that's the understatement of the century. I'm not going to change my Twitter profile picture to the logo of ETH, right. Because it's not unique. It's the same logo.
00:27:21.538 - 00:28:01.010, Speaker A: Even if you dress it up a little bit, it's still the same logo. So there's no identity for me to attach there. Yes, there are other ways to attach your identity to projects, but that thing, I think, is very powerful, but also very detrimental because people start getting attached to these things. Like, I don't want to sell this thing, even though the best thing for them in, from an investment perspective was to sell it when they got to the point where everyone was talking about their, you know, the thing. So I think that the same market dynamics still ring true here, but it becomes, I guess, a bit more, what's the word I'm looking for? A bit more chaotic when you involve getting tied with kind of like these things and tying them to your personality. So. So, yeah, anyway, you can go check out Astaria's beta launch for yourself.
00:28:01.010 - 00:28:46.920, Speaker A: I'll link this in the YouTube description below. All right, last up here, we have an announcement from bankless. So bankless is launching a ventures arm which you may have heard about already. This was covered, I believe, a few weeks ago or maybe a month ago. Now, this is a $30 million early stage VC fund, empowering pioneers to explore the frontier. Now, why am I mentioning this? Well, because I joined bankless ventures as an advisor, so I'm going to be helping them sift through deal flow, reviewing Dex, doing all the stuff that I already do as an angel investor, but in a more formal capacity. So there is a big disclosure there that going forward I will have direct exposure to pretty much everything that bankers, VC invest in as I am compensated for being an advisor here.
00:28:46.920 - 00:29:24.396, Speaker A: And I've got that website that I need to launch still with all of my disclosures on there. But, but yeah, just, just wanted to put that out there there. So why a bankless launching a venture studio? And why did I agree to be an advisor here alongside Justin Drake, by the way? So he's also an advisor. Um, so they're launching this because bankless for, I mean, it doesn't matter if you love or hate bankless. I think it's irrelevant here. I actually don't understand why certain people hate bankless, but, but I think that the reason why they're launching this and the reason why I think this is going to be successful is because bankless is the biggest crypto native media brand by far. Really.
00:29:24.396 - 00:29:49.897, Speaker A: I think they, they are, they started off obviously being very, very heavily ethereum focused, and I would consider David and Ryan here to be obviously hardcore Ethereans. I don't like using the term Maxi, you know, ETH, Maxi. But they are hardcore ethereums here. But I think for them they're like, okay, well, you know, ethereum isn't the only technology that can lead to, to people going bankless. Right? Ethereum isn't the. The only solution. There's, um.
00:29:49.897 - 00:30:14.494, Speaker A: And also there are. There are things happening in other ecosystems that are worth covering. And also they, they want to cover other topics, such as AI, which I know they've copped a bit of shit for recently, but you know that it's their show, they can do what they want, right? It's their, their kind of thing here. But I think all of that has culminated in creating the biggest media brand in crypto. And the. The bankless brand is extremely well known, and it's a great brand. I mean, I remember saying this to Ryan before even David joined bankless.
00:30:14.494 - 00:30:50.894, Speaker A: I said, dude, this is like an insane brand here. I think this is gonna go far just because it's such a meme able thing, right? Everyone memes it at the end of the day, and I think it's just such a strong brand here. So because of all that, because they've got such a big media reach, they get a lot of, a lot of deal flow. Everyone knows them, right? They can get a lot of the really great lp's involved with the fund. They can get a lot of the, the best deals. And that's the, that's the what makes successful fund at the end of the day, right? Makes both a VC and a hedge fund here. Now, I do understand that there are some concerns over conflicts of interest for David and Ryan here.
00:30:50.894 - 00:31:20.010, Speaker A: Now that there is bankless VC. And by the way, it's not just David and Ryan doing this. There's Ben Lakoff here, who is an awesome dude, by the way. He's basically doing. Doing it alongside them and has been a huge part of it and has basically worked very hard to get this off the ground. Um, but, yeah, I understand the conflict of interest argument, but at the same time, Ryan and David have been angel investing, uh, for a long time, and this is more just a formalization of it. So I think that, yes, they have a media company to run.
00:31:20.010 - 00:31:43.610, Speaker A: Yes. When you have a media company and you're investing in things, you may or may not be biased. You know, there's a conscious or a subconscious bias. But as far as I know, bankless has never done any paid for, uh, for play content. And what I mean by that is that you can't pay bankless to cover you. Right? You can't go to them and say, hey, I want to be covered on this date about this topic in this light. As far as I know, they have never done that.
00:31:43.610 - 00:32:17.786, Speaker A: Now, of course, they're not a charity. They do monetize the bankless platform through ads and such. But that doesn't give you any special privilege on the content side of things. Their content policy really has been to cover the most interesting things happening in the crypto landscape and to cover them as they happen, you know, as fast as they happen, which I think is, is what they've done successful successfully for years now. So I understand the conflict of interest argument, but when you take it all together and take all the facts together, you can kind of see that they have actually already been investing for quite a while. There are conflicts of interest all the time, everywhere. Right.
00:32:17.786 - 00:32:44.028, Speaker A: No matter how hard you try for, they're not to be because there's, there's conscious and subconscious bias. But I think that David and Ryan have done a really great job of threading that needle pretty, pretty awesomely, right. And talking to them. I mean, I talk to them all the time. Like they're, they're kind of like my, my ethereum buddies that we, we went through the bear market together, like my war buddies, basically. So we chat all the time and we really align on a lot of things. And that's why I agreed to be an advisor.
00:32:44.028 - 00:33:35.856, Speaker A: I mean, at the end of the day, I, you know, I've been angel investing on my own for quite a while now and will continue to do so. And I'm not part of any other venture fund or fund as a, as an advisor. I am part of another fund as an LP. And when that's announced, I'll explain my reasoning there. But I mean, really, at the end of the day, when, when I was approached about this, I was like, you know what? I've turned down so many funds in the past, but, like, I can't turn down bankless because we just align so much on these things. And I, and I really, and that has just kind of, like, continued to play out as I've sat alongside, seen how these guys do due diligence on things, see, the discussions that we're having, it just honestly is pretty awesome to be involved with here, but I don't want to show it to you guys too much here. I just wanted to explain the reasoning behind why they're launching it, why I joined, but I will do one little shill here.
00:33:35.856 - 00:34:06.144, Speaker A: If you're interested in being an LP for bankless is fine, you can reach out to them. I believe you can reach out to Ben, David or Ryan. Just wanted to shout that out there, but you shouldn't feel any pressure to do that or anything like that. As I said, I am an adviser I'm compensated for my work, so technically I'm being paid, you know, to say that, but not really because they didn't tell me to say that. Right. I'm just saying that because I figured it might be something that may be of interest to anyone, to anyone listening. So, yeah, on that note, I'm going to stop it there for today.
00:34:06.144 - 00:34:18.504, Speaker A: I hope you enjoyed this special episode. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all on Monday. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
