00:00:03.690 - 00:00:34.920, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. Welcome to Unconfirmed, the show that reveals how the market names in crypto are reacting to the week's top headlines and gets the Asian scoop on what they see on the horizon. I'm your host, Laura Shin, a journalist with over two decades of experience. I started covering crypto full time five years ago as a senior editor at Forbes and was the first mainstream media reporter to cover cryptocurrency full time on Chained and Unconfirmed are now published as videos. If you're not yet subscribed to the Unchained YouTube channel, head to Youtube.com C Unchained podcast and subscribe today.
00:00:35.290 - 00:00:55.520, Speaker B: Need cash but don't want to sell your crypto? Use Nexo's Instant Crypto credit lines and withdraw funds today, starting from only 5.9% Apr, create an account at nexo IO Crypto.com is waiving the 3.5% credit card fee for all crypto purchases. Download the crypto.com app today.
00:00:56.370 - 00:01:01.546, Speaker A: Today's guest is Nadav Hollander, co founder and CEO of Dharma. Welcome, Nadav.
00:01:01.738 - 00:01:03.566, Speaker C: Thank you, Laura. It's good to be here.
00:01:03.668 - 00:01:40.774, Speaker A: There's been quite a number of developments in DeFi this week. Let's talk about one of the biggest ones, which involves Uniswap and SushiSwap. For those who missed the Unchained episode earlier this week, we talked about all the category of decentralized exchanges known as automated market makers. These are not order book based exchanges, but instead exchanges in which listed token pairs are priced according to an equation in which multiplying the prices of the two tokens in the pair will always equal a constant. Uniswap is the dominant AMM, or automated market maker. It's so dominant that it recently overtook Coinbase in 24 hours volume. However, it does not have a token.
00:01:40.774 - 00:02:05.300, Speaker A: So an anonymous account forked the code to create sushi swap, which is pretty much uniswap, but with a token, it garnered $700 million in total locked value within three days of announcing the project. And as of the time of this recording, the total value is over a billion dollars. Nadav, do you think that this is a positive or a negative development? And which of these projects are you rooting for and why?
00:02:06.650 - 00:03:20.842, Speaker C: Oh, wow, okay. Can I give, like, a hedged answer here? I can give you a multidimensional answer here. I think that conceptually, the fact that we're in a place in DeFi where these sorts of adversarial experiments can be spun up super easily and the community is frankly, robust and technically knowledgeable enough that within a matter of days. If someone does a fair launch, the community will build a UI, and there'll be heavily populated discords with various people volunteering their efforts. The fact that we're at a place in this ecosystem's maturity, where this is possible, where fair launches actually are a reasonable possibility, is like I mean, it's it's crazy. It's it's and in a good way, honestly, I think it's very positive. And look, with regards to whether or not this is fair to the Uniswap team, or whether or not this is positive for the liquidity dynamics of automated market makers I personally find to be less relevant here.
00:03:20.842 - 00:04:41.366, Speaker C: I think as operators in the DeFi space, you always have to design things in a highly adversarial mindset with this notion of, like, everything's open source, anybody can clone what I'm doing. The only quote unquote moat is really providing value to users. I would say that conceptually, I think that sushi swap is like a positive development. And I actually think that there is, as an experiment, as a contender in the various sort of experiments that are happening right now, to figure out the best way to community manage and operate automated protocols for trading, lending, et cetera. So that's great. And I think they have the best of intentions. Where I think this is a negative development is that you can call me a DeFi boomer or an ETH boomer to some degree here, but I feel like you and I were of the generation of cryptocurrency enthusiasts who experienced things like the Dow and kind of saw the fallout that that generated and saw how much that kind of frankly set back the entire crypto space.
00:04:41.366 - 00:05:47.610, Speaker C: There was full multi page spreads in magazines about this crazy Dow story and it really tainted the space for a long time. And that was with a 10th of the value of what's being dealt with right now. The lesson that the community kind of learned is I feel like the ethereum community really galvanized around this kind of very conservative security mindset from thereafter. There was this culture of if you're going to release a project, it needs to be thoroughly audited. You need to have a bug bounty program. You need to have the code very meticulously documented and manicured and out there in an open source repository for a long time for people to review to some degree, there was this culture that didn't normalize the idea of just put something out there and see what happens because this stuff's dangerous. And when you're developing smart contracts, the closest analog, in my opinion, is it's like building like a nuclear reactor.
00:05:47.610 - 00:06:16.270, Speaker C: It's really difficult and the consequences when you get these things wrong are immense. So my point here is that unfortunately, I think there's this culture brewing in the DFI space right now around fair launches where people just kind of like fork a repository, change up a couple of small things and then just deploy it. And then within a couple of days there's like $100 million in one of these systems.
00:06:16.430 - 00:06:34.202, Speaker A: And just to be clear, the fairness of it is that there isn't a pre mine. There is no VCs that have a kind of a stake allocated to them. Same with even the founders. They don't have anything pre allocated. So it's fair for everybody to get in at the same yeah, they all get in at the same level.
00:06:34.336 - 00:07:11.954, Speaker C: Yes. We can debate whether the extent to which these things are actually fair instead of dominated by VCs. They tend to be dominated by cryptocurrency whales. So it's not exactly the most egalitarian thing. But regardless, conceptually, I'm here for it. I get it. The problem here, though, is that there's this culture brewing in this fair launch world where people just launch these pieces of high stakes financial infrastructure with very little review, often very sloppily, and it's wildly dangerous.
00:07:11.954 - 00:08:25.374, Speaker C: Right. We saw only a few weeks ago, a project called Yam was deployed, garnered a massive amount of value locked up in a short period of time, and then a critical bug was discovered that led to a pretty significant loss of value. And so this brings me to SushiSwap, because for all of the positive intentions of SushiSwap and for all of the, in my opinion, like net positive effects of us experimenting with new governance models for AMMS and so on and so forth, everything that I have seen. And that what many other security researchers and smart contract developers have seen with regards to the entire execution of this project. There's a term as an engineer of, like, a code smell where it's just like something's just off here. It's like an everything smell, right? The code looks like it was sloppily written in the matter of a day or two, issues keep getting kind of identified by community members and then kind of like, haphazardly, quickly get patched. This thing is being rushed out of the door extremely quickly.
00:08:25.374 - 00:09:08.330, Speaker C: And at present moment, I wouldn't say that there is an identified clear major red flag that is saying, pull your money out now. This is definitely going to explode in some capacity, but there's also not a lot of assurance that won't happen. And if you're developing smart contracts, the biggest thing that you have to be aware of is that the space of known unknowns is massive. It doesn't matter how many audits you get. It doesn't matter how many eyes look at things. Smart contracts are radioactive. They're so difficult to build that you have to move really slowly.
00:09:08.330 - 00:09:58.070, Speaker C: And I'm seeing the exact opposite from this community right now. Right. Actually, just this morning, a proposal was put out by the pseudonymous founder of SushiSwap to actually accelerate the timeline of migrating all the liquidity that is being staked from Uniswap and SushiSwap into a native automated market maker. And so, again, it's really concerning because it feels like if not SushiSwap, the next derivative of it or the next whatever, we are sort of driving ourselves as a community towards a place where an explosion is inevitable. And I think there's just too much potential in this space for us to set ourselves back with another dow, essentially.
00:09:58.230 - 00:10:46.378, Speaker A: Yeah. And just to clarify how big and how, I guess, overheated the trading was getting. So Larry Sirmeck of the block tweeted on Tuesday that there was $175,000,000 of Sushi volume on Uniswap on Monday, which he noted was more than the volume of bitstamp. Poloniax and bittrex combined over the same time period. And as he tweeted, digital sushi that didn't exist four days ago has a higher 24 volume on decentralized exchange than the entire bitstamp. And then one other thing I wanted to flag about this rushed migration, I did note somebody else saying, oh, again, it feels a little suspicious that they're moving this up and doing it over what is a holiday weekend in the US. Almost.
00:10:46.378 - 00:11:12.740, Speaker A: It's like a little sneaky. As you mentioned, more than a billion dollars of total value locked in this. So it's definitely much bigger than the dow. And yes, to rush is a little scary, but so in a moment we're going to discuss a little bit more about SushiSwap and some of the issues there, as well as what all of this activity is causing to happen on ethereum. But first, a quick word from the sponsors who make this show possible.
00:11:13.990 - 00:11:36.682, Speaker B: How much in fees are you paying for crypto purchases now? Crypto.com is waiving the 3.5% credit card fee when you buy crypto. Apart from crypto purchases, you can also get a great deal on food and grocery shopping with crypto.com. Get up to 10% back when you pay with their MCO visa card, no card. Use the crypto.com app to buy gift cards for up to 20% back.
00:11:36.682 - 00:11:41.450, Speaker B: Download the crypto.com app today and enjoy these offers until the end of september.
00:11:42.610 - 00:11:59.410, Speaker A: Back to my conversation with nadav hollander. So one of the actually weird aspects of this whole tussle with SushiSwap that I wanted to draw out is that it's actually driving up the total value locked in uniswap. So can you just explain why that is for listeners?
00:12:00.310 - 00:13:36.334, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, a big reason for that is that essentially what's novel and interesting about this sushi swap experiment is that it's effectively an instance of what's been dubbed a like vampire attack where basically the protocol incentivizes people. So let me take a step back really quickly. When you deposit your funds into uniswap as a liquidity provider, you get what are called liquidity provider tokens or LP tokens that entitle you to basically withdraw both your original principal and any sort of fees you've accumulated as a liquidity provider. So the way SushiSwap works is that it's essentially in this sort of pre launch period, which it's in at the moment, users are incentivized to deposit their uniswap LP tokens into the SushiSwap system where they continue to be operating in uniswap, but they are earning rewards in the form of sushi to their address, essentially. And the idea is that at some point a switch is going to flip and everybody who has their uniswap liquidity provider tokens staked in this sushi swap system, their liquidity is going to be kind of pulled out of uniswap and put into the SushiSwap system. So it's kind of like this big incentivized system for forking liquidity away from uniswap. This has, for two reasons, created a dynamic in which more and more liquidity is getting locked into uniswap.
00:13:36.334 - 00:15:32.790, Speaker C: Number one, it just so happens that this sushi meme has taken off significantly enough where this token is valuable and you can actually make a lot of money just providing liquidity to uniswap and taking your LP shares and putting them in the sushi system and farming these sushi tokens. Moreover, the second reason why it's caused the uniswap liquidity to balloon so much is the sushi token itself, right? So the way that the sushi swap system works, if the LP token that you stake is of the sushi ETH pair, you essentially earn I'm not sure what the exact multiple is, but it's like either two x or five x, the amount of rewards essentially so as to incentivize liquidity in this sushi token. And so as a result, for a variety of reasons, which is a whole conversation of topic of its own, a yield farming token designed as sushi swap is, if it takes off enough as a meme, can very quickly accumulate a lot of market cap. And the vast majority of the sushi market cap right now is like sitting in uniswap LP tokens for sushi ETH because it's extremely valuable as a yield farming asset. As a result, there's this crazy, weird, self referential derivative thing happening here where essentially a massive portion of that liquidity that has now entered uniswap is actually just sushi tokens that are being staked, that are being used to generate LP shares that are being staked in the SushiSwap system in order to generate more Sushi and sort of repeat the process.
00:15:32.860 - 00:15:39.000, Speaker A: Over and over again and then will eventually be used to suck liquidity out of uniswap. Which is correct.
00:15:39.370 - 00:15:42.486, Speaker C: I mean, in theory, we'll see what happens, but that's the goal.
00:15:42.598 - 00:16:08.994, Speaker A: Yeah. And that's what the chef nomi, the creator of sushi swap is trying to make happen a little bit faster this weekend. And I just wanted to know what you thought was going to happen because uniswap is planning to come up with its own version three, perhaps by year's end. Do you think it will happen in time or do you think that sushi swap could really take off before they're able to kind of come back and make a counter move?
00:16:09.192 - 00:17:42.730, Speaker C: I think that ultimately look, it's hard to opine on what will happen on a short term basis with regards to what's going to happen over the next couple of weeks. I could give you five different outcomes here, ranging from the migration completely fails to a big chunk of liquidity gets migrated over and SushiSwap kind of starts to garner some sort of popularity in terms of trading fees and kind of operates as this parallel system to uniswap for a while. There's a lot of different possibilities on what can happen, but I think we all need to take a step back and just remember that when you add a token into a system, it needs to be a token in service of the protocol. And not like just a protocol in service of coming up with a reason for a token. And it seems like the SushiSwap system at the moment, the fundamental end user value innovation that it's providing, it's just community ownership and at that debatable community ownership in terms of how much is actually necessary, given that Uniswap is already a governance minimized system. And so the point that I'm trying to make here is that the end user value to the trader, to the person who's actually paying the service, who's paying the fees, is identical between these two different systems. And ultimately the system that will succeed is the one that garners the most trading fees.
00:17:42.730 - 00:18:42.610, Speaker C: And the fact of the matter is that it's easy to fork Uniswap and add a token to it. It's much harder to make Uniswap V Three and come up with a more novel and extensible or interesting AMM design that provides more value to end users. And so ultimately, the point that I'm trying to make is that the protocol that's going to win out is the one that provides the most end value to traders and will SushiSwap be able to build the community that is able to innovate in that capacity? Maybe. And I'd love to be proven wrong here, and I think the Wi Fi community is kind of demonstrating that fair launches can really sort of attract a lot of the greatest minds in the space to contribute. So maybe that will happen, but my personal bet is probably going to be on the Uniswap team there, given that yeah, they've demonstrated a track record of being rigorous, of being innovative and delivering.
00:18:43.190 - 00:19:30.494, Speaker A: Yeah, I was thinking more of that mindset, kind of like a VC mindset, that it's probably more about the team if the products are not that different. And obviously there's a lot of risks being taken by one side and there's a lot of money put in. So if you get burned, then you're probably not going to be super loyal to that team, but we'll see what happens. So one of the other big issues to come out of this yield farming craze is that the blocks are extremely full on ethereum, which is pushing fees way up. Some people are paying things like $40 for a trade on Uniswap, and I'm sure there's a lot more that people are shelling out to do yield farming, which takes more complex transactions. Your product, Dharma, is a solution for the high fees. Tell us how that works.
00:19:30.692 - 00:20:32.120, Speaker C: Yeah, I wouldn't quite say that it's an end all be all solution, but effectively, what Dharma does is that instead of you having to basically our moniker is that you shouldn't have to think about gas. You shouldn't have to worry about gas. You can just use Dharma in order to make a trade, and you don't have to deal with paying any sort of gas fee. Now, to be clear, that doesn't necessarily mean that we are just shelling out money and giving it away for free in order to pay for the actual transactions themselves. Effectively, the way that we're able to offset that is that we take what's known as a slippage fee, meaning essentially, we calculate what we believe is kind of the slippage buffer on the trade that is most likely to make it go through, but is also kind of most fair for the pair, given its liquidity, and then whatever slippage is actually realized. We take the difference between that and the fee that we quoted you. Point being here.
00:20:32.120 - 00:21:30.440, Speaker C: Essentially what we're able to do is that for many traders, especially smaller traders, if you're using Dharma, you are going to pay way less in gas fees than you would on interacting directly with Uniswap. And you are much, much less likely to deal with having transactions not go through correctly, or having your MetaMask get jammed up for whatever reason, so on and so forth. And so, effectively, the TLDR here is that we take what is like an uncertain and highly technical process in which you need to kind of dial your gas price knob in order to make sure that your transaction actually gets mined and turn that into a basic trading experience in which you just see a simple slippage fee and your transaction goes through the vast majority of the time. And for most users, you save a considerable amount of money.
00:21:31.130 - 00:21:59.934, Speaker A: Yeah, I did see some of the stats that your company released on that, and it looks like maybe it's not the whales that are using your product, but kind of a more everyday person who finds it useful and is able to take advantage. All right, well, this has been such a fascinating discussion. I'm sure we will see what happens with Sushi swap and unitswap, and there will be more opportunities to discuss what's going on with Dharma in the future. So thank you so much for coming on Unconfirmed.
00:22:00.062 - 00:22:01.570, Speaker C: All right. Thank you, Laura.
00:22:01.910 - 00:22:07.460, Speaker A: Don't forget, next up is the weekly news recap. Stick around for this week in Crypto after this short break.
00:22:08.310 - 00:22:11.894, Speaker B: With the latest ups and downs in the world's economy, investors need new ways.
00:22:11.932 - 00:22:12.994, Speaker A: To grow their wealth.
00:22:13.122 - 00:22:40.750, Speaker B: Nexo offers a high yield interest product with up to 10% APY on your crypto, stablecoins and fiat. You can also borrow cash or stablecoins using your crypto as collateral at APRs as low as 5.9%. And there's the Nexo Token that gives holders access to various bonuses and a dividend that is scheduled soon. You can find more info about the Nexo token at nexo. IO slash token. That's nexo IO slash token.
00:22:46.150 - 00:23:35.326, Speaker D: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. First headline dex volumes hit new all time high as Uniswap overtakes coinbase decentralized exchanges saw $11.6 billion in trade volume in August, up from less than $1 billion in January. This sets a third consecutive monthly record in Dex volume, up from $4.5 billion in July. As Dennis Vinakurov, head of research at Vequant, told CoinDesk indicates that the D Five flipening is real and already here. Uniswap is leading the charge in decentralized exchange growth, with a reported 283% increase in 24 hours trading volume from July to August and more than $1 billion in trading volume on Tuesday and Wednesday of this week, which was roughly 50% higher than the 24 hours volume on Coinbase Pro at the time.
00:23:35.326 - 00:24:44.290, Speaker D: To illustrate just how massive the increase in trading on Uniswap has been, Larry Stermac of the Block posted a graph on Twitter showing the staggering increase in unique trading addresses on Uniswap alone in the last few months. Frank Chaparro, also of the block, posted a diagram showing the exponential growth in Google searches for Uniswap this year, which began shooting up in April but have quadrupled since July. It's not all unicorns and rainbows, however. While the surging volumes on decentralized exchanges present a challenge to establish centralized exchanges like Coinbase, they've also increased fees on ethereum due to congestion. Next headline yearn's y ETH vault makes it easy to yield farm yearn finance has launched a vault for yield farming with ETH. As the recently departed chief of Oracles at MakerDAO Mariona Conti explained to the bankless podcast, Put simply, this will make it easy for anyone who holds these to get involved with yield farming, think betterment. But for yield farming, because Yearn utilizes the automated market maker curve, stablecoin deposits won't be required, as has been the case with previous yield farming projects.
00:24:44.290 - 00:24:47.794, Speaker D: Anthony Cisano, in his daily Guay newsletter.
00:24:47.922 - 00:24:51.034, Speaker A: Explained how the Y ETH vault works.
00:24:51.152 - 00:26:05.700, Speaker D: After a user deposits his or her ETH, it is put in makerdown to borrow Dai, which is then deposited in CRV to withdraw its liquidity provider tokens and earn CRV tokens. The CRV is then recycled into ETH by buying more on the open market. Because Yearn uses smart contracts to find the best yield, gas, costs for multiple operations are oscillibly spread across several users, saving on transaction fees. On Tuesday's bank list, Conti referred to the vault as the smart contract equivalent of, quote, set it and forget it because, quote, you are earning a lot of money on your ETH without losing exposure to your ETH. But as the host of Thankless as well as Cassano noted, this does not come without risks, as the creator of Yearn famously tests in production, which means putting your money in smart contracts whose level of security is unknown. For those of you who are watching on the video, this image, which if you have some background in how MakerDAO works, in how curve works in all these different yield farming projects, work is pretty easy to follow. And it breaks down exactly how this vault in Wyurn works.
00:26:05.700 - 00:27:15.410, Speaker D: All right, next Headline Gas fees on ethereum reach all time high, putting Focus on Scaling With all this yield from activity on Ethereum. It's no wonder that, according to the Block research, ethereum miners generated record fee revenue of $17 million on September 1, which is almost four times higher than at the peak of the 2017 2018 frenzy. However, Ethereum's exorbitant fees highlight the limitations presented when it comes to scaling DFI. On the Zero X blog Remco Bloman argued that at present, ethereum has become a place for the rich, as only whales can profit from trading with such high transaction costs. However, he says simply raising gas limits then creates risks for Ethereum security. He analyzes whether it's possible to scale at layer one, but concludes the only reliable solution, aside from focusing on layer two, is, quote, to tear everything down and rebuild it from the ground up. Ethereum creator Vitalik Buterin posted a lengthy Twitter thread arguing against trying to solve the problem of high gas fees by artificially setting gas prices higher or lower, which he calls naive.
00:27:15.410 - 00:28:07.330, Speaker D: He advocates for increasing transaction capacity through scaling, citing migration to the scaling solution ZK Rollup by Tether, Gitcoin and other apps as the best solution. Next headline has ZFI reinvented the fair launch. In case you haven't noticed, everyone is excited now about fair launches. Many crypto projects have attracted credit system over distribution mechanisms that favored early adopters. Enter the Fair launch, a trend kicked off by Yearn's YFI token, which launched without a pre mine, without founder equity, and without venture capital. At Dearbit Insights hasu analyzes the Fair launch, looking at previous altcoin launches and noting that projects that on the surface look fair are often not so. He says investors should scrutinize any coin advertising a Fair launch as a core feature to see if there are any possible exploits.
00:28:07.330 - 00:29:10.810, Speaker D: Ian Lee, the managing director of IDEO Colab Ventures, wrote in his email newsletter, synthesis a post titled Fair launches will Disrupt Crypto VC. He says, quote If Fair launches become more common, sophisticated and successful, they should scare the shit out of crypto VCs. He believes they will become more fair and not advantage whales as much as current fair launches do, and reward people not just for short term activity, but also for longer term actions and other forms of participation, such as voting and proposals. He also thinks that returns will not scale one to one with the amount of liquidity one has, again in an attempt to keep whales from earning a disproportionate amount of rewards. In a subsequent post, he argues that fast follower forks such as SushiSwap will become more common and that projects without a token have a higher risk of having their projects forked, tokenized and fair launched. He also said that projects will now have to be careful to not take on too much venture capital. Next Headline The SEC is keeping a close eye on DeFi.
00:29:10.810 - 00:30:24.370, Speaker D: In an interview with the Bloc securities and Exchange Commissioner, hester purse said the SEC is taking notice of DeFi and the questions it's posing saying, quote I think it's going to challenge the way we regulate. While Pers admitted that DeFi regulation isn't at the top of the SEC's list of priorities, she concedes that the agency is following the space closely. Perth, who is known as Crypto Mom, has shown a keen interest in the cryptocurrency industry and stated that the delicate line between fostering innovation and protecting investors will become even more precarious with the rise of DeFi. Next headline how satoshi mine strategically to protect the bitcoin network. Sergio Demion Lerner, the researcher who has looked into early mining habits of a miner he believes was Bitcoin creator Satoshi Nakamoto, and who discussed his findings on a recent episode of Unconfirmed, has discovered that this miner used a mining algorithm not included in the release of the first Bitcoin client. Lerner, not being 100% sure of the identity of this miner, has nicknamed the miner Patoshi. Lerner recently remined Bitcoin's 1st 18,000 blocks and discovered that Patoshi's miner did not mine the way the early public software did.
00:30:24.370 - 00:31:24.150, Speaker D: While the public software, which is ostensibly searching for a number that will enable it to mine the next block, would do one sweep for this number, Patoshi would do multiple sweeps. Additionally, Patoshi reduced the hash rate of his or her miner several times that first year, plus likely shut down his or her miner for five minutes every time Patoshi mined a block so as to foster competition and create a diverse set of miners. On the other hand, Patoshi would also turn on his or her miner when there wasn't a lot of other computers on the network. Learner says, quote I conclude that the most plausible explanation is that he was protecting the network. Time for fun bits. How Dan Robinson Lost Someone's Money to a Front Running Bot this week's, Unchained guest Dan Robinson of Paradigm published a blog post about a conundrum he was posed with last week. Someone had accidentally sent their Uniswap liquidity tokens to the pair contract itself, where anyone could grab them if they realized the tokens were there.
00:31:24.150 - 00:32:15.062, Speaker D: The challenge for Dan was that because of front running bots that scour the mempool, which is the area where pending transactions wait. He realized that once he submitted a transaction to rescue the funds, any front running bot could see the money, which, as he put it, would be like flashing a free money sign pointing directly at this profitable opportunity. He entails all the machinations he went through to try to obscure the transaction and stealthily secure his friend's money. Read his post to find out what happened and to learn why you should never underestimate a front running bot. Thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Nadav and Dharma, be sure to check out the links in the show notes of this episode. Don't forget you can now watch video recordings of the show on the Unchained YouTube channel.
00:32:15.062 - 00:32:30.250, Speaker D: Go to youtube.com, slash C, slash Unchained podcast and subscribe today. Unconfirmed is produced by Me Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Ness and the team at CLK Transcription. Thanks for listening, Don't.
