00:00:00.160 - 00:00:24.214, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Gray Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is the 13 February 2023 alright everyone, let's get into it. So just actually, before we get into it, I wanted to issue a quick correction last week on Friday's refuel, I believe I called liquidy a maker fork, when in reality they are not a maker fork. I kind of slipped up there. I think I confused it with another project. So definitely not a maker fork.
00:00:24.214 - 00:00:46.514, Speaker A: Similar to maker in how it operates in some capacity, but definitely not a fork. And the reason why I was talking about liquidity last week is because they had an integration with Azure tech. Go live. Which of course you can check out if you haven't yet as well. But there, that's the correction done there. Now, moving on to the news from the weekend. Well, this news just came out, I guess like a couple of hours ago now, and this, I think is the biggest news over the last few days.
00:00:46.514 - 00:01:40.964, Speaker A: And it's basically that the US securities and Exchange Commission has plans to sue Paxos for listing the BUSD coin, alleging it is in an unregistered security. Now this was the news that actually came out about 11 hours ago. Then there was another bit of news that came out 2 hours ago, which was that the New York Department of Financial Services, or the NYDFs, has ordered Paxos to cease issuing the BUSD stablecoin. And they have complied with that. Now there is a lot to kind of dive into here, so I'm going to try and keep it, you know, brief and not try not going a lot of different directions here. But essentially what this means is that new BUSD, so binance USD, it's binance. It's the stable coin that Paxos issues for binance is not able to be issued anymore, but existing BUSD will be able to redeem, I believe, until February 2024, or at least, they said at least until February 2024.
00:01:40.964 - 00:02:06.906, Speaker A: So if you do have BUSd, you'll be able to redeem it. I mean, I'm sure you'll be able to trade it for another stable coin as well, if you would like, or sell it to fiat in whichever way you, whichever avenue you choose. There. Now what's interesting about this, I've had a couple hours to digest this. There's still not a lot of info coming out, but I have my own kind of theories on why this is being done. But what is interesting about this is that Paxos actually issues two stable coins. They issue BUSD and USDP.
00:02:06.906 - 00:02:35.212, Speaker A: Now, the only stable coin that the New York regulator has gone after and the SEC has gone after is BUSD, not USDP. And now obviously busd is much larger. I believe USDP has a $900 million market cap and BUSD has a $16 billion market cap. But I don't think the size would matter in this case. Right. Like if, if they, if the regulator actually wanted Paxos to stop altogether, then they would have gone off after USDP as well. But they haven't.
00:02:35.212 - 00:03:18.428, Speaker A: At least they haven't yet. Right? So that remains untouched. It's just busd that they've gone after. Now, there's, this is a bit of speculation on my part as to why this is the case while the SEC is saying it's because BusD is a security and that's why they're going after, after binance for this, or going after Paxos fullest, I should say, which is a whole nother discussion that I don't think is worth getting into right now, or maybe I'll lead into it in a little bit. But what I'm speculating is that there is more than meets the eye here in terms of why specifically this New York regulator has gone after BUSD right now. It remains to be seen if they're going to go after other stable coins that are issued out of the US, such as USDC. We don't know.
00:03:18.428 - 00:03:59.176, Speaker A: I don't think it's likely that they're going to do that because I think there might. The reason that they might be going after BUSD, or have gone after BUsD is because of possible money laundering, terrorism financing. Now, as I said, this is speculation on my behalf, but this may be what, you know, is more than meets the eye here in the fact that BUSD is like any stable coin, it can move freely across, across chains. Obviously, there is KYC involved with centralized exchanges and you can't issue busd yourself. But once you have busd on chain, you can move it around and there's no KYC involved there. Obviously, if you wanted to cash it out and to fit, it'd be hard not to without going through a KYC party. Uh, but you could still do it.
00:03:59.176 - 00:04:29.764, Speaker A: You could still do it in some OTC way as well. So what I think may have happened is that these regulators have, uh, strong evidence and, and. Right, the reason why I say strong evidence is because Paxos basically rolled over instantly on this. There's, they're not even bothering to fight it. Right. So for that to happen, there may be strong evidence that these regulators have that links BusD to these acts and to money laundering, to terrorism financing and similar things like that. And this is not the first time a regulator has gone after crypto for this terrorism financing stuff has been going.
00:04:29.764 - 00:04:44.300, Speaker A: I mean, the regulators have been going after crypto for this for a long time. But just recently with the OFAc stuff. Right. That was all about stopping not terrorists, so to speak, but stopping North Korea. Right. From financing their operations. They pretty explicitly said that this, that could be a similar situation here.
00:04:44.300 - 00:05:23.794, Speaker A: So that could be one reason. And as I said, this is just speculation on my behalf. There's not actually that much info out right now, which is kind of frustrating. But the other side of it, as I said, I wasn't going to talk about this too much, but I think it's worth mentioning is, is the SEC basically trying to label all stable coins as securities? Now, you may want to be wondering, okay, well, how does a security meet the Howey test, right? Or how does it meet the, how the one part of the Howie test, which says there's an expectation of profit when you invest in something and that makes it a security? Well, obviously that doesn't happen with stable coins, or at least not with centralized stable coins. You know, maybe some of those things that call themselves stable coins but aren't really. Maybe that happens there. But with decentralized stable coins, they're obviously meant to be pegged to $1.
00:05:23.794 - 00:06:24.406, Speaker A: So we know. How does that make them a security? Well, if you actually look at the US securities laws, they're actually quite broad. There are different, the Howie test only applies to investment contracts, but there are other types of, I guess, like, sorry, other laws out there and other regulations out there that basically break down to the, to the point where anything could potentially be labeled a security. Like literally anything, any asset you can think of could be potentially labeled security just depending on the interpretation of it. And this is what happens when you have such broad regulations. And over time, these regulations become more and more broad through settlements, through precedents set in courts, through, I guess, like the fact that the US is, has been trying to regulate financial markets for such a long time now that they just add more and more of these financial regulations and they never really review them or remove them. And what ends up happening is that these regulators end up with so much power that their power is so broad that it's very hard to actually rein them in.
00:06:24.406 - 00:06:56.228, Speaker A: I think that's what's happening with the SEC, where they're doing this massive power grab where they just keep going after everyone and no one's stopping them. And honestly, the only person that could stop them while the only, I guess, like people that could stop them is Congress. And right now, I mean, Gary Gensler, the head of the SEC right now, was appointed by Biden. Right. By the Democrats, and they could stop him and the SEC if they wanted to. But that, again, just falls back. I mean, that falls into politics very quickly because let's say Biden said, okay, well, Gary Ganzler isn't doing his job well.
00:06:56.228 - 00:07:26.582, Speaker A: I'm going to, you know, I'm going to remove him, replace him with someone else while that makes Biden and the Democrats look bad because they appointed him. Right. So again, that's, that's a politics game there. So in that, in that sense, the only real way that Gensler could be, I guess, like fired or relieved of his position is he either gets promoted. Right. Or, you know, next year, I believe the next federal election is the Republicans win and then they have, you know, obviously get rid of Gensler, putting their own, their own chief there. As far as I'm concerned.
00:07:26.582 - 00:07:57.646, Speaker A: Those are only two ways that that could happen. Now, obviously, the first way is not great because if Gensler gets promoted, I mean, I think the only other place that you can go after the SEC, after one of these other regulatory bodies is the Treasury Department, and he would have even more power. Right. He'd probably take Yellen's job at that point. I don't think he's going to obviously become the Fed chair or anything like that. But, but, yeah, that's the kind of lateral move that happens there. And as I said, there's a very low chance of him actually being fired for not doing what he's supposed to be doing, which is kind of frustrating.
00:07:57.646 - 00:08:21.870, Speaker A: And there was, there are stuff being proposed on the political side of things to review what the SEC has been doing. But again, these things have proposed by the competing party. Right now it's being proposed by the Republicans. They don't really have any power. They don't, they control the House, but they don't control the Senate or the executive branch or the presidency. So they don't really have much power to do anything, at least right now. Maybe next year they will if they win the presidency.
00:08:21.870 - 00:08:45.842, Speaker A: But again, that just falls into politics and that's def, us. Politics is definitely not something I'm an expert in. But, you know, I'm learning. I'm trying to learn. I'm trying to pass on that knowledge to everyone here. So that's kind of the gist of the way I'm thinking about this. I hope that more information comes out about exactly why this happened, about why Paxos basically rolled over so quickly here, and why the New York regulator here only went after BUSD and not USDP.
00:08:45.842 - 00:09:13.832, Speaker A: I find it hard to believe it's. It's a sizing thing. I believe. I believe that just because it's, you know, considerably smaller doesn't mean that if USDP was part of the same, same reasoning here, it would be spared. So that's an interesting development as well. But I also get pretty frustrated about this, too, because essentially what, you know, Paxos majority of its business was issuing busd, and essentially this regulator has killed that business overnight. Now, unless they have, like, a really good reason for doing so, it's pretty frustrating.
00:09:13.832 - 00:09:29.676, Speaker A: But as I said, like, not much information out right now. Maybe there will be in the future. But it definitely seems like these regulators are on a war path with crypto. We expected this. I remember I mentioned it last year after the FTX blow up. This is not surprising to me at all. This is the perfect excuse.
00:09:29.676 - 00:09:58.014, Speaker A: I mean, FTX was the perfect excuse that regulators needed to come down hard on this industry. And I remember, and I believe for a very long time now, I've been saying that stable coins were the easiest thing to go after. Centralized, stable coins, I should say. I think I said this as far back as even 2020 on, on the refuel. And that's, as I said, because they're easy targets, because they're centralized, very easy to rein them in if you want to. But whether it's justified or not remains to be seen here. Yeah, but I'll keep you guys updated on that one.
00:09:58.014 - 00:10:41.388, Speaker A: Gonna leave that at that. I think there's a few more regulatory things I want to talk about. Before moving on into the Ethereum news, Brian Armstrong from Coinbase shared a blog post today titled, Coinbase's staking services are not securities, and here's why. This was published February 10 by Paul I believe I may have shouted this out when it was first published, but what was interesting was Brian basically recommitting and saying, we will happily defend this in court if needed. Now, regulators like the SEC, they don't want to go to court. That's why you'll see a lot of settlements, right? I mean, the settlements are also good for, or at least a shortcut for the other party as well, to just leave this, you know, leave this be and just go on their merry way. But the SEC and regulators, they don't want to go to court because losing in court is very, very bad for them.
00:10:41.388 - 00:11:12.504, Speaker A: Now, who knows if they're going to lose or not, but going into court is very, very timely and costly process. If they lose, it sets really it sets a precedent they don't want, they don't want to set and they'd rather just go after the smaller fish who either can't afford to fight in court or will just roll over rather than the bigger ones. So Brian saying this and Brian basically saying the quote, you know, if you come after Coinbase, we're going to fight you in court. The SEC probably sees that. It's like, okay, well, maybe we think twice about going after Coinbase. They have gone up to Coinbase in the past. They went after them about their, their Coinbase earn product.
00:11:12.504 - 00:11:49.354, Speaker A: But there are certain hills I believe Coinbase is willing to die on, it seems stake. Their staking services is one of those heels. And I believe that their stable coin, well, their stable coin, that circle issues that has close ties to Coinbase, USDC, I believe they would also go to bat for that. So it's good to have, you know, one of the largest exchanges in the world, especially one that's us based, basically saying that they would fight these regulators in court because that is the last thing regulators want. They did not want to go to court. That is the, I mean, they are, the SEC went after ripple and Ripple took, you know, obviously took them on and went to court. And that's still ongoing.
00:11:49.354 - 00:12:17.422, Speaker A: It's been many years now and it's still ongoing and there's no clear kind of, I guess, direction of where that's going right now. I haven't kept up with it too closely, but it doesn't seem like, you know, anything's going anywhere positive for the SEC. They may end up just reaching a settlement agreement again where Ripple doesn't admit any fault and they just settle in the end. So it becomes a huge waste of time and resources for the SEC. Makes them look bad as well. But that could be the outcome there. But I don't know if that's going to be the outcome.
00:12:17.422 - 00:12:30.604, Speaker A: I'm just speculating again. But cool to see this from Brian. I believe it's very based, as I said in my reply here, and I believe it's very cypherpunk as well. I mean, it's what this industry was built on. Brian is a cypherpunk. He created Coinbase in 2012. He's been around.
00:12:30.604 - 00:12:54.560, Speaker A: He believes in the mission of crypto, right. He's not just going to roll over and let these regulators go to town on crypto in the US because, I mean, he's an, obviously an american citizen. He obviously loves the US and believes in the US being able to get a lot of advantages from supporting crypto. So he's willing to fight for that, which I think is very, very cool. All right. I think this is the. Yeah, this is the last thing on the regulatory front.
00:12:54.560 - 00:13:26.740, Speaker A: Jason Gottlieb here, who is a lawyer, put together a thread where he starts off by saying, I find the SEC's, quote unquote, all crypto projects have to do is come in and register line. Unbelievably insulting. It assumes that there's this vast quantity of sophisticated securities lawyers advising clients. Nah, man, screw the SEC. Yolo, baby, do whatever you want. And then he continues this thread. They're basically repeating what I was saying last week, I believe, where I said that the SEC, specifically, Gary Gensler, is out there gaslighting people, trying to convince them that there is an easy way to register and be compliant with them when there really isn't.
00:13:26.740 - 00:13:53.468, Speaker A: And any lawyer will tell you that there really is not. When a good lawyer, I should say there really is not any good way for these crypto companies to not fall afoul of the SEC. And I think the SEC has proven that at this point by going after, you know, some of the most regulated entities in this space. I mean, Kraken, already very regulated. SEC went after them. Paxos, incredibly regulated. It's regulated in New York, which has very tough regulator financial regulations generally.
00:13:53.468 - 00:14:14.114, Speaker A: And the SEC still went after them. The New York financial department of Services still went after them. So when you look at it like that, yeah, there's, there's no easy path here. And if there was, I'm sure these crypto companies would definitely take it. But, you know, when there's no path and there's no guidance, then the path can't be taken. Right. So yeah, you can read this thread from Jason for yourself.
00:14:14.114 - 00:14:43.444, Speaker A: It's not that long. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, moving on from all of that onto some Ethereum news. So this is some positive news that Tim Bico shared over the weekend. We have a date for Sepolia to fork to the Shanghai slash capella upgrade, which is going to be on the 28th of Feb at 04:00 a.m. UTC time here. So they're meeting their end of February for Sepolia I'm sure Girlie will be not far behind.
00:14:43.444 - 00:15:03.580, Speaker A: A week, two weeks max. And then we'll get Mainnet launch, hopefully end of March. So they're on time here, they're on schedule. And as I said, after the merge, guys like the core devs are energized. They don't want to be missing any kind of dates they give themselves. They want to be doing things as fast as possible, especially Shanghai, because that was something that just. They needed to get withdrawals out of the way.
00:15:03.580 - 00:15:21.882, Speaker A: Right. And then obviously moving on to 48 44 later in this year with a bunch of other eips that could possibly get included in that upgrade. They're. They're on a, you know, they're very motivated to get this stuff done. So very cool to see that we have a date and a time already for sepolia. I'm gonna be in Denver at that date, I believe. Or maybe, maybe I'll be on the plane.
00:15:21.882 - 00:15:44.242, Speaker A: I don't know what, what time this translates to in UTC. I'm flying out on decent, sorry, Feb 27th in the morning, australian time, where I am right now. So I don't know if I'll still be on a plane or not at that point. Maybe I'll be sleeping because I'll be too jet lagged. But regardless, it doesn't matter what I'm doing. All that matters is that. So polio will be forking to Chapala in on 28th of Feb at 04:00 a.m..
00:15:44.242 - 00:16:18.984, Speaker A: UTC. All right, speaking of core dev related updates, Danny Ryan posted his finalized blog post number 38 here with just a, I guess like a TLDR on what's happening. So Chapala being on the horizon with the jejung testnet going live, the link to the withdrawals faq and then he also updates are on the updates us on the academics grants round, which is live as well, which you can check out. And that's still open till February 27 to apply. If you would like to do that. The link to apply is in this blog post as well. But yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to go check out.
00:16:18.984 - 00:17:06.440, Speaker A: All right, so speaking of Coinbase being based, Jesse Polak here, who works at protocols at Coinbase, put out a tweet thread that saying, or sorry, tweet, I should say, saying users across Coinbase products are now seeing a call to action to help lower Ethereum fees and secure the network by participating in the KZG ceremony. So basically this is front and center for Coinbase users to get them to participate in the KZG ceremony. This is super cool. I mean, this is something that Coinbase does not have to do and that centralized exchanges don't traditionally do, but they're doing it. They're basically telling users, hey, go participate in this weird kind of thing that's super technical that the ethereum community is doing called the KZG ceremony, and they're linking directly to it. So, I mean, kudos to Coinbase for doing this. This is exactly what I've been saying that Coinbase has been working towards for a while now.
00:17:06.440 - 00:17:37.828, Speaker A: They're trying to get users on chain. They're trying to get users more involved with on chain products rather than just trading coins on their exchange. Because the majority of people who are, quote unquote in crypto are not in crypto. Right. They're in trading these coins on centralized exchanges, which to me isn't really crypto. Crypto is doing stuff on chain, you know, playing with Defi on chain, playing with nfts on chain, playing with, you know, voting in daos and things like that. That to me is, is crypto.
00:17:37.828 - 00:18:03.728, Speaker A: And I'm glad that Coinbase also recognizes this. Even though they have every incentive not to do this because they're a centralized exchange. They'd probably rather users stay on their exchange. It earns Coinbase more money. Right. But they're actively working towards pushing users on chain, which is incredibly positive for both the crypto slash ethereum ecosystems and also, I believe, for Coinbase's rep as a whole, because Coinbase, I think there was a bit of drama around them over the last few years. They did take some missteps here and there.
00:18:03.728 - 00:18:21.440, Speaker A: I think the biggest misstep was them acquiring. I think there was a company, remember the name of the company they acquired a company that made technology to basically spy on people or to sell information to the government or something like that. Some. Some drama around that. I can't remember exactly what it was. There was that big misstep that they. That they did there.
00:18:21.440 - 00:19:10.324, Speaker A: And there was another one that I don't think necessarily was a misstep, but there was a lot of drama around it where they basically banned all political talk at Coinbase and told anyone, anyone that wanted to discuss politics to basically leave the company, which I believe, you know, a few people took Coinbase up on that offer and Coinbase actually paid them out for that as well. Paid them some severance and things like that too, which was actually very good of them. But there was a bit of drama around that. A lot of drama around that, especially outside of crypto, because I guess, like, there's this whole culture war stuff going on in the US about, you know, anti woke or woke or whatever it is that led to a lot of drama as well. But I think over the last couple of years, Coinbase have definitely been very based and has definitely repaired their rep a lot. I believe in that, in that sense. And I guess, like, doesn't matter where you sit on the politics issue, it seems to have gone pretty well for Coinbase.
00:19:10.324 - 00:19:33.308, Speaker A: Like, they're kicking goals all the time. They're doing really well. And honestly, Brian's logic around that was that he thinks that Coinbase should be solely focused on growing crypto to the world and all the employees should be focused on that. So discussing politics at work is definitely something that should, you know, shouldn't happen. And look, I don't have a strong opinion on this either way. That was his logic there. And I believe this actually happened in 2020 because of the.
00:19:33.308 - 00:20:06.196, Speaker A: The election at the time, I believe. But regardless of that, I don't want to get into politics here. But yeah, I think just Coinbase has been kicking goals, a lot of goals over the last couple of years. All right, so, Tony, from the person behind the Mevboost Peaks website that I talk about quite a lot on the refuel these days, and I'm going to talk about Mev boost a little bit here as well. But he shared a couple of new graphics that he's put out. So this one is captioned with the seamless journey of blocks from creation to validation through the Mevboost ecosystem. So this is basically what it looks like.
00:20:06.196 - 00:20:46.244, Speaker A: This is the life cycle of Mevboost. It goes from a builder slash a searcher to a relayer, these bundles, and then the relay goes to a validator in order to get this included on chain or to propose this block on chain. And you can see here the ones that dominate. So builder Zero X 69, Beaver build and flashlots are the three most popular builders. They all feed into, you know, pretty much like most of these relayers. The most popular relays right now, obviously, being flashbots, blocks route, max, profit and ultrasound, and then they feed into the validators. And the most popular, as we know, is, you know, the Lido, Kraken, coinbase and binance.
00:20:46.244 - 00:21:24.674, Speaker A: But it's really cool just to see the visualization here and the flow of how this works and exactly why the mev boost ecosystem is so nuanced. Because you can have relayers, so you can have builders that say, okay, well, we're not going to censor any transactions, but if they send a tornado cash transaction, for example, to flashbots, well, flashbots is going to censor it at their level. And that means that it's not going to get included on chain because flashbots censored it. And then it could even get to the point where the validators censor it too. Like, this is the thing about censorship. It can go, it can happen at any point in this chain. It can happen at the builder, at the builder level, it can happen at the, the relay level, and then it can happen at the validator level as well.
00:21:24.674 - 00:22:13.058, Speaker A: So, solving for all of that is quite difficult, but you want to solve for it where the, I guess, like most concentration of censorship is, and right now it's at the relay level, that's where the highest concentration of censorship is. And that's what we've been solving for recently. And that's what I was going to talk about in a sec. But also there's another graphic live on tornado dash, warning, dot in fo displaying validators. So this is another website from Tony here that you can check out as well, that now supports validators, not just relays. Now, on the mev boost front, we are almost at below 50% OFAC compliance, which is huge. I remember saying quite a while ago that I believed the OFAC compliance topped at around 80% and that it would be going down since then, since that, since that point, because of a lot of the reasons I've outlined in the past.
00:22:13.058 - 00:22:32.256, Speaker A: Now, you can see the chart here, which looks really cool. So this is all blocks. Look at all that green. That green has just kind of kept increasing. The reds going down. The black here, or the charcoal is basically non ev mev boost, which has stayed rather, I guess, like stagnant, between eight and 10%. But non mev boost is considered non censoring as well.
00:22:32.256 - 00:23:05.830, Speaker A: So you can count the non MeV boost and not OFAC compliance as one. And that's exactly what happens here. So 51% of all blocks are enforcing OFAC compliance, down from that peak of, I believe it peaked at 80% or something. Yeah, about 80%. It's been down since then, which is obviously awesome to see. Now, if you include only MeV boosted blocks, that's also down considerably to about 56%, thanks to obviously blocks route max profit, ultrasound money, and agnostic boost leading the way on the non censoring front. And flashbots is now below 50%.
00:23:05.830 - 00:23:37.340, Speaker A: So that's pretty crazy considering that of MEV boosted blocks. Flashbots was at 90 something percent originally, 90 plus percent, and now they're below 50%, in large part thanks to flashbots, the creators of MEV boost, I guess, open sourcing all of the relay infrastructure that they had in the building infrastructure, and mev boost infrastructure in general. So just very positive here. I wanted to show this to you guys, and this is over the last day. If you go over the last seven days, it still looks really, really healthy as well. 55%. Last 30 days is 63%.
00:23:37.340 - 00:24:11.218, Speaker A: Obviously, as time goes on, though, those should lower as well. But the fact that we're at pretty much 50% here is amazing. That means that you have a 50% chance of getting your transaction in each block, essentially, which means that after only two or three blocks, you have a near 100% chance of your transaction being included on chain. And the only transactions that are being censored at the relay level right now, our tornado cash ones. So this is, this is great, guys. This is just so positive. I, that's why I always, always kind of share this with you guys, because I want to show that we're winning, we're winning the war against the censorship here.
00:24:11.218 - 00:24:49.106, Speaker A: And the relay infrastructure is just so much more diversified than it, than it had been in the past. And I believe, and I stated this from day one when the OFAC stuff happened. I believe that the OFAC sanctions actually strengthens Ethereum's censorship resistance. And the proof is in what's happened over the last few months, or I guess, like since August here. So very cool to see this, and kudos to everyone that's made this a reality. All right, so, man, I'm coming up on time here, but this is a thread that I wanted to talk about, and this is quite a big kind of topic here. So I'm probably not going to dive as deep as I wanted to, because I'm running out of time.
00:24:49.106 - 00:25:24.450, Speaker A: But essentially, frontalpha ETH here from the Lido community put out a tweet thread, which I pretty much like completely disagree with. So they started off this thread by saying without Lido Coinbase, Kraken and Binance would have captured Ethereum. Lido was and is the only credible bowl walk against Ethereum being centralized. All the talk of decentralization would have been a joke. And they continue this thread, which a bunch, bunch of different things. But this is the crux of the thread. Now, the reason why I completely disagree with this, I mean, there's a few reasons, but a big reason is because one, well, I guess, like the number one reason here is one.
00:25:24.450 - 00:25:51.278, Speaker A: What front Alpha is doing here is basically putting forward something that he, they believe to be a hunt. 100% certainty. When there is no proof of this at all. You can't say with 100% certainty that without Lido, Coinbase, kraken and Binance would have, I guess, in their words, captured Ethereum, which I'm going to, I'm going to talk about that in a sec. But you can't say with. With certainty that Coinbase, Kraken and Binance would have captured the majority of the chain market share, right? Would have. Would have had the majority of the stake.
00:25:51.278 - 00:26:23.832, Speaker A: Like, that's just not something that you can say with certainty. With 100% certainty. Obviously you can make an educated guess and say, ok, without Lido, you know, the, the next best or next easiest staking point point would have been the centralized exchanges. That's fine, I can kind of get that argument. That's a debate that could be had. But I also take issue with this captured terminology. I've said many times in the past, and I'm not going to dive too deep into the reasoning here, but I've said many times in the past, that just because an entity has a large share of stake doesn't mean that they've captured anything.
00:26:23.832 - 00:27:09.020, Speaker A: The power of Ethereum, the power to change Ethereum to, I guess, like, not control Ethereum, but I guess to participate in Ethereum from a. I guess, like, what is the real chain perspective? What is the real Ethereum perspective? That power lies with the majority now, the majority being the social layer, not the majority being who has the most stake. Because, for example, let's say Coinbase or some centralized exchange had 50% of the stake. Well, Coinbase is one entity. Yes, there are thousands of employees within that entity, but. But at the end of the day, it's one entity with a board that would have to make decisions on things. So you could at most say there was like maybe a couple dozen people that would be in the decision process of what to do, you know, if they wanted to decide that.
00:27:09.020 - 00:27:55.616, Speaker A: Okay, let's, let's do a rule change on a theorem. We can, we can, you know, push it on everyone because we have such a large share of the network. Let's go with that. That's not how it works because. Yeah, okay, they may have a couple dozen people that are deciding this within Coinbase, but Coinbase is one entity, right? That's, it's seen as one entity and moves as one entity, whereas the ethereum social layer is made up of tens of thousands of different entities, different individuals and companies, institutions, who would all probably be against Coinbase in this, depending on what Coinbase was doing, especially the individuals. So to say that these entities would capture Ethereum, I think is the complete wrong framing here, because Ethereum cannot be captured just because an entity has a lot of stakeholders. Yes, they can do certain things with that power, but they cannot capture Ethereum.
00:27:55.616 - 00:28:36.378, Speaker A: They cannot dictate what is the real ethereum chain that fits squarely with the ethereum social layer, which is made up of plenty of different entities, thousands, tens of thousands of different entities being individuals, be it companies, whoever, that decide what Ethereum is. So that's, that's why I kind of like really disliked that terminology there. And then the second point of frontal for his tweet where they said Lido was and is the only credible bulwark against Ethereum being centralized, that is completely false. It's not the only credible bulwark. We have plenty of those. Solo staking, rocker pool. Yes, Rockerpool wasn't live when staking went live, but it is now, right? These other kind of entities that have spun up, like, look at all these entities in this, in this picture here, they get market share as well.
00:28:36.378 - 00:29:37.080, Speaker A: They're a bulwark against centralization too, because a lot of these entities aren't actually affiliated with each other, right? So. And then they say all this talk of decentralization would have been a joke. I, and for all the reasons I've outlined, I think that that statement is just complete false and incorrect. And I think that people just still do not understand that there's a massive difference between technical decentralization and social decentralization, not to mention all the technical things that are inbuilt into the Ethereum protocol to prevent capture to begin with, right? Such as slashing, be that automated slashing or social slashing, as well as just general penalties for doing certain things, as well as the fact that we can actually see when an entity is doing this. Um, and, and then on the social side, we have the, the really strong social layout that can prevent these things from happening. Because the strength of a social layout is not in the entities that have the most stake or, or a couple dozen entities that have a lot of stake. The strength is in the quote, unquote bottom 50%, so to speak.
00:29:37.080 - 00:30:01.072, Speaker A: Right? The bottom. Because that is made up of much more individuals. And Ethereum doesn't have on chain governance. There's no, uh, you know, owning more ETH doesn't give you more of a say. I mean, it's funny because like there are, there are billionaire ETH holders who have barely any say in the governance process. I mean, before, just to use an example here, before 3 hours capital blew up, they owned billions of dollars worth of ETH. Did that give them any sway over the ethereum governance process at all? No.
00:30:01.072 - 00:30:29.396, Speaker A: If Suzu tried to join a core dev call, he would have been laughed out of the room and no one would have listened to him. So this is the beautiful thing about Ethereum, is that you can't just buy your way into the governance process by buying ETH. Maybe there are other ways you could buy your way in to some extent. Whether, and I'm not going to, I'm not going to dive into that now because I'm going to go on forever if I do. But the fact that matter remains is that doesn't matter if you control a lot of stake. It doesn't matter if you control a lot of ETH. What matters is the social layer.
00:30:29.396 - 00:31:01.086, Speaker A: And as long as the social layer remains healthy, remains decentralized and diversified, which it has been, and it's just been getting more and more decentralized, then Ethereum is fine. And I don't think that we need Lido to come in and save us and defend us. I don't think we need any of these entities to come in and save us and defend us, because it's, that's not how it works. In saying all of that, you guys know that I don't hate Lido. I think lighter was fine. I actually do think that Lido has worked to get stake, prevent stake from going to centralized exchanges and going to Lido instead. It's debatable whether that's a good or bad thing.
00:31:01.086 - 00:31:32.570, Speaker A: I'm not going to dive into that now. But yeah, stating that Lido saved Ethereum, so to speak, I don't think that's right for the reasons I've outlined. Anyway, gonna move on from that. I've gone over time, but damn, I needed to get that off my chest. All right, so a great thread here from norse swap. So this is a 27 part thread that I highly recommend giving a read. And now I've been talking a lot about this roll up as a service kind of thing that's been happening over the last few months, where essentially a project is spinning up that, that are going to make it easy for anyone to spin up their own roll up to build their own app roll up, for example.
00:31:32.570 - 00:32:04.240, Speaker A: Right. Application specific roll up. Now if you want to learn about all the projects doing this and Norsop's take on it. You can check out his thread, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. I'm not going to bother going through it because it is quite a long thread and he does a great job of breaking it all down for you anyway, so you can definitely go check that out will be linked in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so optimism governance has introduced a new portal built by the nouns Agora, or I guess Agora, which is funded by. Is it funded by nouns? I'm not sure on this.
00:32:04.240 - 00:32:40.214, Speaker A: I'm assuming it's funded by the nouns ecosystem. But anyway, this is a governance portal that actually looks really, really cool. So an optimism is calling this the first step toward transitioning to fully on chain voting, and will also serve as optimism's delegate registry. Now how cool does this look, guys? Like, I actually think this is a really, really nice interface. I may have showed this before when it was in like beta or Alpha on Testnet or something like that, but it seems that is on Mainnet now. And you can delegate to all these different people that whoever you want to delegate to, you can see all the stats around optimism governance. You can see proposals and voters and all that good stuff there.
00:32:40.214 - 00:33:12.704, Speaker A: So definitely go check this out if you haven't yet. And there's also a handy governance calendar too. But yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. Now, last few things to get through. Gonna probably power through these. So the Ethereum Attestation service has basically put out a blog post talking about the future of verifiable credentials. And they say on their tweet here, builders, are you passionate about the future of verifiable credentials? Explore the Ethereum attestation services fresh take on ERC 721 and soulbound tokens, an alternative path, plus use cases and a perspective on the future.
00:33:12.704 - 00:33:37.492, Speaker A: So if you are at all interested in verifiable credentials or on chain identity or anything like that, you should definitely go check out this blog post. It's quite a lengthy raid, but definitely interesting one. Definitely something that I see as the next big kind of use case for crypto, just on chain identity and all that, that sort of stuff. So you should definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Just moving on here. Semaphore V three has been announced.
00:33:37.492 - 00:34:20.438, Speaker A: So just a reminder, Semaphore Semaphore is a ZK protocol that lets Ethereum users prove membership of a group and send signals without revealing their original identity. So again, falling into that identity bucket there that I've been talking about, you know, just, just before and a lot recently. Great to see this live here with a bunch of new features that you can check out for yourself. The new features are listed in tweet thread, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. And last up here on the identity front as well. Shopify has integrated sign in with Ethereum, so developers can now basically code their Shopify website up or have a plugin that allows them to sign in with their Ethereum account. Now, I've talked about this a lot in the past about how I believe that sign in with Ethereum will definitely become a standard across the web.
00:34:20.438 - 00:34:37.654, Speaker A: And great to see Shopify, one of the biggest ecommerce platforms in the world, integrating it over the weekend. But yeah, on that note, that's going to be it for today's longer episode. Thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
