00:00:04.330 - 00:00:49.146, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's News recap. First headline The Coinbase direct listing finally has a date. The highly anticipated Coinbase Direct listing is scheduled for April 14, as reported by Bloomberg and later confirmed by the exchange via Tweet. The company will trade under the ticker coin on Nasdaq. Next headline Visa Uses Crypto Rails PayPal Enables Crypto payments It's one thing for a company to embrace the positive PR of adopting crypto. It's a much bigger thing for a massive financial services network to actually use a public blockchain to settle transactions. Visa has begun settling USDC transactions directly on the Ethereum blockchain via a trial partnership with payment platform Crypto.com,
00:00:49.146 - 00:01:40.546, Speaker A: which, disclosure is a sponsor of my podcasts and Anchorage, a digital asset bank. Previously, crypto com's Visa card owners would have to convert cryptocurrency holdings to Fiat before making a purchase, adding an extra step and cost for businesses. Reuters reported that Visa completed its first transaction this month with crypto.com, sending USDC to Visa's Ethereum address at Anchorage. Meanwhile, PayPal announced that customers would be able to use crypto to pay at its 29 million merchants in the coming months. Users who hold bitcoin, Ether, bitcoin cash and litecoin can now convert to Fiat at checkout and make payments marking the quote, first time. You can seamlessly use cryptocurrencies in the same way as a credit or a debit card inside your PayPal wallet, CEO Dan Schulman told Reuters.
00:01:40.546 - 00:02:50.878, Speaker A: However, the merchants will receive Fiat as PayPal will convert the crypto before handing it over. Next Headline Goldman and BlackRock Embrace Crypto Goldman Sachs plans to offer its private wealth management clients exposure to bitcoin and other digital assets sometime in the next three months. Mary Rich, the soon to be announced global head of Goldman's private wealth management division, said Goldman would look to ultimately offer a full spectrum of crypto investment vehicles, be it, quote, physical bitcoin, derivatives or traditional investment, as reported by CNN, Rich said consumer demand drove the bank's decision to jump into crypto. She specifically cited contingents of clients who, quote, are looking to this asset as a hedge against inflation and feel like we're sitting at the dawn of a new Internet. Goldman is the second large US. Bank to offer clients access to crypto after Morgan Stanley announced a similar plan in mid March, with a caveat being that to invest Goldman is the second large US. Bank to offer clients access to crypto after Morgan Stanley announced a similar plan in midmarch, with a caveat being that to invest Goldman clients must hold a minimum of $25 million at Goldman.
00:02:50.878 - 00:03:30.974, Speaker A: At Morgan Stanley, the minimum is $2 million. Speaking of Morgan Stanley, the investment bank said in a Thursday regulatory filing that twelve of its institutional funds might gain exposure to bitcoin through cash, Settled Futures or the Grayscale Trust. Each fund, the filing suggests, could allocate up to 25% of its assets to bitcoin exposure. Rick Reader, CEO of the $8.7 trillion asset manager BlackRock hinted that the investment giant was beginning to dabble in bitcoin back in February. On Wednesday, a regulatory filing confirmed the asset manager's involvement in the bitcoin space by way of CME futures contracts. The $6.5
00:03:30.974 - 00:04:22.490, Speaker A: million investment was small, representing just zero 3% of BlackRock's global allocation fund, but it is still a step in the direction of CFI's acceptance of cryptocurrency. Next headline. The NFT Craze has some serious backers. It appears the recent NFT boom, which has featured a JPEG selling for $69 million in ETH and burned paintings rising from the ashes in digital form, is being taken seriously by the wider world. This week saw four notable investments in the NFT space web three accelerator and metaverse builder Outlier Ventures announced a $350,000,000 round of funding at a $2.5 billion valuation from, quote, the likes of Mark Cuban and Gary Vee, which means Gary Vaynerchuk. The announcement was made via a tweet by CEO Jamie Burke.
00:04:22.490 - 00:05:32.870, Speaker A: A recent Unchained guest Dapper Labs, the company behind NBA TOPSHOT and CryptoKitties, secured $305,000,000 in private funding from an eye popping group of NBA stars including Michael Jordan and Kevin Durant, along with a slew of strategic partners headlined by a 16 z. In perhaps the most unexpected words ever spoken in this recap, you can find the whole report on ESPN.com. Blockchain development firm Engine has raised $18.9 million in funding, with plans to build its upcoming blockchain network Efinity on polka dot. Efinity will be a purpose built NFT blockchain that aims to resolve the high gas fees associated with ethereum and without the centralization of Dapper Labs's flow blockchain NFT marketplace Super Rare announced a $9 million funding round on Tuesday, led by Velvet C Ventures and Mark Cuban, who will be an upcoming guest on Unchained. Super Rare plans to use the funding to add social elements to the platform. Zora, a Super Rare competitor, also completed a funding round this week, raising $8 million in equity sales with five investors whose identities remain unknown.
00:05:32.870 - 00:06:26.658, Speaker A: Next headline. The SEC sues Library for selling unregistered securities. The securities and Exchange Commission is charging Library, a decentralized publishing platform, for allegedly selling unregistered securities. The charges stem from the library team selling tokens as investment contracts before the project was developed to raise money with the assumption that the token's value would go up. The SEC is seeking a permanent injunction against Library from selling further tokens, along with a discouragement of the $11 million it received in the alleged security sale. Library CEO Jeremy Kaufman, in a statement shared with Decrypt, said quote, The SEC complaint against Library reflects an outdated view of the economy that stifles innovation, accessibility and creativity. Under the overreaching standard set by the SEC complaint, most blockchain tokens would be deemed securities, leaving uncertainty and confusion in the industry.
00:06:26.658 - 00:07:06.690, Speaker A: Gabriel Shapiro, partner at BSV Law, agreed, adding that, quote, The SEC is not helping the crypto industry figure out a way to comply with securities law. He also said that to continue suing blockchain creators is, quote, now inexcusable, unethical, and violates core American jurisprudential principles of predictability and economic freedom. Next headline. The Wyoming Effect hits Texas and Iowa. Between Wyoming, led by blockchain Wonder Women, Kaitlyn Long, CEO of Avanti Bank and Senator Cynthia Lemos, and Miami, directed by Mayor Francis Suarez. The race to become the crypto safe haven in the US. Has begun.
00:07:06.690 - 00:08:12.230, Speaker A: In case you missed them, both Long and Mayor Suarez have been recent guests on the show. This week, two more states joined the fray. The Iowa House of Representatives unanimously approved legislation that would permit the use of distributed ledger, technology and smart contracts when providing records of transactions in Texas. Governor Greg Abbot tweeted his support for a recent crypto law proposal that aims to adapt existing laws to the wide world of digital assets. Recommending that Texas should lead on this like we did with a gold depository. While positive news for the industry, Long pointed out the gaping hole in the Texas crypto proposal that would create a lean mess, meaning a mess around potential liens on Bitcoin. If passed, Long recommends that Texas follow Wyoming suit and amend the bill's language to better map how, quote, Bitcoin lending actually works, so that the passage of Bitcoin receives the same blank slate as cash after each transaction, rather than lenders retaining the right to any Bitcoin issued as debt.
00:08:12.230 - 00:08:59.302, Speaker A: Next headline tether Releases a report claiming to be Fully Backed in an assurance report delivered by Moore Cayman, a Cayman Islands based accounting firm, tether purports to show that its stablecoin is fully backed. While the report does not delve into how Tether's reserves are held, it appears that as of February 20, Eigth Tether's assets amounted to $35.3 billion and its liabilities equal $35.2 billion. The Attestation is the first 3rd party verification of Tether's reserves since 2018. Tether plans to issue another Attestation for the month of March, after which it will move to quarterly reports going forward. These attestations are separate from the disclosures intended for the New York Attorney General's Office regarding the recent Bifinex settlement.
00:08:59.302 - 00:09:58.022, Speaker A: USDT is currently the largest stablecoin in the world, sitting at roughly $40 billion, making it the fourth largest token by market cap. Time for fun, bets. SNL answers. What the hell is an NFT? Saturday Night Live added to the long list of head scratching NFT headlines in a skit last weekend that included Kate McKinnon dressed up as Janet Yellen, Pete Davidson singing in a robin costume, Morpheus orange pilling, a national audience, and a janitor goodwill hunting style perfectly explaining what an NFT is while rapping. If you haven't seen it yet, I would highly recommend it. Tubby Coin to the Moon In a well designed April Fool's joke, the teletubbies yes, the children's show announced its own cryptocurrency on Thursday. To mine the Tubby Coin, all you have to do is share the big Hugs token on social media, accompanied by the hashtag tubbycoin, part of the initial coin offering.
00:09:58.022 - 00:10:37.730, Speaker A: The company will make a $5,000 donation to the charity Kids Help Phone. While the coin turned out to be a marketing ploy, I have to commend the teletubbies for their crypto native announcement of an announcement and execution of the almost believable White paper. Alright, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Dave and the proposed FATF guidelines, be sure to check the links in the show notes. Follow Unchained on Twitter at unchained underscore pod, where you can find all sorts of content ranging from my weekly newsletter to updates on my upcoming book and a whole lot more. Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch and Daniel Ness. Thanks for listening.
