00:00:00.330 - 00:01:26.550, Speaker A: You, when you look at the OECD countries outside the US, I guess, defined contribution pension funds are becoming increasingly common and according to some estimates, are managing something like $25 trillion in assets. And in many OECD countries, what you typically have is a pension fund or some kind of a retirement saving scheme which manages the entire savings of an individual for retirement. This is somewhat in contrast with, I guess, the locals are used to where you either have, or often have an employer run pension plan, like the General Motors pension plan or something, or a mix of mutual funds which together make up a retirement account. But so the setup we are thinking of is where you have a pension plan or a pension manager who manages an individual's entire savings account. And the question in this paper is, how can regulators or the government make sure that these managers of pension funds are doing what is best for investors, for savers, that is, you can think of a variety of tools, fiduciary duties, limitations on investment in certain asset classes. But the focus of this paper is on the latter, too. Regulation of fee structure, and the extent to which pension funds or retirement savings plans are exposed to competition.
00:01:26.550 - 00:02:58.120, Speaker A: If you look at unregulated money management schemes, VC, private equity, hedge funds, et cetera, then fees are nearly always based on performance, right? 20% of profits, et cetera. But in the regulated money management industry, that applies to us mutual funds and to pension funds, more or less in all OECD countries, with two exceptions, fees are always based on assets under management rather than performance. And this has historical origin in a 1940 law in the US, which was based on fear of excessive risk taking and has spread more or less throughout the developed world. I'll skip the details. If there are no incentive based fees, and fees are based on assets under management, then presumably competition should provide incentives for fund managers, right? So if you do well, you will get an inflow of funds, assets under management will go up and fees will go up as well. Does this work in the literature? We'll talk about this briefly later. But empirically speaking, it's very hard to find a setup where you can actually compare competition and incentives, because in most countries you do not have both, right? So the extent to which incentive fees can be used in pension funds or money management, regulated money management industries is limited, and this is actually what we try to do in this paper.
00:02:58.120 - 00:04:10.782, Speaker A: So we use regulatory experiment from Israel, which basically imposes an exogenous variation in the fee structure and the extent to which funds are exposed to competition. So we basically observe different funds managed by the same management companies and each one of them, or each type of three types of funds, each one faces a different degree of competition and incentives. And without going into the details of the historical experiment that brought us to this environment, it's totally exogenous. It's based on the date at which the fund was set up. And we look at these three types of funds for more or less a decade and compare their performance in order to see the outcome that is associated with incentives, the outcomes that are associated with competition and so on. So the three types of funds, very briefly, maybe we'll go into the details later. The oldest type, we call it old life insurance or Ollie, were set up in the, are basically the management company.
00:04:10.782 - 00:04:41.640, Speaker A: I'm talking about fees to the management company, not to individuals, right. The management company gets fees which are basically a fraction of their all returns, right. 15% of the profits. There is no competition in this industry because of some switching costs. So basically these are funds where you have very powerful incentives and no competitive pressures. Again, the details may be later. And we observe eight of these funds, right.
00:04:41.640 - 00:05:37.550, Speaker A: In 2004, the general or accepted line of thinking that such a fund would or such a fee structure might induce excessive risk taking led regulators to close these funds to new savers, so old savers could continue to save in them. But new ones had to go into a new fund set up by the same management company, which is essentially identical, except for the fact that fees are based on assets under management. These are called new life insurance plans, or NLI, for reasons that I won't go into. There are switching costs going in and out of these new life insurance plans. So these are essentially going to be my benchmark, right. No competition because of these switching costs or limited competitive pressures, and no incentive based fees. And then there is a third variation.
00:05:37.550 - 00:06:22.630, Speaker A: The providence funds, which are closest, perhaps, to us mutual funds. Those are based on, or the fees are based on assets under management. And the technical switching costs that exist in the new life insurance industry don't exist there. So savers can move in and out. So you have asset or fees which are not based on profits or incentives, but with competition. And we observe eight of the old type, nine of the new type, of which eight are managed by the same companies and one extra, and then provident funds. Some of them are managed by the same eight management companies or insurance plans, insurance companies, and then some others.
00:06:22.630 - 00:06:54.702, Speaker A: And that's basically the game. We're going to compare them, a preview of the results. In case I don't get to the details. We basically find that the old funds with incentives outperform the new funds, both in terms of raw returns and in terms of risk adjusted returns. Alphans, that is, they are not necessarily associated with high risk, as regulators would fear. That depends a little bit on how you measure risk. Competition or provident funds does not generate the same outcome as incentives.
00:06:54.702 - 00:07:33.418, Speaker A: So one conclusion that we would like to cautiously draw or propose is that in this setup, competition and incentives are not perfect substitutes, unlike the basic Mickey Mouse principal agent that we love and teach. If you believe it, we'll see later. If you believe it. If you believe it, then this might cast some doubts about the prevailing regulatory regime. Maybe there is a trade off between preventing risk in the short run and the long term well being of savers. Maybe the prohibition of incentive fees is not such a great idea. See at the end if you believe this.
00:07:33.418 - 00:08:21.994, Speaker A: So I don't have time to give you a proper tour of the literature, and I'm sure some of you here know this literature better than I do, since I come from corporate finance, not asset pricing, but basically a host of papers on us mutual funds. Since pension funds of this type are not really present in the US. The bottom line of this is that incentives may be desirable theoretically. Empirically, it's hard to test. There are some exceptions which we may talk about later. The effect of competition on fund management is really a mix, right? There is a host of lower fees, perhaps, but a host of problems, herding, excessive risk taking for a variety of reasons, and savers who don't know what they're doing. So the effect of competition is unclear.
00:08:21.994 - 00:08:51.874, Speaker A: And so this is where we start. Okay, this is the sample. So you have the eight old life insurance plans with incentives and no competition. That's the top right corner. You have the new ones, nine of them, very limited competition and no incentive fees. And the provident funds assets under management as the basis for incentives and competitive pressures. We want to see if the old funds take more risk.
00:08:51.874 - 00:09:25.982, Speaker A: We want to see if the old funds, because of incentives, do better in some sense. And we want to see if competition yields good outcomes, as we are trying to believe from, I guess, the first class in economics. Here is the first table I'm going to show you. So, from left to right, these are the three types of funds. In the first column, you basically see that the old funds are much bigger. They started earlier, and we are going to control for size in whatever we do. So it's not going to be just because of more attention being paid to the older funds.
00:09:25.982 - 00:10:01.206, Speaker A: The next column is average, raw monthly returns higher in the old ones than in the new ones, which are roughly equivalent to the provident funds. I'm skipping one column. The first measure of risk, the standard deviation or volatility of monthly returns, essentially identical across all types and fees. Provident funds with competent. Yes, provident funds with competition are cheaper. This may be an overestimate of the effect, but I don't have time to go into the detail. Details.
00:10:01.206 - 00:10:44.890, Speaker A: Another measure of risk, how badly did they do in 2008? Again, no indication that the old ones declined by more. The one thing where the old funds may be perceived as, or one reason as riskier is because they invest more in illiquid assets. So real estate, private equity, nontraded loans, et cetera, perhaps to take advantage of the liquidity premium, perhaps because they have an incentive to look for these investment. This causes some issues in the measurement of risk adjusted returns. I'll come back to that later. So, in red, the old funds investing about twice as much as the other types in these illiquid assets. And then we run some risk and return regressions.
00:10:44.890 - 00:11:20.102, Speaker A: I'll skip this in order to get to the interesting tables, but basically, up to here, raw returns tend to be higher in the old funds. They are not riskier, except for the issue of illiquid assets. And competition does not seem to generate the same results as incentives. And then we go into the controversial measurement of alphas. I'm sure we'll talk about how alphas should be measured. Risk factors, which represent five risk factors, which represent the asset classes in which these funds invest. And this is what, sorry, I forgot to mention.
00:11:20.102 - 00:11:53.098, Speaker A: So for each fund, I should slow down for a minute. For each fund, we divide the sample period into four subsamples. We calculate four alphas for each fund on the basis of these risk factors. This is what you get. So on the left hand side, the r squared of these alphas tend to be above 90%. So we do capture much of the variation in risk. The actual levels of alphas in column two are much higher than what you're used to seeing in equity, only american mutual funds.
00:11:53.098 - 00:12:34.186, Speaker A: We can talk about why this may be the case. My point here is a relative comparison between them, since all of them may be biased upwards relative to american mutual funds. Old life insurance plans have higher alphas than new life insurance plans, and also their alphas are more statistically significant. That's column three. I'll skip the rest. And then we run regressions where the dependent variable is for each fund. These alphas that were calculated on the right hand side you have controls for size, control for management, company, fixed effect for the period in which alpha was calculated, et cetera.
00:12:34.186 - 00:13:18.346, Speaker A: The omitted category here is the new life insurance plans, the ones with no incentive and no competitive pressures. And you find that if you look at column one, old life insurance plans have higher alphas relative to the omitted category. Provident funds with competitive pressures have lower alpha to take into account the issue of the illiquid assets for which we don't have a measure of return. So we can't include it in the calculation of alpha. But we can include the fraction of the portfolio invested in this asset class starting in 2008. So not right from the beginning. And when we include this, look at column three.
00:13:18.346 - 00:13:53.462, Speaker A: There is a positive correlation between investment in illiquid assets and alpha. But even controlling for this, you still have a positive alpha for the old life insurance plans relative to the omitted category. The new ones, it's about 70% of what you get in column one. Column two is basically the same sample period as column three. So you can basically, some of it is due to the illiquid asset and assets. And some of it is left even when you control for this as best as we thought we could. I like this one.
00:13:53.462 - 00:14:27.202, Speaker A: So these are the eight managers. The alpha in red, the alpha for the old life insurance, and in blue or gray, whatever you want to call this color. The alpha for the new life insurance managed by the same company. In all eight of them, the old ones have higher alphas. The probability this is like tossing a coin, right? Eight times the probability that this is random is very close to zero. I won't have time to go into this. There are quibbles about alpha and whether alpha is the best measure to capture this.
00:14:27.202 - 00:14:59.770, Speaker A: Maybe we can talk about this later or during the q a period. Then a host of robustness tests or alternative ways for calculating alpha using fewer risk factors or an alternative to the way it's calculated. Sorry. Basically, you get the same results. Yes, I will be done in five minutes. The old life insurance always outperform the omitted category. And the provident funds with competitive pressures tend to underperform.
00:14:59.770 - 00:16:08.610, Speaker A: I won't go through all of these. Let me just tell you what I think this means. Okay, well, we'll wait to hear what my discussion thinks. But I think the nice thing about this paper is the regulatory experiment, which provides an opportunity to compare the different structures without issues related to sample selection. If you take the results literally, then perhaps regulators who do not like risk in the short run or during their term in office should consider alternative ways of limiting risk taking rather than the prohibition of incentives. Right? Perhaps control risk in other ways because it seems like incentives in fund management are good for, maybe good for savers in the long run. We can talk about the reasons for this, but if you just look at the outcomes or the equilibrium, it seems like competition does not generate the same equilibrium outcome as incentives based funds.
00:16:08.610 - 00:16:54.730, Speaker A: I'm sure we'll talk about why this may be the case, at least the view that competition and incentives are substitutes that should achieve the same thing should be, I guess, questioned. When you see these numbers. And my point, I'm reaching the end. So my point is, in all of this was not to present firm conclusions, just to raise some doubts or questions about whether it's obvious that the prevailing military regime around the world, to quote Andre, is optimal. And if I've managed to make you think that maybe it's not so clear that this is really optimal, then this is all I've been trying to achieve.
