00:00:06.410 - 00:00:40.890, Speaker A: Up next, I want to introduce our last speaker for today, which is John Cole from Hyperlate. John's going to talk about now with all the roll ups that we have, whether it's ZK or optimistic or anything else around modularity, how do we make sure they all work nicely with each other? And that's where multi chain world comes in, where understanding what's possible, what's not possible, how do you think about making what should be possible is going to be important? So for this last talk for the summit, I'd like to welcome John here with us and have him get started.
00:00:40.960 - 00:00:48.202, Speaker B: Hey, John, thanks for having me. I'm going to start by sharing my screen here and we'll get right into it.
00:00:48.336 - 00:00:50.406, Speaker A: Wonderful. We'll get that loaded up as soon.
00:00:50.448 - 00:01:57.714, Speaker B: As we see on our all right, so okay, so what are we going to talk about today? Right, karthik just told you that we have a multi chain future ahead of us and we're going to need to figure out how to deal with it. It means really a lot of things, right? So this talk today, it's titled connecting our MultiChain future. So in this talk, we're going to cover the current state of blockchains, the need that stems from that current state as it pertains to interoperability. Then we're going to touch about how all of that relates to the scalability of blockchains, which of course in particular means the modular blockchain thesis. And then we're going to finish the call with this little thing that we're doing here that we call the interchange highway. And so that's why you see that little subtitle of the interchain highway. So if you're curious, you want to know what it is.
00:01:57.714 - 00:02:44.562, Speaker B: Well, this is what stable diffusion thinks it is. And I kind of like this little impressionist style that it gave it, but let's get right into it. So the current state of blockchains, as I like to say with my dad joke style, the state of state. So we have these amazing Internet computers and they're creating loads of valuable state, but they are isolated, they can't connect. Everyone here knows this, right? Everyone who is really sad throughout the day and is going to participate in the scaling hack. This is really not news to you. You realize that the valuable state that exists and is created on one chain by and large is not easily accessed by another.
00:02:44.562 - 00:03:50.722, Speaker B: Even if we're talking about a roll up. And certainly if we're talking about a roll up on a roll up, as we will get into later today, there's been this expansion now into a MultiChain environment, which is that most often it's meant deploying your app on multiple chains. And effectively this has resulted in creating multiple instances of your app on those chains. Right? Definitionally, if state can't be easily accessed between chains, as a developer building on a single chain, you really can only access and serve users that exist on those chains. And that pertains, obviously, to every bit of state that exists there. This is really sad because what does it mean? It means that if you now want to expand to another environment, right, let's say you launch as an app on Arbitrum and you're like, whoa, I want to expand to optimism as well. For whatever reason, maybe those are distinct audiences.
00:03:50.722 - 00:04:39.350, Speaker B: Well, your next deployment does not benefit from your existing one. So now we're expanding actually creates another form of fragmentation between these blockchain environments. As I said, it's quite sad. Now, worse yet, we're transitioning into a world where there's not only going to be more chains and deploying your own chain is going to be easier. And bear with me today, I know this might not be acceptable nomenclature, but I'm going to use the term chain as a blanket term to include what would be an alternative layer one. What would be more familiar as a roll up, whether it takes the form of an optimistic roll up and a ZK roll up. And certainly when we need to have those distinctions, we're going to get into them specifically.
00:04:39.350 - 00:05:39.366, Speaker B: And thirdly, I'm going to again treat something like a Cosmos app chain simply as a chain. So when I say chain, don't get hung up on the notion that it's just a layer one. It is a blanket term for any one of those three. So again, we're moving towards this world, becoming ever more popular through the realization of the modular blockchain thesis that not only is deploying your own chain more common, it is also made easier because there are many more of these toolkits. But what then? Right? You deploy your own chain, your own environment, and effectively you've sprouted out a new planet in a solar system, a new island in the ocean. If it's a roll up for, say, and it's an ethereum based roll up, you have one mainline into the main economic hub, right into the main continent, or call it like into the main planet in that star system. But that's all you get.
00:05:39.366 - 00:06:44.778, Speaker B: What about the other planets in that star system, the other roll ups? What about the other islands on any island chain? How do you connect to them? What are the trade routes that you can access? Right? And so that is where we start getting into some problems. Lastly, as we analyze kind of the current state, we have to talk about just how many infrastructure interactions we have as users in crypto. In fact, a new user almost always has their first interaction with an infrastructure before they ever reach an application. This is something that whenever you take a step back, you realize this is certainly not the way. Recently, a good friend was talking about their experience onboarding, a close friend who had never been into crypto but was interested in collecting a POAP. That POAP was on Gnosis. They tell their friend to download the wallet of their choice.
00:06:44.778 - 00:07:29.258, Speaker B: The friend downloads rainbow finding it to be a very acceptable and easy to use mobile wallet. Then they realize oh, Gnosis is not supported by so now my friend has to onboard their friend to MetaMask on a desktop. They have to move the ETH that was purchased in the first wallet. They didn't want to expose the private keys so he tries to onboard them to that and now they're already 30 minutes into it. This person being onboarded still has not reached this final application. Collecting that poop that they wanted to, they realized they have to enter the RPC for Gnosis and very cumbersome they can't find the RPC address. So they go into the Gnosis docs and they get there.
00:07:29.258 - 00:08:44.820, Speaker B: Long story short, they spend about 90 minutes for him. He has to explain to his friend and that is only after all of that work dealing with so many parts of infrastructure did the new onboardee into crypto get actually exposed to the act. No one here probably thinks that that's acceptable, right? There's no way that we can work with that. So this isn't the end state, right? Like what is, how do we get there? Well how do we get to this point where we're serving people a lot better? We know that whenever we do get this demand we have really big scaling woes and obviously this event that we're all embarking on in scaling ethereum is deeply related to that. We're going to try and find ways to do this more acceptably. And so these intermediate computers of ours, if there's one thing we know about, like we know how they work, right? We know that they work by making digital resources more scarce than they are otherwise. And so we know that whenever demand increases, unless the supply of these resources changes, we're going to have a rough situation.
00:08:44.820 - 00:09:54.460, Speaker B: We're going to run into this situation that I'm sure everyone on the line today has run into where you just realize just how high that gas cost is and how do we solve that. So we're going to talk about this today and to solve this we're going to talk about the combination of interoperability, modular blockchains and a few other things that will come up. So what does an acceptable, like MultiChain future look like? Well, it has to be more acceptable then we need to find a solution to that demand problem. We don't want the gas to be too damn high all the time, right? Should we ever talk about a future where demand doesn't increase? No, we shouldn't talk about it because everyone here is very passionate about the industry and a future where demand doesn't increase is just not that interesting because it means we can all go home. We did not fulfill our goals of crypto being a solution to global problems so hard. Stop. We're not even going to talk about it.
00:09:54.460 - 00:10:37.458, Speaker B: The only way to cater this demand is by creating more supply for, and that supply can take many forms. There will be a spectrum of chains. On one end of the spectrum, I don't think, certainly I don't, and I'm sure most people here don't feel this way, but one end of that spectrum can look like very heterogeneous environments in very monolithic chains. It might take the form of move chains like Sui and Aptos, and certainly DVM will be a part of it. Maybe the Solana, the C level VM will be a part of it. And on the other end of the spectrum, we have a completely homogeneous environment. It's all EVM based.
00:10:37.458 - 00:11:23.858, Speaker B: And then we just have many roll ups stemming from the singular Hub. That hub can be the cosmos hub with Dsdk and IBC. It could be ethereum with many ethereum based roll ups. Personally, I'm inclined to think that we'll end up somewhere closer to the hub version, but not completely homogeneous. So this is really what we talk about when it comes to the modular blockchain thesis. A very large amount of roll ups, app chains, and whatever you want to define them stemming from these hubs. Beyond that, what does an acceptable future look like? We're going to have all these chains where they're going to have to be connected, applications are going to have to be connected.
00:11:23.858 - 00:12:10.870, Speaker B: How do we prevent an experience like the one in that not so great story I just shared about a person trying to redeem, trying to onboard into crypto for the first time to redeem a damn Poop. Apps are going to have to be connected. But if apps are connected, it's going to mean that chains are going to have to be connected. How can we get there? And before we get that, let's talk a little bit about the errors and current history of interoperability. So before we got to where we are today, which is we have some form of acceptable interoperability. Majority of it is very user centric. It's still users bridging assets, it's still users dealing with infrastructure.
00:12:10.870 - 00:13:02.434, Speaker B: We had the first instantiation, that was what we call here defined rule set interoperability. One thing to note, you see a timeline here, the timeline is a bit misleading. Notice there are no end dates for any of these. This is because all of these errors are playing out simultaneously. So maybe a better title for this is not errors of interoperability, rather modes of interoperability, because these are all distinct in their form of operation, but again, all of them playing out at the same time. And it's not clear that these will remain independent and not coagulate in some form or merge in some form as we move into the future. So early on, around 2015, 2016, we have this notion of defined rule set interoperability.
00:13:02.434 - 00:13:54.114, Speaker B: This is most commonly observed in Cosmos, in IBC, in polka dot and xcmp. Really what it is. It's interoperability within a set structure. And it's the same notion of horizontal scaling where instead of saying like, hey, I'm going to have one computer that can process everything, I'm going to have many little computers and they can have some logic about how they can share things between them and they will handle all the processing. So the dominant form of expression here are certainly app chains is the right way to some people refer them as appchains. I like referring to them as appchains. That's the Cosmos parlance in the polkadot world known as parachains.
00:13:54.114 - 00:15:11.550, Speaker B: Some distinct differences between polkadot and Cosmos and IBC there, but this is the common way that these are expressed. As we talk about each one of these modes, we'll probably spend some time thinking about talking about how exactly it's working today. And so today there are dozens of Cosmos chains. IBC transaction volume is quite high. Now, not every chain has a very active IBC channel to communicate amongst the other chains that it can communicate with, right? Like if you look at the network graph of IBC connected chains, there's a lot of concentration there, but there's still certainly a lot of activity. Similarly, there are many more polkadot parachains today, more than you'd expected would have existed certainly eight years ago. And this category of defined rule set interoperability, while limiting, while you are limited to interoperability only within that set structure, and no strong form of communication with chains that don't fit that structure, it's certainly an acceptable mode of doing things and one that's going to continue to see more activity.
00:15:11.550 - 00:16:22.310, Speaker B: As time progressed, there was more active participation in crypto, more types of users, and we went into what I like to call asset centric interoperability. This was interoperability that focused on giving users the ability to move assets between different blockchains, where the structure of the underlying chain was far less important. In fact, it's only important for the operator of that interoperability service. For the user's perspective, it is entirely unimportant. Bridges are the most common expression of this, right? Some of these bridges take the form of the canonical or native bridges that we see for roll ups. But certainly bridges like wormhole, like synapse, these are the dominant form of expression for this mode of interoperability. And truly there's been billions that have been transacted via bridges, again in the form of asset centric interoperability.
00:16:22.310 - 00:17:14.514, Speaker B: There's also been some issues. I want to say that as of today, at least five of the ten largest security incidents in the history of the industry all relate to the category of interoperability. Now, is it because this category is inherently unsafe? Because this mode of asset centric interoperability is inherently unsafe? That's debatable. I'm certainly biased, but I would argue that that's not the case. And it's just that software with super high stakes in adversarial environment as the permissionless internet computers that we work with, it is very dangerous. And so incidents are going to happen. And finally, there is this last mode of interoperability.
00:17:14.514 - 00:18:27.006, Speaker B: It's very, very new. There's not that much to say about it that isn't speculative, and that is app centric interoperability. Now, if there's one thing that's very common between the two modes, we observe in the beginning, at least in their operation until this point in time, is where does the burden of interoperability lie? There is an operator that provides the service, but who performs the action. In both of these, it's the user. It's the user having to move around an asset. And if you want to think about this in non crypto terms, having to move your funds from Ethereum to Optimism, having to move your funds from Ethereum to Osmosis when you want to transact there, that has a little bit of the feel of, you know, I really want to purchase something on Amazon today so how about I load my balance and I transfer it from my bank account, say with bank of America and I load up some bucks into Amazon? I get some Bezos bucks as my balance. And that is quite strange, right? You probably wouldn't want to do that.
00:18:27.006 - 00:19:25.220, Speaker B: There are not that many instances where common Internet products that we use ask us to behave in that way. But this is where we are in crypto. So the key difference between these two modes in app centric interoperability is this notion of separating or moving the place of the burden of interoperability. Primarily, it's about moving it from the user's hands to the application, so that now we bake in a layer of abstraction such that apps that are built in this way are now handling that transfer on your behalf. Similarly to, like, we don't know the logic of the credit card or the payment network when we get charged on an e commerce site like Amazon, but it moves the funds on our behalf. And that seems fine. It certainly contributes to a simpler user experience.
00:19:25.220 - 00:20:18.130, Speaker B: The dominant form of expression here is interchange application. But what really is an interchange application? Simply put, it's an application that should be, through some means, connected by some interoperability tool, something that can communicate easily between the different Internet computers that it exists on. We believe that that'll be the dominant form of expression, but it's still really early. It's still not clear that this will be the case. What does it even mean to be connected by some interoperability platform? What does that mean for us from a blockchain perspective? So for that now we're going to step in to talk a little bit about flavors of interoperability. And by and large, they come in two main ones. You either get native verification or you get external verification.
00:20:18.130 - 00:21:09.950, Speaker B: What does native means? Native means you are leveraging the consensus mechanism of the two or more chains that are connecting. And most importantly, it means there are no more trust assumptions introduced into your action. Beyond this idea of, I'm already trusting Ethereum which I'm used to dealing with. And let's say in our example, now you want to go to Osmosis. I'm trusting Osmosis, and that's all I'm okay with. And so really, native verification is the ideal method because it only inherits the security risks of the two chains that are connected. Now, why referred to it as the ideal? That kind of makes it sounds like it's not easily achievable.
00:21:09.950 - 00:21:51.418, Speaker B: Well, sure as shit, it's not. Sorry for my language. It is not easily attainable. Unfortunately, it is by far the most expensive and most, I mean really most resource costly method of verification. In fact, in systems that were not designed from the ground up to be able to replicate the consensus of external chains within them, it is just incredibly expensive. And for this reason, it works the best and perhaps without external tools. Really, the only place where it works well are within these defined rule set systems.
00:21:51.418 - 00:23:28.510, Speaker B: So, insofar as IBC is concerned, IBC gives you a form of native verification. Now, should you be super discouraged? Not yet. There are things that will help us reduce the costs of native verification that will allow native verification to be more feasible for environments that weren't built for native verification interoperability. Most promising along this front is certainly zero knowledge proofs as a way to replicate the consensus of the chain that you are connecting with the chain that you are. Or sorry, to replicate the consensus of the two chains amongst each other in such a way that now having an entertained state transition is much more easily done without having to introduce a new trust assumption. But unfortunately, it's going to take some time, right? There are great advancements you've seen stuff with ZK Bridge that recent paper, and there are great advancements in the field of hardware acceleration for provers. And so I'm quite optimistic that within the next few years we'll start seeing the inklings of zero knowledge proofs and increasing the prevalence of native verification interoperability, something that is especially useful for the modular blockchain thesis and the future of ethereum scalability.
00:23:28.510 - 00:24:37.830, Speaker B: The other mode is external verification. Well, easy words to say, right? If the previous mode did not introduce any new trust assumptions and this is the mode aside from it or opposite from it, well, you guessed it, it does introduce a new trust assumption. So external verification means that in between the two chains that you're connecting now, you bring in a third party and you rely on that third party. If you spend a lot of time looking at or trying to solve the Oracle problem, or just dealing with the Oracle problem, you are intimately familiar with this. In fact, I don't feel incorrect in saying that external verification interoperability really is just another manifestation of the Oracle problem. And solutions to it often take the form of either fully fledged Oracle solutions or narrowly scoped or narrowly defined Oracle systems. External verification takes many forms as many different configurations.
00:24:37.830 - 00:25:39.350, Speaker B: The easiest and most common looks like a multisig. If you were unlucky enough to be involved in the Ronan Bridge incident, you might be more intimately familiar with this configuration. But many times it just takes on a multisig, meaning that whatever state we're replicating between the chains, the ultimate arbiter of that is decided by a key. We used to have actually interoperability systems that did not even use a multisig and were a single key. Thankfully, we've advanced far past that and that is no longer the case. But that is a very popular mode simply because it simplifies the operation, but it obviously introduces predictable and obvious attack vectors. Another configuration is proof of stake, where you can kind of enhance that multisig with some type of economic risk.
00:25:39.350 - 00:26:49.710, Speaker B: Meaning where these third parties that are being introduced as external verifiers now have economic risk, now they have a real reason to not lie about what they're doing. But importantly, unlike the proof of a stake that you're familiar with from Ethereum, where ultimately a Validator cannot change your balance, a Validator can lie about a certain state transition, but they cannot take away your balance. In Oracle systems, you are totally beholden to what the external verifier says is the state of the world. If the external verifier says that the sky is red, the sky is red for all you know, on that destination. And this is why proof of stake systems, when it comes to interoperability, they are completely different. They are in many ways they are similar. But where it's most important, when it comes to the key risks to the system, they are quite different than what you're used to when it comes to proof of stake, simply for blockchain consensus.
00:26:49.710 - 00:27:38.734, Speaker B: Another configuration, one that I'd like to hope is growing in popularity, is the Optimistic Instruction. Again, different from optimistic roll ups, but similar enough to where you can use it as a mental model. You bake some amount of time, a certain challenge window between when some state transition is initiated on chain A and that being replicated on chain B. And within that time, watchers can observe the transition. If they find anything malicious, they can submit a fraud proof and prevent it. And last, there are configurations that will involve different forms of advanced cryptography. These can involve threshold signatures, multiparty compute, and we unfortunately won't have enough time to get into those.
00:27:38.734 - 00:29:02.806, Speaker B: And who knows what other configurations can hold, but I can tell you that there's going to be more of them. So we've done a half decent job of covering the history of interoperability, but now I told you we're going to talk a little bit about the modular blockchain thesis and how it relates to scaling crypto. So look, we all know with the modular blockchain thesis we're going to have thousands of roll ups and they're going to fix scalability, right? And they have to, obviously. But what does it really mean? What does it really mean for us to have all this state on ethereum? And now we want to access it. And we have all this demand, and so we need to be accessed block space in a more refined, more targeted, perhaps even less generalized mode, such that we're not paying 500 GWe on 200,000 gas transactions on the Regular. As was not uncommon during periods of high demand, as we saw in 2021. So what's it going to mean in practice? We're going to have all these Hubs, we're going to have talked a bit about this a little bit earlier.
00:29:02.806 - 00:30:17.170, Speaker B: We're going to have Ethereum as a main roll up Hub and we're already seeing this materialize. Earlier in the day you heard Kelvin from Optimism talk about roll ups and Optimism has done amazing work with the Op stack. Coinbase already took it upon themselves to extend the Op stack and really launch the first widespread rollup built with the Op stack. This is just the first example of this but really do think we're going to see dozens of these, if not hundreds Celestia with its work on data availability, Celestia rollups will become far and wide. There are already several dozen Celestia rollups being built and those will seek data availability either from Celestia, maybe from Eigen layer, lord knows somewhere points from rates. We're going to have lots of roll ups whether it's all the app chains that already exist in the cosmos world, these are not exactly roll ups since they don't separate execution as much as your standard roll up does. But for our purposes certainly okay to think about them.
00:30:17.170 - 00:31:29.798, Speaker B: The key point to take away from so we're going to have these Hubs and the lowest level Hubs will look like Ethereum, Celestia, Cosmos, a slightly higher level Hub can look something like Optimism in the Op stack. It can look something like Base, it can look like perhaps Eclipse, which is creating a toolkit to make Celestia rollups more widespread. All of these Hubs from them are going to emanate so many roll ups. But how do those roll ups talk to each other? How do they cross between Hubs? Right? We talked about the future that is acceptable to us. A scalable future needs to be a many roll up future. But how is that square way with the experience? How are we going to avoid having so many infrastructure interactions whenever we want to move between these roll ups and communicate between them? And that's where Interoperability comes in. Once again, the modular blockchain thesis needs permissionless.
00:31:29.798 - 00:32:28.570, Speaker B: Interoperability, if everyone who wants to is going to be able to spin up a roll up on demand if apps are going to be expressed as individual roll ups, if there are going to be generalized roll ups becoming a hotbed for more accessible and cheaper computation, how do we communicate between them? Are we really going to wait the seven day challenge period going back in between them? Obviously not. No one seems to think that. But the thing that gets not enough attention is Interroll up interoperability and interoperability across roll up hubs. And to that end, interoperability must be permissionless, but it never is. So I promised you we'll tell you a little bit about hyperlane. So, hyperlink is the first permissionless interoperability layer. Unlike other solutions in the blockchain space, it's not another blockchain to solve blockchain problems.
00:32:28.570 - 00:33:27.134, Speaker B: It's a network of networks, a network between blockchains in that interchange highway that we talked about before. It's the path between them. So it's our effort to create the safest, fastest, and most accessible way to traverse the empty space between blockchains. And most importantly, as that space gets filled with new, smaller chains that look like roll ups, look like app, chains, look like app specific roll ups, even anyone has the ability to deploy hyperlan on those and communicate with any other network that already has hyperlan on it. So we're running out of time. But high level, how does it work? Hyperlane is deployed on any environments that want to be communicated between them. So if you use the Op stack to create your roll up, you deploy hyperlane on it.
00:33:27.134 - 00:34:06.758, Speaker B: As soon as you're done creating the roll up, now you put a mailbox on it. That's what it means to deploy hyperlane. Then you or anyone can run a relayer. The relayer, once again, totally permissionless role. And contracts send messages to the mailbox, this contract that does exactly what it sounds like. And relayers sit in between different chains and different mailboxes, observing the mailboxes. And then they submit the merkel tree sorry, the merkel route that contains your message and delivers it to its destination.
00:34:06.758 - 00:34:55.210, Speaker B: This is what we believe the best way to offer permissionless interoperability, and truly the only way that interoperability can scale to a world of modular blockchains, which we know is the best way to scale Ethereum. So it took a bit too long, ran out of time, but that, in general, is our high level. Talk about this today. If you'd like to learn more, you can find me on Twitter at palenimbus or you can reach out to Hyperlain XYZ. You can find us on our discord. We'd be happy to talk to you all about it. And we will be sponsoring the scaling Ethereum hackathon, as we do with pretty much every ETH Global event.
00:34:55.210 - 00:35:01.040, Speaker B: We are large supporters and big fans of ETH Global, so we'll be here for you.
00:35:07.890 - 00:35:30.870, Speaker A: Amazing. Thanks, John. This was super informative. I feel like we got to do a part two here to actually dig into how hyperlink specifically can help here with all these things. And this has been amazing and a pretty awesome start to the summit. So we get to really see what people can do with optimistic roll of Zkvms and cross chain applications.
00:35:31.290 - 00:35:34.790, Speaker B: Thank you so much. I'll happily do a part two. Well.
00:35:34.860 - 00:35:38.498, Speaker A: We'll make it happen. Even if you don't want to, you'll.
00:35:38.514 - 00:35:40.790, Speaker B: Do a part two. This is good stuff.
00:35:40.860 - 00:35:45.890, Speaker A: We need to have this arrangement be out there and available for everybody to grasp.
