00:00:00.240 - 00:00:25.334, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deliberate refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sono, and today's the 1 June 2022. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So the op token finally dropped over the last 24 hours. Obviously, you've all heard of this by now, so not, not much to go through there. I'm sure a lot of you have claimed your airdrops at this stage. You know, maybe you're delegating them to one of the kind of like, governance delegates.
00:00:25.334 - 00:00:59.194, Speaker A: Maybe you sold some or all of it. Maybe you traded it back to ETH. I don't know. It's totally up to you what you do with your airdrop, that's for sure. I did have a few people kind of like, asking me what to do with the airdrop and kind of like what my opinion was on the op token value. Guys, I'm never going to comment directly on a token, except ETH. Like, ETH is the only token or coin that I make an exception for because I have, I have ETH bags, obviously, but I don't plan to sell my ETH, so I don't feel bad for kind of like, I guess you could say shilling ETH, you know, because I'm not going to be dumping on anyone, so to speak.
00:00:59.194 - 00:01:22.654, Speaker A: And I'm not kind of like just talking my book, so to speak. I mean, I am, in a way, but it's kind of different. Right. Plus, it's kind of hard for me not to comment on ETH since this whole channel revolves around a theorem and ETH. Right. So in saying that, I am not going to comment on the token value, also because I got a rather large airdrop, and I also am a state investor in optimism as part of their series b, so just wouldn't be responsible for me to do that. So not gonna do that.
00:01:22.654 - 00:01:57.308, Speaker A: But, you know, I commend you for trying to get me to commit to something I'm not. And look, I. I don't think anyone knows where the price is going to go. There was, there's been a really, a bunch of really great discussions in the Discord channel. So if you do want to give people's opinions on what the price is going to do, whether you should hold it or not, definitely you can have those conversations in the channel. I'm never going to stop you guys from doing that, but I'm personally not going to kind of, like, answer, you know, much questions or questions around that. And you guys know, my general view on tokens, right, where I basically say that there's a bunch of criteria that you, that you need to look at when judging tokens.
00:01:57.308 - 00:02:29.740, Speaker A: And you know, that applies to every token. So I still got to do that standalone video I spoke about where I go through my criteria of kind of like how I judge tokens and how I decide what's good to buy, what's not good to buy and stuff like that. Like, but not, maybe not kind of like talking about specific tokens but just talking from like a high level. But anyway, enough about the, the token price, the speculative side of things. Now that the op token is live, I guess we could figure say out that l two summer has started. I mean today's the first day of summer in the northern hemisphere, I believe, depending where you are. Like it's kind of weird.
00:02:29.740 - 00:02:58.752, Speaker A: Different countries or different places in the world have like different start, official start dates so to speak. I've always just kind of like said, okay, well June, July, August is like winter from where I am. It's, it's very cold here actually right now in Melbourne. It's freezing last night. And it's funny that the, the um, the top part of the world is uh, is in summer. But yeah, northern, northern kind of like hemisphere uh, is starting at summer here on the 1 June. So then they cleared the op token launched on May 31, I guess in kind of like the US and Europe.
00:02:58.752 - 00:03:30.924, Speaker A: But for me it was the 1 June. So yeah, l two summer has kicked off. I'm sure we're going to see more tokens come out relatively soon. You know it's funny, I used to say on the refuel that I thought optimism would be one of the last teams to issue their token. And they kind of like, I mean honestly I think that they were positioned for that, but then they just did a 180 all of a sudden and we're like no, we're going to be the first ones to do it, right? We're going to be one of the first l two s or first out of the kind of like major ones to do it. Obviously Polygon already has a token with matic, right? So there's no token coming from, from there. It's already live.
00:03:30.924 - 00:04:07.850, Speaker A: Arbitrum doesn't have one. Zksync doesn't have one. Starco doesn't have one. Scroll doesn't have one. You know, I mean and there are some others like immutable and loop ring. But if you're talking about the major kind of like generalized platforms, none of them have it except optimism and kind of like polygon, right? So we'll have to see how that kind of like, shakes out over the coming months, see which teams goes next, you know, and kind of like how optimism uses the op token to incentivize growth as well. I think if anything is going to push the other layer, two platforms to do tokens faster than they otherwise would have, it's seeing optimism have a lot of success with their token through incentives and things like that.
00:04:07.850 - 00:04:32.916, Speaker A: Right. So we're going to have to see how that shakes out. But if you want to keep track of the actual kind of like airdrop. So this is only the first airdrop that optimism has kind of like, done as part of the op token distribution. There will be ones going in the future, but if you want to keep track of op Airdrop, one Hill Dobby has put together a great dune analytics dashboard that you can kind of view here. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you to do so. So far, 112 million op has been claimed, which is just over 50%.
00:04:32.916 - 00:05:02.646, Speaker A: 54% of the airdrop has been claimed. 95,000 addresses have claimed, with kind of like 40,000, sorry, 40% of the eligible ones doing it. So you can see here kind of like what the, what the claims look like here. You know, it's funny. I wonder, like, how many people haven't claimed yet because they're waiting for kind of like the price to drop for tax reasons. That's actually something to consider for people who live in countries where an airdrop is considered income at time of claim or receipt. Because right now, my, like, I haven't claimed my airdrop yet.
00:05:02.646 - 00:05:41.698, Speaker A: So my airdrop sitting in the contract, still, that's technically not mine yet, right? The tokens belong to the contract. Yes, I can claim them, but I don't have them yet. So I haven't incurred any kind of, like, taxable events. But if I was to claim it, and it was to go to my wallet, then immediately, at the price that I claim it at, say, the op token price is dollar 50, I would have to calculate how much tax I owe on the entire amount, right? How much income tax I owe on the entire amount, and then cash out op to pay for that or cover it with some other way. So the funny thing is, for me personally, I'm actually waiting, waiting till July 1 to claim. So July 1 is when the financial year resets. For Australia, our financial year is July 1 to June 30.
00:05:41.698 - 00:06:16.988, Speaker A: And that'll kind of like reset my income. And then I'll just claim then and kind of, I guess, like, pay the, pay whatever tax is owed from there rather than claiming now. And, you know, if I claim now, I have to pay basically half of it as tax, 47% as tax. Right. Which I don't want to do because I personally want to hold the op tokens. I want to delegate them to kind of like, governance, but I would have to probably sell a decent chunk of them to cover the tax bill. So I think there's a lot of people in my position, maybe they're not going to wait till July 1, but maybe they're going to wait till the price drops more before kind of like, before claiming in order to kind of, like, minimize their.
00:06:16.988 - 00:06:33.108, Speaker A: Their tax obligations. I'm not sure. It depends where you are. It depends how airdrops are kind of I'm treated, but in, depending on the jurisdiction that you're in. But, yeah, that might be a reason why there's still a lot of airdrop that hasn't been claimed yet. But we typically see this. I mean, with the Ans airdrop, I believe there was, there was a bunch of tokens.
00:06:33.108 - 00:07:06.492, Speaker A: I can't remember exactly how much, like what percentage it was, maybe five or 10% or something like that. Someone can correct me in the comments, maybe, but essentially, that was kind of, like, not claimed, and then it was just sent back to the treasury. So then, you know, a similar thing might happen to optimism here. I doubt you're gonna get to 100% claimed like this. It just doesn't really happen like that. Right. Because I'm sure there's people who have left the ecosystem because the bull market subsided, who used, maybe use optimism or did one of the things that entitled them to an airdrop, and they just aren't around to know that they have an airdrop, right? Like, how, how sad is that? Like, imagine you, you have an airdrop of.
00:07:06.492 - 00:07:31.284, Speaker A: Even if you only got, like, one of the smaller airdrops from Op, like 500 or a thousand op tokens, right. That's still worth, like, a decent sum of money to kind of my most people out there. And how sad is that, that you miss out on that if you kind of, like, left because you got bored of crypto, because you're only here for the bull market. And this is what I mean by playing those long term games, guys, and not leaving during kind of like bear markets is because you. There's still opportunity. There's still plenty of opportunity out there. I mean, if even you.
00:07:31.284 - 00:08:07.120, Speaker A: Things like NFTs, like, I don't know if, I don't think I spoke about this on the refill, but there was this goblin thing the other day, this goblin NFT, and everyone thought it was really dumb and it was really dumb, right? But that pumped for some reason. It's up to, like, I think it was like a free mint or like a very cheap mint. Now it's at like six ETH per per goblin NFT. And this is not me kind of like endorsing that NFT or telling you to go buy it or anything like that. But it's just me using an example of does it, just because it's a bear market doesn't mean there's not opportunity. And there's actually, I would argue, more opportunity in a bear market than a bull market in terms of, like, positioning yourself for long term success. And I've spoken about these plenty of times before, but I want to keep on topic with the op stuff here.
00:08:07.120 - 00:08:44.108, Speaker A: So definitely check out this dashboard. And I put out a tweet today where I said, you know, friendly reminder, the op airdrop is going to generate a lot of fear revenue on the optimism network with the proceeds from this fear revenue later being donated to public goods, which is turning degens into regens. Now, I want to show you guys a couple of charts that I should have gotten up before, but I'm just going to get them up now. Bear with me. So first chart we have here is basically the daily transactions chart of the Optimism network. You can see massive spike, right, from people kind of like using the kind of like network to claim their airdrop because you have to claim it on L2. And then also we have the amount of fear revenue that's been generated.
00:08:44.108 - 00:09:15.230, Speaker A: Now, this doesn't update very often, so I don't think this is completely accurate, but optimism has generated at least $270,000 worth of fear revenue today and all the profit. So that's not. So, so all the profit that goes from basically the fee revenue here. So it's not gonna be 270,000. It's whatever the profit portion of that is, is actually going to public goods funding. So basically we have a lot of public goods funding coming through here. And then also another thing that I wanted to kind of highlight was on ultrasound money, the ultrasound money website here.
00:09:15.230 - 00:10:13.104, Speaker A: Optimism is actually in the top five burners for today. So you can see here over the last 24 hours, optimism, the OVM canonical transaction chain, which is basically the smart contract where the optimism network posts its batches to from l two, has burned 113 ETH and the optimism. L two gateway, which is the bridge contract in and out of optimism, has burned 68 ETH. So in total, if you kind of, like, calculate them together and put it out 170 ETH or something like that, 180, would you put them at number third as kind of today's burners, which is very, very cool to see. And then you've also got, like, the OVM state commitment chain down here as well. So another 40 ETH, which would push them even up to number three, like, even above Uniswap, if you can't kind of, like, count all of the optimism related traffic here. And you could even say that some of the uniswap traffic was influenced by optimism, too, because of people trading the token, right? And the reason why I wanted to point this out was because there's been a bad narrative going around recently that l two s are parasitic to ethereum.
00:10:13.104 - 00:10:46.896, Speaker A: L1, and don't kind of like, add value to ETH. And I mean, you guys know that that's a silly narrative. But for those of you may not be aware of why all the l two s have to pay ethereum for security and they pay ethereum in ETH. And most of that ETH gets burned as part of the way the trend, AIP 1559 works on ethereum. So, like, how can it be parasitic if it's literally adding value directly back to ETH? There's no way around it. The only way that these l two s cannot add value to ethan be parasitic is if they settle somewhere else. Like, if there's an l two on another chain, then obviously it's not selling on Ethereum.
00:10:46.896 - 00:11:22.014, Speaker A: It's not paying gas fees in Ethereum, it becomes parasitic. But if an l two, you know, an l two is living on Ethereum, he's posting its transaction proofs, and it's kind of like cold data and batches, whatever else, right? To l two l one ethereum, then it has to pay ETH in gas. There is no way around that. And there will never be a way around that unless we change the rules in the future, which I doubt the community would, would agree to do that. You know, they're not parasitic. They're actually very, very nice and very, very additive as well. And on that note, I should kind of, like, point out this tweet from David Mihal here, who said that optimism was responsible for 1.6%
00:11:22.014 - 00:12:00.746, Speaker A: of all fee revenue paid on Ethereum over the last 24 hours. Now, I know this network activity is kind of like, not going to be the norm for optimism, for a while because obviously there's a big spike due to the token launching. But you can just imagine when this kind of activity is the norm and we get even more activity on these networks once they kind of like, grow, once we have better applications, things like that on the network itself, they're good. As I said before, like, it's going to take a while, but eventually layer one block space would just be used up by L2s. And again, it's not parasitic because they're paying for layer one block space in ETH and ETH is being burned. So I think, you know, it's really cool to kind of like, see that. It's really cool to see it playing out as we kind of like, envisioned it would.
00:12:00.746 - 00:12:25.138, Speaker A: And I love the fact that kind of like, we have, like, clear evidence of this to show people now rather than kind of like, just saying it. Because at the end of the day, it doesn't matter if you say something and it's true. People, I think, you know, a lot of people think, like, to, you know, see with their own eyes sort of thing. So, yeah, it's great to see this here, and you can visit this website as well if you want. L two fees, dot in fo l one fees. I'll link it in the YouTube description and below. And last up here.
00:12:25.138 - 00:13:17.036, Speaker A: On optimism side, there was a bit of drama around how they did the launch here. So basically they kind of like, did a little thread of like, what happened? And kind of like, why the, I guess, like, the airdrop launch was a bit, I don't know if I'd call it buggy, but a bit like, what's the word I'm looking for? It didn't run as ideally as we would want it to. And Paulina had a bunch of great questions that they asked here, saying, you know, why was the announcement not ready in time? You have known for months the number of participants and the expected load based on previous airdrops. Why do you seem surprised? Why was the public RPC not upgraded well in advance? Post mortem is essential. Now, jing from the optimism team here, one of the co founders responded to Polynya and said, you know, you're right. We focused on hardening the sequencer because that's where our anxiety was on, that our Optimus killed it and the sequencer processed 274,000 transactions without a hitch. However, we vastly underestimated the RPC load, which saw 10,000 requests a second.
00:13:17.036 - 00:13:44.238, Speaker A: Our mistake was planning for average case claim volume, not worst case. But we don't waste mistakes retro public goods funding. I mean, retrospective, incoming. So the retrospective, like a post mortem, is incoming. That said, I'm proud of how all the optimists handled the utter insanity of the last week. Um, so on that note, where they, where we're talking about RPC's here, I put out a tweet where I said, ah, so I see we're comparing RPC, RPC issues with chains completely going offline. Likely the same thing.
00:13:44.238 - 00:14:08.996, Speaker A: CT has the collective intelligence of a goldfish. So I've explained what RPC's are before, but just a refresher here. An RPC is basically a node that you kind of like connect to a piece of infrastructure that you connect to in order to relay your transactions on Ethereum. You can do it through infuria or alchemy. On optimism, you have the kind of like official, I guess, like optimism RPC. And then I think there are a couple of others that may, may support optimism. I think inferior may support it.
00:14:08.996 - 00:14:54.956, Speaker A: But anyway, what ended up happening is that the RPC got overloaded, and it's very hard to get transactions through when that happens. And this, this actually has happened on polygon before, the polygon Pos chain, for those of you who have experienced there. But this is not, you know, this is not akin to the chain going offline or the kind of a chain slowing down or having degraded performance, because the chain works fine. As Jing said, the sequencer itself processed all the transactions just fine if you could get them in. So if you were, for instance, running your own RPC on, for optimism, on your own kind of like computer and talking to that and relaying your transactions via that, they would have gotten processed. It's just that people use the public RPC and, and that meant that kind of like it was overloaded and people couldn't get their transactions in. But the network itself ran fine, which is cool because it was a good stress test for the network.
00:14:54.956 - 00:15:31.746, Speaker A: So just kind of wanted to highlight that one there, but I think that's going to be it. On the optimism front, I think, yes, there's a related kind of thing that I wanted to talk about related to optimism, but that was it for optimism, kind of like for today. So hopefully you guys had fun. It was nice. It was a nice little thing to wake up to in the morning today. I look forward to the other l two s doing their tokens as well. So, as I said, I put out this tweet on a related note to optimism, but I said, as an ecosystem, we need to be building better and more sustainable applications that people actually want to use and actually get both social and monetary value out of none of the protocol level stuff like scaling matters if we don't create the ongoing demand to use it.
00:15:31.746 - 00:16:12.550, Speaker A: Now, there's a couple of things that I want to focus on with this tweet. Firstly, is that there's only a handful of applications that I would say have, have achieved kind of like a sustainable moat or a sustainable kind of like product market fit. Within crypto. Today, off the top, off the top of my head, or within a theorem today, off the top of my head, I can think of three Uniswap ens and stable coins. Now, you might think it's weird that I'm calling stable coins an application, but I consider them to be one because it's like they deliver so much value to the ecosystem. Now, what I mean by sustainable is that they're not. We want, we need these applications to not be on either extreme during market cycle.
00:16:12.550 - 00:16:37.086, Speaker A: So, for example, there are certain apps that get, like, a lot of use for maybe a couple of months in a bull market. Then they get basically zero use in a bear market. That's the, that's the extreme right. The zero to 100 is the spectrum some. And during those kind of like couple months in a bull market, an app will be at 100. You know, they'll be flying, they'll think they've got product market fit, they'll think that everything's amazing, and then they'll be at zero during the bear market. Whereas something like a uniswap or an ens.
00:16:37.086 - 00:17:04.050, Speaker A: Or if stable coins, while they do benefit, obviously, and they do better during bull markets, it's not a zero or 100 thing for them. It's more like, you know, maybe in bull markets, they do 70, 80, 90, maybe not 100. Right. Because 100 would mean that they kind of like have this massive spike all of a sudden, and then kind of like go to drop, drop down from there. And then maybe they drop to 40 or 50 during a bear market, so to speak. But it's never zero or 100 for them. Right? It's always kind of like a nuanced in the middle.
00:17:04.050 - 00:17:41.702, Speaker A: No, they're still growing. They still track, got traction, and they're still going to be there the next time the market heats up as well. And they're still going to be there in a really big way. So I think those three are the top of my head. But, you know, most of the stuff in this ecosystem is, it does not fall into that category at all. Now, because of that all of this extra capacity that we have coming online over the next twelve to 18 months, whether it be the L2s themselves adding extra capacity or layer one upgrades like dank shard, a proto dank sharding, they're going, I think like this time next year, or maybe a bit later than that, within the next twelve to 18 months. I mean, I'm going to make the bold prediction that we're actually going to have more a theorem decentralized block space.
00:17:41.702 - 00:18:23.642, Speaker A: And I call it a theorem block space because if it's a true roll up, a true L2, it's, it's considered Ethereum block space. In my mind, if we're going to have so much of it coupled with proto dank sharding, that I don't think we're going to have enough demand to fill it all. So the fees for end users at L2 are going to absolutely collapse. Like they're going to be so cheap that people are going to wonder why they ever, they ever doubted Ethereum scaling to begin with. Now that actually presents a bit of a challenge. The challenge it presents is okay, how do we build more sustainable applications? How do we fill this new block space that we have? And I think there's a few different ways we can do it. One is that L2s are going to, they're going to, what's the word I'm looking for? They're going to open up a bunch of new design space for applications.
00:18:23.642 - 00:19:00.370, Speaker A: So things that can't be done on layer one will be able to be done on L2. So that's, that's a big thing actually. That's actually what, probably the biggest thing that's going to happen with that extra block space that's available. And that's not just the block space, but the kind of like extra way, the new ways to develop applications on L2 that you can't do on layer one, especially around the non EVM ecosystems like stocknet, for example. Right? So that's the first thing. Second thing is they're going to enable kind of like not just new applications, but new types of applications. So what I mean by that is that there's been applications that have been tried on layer one, Ethereum before, such as decentralized social media, that just don't work due to scalability.
00:19:00.370 - 00:19:22.638, Speaker A: On L2, they kind of like will work because they get more scalability there. And then from there it just becomes, okay, do people actually want to use these applications? You know, here's all the scale we don't need to worry about scale anymore. It's cheap to use or even free to use. But do people actually want to use it? I think they will if it's good enough. Right. If it actually adds enough, as I said, social and monetary value to them, it can add only one thing. Like people don't use Twitter.
00:19:22.638 - 00:19:52.332, Speaker A: And a lot of people don't use Twitter and Facebook and Instagram and expect any money, Terry, value out of it. Yes, there are people that use it. Like for, for example, on Instagram you can be like an influencer or something and make money that way. But the majority of people do not use it as a way to make money. But right now in crypto, the majority of people use it to make money. And yes, crypto is obviously heavily financialized, but at the same time, there are many more non financial applications that we can build that, that we can kind of like, sorry. That will be able to be built because of L2s.
00:19:52.332 - 00:20:33.474, Speaker A: And I think the last thing is that we need to stop doing this kind of like game of do liquidity mining. Ponzify the app for a few months and let's, you know, let's get a lot of growth really quickly and then have to pay for that over the. Over the, kind of like the course of the next few years because we basically borrowed from the future for that growth. That trend needs to reverse or just kind of like completely stop or at least slow down for us to get more sustainable applications. So those would be like the three major things that I'm kind of looking at. But yeah, I think within the next twelve to 18 months, we're going to have more block space than we know what to do with. And you could argue we already have that today in terms of optimism and arbitrum have more capacity than we're using, just as examples there.
00:20:33.474 - 00:21:08.158, Speaker A: But. But the thing is, is that they're still expensive because layer one. Relatively expensive, right, because layer one is still expensive for them. But once we have proto dank sharding in place and L2s costs for layer one and negligible, then we're going to have like subsent transaction fees potentially on some of these L2s, especially with their own upgrades, like I'm compression and things like that call data compression. That's what I'm looking for, that, you know, people aren't going to know what to do with the extra block space. So I'm super excited for that, actually. I think that's going to be really cool to see it kind of flip from having too much demand, not enough block space to having too much block space and not enough demand.
00:21:08.158 - 00:21:30.634, Speaker A: We're going to have to see how that goes. And it depends on market conditions at the time as well. Like if the market's like super bullish in another twelve to 18 months, then maybe we'll fill that capacity in the short term. But I'm more about like the long term sustainable ecosystems. I don't want to say just short termism, but. But I mean, I don't think we, anyone can stop that from happening. There's always going to be those boom and busts, but I hope that we can build more sustainable applications going forward.
00:21:30.634 - 00:22:01.932, Speaker A: All right. Another thing that I tweeted out today was got to do with mining. So I said there will be an insane influx of GPU's hitting the secondary market after the merge is completed. I think this may lead to a double whammy, positive narrative change from gamers specifically, they may stop hating Ethereum since it's now proof of stake, and they'll also love the cheap GPU's. So basically, GPU's right now are being used. Like, a lot of them are being used to mine Ethereum. Because of that.
00:22:01.932 - 00:22:26.928, Speaker A: There was a GPU shortage for a very long time and GPU prices skyrocketed. I bought one when they were kind of like a really high in price. I actually had to buy one because my one died. I bought a 3080 Ti from Nvidia. It cost me three and a half thousand australian dollars. That same graphics card today is $2100, I think. And this is before this influx comes from the crypt, from the Ethereum miners once the merge is completed here.
00:22:26.928 - 00:22:53.666, Speaker A: So. And gamers hated crypto because of this. Like, they absolutely hated it. And then the second point is that they hate crypto or hate Ethereum and because it's proof of work and because it's like bad for the environment or they believe it's bad for the environment. Right. So that's, those are the two things that are going to change. The game is going to have really cheap GPU's to pick up on the secondary market, and they're also going to be going to, or some of them at least will know that it's because Ethereum transition to proof of stake and is no longer bad for the environment.
00:22:53.666 - 00:23:09.834, Speaker A: So I'm looking forward to that. I really, really am. I think it's going to be a great narrative shift. Outside of crypto, obviously, narratives within crypto are different. Kind of like ballgame, good ballgame, but outside of crypto, I think it's going to be a very, very positive shift. So looking forward to that. And there's a bunch of great discussions in the replies as well here if you want to check them out.
00:23:09.834 - 00:23:42.686, Speaker A: Poly now brought up the fact that some of these GPU's can be used for, for ZK proving. And I've discussed this before, they can, but I don't think there's going to be enough demand to absorb most of these gpu's by the time the merge happens. Like the merge is happening in August or September. Guys like that, we're not even close to being able having a kind of like l two one to decentralize. It's, it's proving like it's DK proving right. So it will happen eventually, but I don't think there's going to be anywhere near enough demand to soak up all the GPU's that are going to be hitting the market due to kind of like mining. I'm going by the wayside here.
00:23:42.686 - 00:24:18.568, Speaker A: So very much looking forward to kind of like seeing the, I guess like the, the fallout from this. Alright, so our swell network put together a little tweet thread today and they started by saying liquid staking is the talk of the town lately and will become more popular after the ETH two merge. Existing solutions have paved the way for liquid staking and have proven to be robust. But what's left to be desired? But what's left to be desired? Here's our staking 2.0 manifesto with nine reasons to use swell network for liquid eat staking. Now I've discussed swell, I think a couple of times on the refuel before disclosure. I'm an investor and advisor to swell.
00:24:18.568 - 00:24:59.780, Speaker A: Just want to get that out there. I don't know if I've said that on the refill before, but yeah, just getting that out there. But the reason I bring them up is because I've talked a lot about Lido dominance recently and about how I believe one of the core pillars of, you know, peeling people off lighter and reducing lighter's dominance, or at least pausing it for the time being until withdrawals are enabled and then we can work on reducing it is more competition. We obviously have rocker pool and they have their own issues that they're working through because they have, they have those minimums that they need to, that they need to kind of like bring down. And there are a bunch of other things going on there and I obviously promote Rockerpool a bunch on here as well. But there's also, I've talked about stakewise before. There is swell network and there's a bunch of others out there and there's always liquid staking providers.
00:24:59.780 - 00:25:25.732, Speaker A: They're going to work to take dominance away from Lido and that's what we want. So that's why I was like, yeah, okay, I'd love to be an investor advisor in swell because I want to kind of like support them. I want to help them. A major reason being to take away from, from Lido's market share. And I'm trying to become a rocket pool kind of like Odo member. I definitely want to get a kind of like a node up eventually as well. Kind of like with rocket pool to support them as much as I can and stake wise as well.
00:25:25.732 - 00:25:55.210, Speaker A: I mean I just mentioning them, I think that I'm able to support them just, just to that, that kind of like front. I don't hold any stakewise tokens or anything like that. But, but yeah. So I'm trying to just basically take that dominance away or at least make it a healthier kind of like staking ecosystem. I've talked about it a lot on the refuel before, but, but yeah, definitely go give this thread from swell network a read. You may want to stake with them when they're live instead of, instead of lido or rockapool, whoever else. It's up to you to decide who you want to go with.
00:25:55.210 - 00:26:19.686, Speaker A: I'm not going to tell you who to go with, guys. Like I'm just going to put out the solutions. I'm going to highlight the ones that I think are worthwhile to look into and then you can make decision for yourself. But I will say one thing though. I know light o is very tempting right now to kind of like stake with because they have big liquidity pools and things like that. Even though the peg is off, the liquidity bulls pool is still big. They make it very easy to kind of like stake with them.
00:26:19.686 - 00:26:36.628, Speaker A: But I would suggest staking with one of the others. Like this is, this is, you know, I think of this like I think about client diversity. It's not that lido is a bad service. Right? They're a good service. Like, I mean, they wouldn't have so much e stake with them if they weren't a good service. Just like it's not like prism is a bad client. Right.
00:26:36.628 - 00:27:17.604, Speaker A: But the thing is, is that if you care about the health of the beacon chain, if you care about the health of the overall ethereum ecosystem, then I think as being a good beacon chain citizen or a good ethereum citizen. It's your duty to make sure and to be aware of the fact that staking with Lido at this point in time is actually detrimental to the network. Just like using prism when they were the super majority was detrimental to client diversity on the beacon chain. Same goes for using Geth, right? Like on the execution layer side, you should be using nethermind or base or you know, instead of geth, not because Geth is bad, but just because they have too much dominance on the execution layer side for client diversity. And you should be thinking about the health of the beacon chain and things like that as well. So definitely go give this thread from spell network a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description.
00:27:17.604 - 00:27:47.432, Speaker A: All right, so speaking of client diversity, Coinbase cloud put together a thread here about how they're working on client diversity. And this is basically an update. So they talked about it on February 23. This is an update coming about 3 March, April, May 3 and a little bit months later, which is, which is cool to see. You can read this thread and kind of like give a, give a. It gives a breakdown of what they've been working on. I've highlighted how Coinbase was able to reduce their prism usage substantially after the client diversity push was, was done, which is really cool to see.
00:27:47.432 - 00:28:26.614, Speaker A: But we actually have stats right from kind of like Coinbase themselves here, where they say Coinbase retail now has 65% of its validators on non prism clients. So they have 30, only 35% prism clients. That's awesome. And most of their clients on Lighthouse and prism right now, and I think they're doing even more work in the background in order to support further client diversity. So Coinbase is being a good beacon chain citizen. They were at like 90 95% prism usage, then there was that push, and then they understood the risks of running a majority, a super majority client. They understood that they need to kind of reduce that in order to help the ecosystem and help the beacon chain and maintain kind of like the security here and the health of the beacon chain.
00:28:26.614 - 00:28:50.506, Speaker A: And they did it, which is really, really cool to see. So I mean, I. Big kudos to Coinbase here for doing this, and definitely check out this thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you to do so. All right, last couple of things here. So I put out another tweet today where I said the shift in narrative over the last few months from Ethereum will never transition to proof of stake, to people arguing that proof of stake is just like the existing banking system is hilarious. The haters will always move the gold process.
00:28:50.506 - 00:29:26.086, Speaker A: This is typically a sign that they have no real arguments. So this is quite funny, right? People always say this in the non kind of like Ethereum bitcoin maximalist camp. They always try to kind of like, say that proof of stake is just like the existing banking system, or its rich get richer or its plutocracy, or there's on chain governance. Some people say that. And I was like, no theorem doesn't have on chain governance. But before that, before that, you know, that's happened over the last few months. Before that, there was this major narrative that Ethereum would never transition to proof of stake because it kept getting, quote unquote delayed, right? It took forever.
00:29:26.086 - 00:30:09.138, Speaker A: And to be fair, it did. But the thing is, is that they can't say this anymore like the smarter ones. And some of these people aren't actually dumb, they're just kind of, like, blinded by bias. But now the smarter ones have realized that, okay, the Ethereum merge is actually happening. Ethereum is actually going to finally transition to proof of stake. So what else can we say to kind of, like, discredit this? And one of the narratives, as I pointed out, is them kind of like comparing it to the existing banking system, saying it's plutocratic, saying the rich get richer, saying all these other kind of, like, shitty narratives. And as I said, if people are always moving the goalposts to try and kind of, like, highlight weaknesses in something, then it's typically a sign that they have no real arguments that they can put forward, no real debates, no real anything.
00:30:09.138 - 00:30:43.494, Speaker A: And that just is the kind of like the sure sign to me that they got no idea what they're talking about, and they're just speaking from, like, a bias position here. And to be fair, it happens with everything, not just proof of stake. But, yeah, I just want to, like, wanted to highlight that for you guys as you're wading through public opinion on things. Like, it's just, it's always funny whenever I see these sorts of things, because you can obviously tell they haven't done their research. They're just speaking from position of bias and just speaking purely out of kind of like, hate for something, right. Which, which doesn't lend itself to very good arguments at all. All right, last up here, we have Defi saver that's now live on arbitram and optimism.
00:30:43.494 - 00:31:33.692, Speaker A: So Defi Saver is available on optimistic rollups with support for Aave, Fire, leafy protocol, and their regular partners, Zero x Alchemy and tenderly so you can read the full announcement blog post here and the kind of like thread here. I've talked about Defy saver plenty of times before on the refuel. Basically, it's an advanced defi management tool, so essentially allows you to kind of manage your different positions across different defi apps from one interface here. One of the kind of like top features that they have is a way to kind of like save yourself from liquidation. So have like automation that basically saves your position from being liquidated, which I think is a really, really great feature, especially if you're someone who's like a peak dj and you really want to play with leverage. Well, maybe check something like Defi saver out to potentially save your positions in adverse market environments. But yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out, but I think that's going to be it for today.
00:31:33.692 - 00:31:42.964, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
