00:00:07.050 - 00:01:09.902, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap beanstalk lost $182,000,000 to a governance Exploit on Easter Sunday, Beanstock, a stablecoin project on ethereum, suffered an exploit worth $182,000,000. Rather than a smart contract bug or theft of private keys, this was a governance attack. The Beanstalk hacker was able to get away with roughly $76 million in assets by taking out a Flash loan to purchase 70% of Beanstalk governance tokens, publishing and voting for a proposal that sent all treasury funds to the attacker and then paying back the Flash loan all in one transaction. The attack was rather sophisticated. To pull it off, the attacker took out $1 billion worth of assorted tokens on Ave and Flash loans and exploited Beanstalk's emergency commit function, allowing them to immediately execute their proposal without going through the typical lifecycle of a governance proposal. Both of these moves required a high level of DeFi knowledge and skill in the aftermath of the hack.
00:01:09.902 - 00:02:03.250, Speaker A: Beanstock's bean stablecoin, which traded at $1 last week, was trading below $0.10, according to its Twitter account. Beanstock is offering the attacker a 10% white hat bounty. For more information and discussion on Beanstalk, check out this week's episode of The Chopping Block, where Tom Schmidt, Tarun Chitra, Haseeb Karushi and I go in depth on the Beanstalk hack and DeFi security in general. An OFAC first a Russian miner sanctioned the US. Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control for the first time added a crypto miner to its list of sanctioned entities on Wednesday. BitRiver, the Russian crypto mining firm, along with ten subsidiaries, has now been added to OFAC's Special Designated Nationals list OFAC also sanctioned the publicly traded TransCapital Bank and 39 other individuals and entities.
00:02:03.250 - 00:03:02.646, Speaker A: Treasury is also taking action against companies in Russia's virtual currency mining industry by operating vast server farms that sell virtual currency mining capacity internationally, these companies help Russia monetize its natural resources. Russia has a comparative advantage in crypto mining due to energy resources and a cold climate, wrote treasury in its press release. However, mining companies rely on imported computer equipment and fiat payments, which makes them vulnerable to sanctions. The United States is committed to ensuring that no asset, no matter how complex, becomes a mechanism for the Putin regime to offset the impact of sanctions, treasury concluded in a statement shared with CoinDesk. BitRiver CEO Igor Runitz pushed back against the sanctions by calling them unfair. Runitz claims that BitRiver, whose parent company is based in Switzerland, has never provided services to Russian government institutions or sanctioned entities. The US.
00:03:02.646 - 00:03:56.950, Speaker A: Going after Russia based miners could have massive implications. Russia is the third largest source of mining power in the world, accounting for over 11% of hash power, according to the latest statistics out of Cambridge. Furthermore, Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, expressed interest in Russia's crypto mining potential in late January. Additionally, the news comes shortly after the International Monetary Fund published a paper explaining how Russia could avoid sanctions levied in the wake of its invasion of Ukraine via crypto. Mining over time sanctioned to countries could also allocate more resources toward evading sanctions through mining. Mining for energy intensive blockchains like bitcoin can allow countries to monetize energy resources, some of which cannot be exported due to sanctions. The monetization happens directly on blockchains and outside the financial system where the sanctions are implemented.
00:03:56.950 - 00:05:38.310, Speaker A: UST is now the third largest stablecoin terra's native stablecoin UST is now the 13th largest cryptocurrency by market capitalization and third largest stablecoin. Narrowly climbing past finance's BUSD this week, the news coincides with a burst in price from Terra's governance token Luna, which increased 17% between Monday and Tuesday. UST is still much smaller than Tether and USDC, which command an $82 billion and $49 billion market capitalization, respectively, compared to only $17 billion for UST. However, UST is now far and away the largest algorithmic coin, meaning instead of being supposedly backed one to one with dollar equivalent assets like USDC and USDT, UST is designed to keep its peg to the dollar through a mint and burn mechanism. That being said, one reason that UST has become so popular lately is its transformation from a purely algorithmic stablecoin to a token with some backing, as Luna Foundation Guard has purchased over $1 billion in BTC to back the UST peg in times of crisis. Furthermore, Terra is now one of the largest buyers of CVX Governance token that plays a significant role in the liquidity of stablecoins on ethereum, which should give UST more applications outside of being used on Anchor, a borrowing lending protocol offering almost 20% interest in the Terra ecosystem. For example, on Thursday, the Terra and Fraxbacked four pool yield farm went live on Phantom, bringing in over $30 million in total value locked just hours after launching.
00:05:38.310 - 00:06:56.420, Speaker A: For more information on Terra, check out two recent episodes of Unchained with Terra co founder Doe Kwan, who discusses LFG's decision to back UST with BTC, and then Galwa Capital's Kevin Zhou, who analyzes the risks associated with UST's dependence on anchor. In related stablecoin news, Tron founder Justin Sun announced plans for a new algorithmic stablecoin USDD for Tron, which he claims will have a $10 billion backing from assorted assets via Tron. Dow Moonbirds is Mooning Data from cryptoslam shows that Moonbirds, a new NFT collection, has accrued more volume in the last seven days than the following ten collections combined, and it's not even close. The 10,000 piece collection, which launched and sold out on Saturday, has racked up over 113,000 ETH in volume in the past seven days, equating to $344,000,000 for context. Mutant API Club, the second largest collection by volume during the same period, only did $64 million worth of volume. Moonbirds minted at 2.5 E and less than a week later, the floor price for the entire collection is over 30 ETH, marking a quick twelve x return.
00:06:56.420 - 00:07:56.338, Speaker A: The hype surrounding Moonbirds seems to be derived from its team proof collective founded by Kevin Rose, a partner at True Ventures. Proof's previous 1000 piece NFT drop, which grants access to an NFT investing and collecting group, currently has a floor price of 97 E to join. According to the Moonbirds Roadmap, holding a Moonbirds NFT gives access to the Proof discord where exclusive Moonbird related drops meetups in real life events, and most importantly, access to upcoming Proof projects will be available. The project, however, did not go off without a hitch. As reported by CoinDesk, the project faced complaints about its expensive two five ETH mint price, along with claims of Raffle manipulation and rarity sniping by developers. Coinbase NFT is here and it's social. Coinbase's much anticipated NFT marketplace was beta launched this week to a select group of customers.
00:07:56.338 - 00:08:38.642, Speaker A: While only a small percentage of users from the 1.5 million waitlist were granted initial access to create a profile, buy and sell NFTs and so forth, anyone is able to check out the platform. For now, Coinbase's NFT marketplace only supports Ethereum, but has plans to support other blockchains and fiat on ramps. Sanchez Sexina, VP of product at Coinbase, told the block Interestingly, the exchange made the choice to embed its NFT marketplace with social media tools. However, according to CEO Brian Armstrong, these social mechanisms are far from finished products. Coinbase NFT has a social component to it. Just want to acknowledge that we need to make social more decentralized over time.
00:08:38.642 - 00:09:39.474, Speaker A: We're stuck in a web two five world still moving toward web three, he tweeted, adding assets are decentralized and identity can be decentralized, but follower graphs, comments and some of the post content are still centralized. Opportunity is about to move more of this on chain over time. Time for Fun Bits Oops a DeFi hacker pulled off a self rug Zeed, a DeFi protocol running on BNB chain was exploited on Thursday after an attacker successfully triggered a distribution vulnerability that three xed any rewards earned from the protocol. Overall, it was a smaller hack, with the block reporting that the hacker was only able to derive $1 million in volume from the vulnerability. That being said, data from BSc scan shows that Yid's token price crashed all the way to $0 in the aftermath. Now, why is this a fun Bits? Because the hacker ended up rugging themselves, according to Blocksec, a cryptosecurity firm. Blocksec explained.
00:09:39.474 - 00:10:41.770, Speaker A: Interestingly, the attacker did not transfer the obtained tokens out before self destructing the attack contract. Probably he or she was too excited. Robinhood CEO wants bigger Doge blocks. Can Doge truly be the future currency of The Internet and the people? Robinhood CEO Vlad Tenev wondered aloud on Twitter last week as currently constituted, according to Vlad, the answer is no, and for a familiar reason. For anyone who has been in the blockchain space for a while, tenev believes that Doge's block size limit and transactions per second metric of 40 is holding Doge back from being a global currency. Tenev is now arguing for Dogecoin to move from a 1 block size and later 10GB to compete with Visa's 65,000 transactions per second, even though it would increase hardware requirements for nodes to do so, a tradeoff that Tenev believes is fair. Tenev also pointed out that Dogecoin's inflationary supply comes out as being less than that of the US dollar.
00:10:41.770 - 00:11:17.566, Speaker A: Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Peter Coin Center and the SEC's proposed rulemaking, check out the show notes for this episode. If you've read The Cryptopians and want to discuss it with other people who've read it, be sure to sign up for one of the book clubs. I am hosting five book clubs of 22 people each. One club will feature guests Griff Green, Latas Carapetzis and Christophe Yench of the Dow, and another club will feature Andre Turnovsky of Chat Roulette and the other three clubs will be led by Me. Set your calendar for 01:00 p.m. Eastern on this coming Tuesday, April 26 to buy your tickets@bitsky.com
00:11:17.566 - 00:11:40.650, Speaker A: at laurashin created also beforehand at 12:00 p.m.. I will be doing a Twitter spaces with Bitsky about the book, so be sure to tune in then on Twitter at bitsky. Bitski unchained is produced by me, laura Shin with help from Anthony Yoon, daniel Nuts Mark Murdoch Shashank and CLK Transcription thanks for listening.
