00:00:01.120 - 00:01:29.622, Speaker A: Okay, so good morning everyone. So today, as I said last time, I'm going to explain to you sort of new strategy that I have been developing for the last years, and hopefully it will in some sense put all these things in a more general, let's see, more conceptual setting, and hopefully will allow us to generalize these results to higher dimensions. Right. So essentially, what's the problem with the previous strategy that I explained to you? So I recall there's these two cases where we were able to prove the resolution of similarities for vector fields or relations by curves. And so in both cases we somehow has used the particular structure, in some particular structure in the ambient space. So in dimension two there is the divisor which somehow guided the choice of coordinates. In dimension three, I had introduced this new structure called an axis, which essentially allowed us to control and rigidify the local changes of coordinates.
00:01:29.622 - 00:02:48.214, Speaker A: So the problem is that when you try to generalize these to higher dimensions, they don't behave so well by blowing up, essentially. If you recall, I explained to you that when we blow up an axis, so this is essentially a regular foliation, which is generally transversal to the bad locus or nipotent locus. When you blow up this axis, you would like to have an axis for the new foliation, but you have problems in one direction, the direction given by them precisely by the leaves of this axis. In general, in dimension three, we are lucky because these points don't pose any other problem. But in higher dimensions it's not true. So you, at the end, you have to deal with some sort of singular axis, and this doesn't behave so well by what we'd like to do. So well, I remarked that in passing there is Herbic Hauser has defined a generalization of this notion of flag of axis for higher dimensions.
00:02:48.214 - 00:04:16.148, Speaker A: So you can think as this. In our case, we have the divisor, which is two dimension, and then an axis which is one dimensional, let's say submanifold inside this two dimensional manifold. And of course, you could imagine that in higher dimensions you have a sort of flag of surfaces, each one of co dimensional one inside the other one, right? So this should be, let's say, the natural generalization which would reify the coordinates. But I was not able to make this work nicely in dimension greater than three. So this is one of the obstacles. And the other one is that even if you're allowed to make this axis stuff work, the presence of these negative vertices, I recall this, this is an inevitable phenomenon for the case of foliations of vector fields, they pose a lot of problems when you try to capture the good filtration, essentially speaking, you have to look for this good face in the polyhedron and prove that it defines you, an environment which is intrinsic, upper semi continuous, and so on, right? So now, so I decided to change completely the strategy. And what I say, restart from the basis.
00:04:16.148 - 00:05:44.894, Speaker A: I mean, what do we want to do? We want to find an invariant and a filtration which, well, I say the minimum requirements that they are intrinsically attached to the local object, right? And the requirements are that the local blow up which is determined by this filtration. Right? So I recall, filtration is a quasi module filtration, which is somehow defined by, by a good choice of coordinates. So the local blow up with the center determined by this filtration should reduce the invariant, right? So this is, let's say the basic requirement, and then there is for the local resolution, then for the global resolution, we'd like this environment to be a personic continuous with respect to the analytic, or the risky topology, depending on the category that you work. And, okay, so now I stated some new guiding principle is that I don't think that you have to treat separately the case of germs of vector fields and germs of functions. Okay? So in some sense, why the treatment should be different for both of these. So in my strategy, I would like to treat both of these objects in an equal footing. I mean that the same strategy should work for both.
00:05:44.894 - 00:07:06.974, Speaker A: So let's say the unifying language to speak about both of these objects is to see them both as differential operators. Okay, I'm going to explain this, and let's say that by treating these two objects as a differential operator, or more generally, by treating any differential operator in an equal footing, in some sense, we're going to see the things for a more general perspective. And as I will explain to you, it gives us a new point of view, which, well, I hope will make things more conceptual and then allow us to define any strategy which don't have these two problems here. So, why study, why study singular differential operators in general? Well, there are very natural examples where these things appear. So let me just give a case of a order two differential operator, which appears very often in applications. So if you take the Laplace equation on an open manifold. So there is a very well developed theory for elliptic operators on compact manifolds.
00:07:06.974 - 00:08:01.806, Speaker A: But let's say you have this Atia singer indexes and let's say local resolubility and so on. But when you try, when you treat open manifolds, then there is a problem on the, let's say, when perhaps this such kind of ends, let's think some part of the manifold which is non compact. So we call this an end. So, for instance, so take a real money manifold. You take the Laplacian, the Laplacian belt tom operator associated to the metric. And of course, we'd like to compactify this object to this manifold to apply, let's say, the classical theory for compact manifolds. But when you compactify, the metric usually gets singular on the boundary.
00:08:01.806 - 00:08:46.714, Speaker A: Let's say you add this new point here, which is a sort of cusp, and the metric becomes singular here. So you finish with the associated Laplacian would be a singular operator in this point at infinity. So now I'm going to explain in general what I mean by a differential operator. So, this discussion, I'm going to work mainly on the case of manifolds, but you can adapt this to RB folds. So for we consider manifold the rearmorphic. And then we have two bundles above this manifold. Let's say that's called e and f.
00:08:46.714 - 00:10:03.884, Speaker A: So a differential operator defined by this vector, boundless, is a c linear map which maps the local sections of the first bundle to the local sections of the second one. Okay, so this is a sheath map, by which I mean that you take the sheath of local sections of e and it gives you, let's say, a section of the sheath of sections of the second one. And this is only cylinder. Okay? So in principle, it's not, it's not a module. Let's say it doesn't respect the structure of modules with respect to the structural shift. So an easy example. So if you take a global holomorphic function on the manifold, then the multiplication operator maps the structure shift onto itself simply by taking, let's say, a germ f and then multiplying by f.
00:10:03.884 - 00:10:41.424, Speaker A: Sorry, it's taken a germ g and then multiplying by f. So you have a new germ. And this defines eula, a linear differential operator of which is so called the multiplication operator. Okay? So of course, this multiplication operator acts on sections of any two bundles, because if you take a section of, let's say you take a section s of the bundle e. Yes, there is a small mistake here. Yeah. I have to change this.
00:10:41.424 - 00:11:02.934, Speaker A: Well, e and f should be the same here. So. I'm sorry. Okay, so e and f should be the same. And then there is some, this map. Yeah. So there's this map which maps a section of the first bundle in the in a section of the second bundle by multiplying by f on the right.
00:11:02.934 - 00:12:43.364, Speaker A: Okay, so now how do you find the order of a differential operator? So the multiplication operator is a, that I defined a moment ago is an order zero differential operator. And more generally, we, if you take two, let's say if you take any differential operator, we say that it's ordered zero if it commutes with the local multiplication operator. Okay, so by, by, by this I mean exactly the fact that this phi, which appear here should be an O module, by which I mean that it, sorry, it will be, it should be an O morphine in the sense that it respects the structure of multiplication by the O modules, where always the structure shift. And I can formalize this by saying that multiplying by a function and then applying phi is the same thing as applying phi and then multiplying by a function. This is what I mean by order zero. Okay, so more generally, we say that phi is a further d if it's commutator with the multiplication operator, okay, with d plus one multiplication operators given, gives you zero. Okay? So you can think as this, this first condition by saying that phi commutes with the multiplication operator.
00:12:43.364 - 00:13:32.058, Speaker A: Then so far, zero. And then, so for order d, if it commutes, if it's commutator with, if it's d plus one, order commutator vanishes. Okay, so that's two examples. So as I said before, a global differential, a global harmonic function h, defines a differential operator of order zero. Why? Because if you take, because multiplication is commutative, right? So if you, if multiply by f and then multiply by age, the same thing as multiplying by age and then multiply by f. So this, this order zero, let's say this shows that multiplication is of order zero. And then a global vector field also defines an a linear differential operator.
00:13:32.058 - 00:14:52.784, Speaker A: But now it's a further one. Why? Because, okay, so a vector field acts on the structure sheath by derivation, right? But when you look at its commutator with the multiplication operator, okay, so it simply means that you take a germ gap and then you apply, first of all, you apply the derivation and then f, or you apply in the other way around. And you see that when you take the difference between these two by the, just by Leibniz rule, is the same thing as applying the multiplication operator minus delta of f on g. And of course, this one is of order zero, right? So we see that a differential vector field defines a differential parameter. Vector field defines a differential operator. Further one. So in general, how do you present a differential operator order d locally? If you fix local coordinates, let's say x one, x n on a point, then it's simply given by an expression like this, right? So you have this, now here I'm using the most, this multi index notation.
00:14:52.784 - 00:16:43.104, Speaker A: So this is d over dx one to the power k 1d over dx two to the power k two, and so on, where k one, k two, etcetera, kn is a vector whose sum of entries is more or equal than d, right? So, and then there is this fi k here, which are matrices of polarorphic maps of rank k times rank of e. So, okay, so this is, let's say the general definition, but for this, what I'm going to say in the what follows, I only consider the case where e and f are of rank one. Okay, so this meant by this, I mean this, e and f are line bundles. So if you want, you can think of e and f as sections of the, let's say as a structure shift itself, the trivial sheath. But in fact, when you start to make, when you start to make these blow ups, even when we start with the case where phi is a map from the structure shift onto itself, when you make the blow up, as I'm going to explain, you have to twist these line bundles. And this is why I need to consider this more general setting, okay? But locally it simply means that you have a presentation like this where this fig are germs of holomorphic functions. Okay? But when you take two of these local presentations, let's say the transition between the fig on one chart and on the other chart is determined by the transition maps of these bundles here.
00:16:43.104 - 00:18:21.242, Speaker A: So let's see, I'm not at all a specialist on partial differential equation, but let's say some kind of problem that you would like to answer when treating differential operators, of course, is the local resolubility problem. So given, let's say g would like to find f such that phi of f is equal to g, this is the problem that you like to solve. Then there is this indexes problems where you would like to find the rank of phi and its core rank, like the inatia singer index theorem. And well, there is also a whole theory to try to define the inverse operator, but then you have to work in a more general class of function like functions or, or distributions. And then there's the whole calculus to try to find this inverse operator, which so called the pseudo differential calculus. Yeah, so just to make a small general discussion, so again, as we have seen in the case of functions and in the case of vector fields, there is some problem of studying the object from a global perspective and then from a local perspective. So globally, the problem is, let's say it lies on the domain of the global differential analysis.
00:18:21.242 - 00:19:29.976, Speaker A: But here we are most interested in the problem of studying this operator from a local point of view. From a local point of view, we'd like to say, let's say, let's give a german function g. And we'd like to find a german function f such that phi of f is equal to g. And again, we are confronted with this problem of the generic versus the exceptional phenomena. So even if you place yourself in a point, there is some points in which the operator is simpler than other ones. So the philosophy is that the exceptional cases, the case where we have this complicated phenomena should be of small, of, let's say of big co dimension, right? So the, except for a set which are going to define, which we call, let's say, the singular set of the operator, the behavior should be well controlled. So just to make an analogy for the case of order zero differential operators.
00:19:29.976 - 00:20:56.084, Speaker A: So this is just a multiplication by a germ f. What I mean by the singular locus is the locus where let's say the foliation defined by f equals to constant is not locally smooth, right? So we know that if you take f as a reduced holomorphic function, okay, so the level set, the level sets of f are smooth outside a closed subset of co dimension greater equal than two, which is simply given by the set where the differential of f. So yeah, so let's say if you're in ambient dimension. Yes, yeah. In ambient dimension two, this is a, I've drawn a picture here in ambient dimension three. So you see that the level sets of f are smooth outside this, let's say the crossing of this two axis here, and this, for me, this is, let's say this axis here should be the singular set, right? So let's say this is the simplest example of a singular behavior. And then we have already studied this case of vector fields where we have seen that a vector field is locally rectifiable outside its singular set, okay? So I mean that outside the set where the coefficients of the vector field vanish.
00:20:56.084 - 00:22:21.894, Speaker A: Vanish, you, you can always find local, a local system of coordinates where the vector field is written as d over dx one. And by, by which I mean that, then let's say the, the associated foliation is locally trivial. But moreover, if you consider this as a differential operator, then let's say you can solve this differential operator very easily. So the singular set is a set where all coefficients vanish, as I told you. And let's say more generally, if you, if you consider differential operators of higher order, there's this Koshikovalevsky theorem, which is a sort of generalization of this, of this flow box theorem in the main, for vector fields, which says that locally, if you're outside a code dimension, one set which is called the set of totally, which is totally characteristic, then in some sense you can define, you can always locally invert your operator by, by this cauchy cow analytical. Yeah. So now the goal here is precisely to define what we mean by this singular sets.
00:22:21.894 - 00:23:29.154, Speaker A: So in some sense it should be the sets where all these theorems here do not apply, right? So these things which are called, which are this. Nice behavior. And for the most of the talk here today, I'm going to try to define to you what I mean by a singular set for a differential operator for the greater equation. So let's say for us, I hope I have convinced you that there is a sort of clear definition. What, what I mean by singular or more, let's say more precisely by nil potent set for vector fields. And in some sense, I'm going to generalize this for differential operators of our higher order. So what's the approach here? What we'd like to do once we define this, first of all, we should define the similar locus, so, which generalizes both the case of functions and vector fields.
00:23:29.154 - 00:25:20.144, Speaker A: And we expect that the local behavior should be simple outside the singular locus. And secondly, we place ourselves in this similar locus. And then we'd like to define a modification on the ambient space, let's say, which goes from m, the pair m phi to m prime, m prime, phi prime, where let's say phi is a morphism, which is proper restricts tribulum of side a singular set, and moreover such that then if you take the strict transform of the differential operator by this morphism, I'm going to explain to you how to find, define this, then all the singularities. So of course, as you have seen, we cannot get rid of the singularities. It's already very clear in the case of foliation by curves, as I recall to you, that in the case that you have, for instance, a saddle point, you cannot get rid of the saddle point by blowing up, because it's, it also appear again in the stricter transformed foliation. But we don't expect to get rid of the singular set, but that all singularities which appear on the singular set of this new operator v prime, should be amenable to some sort of normal form theory. So by this, I mean that we should have a sort of generalization of this pancreas dulac normal form theories which would allow, in some sense, to systematically study the singularities which appear in these final models.
00:25:20.144 - 00:26:09.024, Speaker A: So this is somehow the problem. Okay, so this is a small confession. As I said, I'm not an specialist in the theory of general of linear partial differential equations. So I have in some sense, a proposition for how this final model should be. But for the moment, I'm not aware if they are very, very useful for the theory of partial differential equations. But let's say for me, as I mentioned at the beginning, the idea is to put my problem. So the goal from the start for me is to treat the case of foliation by curves.
00:26:09.024 - 00:27:10.424, Speaker A: And by adopting this more general perspective, I think that I can put these things in a more conceptual framework. But of course, it would be very interesting to see if this final model, which appear for the case of higher order differential operators, are useful for the theory of partial differential operators. Well, I said that I don't know the theory sufficiently well to see how these things are useful. But there is a thing called the b calculus, which has been proposed by Melrose, Richard Melrose. So you can see this reference. Here is his paper in the proceedings of the ICM in the nineties. And in this paper, he proposes a theory of pseudo differential calculus for manifolds with corners.
00:27:10.424 - 00:28:23.474, Speaker A: So this is more or less the setting that I'm going to treat here by what I'm going to explain. And. Okay, so it would be interesting to compare, let's say, the objects that he treats here with the objects that we find by this procedure that I like to explain. Yeah, so this is a program, and of course, it's not complete for the moment. But let me just give you a sort of list of known case, or for the case of zero, of order zero differential operators for this, I mean, by germs of functions, what I mean by these steps, one and two, is this just a consequence of Hiranaka's resolution of similarities? Right. Because you just, essentially what you do is you just eliminate the singular set of the germ by using Hiranaka's theorem. So at the end, the final models correspond to the fact that locally, your function should be given by a monomer.
00:28:23.474 - 00:29:12.112, Speaker A: Okay. And again, for order one differential operators, this is the case of vector fields that you have discussed before. So the reduction of similarities. Or more precisely, the elimination of the nippot locus is known to hold for dimension of m at most equal to three. And in this case, the final models are precisely what I call the elementary singularities, by which I mean that when you, you look at this, this expression, you should have at least 100 eigenvalue in the linearization of a vector field at the point. So let's put the things more or less schematically. You have this, you have this thing here.
00:29:12.112 - 00:30:25.694, Speaker A: So I have a diagram where you put vertically the dimension of the ambient space. Now horizontally, I put the order of the differential operator that I'm going to treat. So I say, Hironaka's results says that if you consider order zero differential operators, the program holds in any dimension. So the benches of Seder and Berg theorem, which I recall is this resolution of singularities theorem for vector fields in dimension two. So it says that if I have differential operations of order one, then you can go up to dimension two here, right? So the result that I explained to you in the last sections shows that you can always treat the, you can also treat the case of order one differential operators on, let's say, ambient dimension three. And, well, what I know to do up to now is this. Okay, so now with the method that I'm going to explain, you can treat any order differential operator in, on surfaces.
00:30:25.694 - 00:31:52.444, Speaker A: Well, to be completely honest, let's say the new method allows us to prove this, let's say this resolution of singularities for any order differential operators. But this could also be achieved by a more direct method with the ideas which are quite similar to the ones that I have explained in the first sections. I mean, by looking just to the Newton polygon of the differential operator. And I want to explain how to define this and apply the techniques that I have explained before. So, let's say in this, for the dimension up to two, you could also achieve this result by more traditional methods. But the idea for me is just to try to use the low dimensional case as a test to show that this strategy can work also in this, let's say, in this higher dimensional situation where everything is open for, to my knowledge. So of course, for me, the idea is just to use these techniques, but hopefully to fill up the blank region of this diagram.
00:31:52.444 - 00:33:27.240, Speaker A: So again, there is, let's say from the general perspective, there is not a very, there's not too much change with respect to the previous strategy, in the sense that there is a combinatorial object which is sort of Newton polyhedron, which will guide us to find this environment and also the filtration, which allows to define the local strategy. But now we are going to adopt a more abstract language, which is very, let's say, to keep an analogy with, which is what? A theory which is called the geometric invariant theory. I'm going to explain this in a moment. So, in fact, the geometric invariant theorem is a theory which allows us to study the quotient of a vector space under the action of a reductive group. I want to give an example for you. So this is a theory which has been, let's say, started by very classical problems like how to put a polynomial, an homogeneous polynomial, in a normal form, under direction of linear chains of coordinates on its, and let's say, or Jordan, normal form theory is also an example of a problem treated by the geometric invariant theory. I want you to give an example in a moment.
00:33:27.240 - 00:34:12.164, Speaker A: So there will be some definitions now. So again, I denote by Om the locker ring at a point on the manifold, and I'm going to introduce this module of endomorphism. So what's an endomorphism? It's just a map which sends the locker ring into itself, which is continuous. Okay, so it's continuous. There's a spectrum. We can define this, I'm not going to enter too much into detail, but you can define this notion of continuity by using families of seminorms. Okay, so you can use some structure of structure on the set of germs of function.
00:34:12.164 - 00:35:29.722, Speaker A: So it's an endomorphism which maps the local, let's say the structural sheath onto itself, and moreover, which satisfies this condition that there exists an integral l, possibly negative, such that phi. So an enormous should map the k for which map the kth power of the locker ring, sorry, of the maximal ideal to the k plus l power of the maximal ideal for each k greater or equal than zero. Okay, so this endomorphism, it can translate the kth power of the maximal ideal, but not from a huge amount. Well, in the case where this l equals to zero, we say that the differential, that the syndomorphism is local. So, by which I mean that it should map, it should preserve the filtration of the local ring given by the successive powers of the maximal ideal. Okay, so in the case where l, zero, phi should map the kth power of the maximal ideal to the kth power of the maximum ideal for each k. Yeah.
00:35:29.722 - 00:37:18.062, Speaker A: So now inside this endomorphism, the set of endomars, we have the derivations, which are nothing else than a particular like on the local derivations, a sort of particular subset of endomorphisms which satisfies the Leibniz rule. So of course this means that if you take any two elements of your, of the structural sheath, then a derivation should satisfy the usual labyrinth rule. And again, you have inside this set of endorphins, you have the group of automorphisms which are precisely the endomorphisms which satisfies this second rule here. Okay? So it respects the multiplicate, the multiplicative structure of the, of the locker ring. So the advantage now is to treat, let's say, the derivations and optomorphisms in, let's say, as elements of a common module, and this will be convenient for us, of course. Yeah, let's, then again, you can always, you can also consider this, the formal counterpass where instead of taking the local ring, you take its completion with respect to them, to the powers of the maximal idea. And then this condition here is the one that assures the continuity of the formal counterparts.
00:37:18.062 - 00:38:50.874, Speaker A: So this is precisely what I mean by this, by saying that you don't have to displace from an arbitrary order the powers of the maximal idea. Yeah. So again, so the dormorphisms, they act on the local ring, okay? Of course. And as a consequence, they act also on itself by conjugation, okay? By which I mean that if you have two endomorphisms, c and phi, and you have, let's say, f and element of the local ring. So of course you'd like to have this equation here, right? So by which I mean that you define the action of c on phi by the conjugation, right? So exactly as in the case of the group of the linear group act on a vector space. Okay? So now this is the fundamental definition how, now they have this, what you call the maximal torus. What's, the maximal torus is just a subgroup of the group of local automorphisms which is isomorphic to the multiplicative group, okay? So the multiplicative group of order of rank n is just given by n copies of the c star, right? Where multiplication is component wise multiplication.
00:38:50.874 - 00:40:42.782, Speaker A: And now a maximal torus is an embedding of this multiplicative group on the automorphisms, okay? And, well, if you take the infinitesimal generators of these automorphisms, we get a Lie algebra, which is called the Lie algebra of the maximal tolerance. And each element of this Lie algebra is a derivation. And in fact it's because the maximal torus is a commutative group, and yeah, and each element of this maximal tolerance. Yeah. So due to this beating structure of the maximal torus, you can show that this, each element of this lie algebra would be a semi simple derivation lying here. So, example, if you take the, let's say you fix local coordinates on a point pull, then there is the standard action of the torus on the local ring with respect to these coordinates, which is simply given by, say that you take t one t n as non zero complex numbers, and then you multiply t one by x one t two by x two and tn by xn. Okay? So if you take t one t n as an element of c star to the power n, this defines you the torus action on the, on the local ring, and as a consequence, it defines an embedding of c star n on the outer, on the automobile.
00:40:42.782 - 00:41:42.954, Speaker A: Okay, so this is the maximal tolerance. In this case, the associated Li algebra is an object that we have already met before. Because if you take the infinitesimal generators of this action here, you simply obtain the vector fields, let's say the c module of vector fields which are logarithmic. So this is an n dimensional submodule c sub model, okay, generated by x 1d over x and x n d over x n. And of course, this is a commutative li algebra. And you can, you can see very easily that by integration, by integrating these vector fields, you get this action here. Okay, well, in this case we are going to see that t is the standard torus associated to the coordinates x one xn.
00:41:42.954 - 00:43:22.264, Speaker A: And let me denote it by this. So of course, this is an example of a maximal torus embedded inside the group of automorphisms. But in fact, the proposition is that this is the only example in the sense that each maximal torus is the standard torus with respect to a convenient system of coordinates. So another way to say this is that given a maximal torus, you can always find an analytic system of coordinates such that the action of t is given by this on these coordinates. So how to prove this? In fact, it's not very hard. So, as I said to you, due to the fact that t is a copy of C star n, each element of the li algebra associated to t is semi simple, okay? And moreover, all elements of this lie algebra, they commute between themselves. So now if you use the pancare dulux normal form theorem, you can diagonalize each simultaneously, each one of these derivations which lie on the, on the, on t, okay? So you can, each one of them is semi simple.
00:43:22.264 - 00:45:07.544, Speaker A: Then of course you can diagonalize by pancreatulex normal form formally, but since they all commitments in themselves, you can, moreover diagonalize them simultaneously. Okay, now, so this means that you can always formally find a system of coordinates where this tolerance action becomes the standard tolerance action. But again, now you choose among one of these vector fields here in the liaba, one which has a generic spectrum, okay? So it first, you take one of the elements which. So of course, this, you can think of this as a linear space of dimension n, where the, let's say the, the coordinates on the space are just the spectrum of each element. So, of course, you can take one of the elements on this Li algebra, which has a spectra, which is q linear independent. And by taking this generic element, you easily see that this diagonalization, which has been defined in the previous paragraph, is unique. Okay? Why? Because if you look at them, the set of changes of coordinates which centralizes an element which has a q independent spectrum, you see that it's unique modulo permutation of indices.
00:45:07.544 - 00:46:34.650, Speaker A: So this explains the word unique here in the denouche. And now there is one last step to show so all of this is formal, because I recall to you, Pankaret Dulc's theorem, in principle, gives you a formal system of coordinates where your torus would be diagonalized. But now I can go a little bit further in this choice of the generic element by taking an element, let's say, on the algebra t, such that its spectra is of Bruno type, what I mean by Bruno type, it means that not only that these elements, lambda one, lambda q, are q linear independent, as here, but moreover, that this set of numbers, lambda k is not abnormally small. Okay? So not only they never vanish, which I mean, which is corresponding to say that it's culinary. The spectrum is kilinen independent, but moreover, that it's very, it's in some sense, well bounded away from zero. So this is, let's say this is what we call non existence of small denominators. So, if this holds, we can prove.
00:46:34.650 - 00:47:32.938, Speaker A: So, this is Bruno's theorem, that in fact, this linearization, let's say this map, which linearizes this element delta here, which in principle is only formal, is indeed analytic. It's indeed. So we have a convergence linearization. And by linearizing this element delta here, it's easy to see that you linearize altogether all elements in this li algebra. And as a consequence, you diagonalize this torus action. Okay, so by this argument here, I show that each maximal torus is in fact a standard maximum torus. So why this is useful because later on we are going to see that we are going to need to compute the center and the normalizer of each one of these maximal torus.
00:47:32.938 - 00:48:52.906, Speaker A: So what I mean by this. So the center of maximal torus is the set of all and all automorphisms of the local ring which fixes point wise each element of t. Okay, so as I said to you, the automorphisms, they act on themselves by conjugation. So we take each automorphism on T and then you conjugate by an element of a GenEral tomorphism, you get a new automorphism, but in principle it's no longer on this MaxImal toruS. So we define the center t as all automorphisms which fix point wise each element of t, and we define the normalizer of t as a set of all optomorphisms which map t on itself. Okay? So this theorem here, it says that, so of course the center is a normal subgroup of the normalizer. And this theorem here says that when you take the quotient of the normalizer by the center, what you get is the symmetric group.
00:48:52.906 - 00:49:55.080, Speaker A: Okay? So simply says that you, yeah, so this is, why do you, how do you do this? In fact, essentially when you, you just have to consider a group of optomorphisms which map the standard torus into itself. And you see that in this case by explicit computations, since each maximal torus is of this form in an appropriate coordinates, it suffices to prove the result in this case, and in this case by explicit computations, you see that you can compute easily the normalizer and the center. And you see that this, the so called wire group is given by the symmetric groups. It's just the change of coordinates which maps, let's say x one to x two, x three to x five, and so on. Okay, so it just permutates the coordinates. Okay, so this will be useful later. Yeah.
00:49:55.080 - 00:51:15.054, Speaker A: So now the essential thing now the goal is to define this geometric object, let's say this combinatorial object that I want to call the Newton polyhedron with respect to maximal torus. And this is based on this following general fact. If you have a torus which acts linearly on a finite dimensional vector space, then you can always define a direct sum decomposition, let's say of this space v into a sum of graduated pieces. Okay, so what's this graduated pieces here? So it take for those, so x of t is what they call the group of characters of the maximal torus, of a torus. So it's just the homomorphisms the c homomorphism between t, sorry, the amorphous over z, sorry, from t to c star. Okay. And then the graduated pieces, the graduate piece associated to, yeah, so the gradient is associated to one of these characters.
00:51:15.054 - 00:52:48.594, Speaker A: This piece here is simply the set of vectors v such that for each element of the torus, the action of, let's say t, the action of t on v gives you alpha t times v. So this essentially is saying that this graduated piece of degree alpha is the set of vectors which are eigenvectors for t with associated eigenvalues, or this is eigenvalue alpha of t. Okay, so in the, in the sense you're, you're just taking the by in a tolerance action, see, if everything is commutative, you can just decompose v in a sum of simultaneous eigenspaces for each one of these elements tilde. Okay, and the associated eigenvalue is so the indexes by the associated eigenvalue. Okay, so how does this translate in our setting? So you are going to recover a very well known object here. So again, this is, holds for this decomposition holds in finite dimensional vector spaces. But now we, we have to recall that we are recurring our action to be local in the sense that this action of the torus preserves the maximal ideal.
00:52:48.594 - 00:54:28.034, Speaker A: So by this condition you can prove that this action is filtered by the successive powers of the maximum ideal, and by which means you can study this as an inverse limit of the action of t on the jets, on the finite jets of o. Right? So this always, so this is compatible with respect to the truncations and gives you again a direct sum decomposition with respect to any max. So given any maximal torus t, you have a direct sum decomposition of the local ring in this infinite sum here, okay? In principle, where each element of this gradated piece, it's in some sort an homogeneous germ of degree alpha. So I'm going to give an example in a moment. But again, you have this direct sum decomposition of the locker ring. But of course, since the torus acts by conjugation, also on the endomorphisms, on the derivations, and on the automorphism, you also have this decomposition on all these corresponding spaces. Okay, so, so again, example, let's take the standard torus action acting on a, let's say in the diagonal way that I explained to you in a, a moment before, a moment ago.
00:54:28.034 - 00:55:56.228, Speaker A: So the, the diagonal action of the maximal torus on the variables x, one, on the, let's say on the, on the variables x one x x n induces an action on a monomel x k by, so x k, I mean by x one k, one x k x n kn simply by, by following the as follows. So if you look at the action of t, one t n on x k is just given by t to the power k x k, right? So this is simple. And then using this, you can see that in fact the graduated piece of degree k. So now of course the graduation. By using this identification, you can identify the character group, the group of characters to zn. So in general, there is a non canonical isomorphism between the group of characters of maximal torus and zn. And by fixing a diagonalizing system of coordinates, you fix this isomorphism between the character group and zn.
00:55:56.228 - 00:57:30.774, Speaker A: Okay, so these automorphisms, these autographies, it maps, let's say an element. So let's say by this identification, the character k maps the element t one t n to t one to the power k, one t n to the power k, and by this identification, the graduated piece of the local ring of degree k, where of course now k is a multi index, okay, k one k n. So the graduated piece of the local ring with respect to this to k one kn is simply given by the one dimensional subspace c subspace generated by the monomial xk, because of this condition here. Okay, so when I have this maximal torus, each one of the graduated pieces is of dimension one. So it really separates in pieces of dimension one. As I said to you, you can also define this graduation on the set of vector fields. So the graduated piece of multi degree k with respect to this maximal torus is simply given by x to the power k.
00:57:30.774 - 00:58:37.634, Speaker A: So x one to the power k, one x two to the power k, et cetera, times this linear combination here, where c this, you have this. So in this case c here is you have a component of dimension n, because you can choose freely this coefficients multiplying x over dx one and x n d over x n. And of course, the graduated piece of multi degree k of the endomorphisms are given by the endomorphism which map for each n. It max it, it maps the monomial cn to the monomial c n plus k. So it displaces by a multi. So this is again a multi index notation, right? So it by k indexes by vector k each one of the exponents. Well, somehow, sometimes, to make the computations, it's easier to compute this with respect to the li algebra of t.
00:58:37.634 - 00:59:51.214, Speaker A: So it gives exactly the same graduation. So for instance, the graduated piece of multi index kick of the local ring is given by all germs f such that d over dx one of f equals to k one of f, etcetera. And d over dxn of f is given by k of n times f. Of course, if you take the, let's say the Taylor expansion of f with respect to the, to the variables x one, x n, you see that these conditions means precisely that f has only one monomial, which, which would be of this form here, right? So this defines a divergent piece. Okay, sorry if it, sorry if it's too abstract, but I need these definitions in order to formulate properly my, my setting. Yeah. So now I finally arrived to this notion of, let's say, Newton polyhedron with respect to the maximal torus.
00:59:51.214 - 01:01:28.204, Speaker A: So I recall to you that given a maximal torus, you can decompose the spaces in graduated pieces where each piece has a multi degree with respect to the character group of the torus. So now you take any endomorphism. So sorry, I want to go back a moment. So, as I remember, I recalled you that the module of endomorphisms also has a direct sum decomposition as this, okay? Because t acts on the endomorphism by conjugation, okay, since t is an endomorphism itself. So I'm going to use this graduation, this direct sum decomposition to decompose a given endomorphism as a direct sum of this, where phi alpha is the component on the graduated, let's say, is the component of phi in the graduated piece of degree alpha. And now I define the support of Phi with respect to this maximal torus as a set of all characters such that the associated graduated piece is nonzero. Okay, so now the support is a subset of the set of characters.
01:01:28.204 - 01:02:44.698, Speaker A: Now, as I said to you, I can, by fixing a local system of coordinates, I can identify the support with zn, because this is a maximal torus. And you can always think as this is the standard maximal torque associated to a system of coordinates. So by this identification, you now define the Newton polyhedron of Phi with respect to the maximal torques as the convex envelope of the support plus the positive quadrant. Okay, so this is the same definition that I've given before, but now using this more abstract setting here. So of course, in principle, this definition depends on the choice of identification of xt with zn. But all the features that we are going to extract from this Newton polyhedron will not depend on this identification here. Daniel? Yeah, yeah, the case of vector fields.
01:02:44.698 - 01:03:13.994, Speaker A: So you had also Newton polygons who could have negative coordinates, but they could be at most minus one, right? Yes. So it's not the case here, I guess. Yes, yes. I want to give an example. Yes. Okay, so this, this general definition, it works for any endomorphism. Okay, so among these endomorphisms, there is the function germs, which are, so, sorry.
01:03:13.994 - 01:03:58.134, Speaker A: Among these endorphins, they're all the differential operators. So a differential operator is an endomorphism of the local ring. So it maps the local ring into itself. So, but they have a particular feature that in this case, if you have a degree d differential operator, then this support cannot be anything. It has to lie in a very precise region that I'm going to show to you right now in the example in the month. Okay, so how it works. So I said that if phi is a differential operator of order d, how do you compute the support? You do as follows.
01:03:58.134 - 01:05:13.424, Speaker A: So let's suppose that t is the standard maximal tolerance for some system of coordinates x one x n. Then you compute the expansion of phi with respect written in this form. So I recall to you that now again, as indicator vector phase, I have to force the appearance of these polynomials. So this is a multivariable polynomial of degree smaller or equal than d, which is computed on the logarithmic basis. Okay, so this, each one of these p's is a polynomial in n variables of degree at most d, where d is the order of the differential operator. And now each one of these parts is multiplied by abnormal x to the power s. So in some sense, this part here gives you a graduated piece of degree zero.
01:05:13.424 - 01:06:49.706, Speaker A: And then when you multiply by s, you have a graduated piece of degree s. Okay, so the support of phi with respect to the maximal torus, which is the standard one in these coordinates, is just given by writing this expansion, and then looking at all multi index s such that the associated polynomial p of s is no zero. So as I said to you, in principle, this indexation, so s here by, by my identification of the character group of with z to the power n, this s here is indexes, is indexed in z to the power n. Okay, but we see that if there is a differential period of order d, what happens is that by force, in the appearance of this logarithmic basis here, you should sometimes take s to be negative, but not too much negative at most. Let's say each entry of s is greater or equal than minus d, where d is the order of the operator. So I give an example. So of course in the zero dimensional, the order order zero case, so this is the case of this ratio operators of order zero.
01:06:49.706 - 01:07:27.224, Speaker A: So these are just functional germs. Okay? So they have already seen this example. So if you write y to the square minus x to the power three, right? So in this case you have the support is this one, and this is the Newton polygon of f with respect to the maximal torque. Okay? Then for vector field differential period of order one. Now you can have negative vertices in the polyhedron. Sorry. Yeah, so again, I forced appearance of this logarithmic basis here.
01:07:27.224 - 01:08:39.840, Speaker A: Okay? And by, by forcing this, I eventually have contributions coming from negative vertices, which means that for those people which knows, let's say, the corresponding objects in the d algebra setting, this means that the weight spaces for the associated d algebra has negative weights here. So the minus one you can have minus one, averages minus minus one one, and averages two minus one. And finally, the new situation we have. Let's see, let's take the heat equation, right? So the heat equation is a differential operator of order two. And now I'm going to enforce the appearance of these logarithmic basis, okay, so for computational purposes it's better to write, is to write these polynomials in d, sorry, x, d over dx and t over dt by using this, which is called the Frobenius differential operator. Okay, so what's the Frobenius? It's just a, let's say it's a, it's just a notation. Right.
01:08:39.840 - 01:10:26.954, Speaker A: So this is a polynomial in d over dx of degree two, which is just a polynomial, where you take this combinatorial, let's say in the binomial coefficient, and put in the place of n, you just put d over dx. Okay, so this is a polynomial of degree two in d over dx, sorry. And this is a polynomial of degree one and t over dt. And when you, you write now the phi in this, using this basis, you, you get, you have to put here the coefficient x to the power minus two and here t to the power minus one. Okay, so you have two, you have two monomials, so, sorry, two vertices, one is situated at, let's say, on the position minus 20, the first one and the second one in the position t, sorry, zero minus one, which here, okay, so now you see, you have these two negative vertices and there is a vertices at position minus two, because let's say this is the worst possible situation since the differential operator is of order two, if it were of order d. Then you could get something of the vertices at position minus d zero, for instance. So again we have this phenomenon, which in some sense is inevitable is the appearance of these negative vertices in the polyhedron with respect to any, to a given maximal torus.
01:10:26.954 - 01:11:38.824, Speaker A: So in fact, if you change the maximal torus, this phenomenon will persist because it's intrinsically attached to the object. Okay, so now there is, so I have defined the polyhedron of an endomorphism with respect to a maximal torus, and this is precisely one of objects is very useful in the geometric invariant theory. So there is something I want you to explain in a moment, which is called the Hilbert man for criterion. But I'm going to just adopt the following dichotomy between the situation that can appear when considering the Newton polyhedron of an endomorphism. There are two possible situations. The first one is the so called unstable situation where there exists the maximal tolerance such that the Newton polyhedron of the endomorphism with respect to the maximal torus does not contain the origin. So this is the so called unstable situation.
01:11:38.824 - 01:12:46.654, Speaker A: So I recall too that we are here, we studied the germ of a differential operator in a point b on the manifold. So everything here is germified on a point. And the second situation is that the germ endomorphism at the point p is semi stable if for all maximal tolerance zero lies on the Newton polyhedron. So if you recall what I have done in the case of vector fields, these were precisely the dichotomy which separated the case of nil potent germ or the case of an elementary germ. Okay, so now we are some sort of generalizing this for, for the case of any of any other differential operator. So now, so this defines a germ of endomorphism. Let's say this, this condition corresponds to, let's say, a property of the germ of an endomorphism at a point.
01:12:46.654 - 01:14:24.104, Speaker A: And now from a global point of view, we are going to say that the unstable locus of an endomorphism is the set of point p such that the germ of phi at the point p is unstable. This is, let's say for us, this will be the bed locus. So this is the set of points that we would like to eliminate by our resolution process. So this is my proposition for the set of points that should disappear by this sequence of blowing ups. Well, so why? I think it's not so bad, because in the case of, let's say, where phi is of order zero, I recall that this means that phi is given by a scalar multiplication operator. So what's the unstable locus? In this case, the unstable locus is simply the variety defined by f. Okay, so it means that if you, if you look at the Newton polygon of a function with respect to, sorry, the polyhedron of a function with respect to any maximum torus, it locally contains zero if and only if the function fanishes on p.
01:14:24.104 - 01:16:02.778, Speaker A: Okay, so this, sorry, p is on the unstable locus if and only if f, the germ of f and p lies on the maximal idea. And for a differential operator of order one, take the case which I have studied, let's say in general, a differential operator of order one is just, you have a component, a component of degree zero, of order zero, sorry, which is a multiplication and a component of order one, which is a derivation, like this. Okay, so the case that had mostly studied up to now is the case where you don't have a component of the order zero, but even in this case, we have just have a component of order zero and a component of order one. The characterization, the characterization of the unstable locus is also easy, because a point p is on the unstable locus if and only if f. So the degree, the order zero component vanishes on p, and the order one component is locally important. Okay, where I recall that being locally, a derivation is important if it preserves the maximum ideal and the semi simple part vanishes. Okay, so this is not very, very hard to prove.
01:16:02.778 - 01:17:05.744, Speaker A: Well, in this case, if you look at the definition of the unstability, you see that it is that you can, in the case where you have an unstable point, it means that you can separate the Newton polyhedron from zero by a hyperplane. And of course, this is always possible. Let's say, in the case of a function, if there is no vertex at the origin. So this is why this condition holds. Sorry, I have to drink something. So, in this, this second property here is a characterization of the nipotent locus that I have given to you. Let's say, I think, two sessions before, two sessions ago, this means this is precisely the condition of nil potency that I explained to you.
01:17:05.744 - 01:18:28.744, Speaker A: Okay, so this definition, it works nicely in the, well, in the known cases. And now I would like to understand this unstable locus in the case of higher order differential operators. So, for instance, there is a very basic question, which is quite tricky, and I am going to explain to you that I don't know how to prove that this unstable locus is a closed subset. I will explain to you why. And this is, I think, the last thing that I want you to show to you today. So, but before explaining why this is quite tricky, to study this object in general, you have to look at this, at the definition that here you see that there is a quantifier here, right? To say that it's unstable if there exists a maximum tolerance such that, so, etcetera. So, in fact, in order to look at this, at this stable locus from, let's say, an analytic point of view, to prove, for instance, this is an analytic subset of the ambient space, we should be able somehow to eliminate this quantifier here and say that the unstable locals is defined by some set of analytic equations.
01:18:28.744 - 01:19:17.384, Speaker A: Okay, so now to explain this, I'm going to give an alternative characterization of the unstability via one parameter subgroups. So what's one parameter subgroup? It's a torus of dimension one, right? So this is given by an embedded of c star into the group of local automorphisms. So this is just, let's say, a copy of a one dimensional torus inside the group. And let's call l. It's Li algebra. Okay, so again, an example. This is an object that I have already met several times.
01:19:17.384 - 01:20:32.924, Speaker A: If you fix local coordinates x one xn, we can consider the c star action on the local ring given by as follows. So you have a t, an element of c star, and it applies, it gives, it gives, it maps the first variable x one to t to the power omega one x n and x n to the t to the power omega n xn. Where now of course, since you want to have some analytic object, so it should be a subgroup of atomic groups. This omega one omega n should be integers, non zero integers, sorry, sorry. Some of them can be zero, but the vector itself is not, is not, is non zero. Well, now we see that lambda is positive if all this omega one omega n can be chosen of the same sign. So this notion that I'm going to use in a moment, but in principle it could have some, some of them negative and other positive.
01:20:32.924 - 01:21:47.774, Speaker A: But for, for us, the most interesting cases declared where all will be positive. So, okay, in this case, again, the associated li algebra is very easy to compute is if you take this vector field here and you integrate this vector field, you see that its flow is given by its time t flow. Yeah, it's, let's say time t flow is given by something. It depends this action here. Okay, again, so, as I said, this is an example of a one parameter group, but again by Pankara Dulac's theorem, each one parameter group can be put in this form here by an appropriate choice of coordinates. So you can, so the Lie algebra, again, you can use the Poincare ad dulux theorem, because the Lie algebra is generated by a semi simple derivation, since it's the LGBtorus. And then you can diagonalize this semi simple element through the concrete dulaxial theorem.
01:21:47.774 - 01:23:06.364, Speaker A: And finally, you can prove that this. So there's a profound theorem of Bruno. Well, in fact, it's much easier in the case where the lambda, let's say, where the weights are all positive, because in this case it's, you don't have to use the whole Bruno's theorem to prove that this diagonalizing system, of course, is analytic. But even in the case you have non positive weights, non positive elements in this vector, one omega, one omega n, you can prove that by Bruno's condition b theorem that this diagonalization can be chosen analytic to be analytical. Okay, so this is in fact the only example of a convenient choice of coordinates, of a one parameter subgroup of automation. And of course, each one parameter group is contained in a maximal torus. Why? Because once you diagonalize this one parameter group to write it in this form, of course, it is contained in the maximal torus, which is the standard maximal torus associated to the system of coordinates.
01:23:06.364 - 01:24:17.334, Speaker A: So this automatically, automatically gives you the property that each one parameter group is contained in the maximal torus. But of course, this torus is far from being unique in the sense that one parameter group can be contained in several different torus. And, well, the analogy to keep in mind is that, let's say if you take the linear group on a finite dimensional vector space, a maximal torus should be think as a way to choose a basis of v. Okay? So to fix a maximal torus corresponds to choose a basis on v, but a one parameter group corresponds to the fact that you cannot, zero vector can belong to infinitely many distinct bases. So this is the analogy that you have to keep in mind here. So you can complete any non zero vector to any, any basis. Yeah, so I think, yeah, so I have time to explain this.
01:24:17.334 - 01:25:41.556, Speaker A: Yeah, so there is an important fact that we're going to use also later on, but I'm going to show it to you now, is the following thing. So let's call for any group g. Let's call gamma of g, the set of all one parameter subgroups of g. So this is a group of all torus embedded on g. And now you can, of course, you can make g act on this gamma of g by conjugation, right? So if you have a one parameter subgroup of the torus and you have an element, sorry, if you have one parameter group of any group g, let's say a linear algebra group, linear, you can make, you can give, you can have a new one parameter group by conjugation, right? So take g times lambda, which is the conjugation of lambda by g, and this gives you a new one parameter group. So this defines an action of g on gamma g. So now we are going to use later on the set of equivalence classes of gamma of g.
01:25:41.556 - 01:26:50.404, Speaker A: Under this section by g, we see that two one parameter groups are conjugated if there is an element of g which maps one to the other according to this action here. So by what, what will be important for us is the following thing in our context. For each maximal torus t contained in the atomorphism group, you can define the set of all one parameter groups, one parameter subgroups of the atomic group co shanted by the action of the optomorphism by conjugation. Okay, so this is the object here in this infinite dimensional setting here. Okay? But now there is a very nice description because this is exactly the same thing. Yeah. So the equivalence class here is the same thing as taking for you fix one maximal torus.
01:26:50.404 - 01:28:50.104, Speaker A: You take, I should have written here, you take the set of all one parameter groups which are inside this maximal torus, and then you have the action of the one parameter group, sorry, the maximal torque itself on its set of one parameter groups. And I mean that this quotient here is precisely the quotient of the normalizer of t by the centralizer of t. In fact, if you want to look at all the equivalence classes of one parameter groups in the group of automorphisms, is the same thing as this quotient, which I have seen a moment ago. It's what we call the wild group, and it's isomorphic to the symmetric group of permutations of any elements. So the proof is quite easy, because let's look at the orbit of a one parameter group by this action here, I recall to you that each one parameter group is contained in a maximal torus, and then this maximal torus can be conjugated by an autonomous to the standard maximal torus in a, let's say in one coordinate system. Okay? So everything is given by an action of autonomous by conjugation. And when you map this one parameter group in the standard, let's say the standard torus associated to the, to a system of coordinates, then you can just study the action of the automorphism group by conjugation on the elements of this maximal torus.
01:28:50.104 - 01:30:01.410, Speaker A: And this is precisely this set here. So you map, so you take a one parameter group, you map it inside the standard maximal torus, and then you just consider the action inside this, which preserves this maximal torus, which is the normalizer, right, corrected by the centralized, because the centralized corresponds to the trivial actions. But you have seen that this is simply the symmetric group. Okay? Yeah, so I go, just go back to this, what I said to you. So the goal now is to define, so how to characterize the instability now using this one parameter groups instead of taking the maximal tori. So for each one parameter group, since it's also a torus action, it corresponds to a torus action. You have a direct sum decomposition of the, let's say of the local ring as a sum of graduated pieces.
01:30:01.410 - 01:31:40.844, Speaker A: But now since the torus is of dimension one, this graduation is indexed by z up to a non canonical identification of the group of characters with z. Okay, so you have this graduated pieces, and now you have this direct sum, which of course also gives you a direct sum of the endomorphisms of derivations and of the automobiles. Okay, so just an example here. If you take them, let's say the one parameter group lambda of t on dimension two, which acts on the two variables x and y. Let's say you are in two variables, right? By x go to the theta power alpha times x, and y goes to the t to the power beta times y with alpha and beta non zero vector. Then in this case, of course, the graduated piece of degree k is given by all polynomial, all germs f, which are alpha, beta quasi homogeneous of the Griqui, right? So this is, um, this is precisely the equation which give, defines you the gradient piece of the Griqui. Okay, so for instance, if you take, let's say if you take the diagram of exponents of f, let's say we take the weights alpha and beta, it equals to one minus one.
01:31:40.844 - 01:32:34.016, Speaker A: These parallel lines here correspond to the graduated pieces of k equals to zero, k equals to minus one, k equals to one, and so on. So you see that here in this case, a graduated piece can have an infinite number of monoms. Of course. Okay, so each integral point on this dashed line here corresponds to aggregated monomial of a given degree. Of course, this cannot happen if the one parameter group is positive, as I said to you, in the case where the one parameter group has only positive weights, which is not the case here. Of course, then each one of these graduated pieces is finite dimension over c. Yeah.
01:32:34.016 - 01:35:02.250, Speaker A: Okay, so now I take as, again, again, as in the case of maximal torii, I take any endomorphism, I consider it's direct sum decomposition, and I claim the phonic, so sorry, I consider its direct sum decomposition with respect to the graduation defined by a given one parameter group. Okay, so now there is this equivalent characterization of this unstability, which says that a germ, the germ of phi at a point is unstable if and only if we can find a positive one parameter group such that the support of phi with respect to those unpermitted groups lies on the positive graduated part. Okay, so by which I mean that, so now of course then, since we are in the case of a torus of dimension one, this, the polyhedron, let's say the polyhedron of phi with respect to this is a one dimensional object, okay? Because we, this index, this is indexed by z, okay, so this condition means that this polyhedron, this one dimensional polyhedron is situated on the right with respect to the origin, strictly on the right with respect to the origin. Okay, so what's the proof of this? It's very easy, in fact, in fact, because I only going to give a visual proof because it's same thing with, we have already seen the proof is the following. And so again, suppose that, let's prove in one direction. So you suppose that phi is unstable with respect to our previous definition. So, by which I mean that its Newton polyhedron with respect to maximal torus can be separated from the origin by a hyperplane, right? So, but now if you take the one parameter group which is defined by this, let's say by this vector, which I denoted by this arrow here.
01:35:02.250 - 01:36:15.650, Speaker A: So this is a vector of coordinates omega one, omega n. So this is precisely the one parameter group contained in this maximal torus for each. So the Newton polyhedron with respect to this one dimensional parameter group will have all monomials lying above this dashed line here. This means that you have precisely this second condition with respect to the lambda, which is chosen according to this above. And the reciprocal is quite easy also, because if you have this condition, this second condition, I can always embed lambda in a maximal torus where this configuration holds. Yeah, so this is, okay, so I'm going to finish with this open question that in fact I'm going to partially answer next time. But there's not completely.
01:36:15.650 - 01:38:05.074, Speaker A: So the above discussion implies that if the order of the differential operator is more or equal than one, then its unstability locus is closed. Why? Because I recall to you that I just go back in some, because in the case where the order of phi is zero, then the stability locus is just the support of the ideal shift defined by f. So of course this is a closed subset. And in the case of where the order of phi is one, then the unstability locus is also defined by these two conditions, which are both closed, okay? They are defined by analytic equations. So in both cases, this stable unstable locals is a closed analytic subset or algebraic set, depending on the, on the, on the category that you work. Yeah, but what happens? Yeah, so sorry, I just repeated here this same remarks that if phi is given by a derivation, the condition of unstability, the condition of being in the potent locus, is given by saying, by saying that the semi simple part of the Jordan decomposition of delta is equal to zero. But why this is an algebraic condition? Because this is equivalent to, say the following thing.
01:38:05.074 - 01:39:16.784, Speaker A: You just look at the linearization of your derivation. So this is a linear endomorphism of m co shaped by m squared with, let's say it's a finite dimensional vector space. And now this is, let's say it's an endometrios given by some matrix. And to say that the semi simple part is zero is precisely saying that this linear endomorphin here is nil potent, okay? Which on its turn is exactly the same thing as saying that it's, let's say the characteristic polynomial associated to this linear normal field is trivial. So every coefficient of the characteristic polynomial vanishes except the, let's say the higher order. So this gives you, of course, an algebraic condition on the coefficients of this matrix, which in turn gives you an analytic condition on the germ of delta on the point p. So this explains why this is a closed condition.
01:39:16.784 - 01:40:46.374, Speaker A: Okay? Yeah, so for the moment, this is an open problem. So to prove that this set is closed for higher dimensional, so let's say for higher order differential operators, I don't know if it's true. So as I said to you, I know that it is true if order of phi is smaller than one, but I don't know if it's true for higher order differential operators. And so in order to, let's say, to work with this, I have weakened a little bit, this condition by saying what they call a strongly unstable locus, which I am able to prove that this is across the set. So what's, I want to finish with this. So it's, what's the strongly unstable set? So it's unstable in the preceding sense, by which I mean that there exists some maximal torus t such that the Newton, Newton polyhedron phi with respect to t, does not contain the origin. But I have to ask this additional condition here that phi should preserve the filtration of the local ring given by the powers of the maximal ideal.
01:40:46.374 - 01:41:13.624, Speaker A: So I'm going to explain why this first condition is not, is not empty. Right? So take this example. So I'm going to finish with this. Okay, so this is a second order differential operator. Okay? So you just take x to the PI minus one y. So, and now I'm going to draw its Newton polyhedron. In this case, it's a polygon of dimension two.
01:41:13.624 - 01:42:22.658, Speaker A: So it has one monomial here, minus one one, sorry, minus two one and 40 four. And you see that the Newton polyhedron is separated from the origin because you can always draw a straight line here which is just below this edge here, which separates the polygon from zero. This point, this germ, is unstable according to our previous definition, but it's not strongly unstable. Why? Because this first condition here requires, in fact, the following thing, that if you draw, if you draw, this is equivalent to this. If you draw this dashed line, which is the line of slope minus of slope minus one, all the vertices of the corresponding polygon should be above this line. So this is precisely the geometric way to see this condition. So of course, this does not hold in this example.
01:42:22.658 - 01:43:29.164, Speaker A: So this is an example of a situation which is, which is unstable, but it's not strongly unstable. So what? Yeah, I don't have time to prove this, but what I'm going to prove in the next time is that I do not, by strongly unstable, the set of points where the germ of phi is satisfied this condition. So it says s unstable Phi, so it's obvious, contained in the unstable locus. And this is the set that I'm going to prove. I'm going to prove that it's closed. Okay? So by doing this, I'm going to show to you on the next session how this geometric invariant theory enters in the game in a very strong way to prove this property here and now, how it works, also to give you a strategy that I hope will work in higher dimensions. Okay, so thank you very much.
01:43:29.164 - 01:43:41.144, Speaker A: I just stop here. Thank you, Daniel, and stop the recording. Thank you.
