00:00:00.240 - 00:00:29.958, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Zosano, and today's the 3 March 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So just a quick update on the merge here. So rembroy ETH put out a tweet today saying the killen or k I l n e m testnet launch is confirmed for next week. So as you guys know, this is the next kind of like merge Testnet. The kind of like next major one after the Kintsugi testnet that we saw happen over the holidays.
00:00:29.958 - 00:00:59.646, Speaker A: This could potentially be the last one before we get Mainnet because everything goes, if everything goes well with this specs frozen, no more kind of major client changes or anything like that, the clients can get ready for mainnet. Which as I said to you guys before, is still targeted for June as far as I, as far as I know. But yeah, this is, this is awesome. In progress is being made, things are moving. You know, as I've said before, it may seem like the merge stuff is kind of quiet right now. There was a lot of hype around I guess the holiday period about it. But quiet is good because I mean building is still happening in the background, guys.
00:00:59.646 - 00:01:26.508, Speaker A: Like if you kind of go and look at the, the main places where this building is happening, like on the discord and the GitHub and like forums and I mean there's so many different places to kind of like keep up with this sort of stuff. But if you go look there, all the building is, is happening. You know, the research is happening, everything's going on. I think pretty much all the research is done at this point. It's just getting that built out, getting it all tested and making sure that we can get to mainnet in a very safe way. So that's uh, that, that's the kind of like the latest update I have for you guys. Can't wait to see this go live.
00:01:26.508 - 00:01:44.996, Speaker A: Uh, to see this testnet go live next week. I'm not sure what day. It just says next week. Yeah, maybe there's not a day yet or anything like that. But as I said, if this goes all well and smoothly and everything kind of like happens as it should, it seems like next step would just be mainnet. And uh, maybe we get that mainnet in June. Like I've been saying, hopefully we do like that.
00:01:44.996 - 00:02:14.044, Speaker A: I think that'd be a huge right if we were able to do it in June. Massive voter confidence, obviously, for ethereum, for the ecosystem. Uh, um, and I think it'd be very, very positive overall. Uh, so, yeah, gonna keep tabs on that, and I'll let you guys know about that. All right, so after the. Over the last few days, there has been a bit of a donation drive going on for Ukraine. Uh, obviously, uh, due to the Ukraine Russia conflict going on right now, and people have been sending in bitcoin ETH and tokens and stuff like that to their different addresses.
00:02:14.044 - 00:02:47.496, Speaker A: And I think it was yesterday or the day before the, the ukrainian government said that they were going to airdrop or kind of like take a snapshot to airdrop something to people. They didn't specify what it was, but they were going to airdrop something to people who donated. And now, just before, I think that's how you say his name, Mikhailo Fedorov, the vice prime minister of Ukraine. I'm minister of digital transformation of Ukraine. Put out a tweet that said, after careful consideration, we decided to cancel the airdrop. Every day there are more and more people willing to help Ukraine to fight back the aggression. Instead, we will announce NFT ukrainian armed forces soon.
00:02:47.496 - 00:03:16.938, Speaker A: We do not have any plans to issue any fungible tokens. So obviously, Mikhailo here knows exactly what he's talking about. You know, he is the minister of digital transformation of Ukraine. So, you know, he seems to know what he's talking about when it comes to crypto, but he just rug pulled us. All right. I mean, I put a tweet out when I said, did you get rugged by the ukrainian government, Ainon? Because there were a lot of people that donated after they announced that they were going to do an airdrop. And as you can see here, Scott Lewis tweeted out, kind of like the amount of donations that came in per hour in terms of number of donations.
00:03:16.938 - 00:03:47.658, Speaker A: And basically the left hand side, February 26 to about March 2 ish or March, kind of like, first ish was just normal donations coming in, and then it spiked because they announced, oh, yeah, we're going to take a snapshot for an airdrop. And, you know, if you kind of like donate, you'll get. You'll kind of like get an airdrop there. Now, obviously, as I just said, they kind of like rugged people on that. There's not going to be an airdrop. But this is the power of the carrot at the end of the day, right? This is kind of like dailing something in front of people being like, hey, if you donate, we're going to give you something in return. And obviously that didn't materialize.
00:03:47.658 - 00:04:27.252, Speaker A: But I mean, I had some kind of varied thoughts on this. I spoke to some people about this. Basically, this is what happens in and outside of crypto. You know, no matter what it is, if you tell people that there is some potential way to make money if they do something, whether that something is donating to a cause such as the ukrainian kind of like defense effort here or doing whatever else, it's more than likely they're not. People are going to going to donate, right? Like, I mean, it's the same thing in like investing. You buy ETH, you buy tokens, you buy other things because you expect a return on investment. If you didn't expect to get a return, then you wouldn't buy those things, right? I mean, very little people would buy those things because at the end of the day, you'd only be buying them out of kind of like full kind of like selflessness.
00:04:27.252 - 00:05:07.856, Speaker A: And, you know, I mean, humans mostly aren't selfless, right? Like, we do things because there's incentives. Incentives rule the world. Now, I had discussion with people today, and someone brought up a good point by saying, you know, this isn't necessarily a bad thing. It just should be, you know, people who care but needed a carrot to get them over the edge, which I agree with. I mean, like, there are probably people who cared out there but just didn't care enough to do a donation, but then giving them that carrot kind of like makes them, makes them care enough to send the donation. But at the same time, I think, and as sad as it is, there's plenty of people who don't care about this conflict at all, right? I mean, for a lot of people, it's just something on the other side of the world that they have no context around. They're just hearing about in the news and they're just going about their everyday lives.
00:05:07.856 - 00:05:45.758, Speaker A: And to be honest, like, we shouldn't deride people for that at the end of the day, right? There are things going on all around the world. People have their own issues and their own things to deal with, you know, and a lot of people can't afford to just sit and doom, scroll all the time, watch the 24 hours news cycle and see what's going on there. And a lot of people just don't, you know, one, can't afford to donate and two, they just don't care enough to, which I guess is just a reality, right. But, you know, as I said, like, you dangle a carrot in front of people, well, it changes the the equation, right. You basically say to people, well, here you go, there's a potential for you to earn money, potential for you to get something out of it if you do this kind of like a good thing. And a lot of people did it. But again, I don't think they did it because they cared.
00:05:45.758 - 00:06:12.520, Speaker A: I think they did it because of the carrot. At the end of the day, like there's a lot of people who just simply don't, don't care. But I think this just shows the power of incentives. Like as Scott Lewis says here, virtue has an incentive on the left. So the only incentive to donate was like a virtue thing. Whereas on the right, virtue plus expected value or ev as an incentive, this is the power of Ethereum as a coordination machine when used correctly. And I totally agree with him, I don't think this is a bad thing, guys, that you have to dangle a carrot in front of people to get them to do things.
00:06:12.520 - 00:06:55.072, Speaker A: I mean, in its most basic form, if you say to people, hey, you know, I'm going to pay you this x amount a year to work for my company and to do this work, right? Of course they're going to do it right. If the pay is up to what they expect it to be and if they're happy with it, they're going to take the job, they're going to do the work. And so it's all going to be well and good. But if you said to someone, hey, I want you to do all this work for my company, I'm going to make money off of it or I'm going to get the value out of it and I'm going to pay you nothing. Well, I mean, no one's going to take that job, right? Unless you kind of like really love what you do and kind of like have other ways of making money, you're not going to do something for free. I mean, with me, doing the daily grave for free is only possible because I have other ways of making money. If I didn't have any other income coming in, there's no way I'd be able to do the daily grave for free.
00:06:55.072 - 00:07:20.428, Speaker A: Right, but it's kind of like those incentives it again, right, and kind of like virtue here on the left and virtue plus expected value on, on the right there. So at the end of the day, this is, this is the reality. People have. You know, to be truly selfless is, is very noble, but a lot of people just can't afford to be truly selfless. They need something out of it. Like they want something out of it. And I don't want to make any kind of like moral judgments here.
00:07:20.428 - 00:08:04.902, Speaker A: You can have your own opinions on this, but in my opinion, I don't think this is a, this is kind of like a, um, a bad thing. And you know, the funny thing is, is that you look at something like gitcoin, which I'm going to talk about in a sec, but look at the git coin grants, matching rounds. Yes, people eventually got a token for donating, but there was no indication that Ghom was doing a token and air dropping that token to people for the longest time. So really most of the donations that were done were done as kind of like a virtue thing. And it was done because there was still a carrot there. The carrot was the matching funds because, because during the matching rounds you could donate one die and it could be matched up to 200 die. That was the carrot to get people to donate because they felt like, oh, wow, okay, my donation actually has more pack, you know, more punch in it because of this matching.
00:08:04.902 - 00:08:30.706, Speaker A: So there's still, I mean, it's different. It's different in the fact that the people donating, they didn't really get anything out of it in terms of kind of like actual value for themselves. They got the, you know, they got the feel good, you know, feeling of supporting a team that they like and all that sort of stuff there. But they didn't get a tangible thing back. There wasn't kind of like, there wasn't any Roi on that. But in saying that the kind of like what the carrot was, as I said, was the fact that there was those matching funds there. So there are different ways to do this.
00:08:30.706 - 00:09:14.646, Speaker A: Ethereum is really great at being used as a coordination machine, as Scott Lewis mentions here, but that only works when you have a carrot. Like you can't coordinate around something if there is no carrot. Like, even in another simple example, when I did the daily gwei nfts, right, we were able to raise uh, like over 20 ETH for, for core developers after paying a kid a his share, which was over 100,000 kind of like dollars at the time, or close to, I think it was like 80, 80 something thousand dollars. And then it went up and down. I mean, obviously because it's ETH goes up and down. Um, but if I had just said to you, hey guys, like, give me your money and I'll donate it to core devs, I mean, I wouldn't have really raised anything, right? I had to dangle that carrot. I'd be like, hey guys, he's a really cool nft for you guys to own and it's going to a good cause and that way people got something out of it but they also got to do something for a good cause.
00:09:14.646 - 00:09:57.680, Speaker A: So I mean, these examples of this sort of stuff absolutely everywhere. And as I said, it is not a bad thing, guys. It is just the way things work. Incentives run the world and the incentives that are the most powerful are the ones that give something back to people. Like even if it's as simple as giving someone a pop for doing something, that's still something that is simple, something that is kind of like, you know, not necessarily worth anything in terms of monetary value, but is a great carrot to kind of like dangle in front of people. So I just wanted to kind of like give some thoughts on that because I think it's really important and I think that Ethereum is going to continue being used as a great coordination mechanism going forward. Alright, so speaking of gitcoin, we're only one week away from a grants around 13, so this will be the 13th matching round on Gitcoin grants.
00:09:57.680 - 00:10:31.912, Speaker A: Round 13 features a whopping nine ecosystem rounds worth 769,420 combined dollars combined, which will break down in this trade. And that's what bitcoin does. So the TLCIs are each round brief with an overview of eligibility and inspiration can be found here on this Google Doc which you can go link into and you can go read this thread. As you guys know, I always bug you around. Matching round time to go donate to your favorite projects. Go donate to basically everyone. And as always, I expect I appreciate all the donations to the deli, Gwei and ether, but they're definitely not required or anything like that.
00:10:31.912 - 00:11:26.324, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean this is always an exciting time for the Ethereum community. I think it shows the best of what Ethereum has to offer in terms of being a coordination kind of like machine, but also bringing people together to donate money to a good cause. But I guess multiple good causes in the projects, but also basically, you know, not, not get anything out of it because right now you don't get any, you don't get coin tokens for donating, right? Like maybe some projects will airdrop their tokens to you if you donate to them, like individual projects, but you don't get any, any of the kind of like projects, sorry, any git coin tokens from doing that. So right now, as said, the only carrot for people is that is those kind of like matching well funds, which is a pretty big carrot because I feel much better about donating ten dai and turning into 200 dai than I do about just donating ten dai and being like, oh man, that sucks. I only donated, donated ten dai. Right. So yeah, anyway, I'll keep you guys up to date on when round 13 starts and remind you to donate throughout it as I usually do.
00:11:26.324 - 00:12:01.456, Speaker A: All right, so there's a bunch of arbitram updates to get through today. So yield protocol has gone live on arbitrum one. So yield protocol, for those of you you don't know, is a fixed rate borrowing and lending protocol that is now on both Ethereum mainnet and L2 on arbitrary two. So users on L2 can now enjoy the benefits of collateralized fixed rate lending and borrow at a fraction of the gas cost. So for a full kind of like breakdown of what's going on here, you can read the blog post, of course, and this is just another thing to play around with on arbitrary. As I said, guys, it's going to become very impossible, or it is impossible to keep track of everything going live on all the l two s. And this is just another instance of that.
00:12:01.456 - 00:12:35.534, Speaker A: I didn't see this until until recently. Same with a bunch of the other stuff that I'm going to talk about what to do with arbitrum. And that's because it's become a little bit unceremonious where it's kind of like, okay, well, they're on arbitrum. You know, that was expected, you know, kind of like what's next? Sort of thing. Because I think there are a lot of things that people get excited about, but it's kind of like everyone's expecting these apps to just migrate to L2 because, I mean, they're not going to stay on layer one and not capture the users. Because as I said to you guys before, I don't think layer one, Ethereum is really growing in terms of users because it's just too expensive. Users have obviously alternatives in the other layer ones.
00:12:35.534 - 00:13:07.926, Speaker A: But like we're capturing, you know, the L2s are basically capturing that crowd, essentially, and that's the crowd that they should be capturing. At the end of the day, L2, Ethereum is competing on the execution layer front, which is not what Ethereum layer one is competing on. So, so yeah, very excited to see this. And I got an email actually earlier from Binance saying that they had re enabled withdrawals for arbitrum. So if you're on binance, you use Binance and you want to withdraw some assets to arbitram to get started with all it has to offer, now would be a great time to do so through, through binance. It's cheaper to do than going on a theorem layer one. It's still expensive.
00:13:07.926 - 00:13:45.050, Speaker A: Binance overcharges for these things. But I think it's cheaper than going through a theorem layer one to do it. And also you won't incur the double gas cost because if you have assets on centralized exchange or binance, for example, you have to transfer them to layer one of theorem, then put deposited into arbitrary. And whereas you could just go straight to arbitrary from, from finance there. All right, so a kind of like new app that I don't believe was ever deployed to layer one called Chromatica Finance launched on arbitram one today. So what Chromatica is billing themselves as is a next generation order book. Limit trading on uniswap, gasless trading, no swap fees, no front running bots, and no slippage.
00:13:45.050 - 00:14:08.868, Speaker A: So I had a bit of a read about this. I think there was an, there was a description somewhere from someone in the Discord channel that actually summarized this really, really well. And I'm just scrolling through trying to find it right now. I don't think I'm going to be able to, to find this. Let me have a, let me have a look if I can find it just quickly without boring you guys. No, no, I don't think I can find it. Someone, I think, I can't remember who said it, but basically, I actually really like the description of it.
00:14:08.868 - 00:14:31.028, Speaker A: But anyway, I'm going to leave it at that. But basically you can check out this at app Dot Chromatica dot dot finance and play around with it. It's powered by Uniswap and it does something really cool with Uniswap. I don't want to, I don't want to say what it does. I don't want to kind of like say it wrong here, but essentially what it allows you to do, I think, is utilize a, let me just read to the blog post here. Mmm. No, no.
00:14:31.028 - 00:14:47.956, Speaker A: Okay. You guys can read through it. I've just completely kind of like forgotten. Oh, here we go. Here we go. The Chromatica protocol uses the Uniswap V three feature of concentrated liquidity to enable traders to make limit order trades without stop fees. In the background, the user is providing liquidity to a pool until the price reaches the target for the specified limit order.
00:14:47.956 - 00:15:22.590, Speaker A: That's the really cool feature that it does. So essentially what it allows you to do is earn a yield while your order is sitting on an order book. Like so for example, you can't do this when your order is sitting on a, you know, centralized exchange. For example, say ETH is $3,000 and you want to sell ETH for $3,500. You set a sell order selling one ETH at $3,500 and then it just sits there doing nothing. Whereas with Chromatica protocol, you do the same thing, but you basically get the, you're providing liquidity and you're getting kind of like the, I guess, like swap fees there, I think. Yes.
00:15:22.590 - 00:15:44.970, Speaker A: Make limit order trades without swap. Yeah, basically. So. And they've also got things like gasless limit trades, and you can also earn, sorry, use chrom, which is their token for compensating the relayers. And obviously all this is experimental, but I suggest reading the blog post to get a full kind of like breakdown of this and reading about what chromatic is trying to do. I think it's, it's pretty cool. It seems pretty innovative to me.
00:15:44.970 - 00:16:05.362, Speaker A: And the fact that it's on arbitrary means it's cheap to play around with. So there's no excuse not to kind of like, go check it out at least. I think this is maybe the final update on arbitram I've got for you guys. Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Yeah. So basically this, I guess, analytics service called footprint analytics has announced an arbitrum data dashboard that is now live on their website.
00:16:05.362 - 00:16:36.466, Speaker A: So you can go to this, it'll be linked in the YouTube description, it'll just fetch you the analytics here and it'll show you things like network transactions. So arbitram transactions have actually been spiking quite, quite a lot recently. I think that's because of all the apps going live on there and obviously the activity going up. So you can see within the last seven days, there's been 500,000 transactions, which, you know, I guess like averages to just under 100,000 transactions per day. In the last 30 days it was 2 million. So very, very cool to see. And you can see like the chart here of it growing over time with daily transactions and the average fees going down as well.
00:16:36.466 - 00:17:08.302, Speaker A: Obviously the fees are affected by ethereum l one fees too, which have been going down, but also our, has been doing improvements to their, their system as well. Deli unique addresses has been going up too. I mean, you can see, as I've said to you guys, like, I'm not concerned about any of these sort of stuff right now. Like, I know people have been a bit concerned because like, it's a quote unquote bear market and there's a lot of, um, you know, there's a lot of quiet periods going on right now, but, man, these, these things are up and to the right. This adoption is up and to the right. Like, things are still growing on these l two s, which is exactly what we want to see. And you can kind of like, see top ten, TvL by protocol, TVL by category.
00:17:08.302 - 00:17:29.078, Speaker A: This is a pretty comprehensive dashboard here. Tv our ranking, all that sort of stuff there. So I definitely recommend checking out this, this dashboard here. I love looking at this sort of stuff because at the end of the day, guys, the data doesn't lie. If it's being ingested correctly, it doesn't lie. And because it's all transparent on, on, on chain, you can check the chain, as they say, and basically see it all for yourself. You know, you don't need to trust me.
00:17:29.078 - 00:17:49.884, Speaker A: You don't need to trust anyone, really. You can spin up your own kind of like a full node for ethereum, and in the future, you'll be able to spin up your own kind of like albatrum node. Maybe you can. Right now, I think you can still spin up your own kind of like arbitram node. I'm not totally sure yet, and I'm not sure how easy it is. Obviously, you can't spin up a sequence or anything just yet, but you will be able to, and it'll just be kind of like totally transparent. You can check for yourself.
00:17:49.884 - 00:18:19.306, Speaker A: You don't need to trust anyone sort of thing. And there's multiple sources you can get this information from as well, which is, I think, still the coolest thing about blockchains is that they're so transparent. Obviously, that's probably not going to last forever, especially at L2s. There's going to be privacy that comes and things like that. But we're using ZK stuff. I mean, the cool thing about the ZK stuff and the real magic with it is that you can actually be sure that something is true without knowing how the kind of, like. Without knowing why, without knowing how that kind of, like, truth came to be, which is black magic.
00:18:19.306 - 00:18:38.554, Speaker A: It's. It's just, it's insane how that actually works. But, but, yeah, go check out this dashboard. Kind of like tracking arbitrary here. I'll link it in the usual description. All right, so Alpha Road Finance announced today that they have created a website called Stocknet Dash Ecosystem.com, which basically tracks the stocknet ecosystem.
00:18:38.554 - 00:18:59.692, Speaker A: So, as I said to you guys, very hard to keep track of what's going on with L2s. Let alone stocknet. But now you can by going to Stocknet dash ecosystem.com and checking out everything. This is very similar to other ecosystem dashboards that you may have seen before, like the one that arbitrum has. And I think optimism has a similar one too. You can sort by different things like different categories like Defi, gamefi, governance, all that sort of stuff there.
00:18:59.692 - 00:19:21.412, Speaker A: And of course you can see which ones alive. There are quite a few things that are live right now on, on kind of like Stocknet or starkware ecosystem with a lot of things on the testnet. Obviously, I've spoken about influence before, which is a kind of a gaming project. I think I've spoken about Jedi swap before. A few others like Orbiter, obviously, the bridge that I've spoken about a lot. Snapshot X the governance tool. I pretty much covered a lot of these before.
00:19:21.412 - 00:19:40.820, Speaker A: Zigzag, of course, and stuff like that. Zigzags on DK sync right now. But, but coming to Stocknet. So. So yeah, if you want to keep up with the stocknet ecosystem, see what's live, have, you know, easy links to get to each of these projects and also put your project here. If you're building one on stock, that you can just click the supply button. Definitely go to Starknet dash ecosystem.com
00:19:40.820 - 00:20:06.000, Speaker A: and you'll be able to kind of like track it all on here. So speaking of new websites, optimism have updated their homepage with a major, what they're calling a major glow up. And you know what I think optimism, out of all the kind of like L2 websites that I've seen or scalability websites that I've seen, is one of the best. I think, you know, Polygons is really cool. I haven't checked arbitrams lately, actually. I usually just check RB scan. I usually just track arbitrage growth.
00:20:06.000 - 00:20:40.060, Speaker A: I don't actually go to their main website very often, but, you know, I think the fact that these things are just like, they look so nice, they kind of advertise their benefits, right? Optimism is advertising right here. The gas savings, which is at the end of the day, 90% of what people care about when it comes to these L2s, maybe even like 95% plus of what people care about. Um, you know, links to kind of like joining the discord, the community or all the usual stuff that you see. But I like this because it, I mean, look front and center, it just says Ethereum scaled optimism, a low cost and lightning fast. Ethereum l two blockchain. That's it, guys. The low cost and the fast transactions is really what the majority of users care about.
00:20:40.060 - 00:21:04.588, Speaker A: So that should be front and center. And then obviously the two call to action buttons here, developer documentation which is one of, you know, one of the most important. And then bridging into optimism, obviously the next important. So they've got something servicing developers and something servicing users which is what we want to see here. So very cool to see this. I mean they're there, I got the cos got the kind of bridge there, they've got the ecosystem kind of like page as well. As I said, very similar to the stock one that I've showed on here before.
00:21:04.588 - 00:21:43.876, Speaker A: All looks very nice and you can go check it out all for yourself at optimism IO. Alright, so Lido announced that they now have Polygon staking available. So you can now stack a stake your matic with Lido for what they're calling an effortless staking experience at Polygon. Lido fi. Now I've spoken about using services like Lido and centralized kind of like exchanges and that staking your tokens before. When it comes to ETH, Polygon's a bit different because it's not a, it's not like ETH where, I mean it's different in that kind of like there's a delegated system where you kind of like delegate your tokens and you stake with other kind of like people. Whereas with Ethereum it's different to that.
00:21:43.876 - 00:22:12.002, Speaker A: It doesn't really work like that. It's a very different proof of stake system. So I think staking your matic with, with Lidar. With Lidar is probably the best way to stake your matic, to be honest. Because you not only do you get kind of like the yield from matic, but you also get St. Matic which allows you to kind of like use that anywhere that it's accepted within, you know, I guess like Ethereum or within polygon within the L2 ecosystem as it's just an ERC 20 token and can be used anywhere there. So if the, if you have matic tokens and you're not staking them, you could definitely check this out.
00:22:12.002 - 00:22:56.264, Speaker A: There's a blog post with more details about this as well. But obviously as always risk here guys like using these sorts of things, there's always a risk of like a bug or any kind of like that sort of stuff. And there's also kind of like deposit limit right now. So phase one, it has a deposit cap of $1 million which maybe it's already been hit and they're not removing it till April. I don't know if it's been hit or not yet, but, I mean, this is 24 hours old news, so it probably been hit. $1 million is really not that much money when you're talking about kind of like allowing everyone to stake, especially lighter because light is quite big, but still check them out, you know, maybe kind of like, wait, wait till April if you have to, to kind of, I guess, put some, some matic tokens in if you want to stake there. That's, that's kind of, like, really cool to see, but, yeah, definitely go check it out.
00:22:56.264 - 00:23:14.574, Speaker A: All right. Finally, we have Peter pan teasing something called ETH down under. Now, I haven't dug deeper into this, into what this is. I'm going to assume it's kind of like an australian based conference. I mean, they're saying the biggest web3 conference in the southern hemisphere being in Australia. Yeah, I'm here. Sydney, December 22.
00:23:14.574 - 00:23:30.126, Speaker A: By dow under yay. We get a big conference in Australia that is coming. I mean, I'm really excited about this. You know, the last big conference that I went to in Australia for crypto was in early 2019. It was my first crypto conference. It was. What was it? What was it? Oh, man.
00:23:30.126 - 00:23:42.430, Speaker A: I've gone blank on it right now. It was an ETH conference. Oh, I've gone completely blank on it. It'll come to me. But that was such an awesome experience. Obviously, early 2019 was like the depth of the bear market. There were no moon boys around there.
00:23:42.430 - 00:24:01.822, Speaker A: The specul, I mean, ETH was like $100 or something like that. That DeFi was just starting to kind of, like, get off the ground a little bit. There wasn't really much kind of, like, going on there. But, you know, people came from all over the world, really. And I met, like, so many awesome people that I had kind of made friendships with during 2018. So people who. So many people who followed ETH and followed the podcast that we were doing and things like that.
00:24:01.822 - 00:24:28.042, Speaker A: And I wasn't even working in crypto yet at that stage, but that was, you know, such an awesome experience. I loved it so much. Is Edcon? Edcon in Sydney. There you go. Came to me, um, and I met so many, you know, as I said, so many cool people there, but there hasn't really been a major australian base, Ethereum conference since then. There's a crypto conference which is heavily focused on Ethereum happening this month, which I'm attending called blockchain Week in Sydney and Melbourne. So I'll be at both of those and I'm actually speaking at both of those as well.
00:24:28.042 - 00:24:56.330, Speaker A: And then, as I said recently, like last week, I went to an NFT event in Melbourne, but as I said, that wasn't like a crypto conference, that was like a club kind of event. It was very. It was a very different vibe. So I'm definitely looking forward to ETH down under. I mean, I know that Australia is very far away from the rest of the world, guys, I know that the travel here takes 20 plus hours from Europe and the US because I know going there takes me 20 plus hours. And the jet lag is insane because of the time zone difference, especially coming from the US. Totally get that.
00:24:56.330 - 00:25:31.886, Speaker A: But I think that, you know, if you're coming to Australia for the conference, you can make a holiday out of it. Like visiting Sydney and Melbourne, even kind of like the Gold coast or even other parts of Queensland is definitely worth it. I mean, obviously, I'm biased here, but it'd be really cool to see a lot of you at a kind of, like, Australia based conference. As I said, I'm going to be at a bunch of other conferences. I'm pretty sure I'm still going to Amsterdam. Like, I don't think. I mean, people were kind of, like saying, oh, like some of the people that I know in real life here were saying, are you still going? Like, what about this war stuff? And I'm like, guys, like, the wars on the other side of Europe? And I had to explain to them things like NATO and stuff like that, and how, like, you know, if.
00:25:31.886 - 00:25:50.086, Speaker A: If Russia go kind of, like, starts advancing towards the kind of, like, more western part of Europe, then it's kind of like. I mean, we have much bigger problems then. But. And then I don't think it was going to do that. But I think, yeah, I think I'm still going to be attending that. So I'm very much looking forward to that. But, I mean, I hope this goes forward.
00:25:50.086 - 00:26:09.516, Speaker A: I mean, obviously, Australia's borders have been closed for quite a while. We recently opened up our international borders again, so people have been able to fly in. Uh, which means this conference is, is. That is hopefully going to happen. But it's not till the end of the year, still December 2022. I mean, we're only in March right now, but it's going to come probably faster than we expected to. And as I said, it's in Sydney, not in Melbourne.
00:26:09.516 - 00:26:40.548, Speaker A: Sydney and Melbourne are like an hour and a half less than that flight from each other, so it's not far. Unfortunately, we don't have like a rail system that goes between the two cities, which we should, we can get a high speed rail system because I remember I was in Japan and they have a high speed rail system that goes, you know, between all the different cities and it was just awesome to use. But I mean, unfortunately we don't have that. We like to just keep digging shit out of the ground and selling it to other countries rather than investing in infrastructure. But I'm not going to go on a rant about Australia's infrastructure right now. I catch myself doing that too much. But yeah, anyway, I hope to see, that's just general.
00:26:40.548 - 00:27:06.824, Speaker A: My general point is I hope to see a lot of you at the other conferences around the world, but also hope to see a lot of you at ETH downunder. Go follow the Twitter account. I don't know how much information there is about it yet. It's like ETH downunder.com. Yeah, you can just subscribe for updates on the website the month and I guess like location has already been announced, obviously it's an ethereum themed conference and everything like that. I would love to see a lot of you guys in Australia and you know, it makes it easier for me too. I don't have to suffer the jet lag for once.
00:27:06.824 - 00:27:25.144, Speaker A: You guys can suffer with jet lag and the long flights, but yeah, I'll keep you guys updated on that as more information comes out about it. But I think on that note, I'm going to end it there for today. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
