00:00:25.280 - 00:00:56.960, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. It is wonderful to be here with you today. I'm going to be taking us through a little bit more of a historic journey. I know a lot of you are doing a lot of building at the moment. You're coming up with new ways of changing the world utilizing blockchain. I'm going to take a second to take us a little bit into the past so that we can look at some of this history that we're now using as a source of inspiration to be doing some new and exciting things in the future. And we, as an organization, always try to think about how we can share the past so we can inspire others to create the future.
00:00:56.960 - 00:01:33.920, Speaker A: So today, I'm going to take you a little bit through the history of who this lobkowitz family is as well. A little bit of the history in the context of this beautiful city of Prague that we're in for this lovely conference. Then we're going to talk a little bit about digitization and decentralization that we're seeing in our own organization, some of our NFT experiments and what's coming in the future. But for our family, we have. We come from an old bohemian noble family that has 700 years of history that has been lost twice and regained twice. And I always like to begin here with this figure that we see of Europe. This is Europa Regina.
00:01:33.920 - 00:02:44.326, Speaker A: And here we see where we are now in the city of Prague in Bohemia, which has always been considered the heart of Europe. And this is where our kind of, our family story began, where the first prince Lobkowitz, my direct ancestor, served as chancellor of Bohemia to the Habsburgs, were managing the Holy Roman Empire. At the time, this meant that we were managing the kingdom of Bohemia in this large, large empire that existed of many nations. And throughout the course of that history, the family amassed an incredible collection of paintings, music, decorative arts, arms and armor. So you'll see some of the highlights of the collection in here, including a painting by Pieter Bruegel the elder showing haymaking, painted in 1565, a painting by Antonio Canaletto showing the wonderful city of London. But we also have musical manuscripts that are hand annotated by Mozart and Beethoven. There are 20,000 movable objects in the collection, a kilometer and a half of archival material, two and a half kilometers of library material, and a lot of this is virgin material just waiting to be discovered and shown.
00:02:44.326 - 00:03:47.726, Speaker A: And so these collections and the castles that made up them, the family had ten castles, their peak, which was quite a bit to manage, but they were lost twice and regained twice. First under the nazi occupation in 1939, my great grandfather, who had helped establish the czechoslovak state here when it became the first republic, was also quite an outspoken critic of Adolf Hitler, and for that reason was put on Hitler's blacklist to be executed upon the annexation of Czechoslovakia. Unfortunately, that did not happen. And throughout the course of the war, my great grandfather lived in Great Britain, where he served as czechoslovak ambassador to Great Britain. And when the blitz began, my grandfather and his two brothers were sent by way of Canada to the United States. Now you're starting to see why I speak with an american accent as well. But during that time period, the collections were seized and they were put in various states of storage and disrepair.
00:03:47.726 - 00:04:27.386, Speaker A: Rognice Castle, our ducal residence, was turned into a Napole school to train the next generation of SS officers. The paintings themselves were seized. You may have actually heard of this famous group known as the monuments men. They were actually responsible for finding many of these stolen works of art at the end of the war, reclaiming them and then returning them back to our family. You may have seen the movie with George Clooney, Matt Damon, Jean de Jardin, the heartthrobs that they are. And there's a great book by Robert Edsel that talks a little bit more about this. So this is the first restitution where we got back this collection of these many different objects and pieces.
00:04:27.386 - 00:04:56.098, Speaker A: And then eventually the communists took over in 1948. So you had a three year period of peace, and then communism took over. And during that time period, the collections were completely dispersed. They went into various places. Some were managed by the national gallery, others were just kept in different storage facilities. So they were all placed in all these different locations. And this is where provenance history is so important is because it allowed us to track where these things went over time.
00:04:56.098 - 00:05:45.042, Speaker A: And then, of course, we had the fall of communism here in Czechoslovakia under the enlightened leadership and. And vision of our poet playwright, President Vaclav Havel. And we were greatly inspired to come back to this country when he was calling all Czechs to come here to be a part of the seismic changes that were happening here. And here we see my father, who was standing in front of Rognice Castle, our ducal residence, who led this process of restitution. Now, this may sound like a fairy tale getting all of this back, but the realities of restitution were quite complicated. And here you can see what we were getting back. So, yes, they're beautiful paintings, musical scores, but getting back many of these castles that hadn't been taken care of for over 60 years, posed a very difficult situation.
00:05:45.042 - 00:07:08.910, Speaker A: We also weren't coming with huge amounts of capital that we could just spend on all of these different castles. We were living in Boston. My father was working in as kind of in real estate at the time, and came back on behalf of the family with his father's pension to hire a lawyer and drive around in Eskoda favorite, which are these tiny little cars, to 100 different locations across the country to find all these different pieces. And so this is what we were getting them back in and what the states were. And so what we had to do was look for ways to actually take care of these things in the 21st century, which is quite complicated, and it's not us living in palaces and castles like our predecessors, but really, it's actually quite involved work where we're trying to look at how do we restore facades? How do we restore the different paintings that have been completely damaged during this time period? How do we deal with ongoing maintenance costs to manage all of this? And for us, as a family, when we came back, we said, what do we really want to be doing with all of this? And we said we wanted to open them to the public for the first time in history with the mission of preserving, studying, and sharing them with the world. And so that's what we do today. So we sold off different real estate assets that we got back and invested them into the cultural buildings and created cultural tourism activities to support everything we're doing.
00:07:08.910 - 00:07:49.526, Speaker A: And today there's a variety of public programming that we do. I have to acknowledge my mother, who we have over here. She leads incredible educational programs where she's able to connect with students in a very special way. She started something called the junior Curator program, where you give students an object in the collections, they have to figure out what it is, where they place it in the collections, and then give a presentation in front of their parents. So this was involving quite a bit of deductive and inductive reasoning, really thinking about what we would be doing. She herself, as an educator, grew up as one, and then eventually was always looking for ways to continue sharing with others. And so how do we get into this whole.
00:07:49.526 - 00:08:31.708, Speaker A: So this is what we were doing for a long period of time, and eventually the pandemic hit. And this is where we reached kind of a new stage of digitization and decentralization, where we had to think, what do we do when all of these different cultural properties are closed? No income is able to be generated to support the collections. We have to keep on a staff that have to continue maintenance and their upkeep and care of these pieces, despite being in the middle of a global pandemic. And we started with doing virtual tours. And this was quite difficult for me because I hated speaking into a telephone the entire time and I couldn't speak to you. And see, I never knew whether any of my jokes were landing the entire time on my tours. So it was quite a difficult time period.
00:08:31.708 - 00:09:12.918, Speaker A: But we had hundreds of thousands of people who actually were able to visit us during this time period. We had more digital visitors than we had physical visitors the previous year, which was the record ties for tourism in the Czech Republic. And this opened our eyes a little bit more to what could be done when we could actually utilize decentralization to bring more people into a room. I was able to have a tour of 5000 people watching live at the same time who normally could not physically go through those rooms while I was giving it. So I was doing this on Zoom. We were doing different company team building things as well. We also did another initiative called Yogaart, which was quite fun, yoga and historic spaces.
00:09:12.918 - 00:10:02.738, Speaker A: And we were trying to find new and innovative ways to make culture relevant, make it exciting for people, find a new way for a younger audience to also reconnect. And so now you must be wondering, why are we here listening to this guy talk about history at an Ethereum conference as well? Well, we slowly started looking at nfts and blockchain back in. It was February of 2021, and we were interested for a variety of different reasons. Firstly, I was mentioning provenance, accuracy as well. Provenance is the history of a different work of art or piece traveling over time and seeing where it has transferred throughout that course of that time period. This is what allowed us actually to restitute all of the different pieces that we got back. And we got back about 95% of our collections, which is quite incredible.
00:10:02.738 - 00:10:54.004, Speaker A: And what allowed us to do that was all of the accounting and the bookkeeping that was done by both the nazi and communist regimes, which every time they took something away from you, you got a receipt, and that was your way. You were able to track this entire history and find it and bring it back. We were also thinking about a new patronage model, a way to actually encourage people to support different cultural institutions through utilizing the arts that exist. We were also thinking about the ability of NFTs and the arts that were coming out of it to move to different locations when we normally work as a museum institution. We have to go through a lot of paperwork just to transfer work of art to a different location. This means you have insurance protocols that you have to go through. You have to also ask permission from a central authority from the Czech Ministry of Culture before the piece can be transferred as well.
00:10:54.004 - 00:11:32.308, Speaker A: And the ease of movement is actually quite complicated. And lastly, I think this is a word that is so overused at a lot of crypto conferences. So I apologize. But community is also something that we were really thinking about, but community in a new sense. You have communities that are created around cultural institutions and museums. But if I think about most of the people that are actually visiting our museums today, these are people of an older generation, for the most part, and people who, most of our works of art actually date between the 16th and the 19th century. So these are actually pieces that appeal typically to older audiences.
00:11:32.308 - 00:12:12.404, Speaker A: So we wanted to look for ways to connect to a younger audience, but also think of people who will have a sustained interest in preserving and protecting it. And so we saw a great opportunity for cultural institutions here. And this is at the peak of the pandemic when we were really looking at this. Cultural institutions are asset rich and cash poor. The NFT market at the time, and still is, I'd say, today, was, I think, cash rich, not asset poor necessarily. There are a lot of wonderful things that you're seeing there. But what we wanted to do was look for new sources of inspiration that are built off of our cultural heritage that we could connect to.
00:12:12.404 - 00:13:00.474, Speaker A: And so we were observing this and seeing what was happening, just to give a couple of examples with what people from an arts institution were thinking about. They were going absolutely crazy thinking that the head of a bear done by Da Vinci was selling at the same price as a crypto punk in a Sothebys auction. I mean, this is unbelievable to people who were studying art history for a long period of time and are thinking, how is this possible? What is happening? And this was, I'll admit, as well, completely unfathomable to me as well. I was so I actually, myself was frustrated. I said, this is driving me crazy because I don't understand what's happening here. And eventually, as I started learning more, I started understanding the value of actually not. This isn't.
00:13:00.474 - 00:13:44.666, Speaker A: I wouldn't call this maybe a controversial statement, but a cryptopunk is far more. It goes far beyond the artistry that actually goes into putting it together. And I wouldn't refer to it as much as a work of art, but more as a collectible that is able to create a community around something that gets people excited. But imagine if you can create that same sense of community around a da Vinci and get people excited who love da Vinci, too, in the same way that they're excited about a punk or an ape at the same time. So this was really quite exciting to see. And then we're watching as well as you're seeing classic arts institutions beginning to bid in crypto. This is a historic event.
00:13:44.666 - 00:14:17.034, Speaker A: This has never happened in the history of many of these institutions. And we're seeing a great change, I think, where you're seeing a bidding in ETH when it's not in the national currency of what's happening there. And there's a. I think we're seeing kind of, we're on the precipice of something happening quite soon. The other thing that was quite interesting to see was an observation of something that happened. I think it was this past four or five months ago. I don't know if anyone here has heard about Constitutiondao as well.
00:14:17.034 - 00:14:45.392, Speaker A: Great. So a couple of hands I'm seeing. Perfect. This is good. Constitutiondao was fascinating to me from a community building perspective and what it could mean for a change in the art world. Just to give an idea of what happened with Constitutiondao, there's only one copy of the real us constitution that exists in the world. There are two copies in private ownership, and one which was going to sale, that was a private copy, actually, of three.
00:14:45.392 - 00:15:21.604, Speaker A: There are 13 copies that exist in the world, and one of those private copies was going to auction. So this was a big deal. And it was, there are not many that are in private ownership, so it was a great opportunity to see that happen. And so you saw this community that was created online, mostly from Twitter, with a whole bunch of founders who put it together. There were 13 different people, like the 13 different colonies of the United States who came together who said, we are going to try to buy the constitution. We, the people are going to purchase the constitution. That's quite an amazing statement.
00:15:21.604 - 00:16:05.674, Speaker A: That's quite exciting. Typically, when you think about where most of these things are going to say, when they're going to sale at these major auction houses, they're going typically, to people with deeper pockets who are able to spend a lot more capital, and now you're seeing a crowdfunding campaign to purchase a work of art, use the governance token that comes from it to actually dictate what museum is going to hold onto that in the future. That's a game changer, absolute game changer. And it was amazing what was starting to happen. It was one of the biggest. There was $40 million raised in seven days. There were 2300 participants who had zero ETH experience beforehand that was in their wallet, and there were 17,000 people who contributed to it.
00:16:05.674 - 00:16:24.304, Speaker A: And just. This was another thing I just wanted to add. There was. There are issues that were surrounding it. A lot of people refer to the gas, $1.5 million spent on gas, but the median donation was about $206 that you saw. And there were some issues with the marketing, I would say as well.
00:16:24.304 - 00:16:58.964, Speaker A: Some people thought they were actually purchasing a part of the constitution. Some people bought it just as a donation because it was an experiment as well. So there were various motivations behind doing this, but what could come out of it was actually a really exciting moment. And for me, I spent a short time period as well, working at Sotheby's in the old master paintings department as a researcher. Grunt. Not really being important at all, but one of my roles was to. When something was consigned, I was given that work of art and I had to figure out what it is.
00:16:58.964 - 00:17:25.010, Speaker A: I had to look at the exhibition history, I had to go to the library and study every single book where it was ever mentioned, that one piece, piece or work of art. And I'd kind of fall in love with this thing as well. I'd get incredibly connected to it. Add a picture of it by my bedside table. I was really infatuated by this piece. And then eventually, what you see when it goes to auction is that it goes to auction. There's a private seller who purchases it and you never see it again.
00:17:25.010 - 00:17:48.030, Speaker A: Sometimes. A lot of the times art is used as an investment, it's not. You don't know who it goes to as well. If it's anonymous, there's not full transparency in what's happening, and very often they will be away from public eye. So there are some issues with the art market, which can be changed, I think, in the future, just to give a little. Some light things as well. This is kind of what we were seeing on Twitter.
00:17:48.030 - 00:18:24.726, Speaker A: As people were getting excited by a DAO purchasing the US constitution. I just wanted to throw up. Some of these people were trying to find ETH. I thought you'd like this ETH and we the people. So there was a lot. And the amount of excitement that this gathered around this thing was amazing. Even crypto Twitter took over the Sotheby's live auction thing, where you were just seeing GM, GM, GM wagme, all of this on the side, and there are all these classic art patrons who are seeing this going like, what's actually happening.
00:18:24.726 - 00:19:15.728, Speaker A: I have no understanding of what these different acronyms mean, but it was amazing how excited these people could get around this historic document, and. And they were going to choose where it was actually going to go. So this was an exciting moment, I thought. We also have seen a lot of museums enter this space where they have actually looked at what we've been kind of calling a scan and ship model, where they scan a different work of art, sell off different editions of it, and then turn those into nfts. And we've seen the Almatage do this as well. There's the british museum that was taking Hawkasai prints and setting different levels of rarity to them and then selling them on their website. And recently, the Belvedere Museum in Vienna, they also did something with their the kiss by Gustav Klimt on Valentine's Day.
00:19:15.728 - 00:20:08.874, Speaker A: They sold off 10,000 different pixels of the kiss, NFT. And you can see this would be one of your pixels, and they give you the exact coordinates of where that is. And so this is one model we've seen, I think, most museum institutions explore. There are some questions I have about that as well. In terms of what are you actually purchasing when you're buying many of these nfts? Is it similar to a print that you would have typically, if you bought a print in a museum? Are you buying ownership in it? And this is something that I think is actually waiting to be defined a little bit in the space, actually. And I think even in the case of Constitution Dao, which I mentioned earlier, I think a lot of people actually thought that they were purchasing part of the constitution. And if you look at the memes that I was showing you earlier, it made it sound like you were actually doing that.
00:20:08.874 - 00:21:04.674, Speaker A: So I think there's a lot that is sort of being defined at this moment in time, and whether these digital pieces have the value that's associated with the pieces. But are you relating digital value to physical value of the pieces side by side? These are some of the things that are being explored. And so we ourselves are also looking at what that means. And then there's another model, which I'd say is also interesting, is looking at how do we take works of art that already exist and then find new ways to actually interact with them? And I wanted to bring up an example here, which was put on display at the Guggenheim museum, which was quite amazing. You can see Las Meninas by Diego Velazquez, which is in the Prado Museum in Madrid. And then another piece that was created by Eve Sussman. Which was called 89 seconds at Alcazar.
00:21:04.674 - 00:21:35.374, Speaker A: And this piece shows. It's a video piece, actually, that shows kind of the creation of this actual work of art in a video form. And this is one of the more popular displays in the Guggenheim. And it actually sold as an NFT a little bit later on as a copy of it. But this is quite an interesting model, I think, because it's finding a way to build off of our cultural heritage to create something new. But this also isn't anything new. This has been done in art history for thousands of years.
00:21:35.374 - 00:22:10.488, Speaker A: This is a painting in our own collection by Diego Velazquez, which shows the Infanta margherita. And you have two other editions of this that have been put together by Picasso and Dali as well. Now, these two pieces, when they were first made, people thought this was blasphemous. You can possibly take the work of an old master and try to recreate it in this form. And many of these pieces are now selling, if you were to put them at auction, would sell for millions of dollars immediately. So you are seeing this model. You've seen this model in the past, for sure.
00:22:10.488 - 00:23:01.824, Speaker A: And this is sort of the area where we started thinking about, ok, what would we do if we sold off an NFT as a museum institution? What would that look like? And we started by, with one piece that we called unseen gaze. This is a painting we have in the collection by Paolo Veronese, which shows David and the head of Goliath. And we animated on top of it, the x ray and infrared imaging of the piece, which shows another ghostly head in the background. That was done in the underpainting of the canvas. This is an example of something you can only see in the digital world that you can't see in the physical world world. The idea of having an additional painting that you're able to bring out into the foreground, where we're able to share and connect with people. So that was an example of something we had shown as an NFT, and we sold in October.
00:23:01.824 - 00:24:34.672, Speaker A: Then on top of that, we had another minuet that was written by one of my ancestors, Anna Wilhelmina von Altam, who was the wife of the fourth Prince Lobkowitz. And she was quite an accomplished lutenist, but was not recognized for a lot of her musical abilities in the 18th century, virtue of just being a woman. And so what we thought would be quite interesting would be to take that piece of music, record it for the first time in history, and play it and create an animated piece that shows her handwriting and play over the music that for the first time in over 250 years. So that was a really exciting moment for us, because not only were we able to retell some of these very important stories in history, and this is what we're trying to do in our curation as well, but it was also a great way to showcase the music of someone who had really put something together that was quite special, but hadn't gotten the acknowledgement that it deserves. And today that piece is in a museum in the metaverse, in somnium space, which I find I have no idea how she'd feel about that. But I think it's quite exciting conceptually, because anyone can go from all around the world to see that piece and connect with it. And the last piece we did, which were part of these digital explorations, was this shows a piece of scoffito that's on the outside of one of the castles we operate, and it shows it degrading over time due to different weather and things that hit that piece.
00:24:34.672 - 00:25:27.634, Speaker A: And we wanted to showcase what happens to cultural monuments over time if they're not cared for. And the example of this castle, which is just 35 minutes north of Prague, Scroffito, which is the technique of scratching into stone, slowly degrades after about 30 to 50 years. Just to restore all the scaffito on the outside of that facade of the castle costs about a million euros, just to give you an idea. And this is something we haven't been able to fundraise for. So the idea here was to create a piece that would fundraise for that project. But what's also interesting about this NFT, conceptually, is that by putting it on blockchain, we are creating an immutable record of this digital artwork, and it will stay in perpetuity on blockchain, just like this issue with the Scoffito will exist in perpetuity. So any secondary royalties that come from that will continue to go to supporting that project as well.
00:25:27.634 - 00:26:05.310, Speaker A: We also explored something we call proof of patronage. This is where we did the kind of scan and ship model. It's a little bit more similar to that where we took a picture of an unrestored work of art that has a hole in it that's damaged in some way. And we set the price of that NFT at the cost of the restoration, meaning that when you buy that NFT, you are paying to restore that work of art. And then. So what we did is they bought the piece, and then six months later, we airdropped that piece and you can see the before and after of your work. So that is a game changer for just philanthropy as well.
00:26:05.310 - 00:26:47.896, Speaker A: How often do people donate to things where they're not taken on the journey, where they see where they're from, funds are going, and this is a great way of tracking that. And for people to take pride in it, say, look at what I've done. I've helped these people. We are able to share this culture, and they can now see it on the walls, in the physical locations. And then we worked with other artists as well, who created pieces that were inspired by the collections. This is by Matthew Stone over here, who was responding to a cabinet of curiosities that we had a painting of. We also had an artist collective in Paris called Obvious, who took a series of 250 maps that we had in a book that are very hard to display, actually, because you have to flip a page so that they're not exposed to light too much.
00:26:47.896 - 00:27:30.120, Speaker A: So what we did is we took those maps, we put it into their algorithm, and they created a Gan piece, two gann pieces that you see right over here. You're now able to see all those 250 maps in this piece, which normally is not on public display. And that's a new way of exhibiting pieces. And so we showcased this at an event called Non Fungible Castle, where we put on an exhibition. I might acknowledge we have Jake Al Hafar here, if you can just wave your hand. Jake worked on all the curation of this piece and the creation of the NFT, so we can give him a round of applause here as well. And we put together an exhibition in 26 hours where we brought in a work crew from Zelin, who brought with them.
00:27:30.120 - 00:28:27.834, Speaker A: If you've experienced Slivowitz as well, it's a wonderful check beverage as well. But they brought this along the way, and they did an excellent job installing this entire thing. So we put on this wonderful exhibition, which we then opened to the public. And we just told people, come in and look at these NFTs, see what they look like, look at the real works of art next to it, and tell us what you think. And so that was a great opportunity. We then held an event forum at the Lobkowitz palace called Non Fungible Castle, where we invited people from the crypto world and the art world to talk about what does the crossover of blockchain and the arts mean? How can we work with one another to build off of our cultural heritage and to do different things together? We had the cryptopunks next to portraits, a discussion of what that means. What is a PFP? How does that compare to portraiture as well? And we had a discussion around the art that we saw there, but also the NFTs that were being created.
00:28:27.834 - 00:28:55.980, Speaker A: So it was a great moment. It was very difficult organizing some of this because I was dealing with museum directors, but I was also dealing with anon people as well. So here we see gee money. We had to put his crypto punk over him. But I was also calling up hotels and saying, I have a person who's coming to stay with us. Can we have his first and last name? And I said, g money, which was quite complicated. We put them next to a museum director.
00:28:55.980 - 00:29:18.940, Speaker A: We also had the head of the Salvador Dali foundation on a panel, too, who were having a discussion with these people. So it was really a wonderful opportunity to connect with them. And we learned a lot from it. And we auctioned off a lot of the pieces that I showed you before. And today what we're doing is working on restoring all of those pieces. So you can see very special collection. Actually, could we cut the sound on this, maybe, if possible.
00:29:18.940 - 00:29:48.324, Speaker A: Thank you. So this is an example of some of these officers, officers that we're now restoring as a result of the NFT sales. We, through this proof of patronage series we talked about, managed to restore 52 different pieces. And so now we're working hard to restore all of this. We're trying to show people the journey that they've gone on along the way. And then we're going to be air dropping these nfts to everyone as we're finishing off. And that's such a wonderful experience because they're taken through that.
00:29:48.324 - 00:30:34.088, Speaker A: This is the restorer who's been working specifically on this series of officers. And then we're also looking at how that can be done with physical spaces, too. There's one room in the Lobkowitz palace called the Chinese Belvedere, which we are now restoring to as a result of NFT proof of patronage sale. We sold a 3d version of an NFT that showed the space, so you were able to see it. And we will do a before and after of that space, too, and that'll be completed in the next two months or so. So this is really an exciting moment. So what's next, really, with what we're thinking about? We're thinking these were all experiments I wanted to add as well, and we had no idea whether any of these would work.
00:30:34.088 - 00:31:50.584, Speaker A: Some have worked well, some we have learned from as well, and we're working day by day to think about ways where we can become more tech savvy, ways where we can work with smart contract technology to implement new things that we can add to the metadata, ways of imprinting people's contributions until the end of time on blockchain. So there's lots we're learning and developing, but we're also thinking about how we can get people excited around different new media, incorporate gaming ecosystems into what we're doing. Community owned Dao projects we've been talking about as well how you can use Dao infrastructure to actually be centered around a museum setting where you can get people excited behind what can be done. Get people excited behind the different pieces in the collection too, and get them having a conversation and engaging with our cultural heritage and building off of it. And next we'll be doing another iteration of non fungible Castle as well, where we'll have an exhibition that'll be running at the Lobkowitz palace. You're all more than welcome to come and visit that we'll be doing a lot more. The new things that we'll be putting on display, working with new artists, we we're also working on an interactive cultural experience, which sounds like a strange thing, but hear me out.
00:31:50.584 - 00:32:57.334, Speaker A: There are a lot of conferences I've been seeing on the crypto circuit, and what we've been trying to think about in that experience that we're creating at Nela Joseves are different ways where people can interact with this technology, whether that be done. I know everyone has been talking about NFT ticketing for a long period of time, but I. There need to be. I think there are some applications of it that could be enhanced in some ways. Different po ops that you can create when you interact with different cultural experiences, token gated experiences where you can connect with others. So we're trying to create kind of a crypto castle playground at Nella Huzlevest where you can try out different use cases of this technology. And then at the conference the day after, we're going to be talking a little bit more about what the applications of that technology is with panels with people who disagree with the use of blockchain as well, people who see issues with it being alongside other people who might agree with it, where we critically explore how we move forward in the space, not just a patting on the backs of one another, saying, this is so wonderful what we're doing, but I think we do really have to think about what is the best way moving forward.
00:32:57.334 - 00:33:09.034, Speaker A: So I wanted to end with a little quote here by Ernst Fisher, art must show the world as changeable and help to change it. And that's what we'd like to be doing today. Thank you all for your time.
00:33:17.294 - 00:33:22.794, Speaker B: I'm quite sure after that there must be some questions. I mean, that was pretty. Wow.
00:33:23.254 - 00:33:23.894, Speaker A: Who from the.
00:33:23.934 - 00:33:28.634, Speaker B: Yeah, we've got. There should be a microphone going around, a gentleman in the middle.
00:33:32.724 - 00:34:05.444, Speaker C: Thank you very much for the presentation. I was wondering, you called cryptopunk collectible. I sort of agree with that, that we have kind of two sides where there is a real art from artists and there are collectibles, and there are some mingling in together. In my opinion, the profile pictures have great utility. We can use it on Twitter. It connects people around. But we are sort of missing a way how to consume the digital art from.
00:34:05.444 - 00:34:23.224, Speaker C: From artists like photography. What changes, in your opinion, needs to be made to make them as appealing as monkeys and punks? And so what kind of instruments are we missing?
00:34:23.604 - 00:35:27.804, Speaker A: I think we're missing a definition of terms. Very often we're seeing different. A term I hear thrown around quite a bit is crypto art, for instance, which I think there is definitely a new kind of artistic movement that we're seeing. Where exactly? The mediums that you were just describing, whether they be graphic design, incorporating digital tools to do animation, these things that have typically not been really explored as artistic mediums for a long period of time, because they haven't been understand, have actually come to the forefront as a result of nfts. And you're seeing a new type of art that's developing, too, which is in line with a lot of Internet culture, that you see, too, where different things are being created. And then what happens so often, though, is that because there are so many new people that are entering this space, whether they be from the artistic world or the crypto world, trying to get into the art world as well. I think all of the terms are being thrown around in different ways.
00:35:27.804 - 00:36:04.604, Speaker A: So when I think about even the collectibles that we were describing, you know, I don't have an issue with collectibles. I think they're fantastic. I think they're great ways of people connecting with one another. The idea of someone being able to connect with another person because they have a similar trait because of a cryptopunk, and having a meetup in Paris because of that, that's incredibly cool. It's incredibly exciting. But I think it's key that we don't conflate some of those things. We call it a collectible, and then we call other things works of art, and I think it'll also help the new emerging artists that are coming out there as well.
00:36:04.604 - 00:36:35.954, Speaker A: I didn't even talk about that in my presentation. I focused on cultural institutions and philanthropy. But I'm incredibly excited by new artists who are actually able to represent themselves using a decentralized format where they're actually getting the acknowledgement for their work that they deserve, which they haven't for a long period of time. So I think a definition of terms would be helpful, and I think with time it'll come. It's all quite new at the moment, I think. I hope I answered your question correctly as well. I have one more.
00:36:35.954 - 00:36:37.474, Speaker A: Absolutely.
00:36:38.614 - 00:37:15.984, Speaker C: I was more focusing on how to enjoy it, because right now we can have a look on Opensea and that's it. You got a photography, we can buy a tv and show it at your home. But would it be if Instagram kind of create the gallery of yourself that the NFT you are holding, that this is the way how we can enjoy that? You can kind of show your taste? And that's kind of speculation. What kind of how we will consume this art in digital space.
00:37:16.844 - 00:37:50.608, Speaker A: So if I understand your question correctly, it was about different ways of being able to view all of these different works of art in a digital space. Consume. I think we are able to consume art so much more because of what's happening with this space. The idea of having a record of where art is moving over time, where ownership is transferring. You can always refer back to the original piece in some way, shape or form, because blockchain allows you to do that. That is creating more exposure to the pieces. On top of that, you're seeing new digital viewing experiences that are getting better.
00:37:50.608 - 00:38:47.604, Speaker A: Some are jankier as well, and they're developing. But I've seen so many different examples of gallery spaces that are being created, where people are able to share their pieces in a decentralized form, where normally, if I have a work of art in my own home, it's incredibly difficult to share that work of art sometimes, unless I send a quick photo. But digital gallery spaces are being created every day. And it's. I got a question in an interview once where somebody asked me, how do you feel about this crypto world getting interested in the arts? Is it hurting the art world? And I said, no, it's the opposite, because you're getting a huge influx of people who are now getting excited by different forms of art that can be displayed, shared with one another. You're finding new ways for artists to be able to share these pieces and display their work. You're seeing examples like Instagram, where they're looking at ways of incorporating nfts into Instagram as well.
00:38:47.604 - 00:39:01.744, Speaker A: Facebook is making a huge step in that direction. So I think the viewing experiences are only going to get better. The hardware that exists to display those pieces will get better, and you'll be able to explore it in much better ways, I think, too.
00:39:03.904 - 00:39:06.204, Speaker B: Okay, I think another question here in the middle.
00:39:09.704 - 00:39:45.180, Speaker D: Hey, William, thank you for the amazing presentation. I would like to ask exactly about the dilemma between actually destroying some art or making it better or innovation. Because I heard a nice definition that innovation put in longer time becomes traditionally. And also, the second thing is. Sorry, I had to write it down just to keep the. Yeah, and the second thing is that the art is just a way to express. The same as writing or talking or just another way to express.
00:39:45.180 - 00:40:18.520, Speaker D: So actually making this innovation in the art, you are trying to express something that somebody who is, or unfortunately has been 250 years old, dead, you are trying to express it for herself or for himself. So I would like just to ask, actually, it's quite personal, how do you feel about that, about this dilemma, if you are actually able to express it? Because you might know that it's impossible to actually express that. So how is it for you to actually restore it? Is it more like innovation or making new tradition, or how do you feel about that?
00:40:18.592 - 00:40:56.694, Speaker A: I mean, most artistic movements have been a form of innovation that have completely changed the way things have operated. Photography, for example, was considered before a far more mechanic practice that captured a moment in time. There was artistry that was added on top of it later on, and there was artistry that went into it, but people didn't understand it as well. Different artistic movements have also developed. But what I would like to see is a respect for some of the things that have come from the past. I think it was. There's a great quote, and I think it was Isaac Newton who said it.
00:40:56.694 - 00:41:58.022, Speaker A: I can only see as far as the shoulders I stand on. And what I'm trying to encourage entering this space is that we look back to our cultural heritage, to how we can build off of it, to innovate and move things forward. And it's a hard thing to do. And I've been criticized a lot by colleagues who work in the traditional museum space for some of the things that I've been doing, because they're experiments. And there's a certain level of respect that you also have to have for the original makers of the works of art. For instance, the Gann piece that I showed upstairs before on the presentation, which showed the transforming of those different maps, I had someone from another museum or gallery saying, this is completely disrespectful to the original maker of this work. And how can you call this art if it was made by an algorithm? And so that's a whole other debate, talking about the artistry that goes into algorithms, whether you can make.
00:41:58.022 - 00:42:47.400, Speaker A: I know. I think with this audience, it'll resonate. But a code can be sexy a lot of times as well, with the way that you can write things. There's poetry that can be written into it. And I think with time and openness, and that's the whole idea behind this event we're doing, is you just need to have a conversation between these two groups together. And if we find ways where we connect people who might not be entirely similar, I think we'll build wonderful things that will make history that we will remember in the future. So when I talked about a definition of terms and crypto art, I think that will be a new art form that will be recognized in history, that developed from something that with the progress of technology, it's the same with paintbrushes when they were used, different types of gilding that was being used.
00:42:47.400 - 00:42:54.564, Speaker A: All art has progressed as a result of technology making it possible for people to do more and more things. It's nothing new.
00:42:55.424 - 00:42:57.592, Speaker B: Okay, I think we might have time for one more question.
00:42:57.648 - 00:43:09.516, Speaker D: Sorry to add a sentence. So thank you so much, because I completely agree with you. I just wanted to know the reaction to the criticism. So I wanted to encourage you because it's amazing.
00:43:09.540 - 00:43:11.148, Speaker A: Thank you. Thank you. Great.
00:43:11.196 - 00:43:13.740, Speaker B: And I think we've got maybe time for one more, if you.
00:43:13.892 - 00:43:19.624, Speaker A: Yeah, no worries.
00:43:20.044 - 00:43:51.478, Speaker E: Yeah. So, first of all, I just really moved by what you're doing. So much of what we've been doing in the crypto world has been digitizing the real, and you're taking the digital and putting it back into the real, physical world. And one of the things that we've seen around money is that it often devalues beauty. And so I'm just incredibly moved, first of all, by what you're doing. My question is about sharing, and you talked a little bit about the critique from other things. I mean, we are in this open source community.
00:43:51.478 - 00:44:04.386, Speaker E: How does that look in the art world, both in terms of people copying your ideas and in terms of sharing some of the code that you're using in order to do these things? I'm very interested now how sharing is working in your industry.
00:44:04.530 - 00:44:46.254, Speaker A: Absolutely. So everything that we do, I hope, can be an inspiration to other institutions as well. Immediately after our conference, we held a second conference just for local museum institutions, where we shared what we did. What were some of our concerns from a legal perspective, this was something that was quite scary to a lot of institutions as well. The handling of cryptocurrencies and how we did that as a nonprofit institution, we shared that as well. And so we've been quite open with museum institutions about how we're doing that. And me speaking at these conferences, I hope that it's a new thing that can be replicated by other institutions in the future.
00:44:46.254 - 00:45:55.144, Speaker A: Because when I look at the current system that is set up to preserve cultural heritage, at the moment, it is not sustainable. And when we look at cultural institutions around the world, on average, about 60% of their funding comes either through private donations in the United States or for public institutions, mostly here in Europe. You also see 60%. The national gallery here in Prague, for instance, is heavily reliant upon a grant that they get from the czech state, which pays for 67% of their budget. That's not a sustainable business model. And so if we can look at ways to not not only be inward looking institutions, but outward looking institutions, where we think about how museums can be gathering places for people from all around the world, where it's not intimidating to people, where they can find a way to identify with a story or something inside, that's going to have a much more profound effect on the people that they work with. In terms of the code that you had mentioned as well, we've worked with different partners that have made that possible.
00:45:55.144 - 00:46:27.774, Speaker A: So initially, we did some minting on different platforms. We slowly worked to a little bit of smart contract customization that was possible through a company called Manifold as well, which has actually made. They've been very helpful to a lot of artists in terms of onboarding and having them take ownership of their smart contracts, which is also important. So we've learned about that along the way, too. The coding we need help with, I have to say. So I'm not an incredibly technical person as well. My background is more in the museum space.
00:46:27.774 - 00:46:33.854, Speaker A: But we have a fantastic team of people that have been working really hard to help us and support us in that way.
00:46:34.394 - 00:46:48.422, Speaker B: It may interest you to know there's quite a lot of software developers at this event. It's a hackathon, so talk to hackers and tell them what you want them to build, and maybe they'll just go build it. ETH Prague really is the place where universes are colliding. So thank you so much for being here today.
00:46:48.478 - 00:46:49.166, Speaker A: Thank you.
00:46:49.310 - 00:46:51.406, Speaker B: Let's have a round of applause for William Rudolph.
00:46:51.510 - 00:46:51.854, Speaker A: Thank you.
