00:00:00.490 - 00:00:01.200, Speaker A: All right.
00:00:01.970 - 00:00:52.254, Speaker B: Hope you enjoyed some nice low five beats. Welcome back, everybody. We are back on schedule and ready for our incredible panel that is up coming next. So I'll quickly just preface all of this as we get all of our speakers onto the live stream. And for those of you who participate, did it at Hackfrest 2020 last year, we did a panel that we call just a decentralized panel on the feature of social media that is Web three first, and we have a lot of interesting things come out of that. And from a timing standpoint, it's been twelve months, just a little over twelve months since we had last talk with all three of the same speakers. So we wanted to bring that in and do a little bit of highlight on how things have evolved, as well as talk about some new interesting things that have happened this year.
00:00:52.254 - 00:01:25.606, Speaker B: So, without further ado, I'd like to invite Bennett Vitalik glitterin, and Biology Shitting Lawson to turn your cameras on and say hi to our audience. We'll have each of them join us quickly. And for those of you who are joining in on ETHGlobal TV, just a quick reminder that if you have any questions for our speakers, we'll be able to incorporate a lot of those questions indirectly into the next few minutes. So feel free to log in and just ask over your questions. And as we see those questions, we'll be able to bring them on and ask them on.
00:01:25.788 - 00:01:28.854, Speaker C: So let's see.
00:01:28.892 - 00:01:32.700, Speaker B: So, Balgi, Juan, Bene, and.
00:01:34.590 - 00:01:35.274, Speaker D: There we go.
00:01:35.312 - 00:01:47.760, Speaker B: I think we're just about to get everybody here. So welcome everybody. I'll just do a quick ask for an AV check just so I can hear us. And there we go.
00:01:48.210 - 00:01:49.214, Speaker C: Can you hear me?
00:01:49.332 - 00:01:51.326, Speaker B: Yes, we can. How are you?
00:01:51.428 - 00:01:51.806, Speaker C: All right.
00:01:51.828 - 00:01:52.750, Speaker D: Can you hear me?
00:01:52.900 - 00:02:33.982, Speaker B: Yes. Perfect. So it looks like we're just running into some AV issues with Vitalik, so he'll be on in a few seconds. We'll just kind of restart that session, but I'll get started without him and we'll incorporate them in the next few seconds. So basically what I want to do is take some time and just kind of highlight what's happened so far. We're only halfway through the year and it's already been so incredible to see just the amount of things that have happened in Crypto kind of just rolling back a few months ago, just saw the boom of NFTs just taking over the world from digital art to digital music. Now we have things like Stoner Cats, which we just kind of saw from Metallica a week ago.
00:02:33.982 - 00:03:40.820, Speaker B: We're seeing DAOs opening up to larger groups, whether it's projects moving into the space by kind of going from C corpse to Dao on chain like Uniswap or a bunch of other DeFi projects, to just on chain voting becoming so common in every decision making that happens. Incredible amount of activity happening in the gaming world whether it's top shots on Collection or Axie infinities or Yield guild Guide, amazing set of social platforms like Mirror or Bitcloud just popping up and just polarizing people one way or the other, or just getting people excited. And of course, everything that's happening in DeFi and scaling and infrastructure altogether, and that's just, only six to seven months in. We did a panel with all of you last year around just some predictions for how you thought the ecosystem would evolve. So maybe I'll just start with Juan Benegi until Vitalik shows up. Just what are some of your hopes of this ecosystem and sort of just now looking in retrospect, the last two months, twelve months have been what have you been super delighted to see the progress of since last year?
00:03:44.870 - 00:05:09.818, Speaker D: Yes, sure, the last twelve months have been an amazing whirlwind, right? Like ton of stuff has happened, super biased here, but just twelve months ago, the Falcon network wasn't live, and so that has been a huge highlight for the ecosystem. Maybe it's just staggering to see the amount of storage and applications being built over that storage this quickly. We're way ahead of where we sort of expected to be, and now we have all of Web Three in terms of storage. All of the applications fit in a few petabytes of storage, maybe ten at most. And now Popcorn has eight exabytes of capacity. So that really has vaulted the network into, okay, great. Now what areas of Web Two should we be pushing towards, and what kind of, kind of applications should we be building to shift whole things that were not possible twelve months ago that are now suddenly possible? And maybe the most crazy thing is the economic incentives of the platform network let you drop the storage price down to zero, at least for the time period where the capacity build out is greater than the demand.
00:05:09.818 - 00:05:58.960, Speaker D: While that's true, the block reward lets you drop the storage cost to zero or potentially negative. We could see negative pricing in storage the way that we see it in all markets, and that would be a super amazing fee to happen, because then suddenly large scale networks, large scale applications that have terabytes or exabytes of data storage needs could then be paid for their data, which is a super wild thing. And I sort of expect that this will happen sometime in the next few weeks, next few months. So in terms of social media, right, I think of how much goes through a network like Twitter, and all of the attachments associated with a network like Twitter. That's a vast amount of data storage. And so now you could actually build something like that.
00:05:59.970 - 00:06:00.430, Speaker A: Awesome.
00:06:00.500 - 00:06:17.080, Speaker B: And before Balaji answers, I'll just kind of repeat the question for Vitalik, which is just kind of having done a similar panel with all three of you about a year ago, just kind of in retrospect, looking at the last twelve months. What have you been delighted to see the progress, the most delighted to see the progress since last year.
00:06:19.610 - 00:06:20.678, Speaker C: Why don't you go ahead?
00:06:20.764 - 00:06:21.400, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:06:23.610 - 00:06:24.760, Speaker B: Go for it.
00:06:27.130 - 00:08:00.790, Speaker A: Sure. So I think, let's see ongoing progress of ENS is obviously really nice. NFTs just showing that any application other than DeFi can succeed and that it is possible for blockchains to attract constituencies other than DeFi type people. And it's obviously not the same constituency, they'll be attracted by decentralized social things, but it's always n equals two is a better sample size than N equals one. So it's I guess assigned to be optimistic in some ways myself. Realizing that crypto Twitter is terrible is something that has made me bullish on the fact that there exists space for an alternative. I think the narrative historically has been that hey, the existing centralized stuff works great and unless you're one of these either very idealistic types or very weird types that says things that get censored all the time, then what need would you even have? But no, there's all sorts of very different reasons why someone would want something different from existing kind of centralized media and I think points to kind of similar directions for a solution.
00:08:04.650 - 00:09:02.442, Speaker C: Yeah, that's what I'm thinking about them. I mean, obviously over the last year DeFi has gone vertical. A bunch of things have been working that were not working for some time. But for many years I have been tweeting and thinking about decentralized media. And that's the thing that I think is it's not like the digital gold story or the decentralized finance story go away. It's sort of like bitcoin kind of catalyzed, obviously the digital gold wave that is still going on, that is still a major storyline in a sense this decade with all the money printing that's happening, decentralized finance with ethereum catalyzed that's going places and that continues. The thing is that basically once you've established your position in digital gold and once you've got your stable coin and stuff set up, I'm not an active trader, I appreciate DeFi on an intellectual level.
00:09:02.442 - 00:09:31.940, Speaker C: I think it's interesting and I think it's mathematically interesting and so on, but it's the kind of thing where if you were a hedge fund person, you'd love it more. And I like DeFi, but I don't love it because it's like just not something that solves a problem that I cared about that much. It says a buy and hold person, but decentralized media I really care about. And so that's the thing where the developments over the last year, some of the stuff, for example, what ENS has done, some of the stuff actually on other chains I'm very interested in and that's where a lot of my head is at.
00:09:33.350 - 00:09:50.918, Speaker B: Awesome. And maybe I think this has sort of been already answered in parts through all of your answers, but is there kind of one thing that moved way faster than you thought it would in the same time period moved away, just progressed way much faster than we thought.
00:09:51.084 - 00:10:48.534, Speaker C: Oh, well, I mean, obviously the rise of DeFi over the last year is one of those things where the meme with the poking with the stick like go ahead and do something. Yeah, that's what always happens with crypto is that it's this thing where nothing works for several years and then it all suddenly just works at once. And if you are relying on the headlines or the news to track progress, as opposed to checking in with projects and being in the discord and being on the GitHub and watching it, you would think nothing was happening. And then it just kind of suddenly goes vertical and it's almost like crypto is like the internet, but even more so. An exponential, if you just make it crazy enough, looks like a step function, right? And that's kind of what it is. Like this just like Tesla, like acceleration where you're like this, what's it called, infinite mode or something like that. They do when you floor the Tesla.
00:10:48.534 - 00:11:32.026, Speaker C: Not Tesla guy. But you know what I'm talking about, right? That's what Ethereum was in early 2017 when everybody had written it off after the Dow. I thought it was going to be years, frankly, for Ethereum to come back. I was a buy and hold investor, but congratulations, that turnaround in early 2017 from one bill to 30 bill, that was like next snap kind of thing, right? And then what happened this last year? One thing that's kind of interesting is that each soar and crash down brings in like a new group of people. I'm not even sure that the soaring of this year is done. Who knows, by the end this year we may be at whatever 100,000 in bitcoin or so on. I'm not sure that that story is done.
00:11:32.026 - 00:11:34.460, Speaker C: I'm not sure the cycle is over. We'll see what happens.
00:11:36.430 - 00:12:23.962, Speaker B: That's awesome. I was going to bring this up later at the end of the wrap up of this, but just want to just make sure that I tell everybody that today is Ethereum's birthday. It's the 6th birthday for Ethereum protocol and it's an amazing day and just kind of looking back and what's happened in the past six years and just slicing that every year, just the exponential growth it's had every twelve month windows. It's incredible to see the millions of lives and just new opportunities created for so many people. So today is a fun and awesome day and can't wait to see what 600 plus hackers are going to build in the next few weeks that incorporate everything else in web3. So Natalik, you did a talk last week at HCC around just things that are exciting outside of DFI. That was the name of the talk and you listed a handful of things.
00:12:23.962 - 00:12:38.750, Speaker B: We're going to definitely slice a lot of those topics and focus on a lot of the decentralized media piece, but just for the people who are not able to catch that talk. Would you be able to highlight some of those high level themes and topics you talked about on what's exciting beyond just DeFi?
00:12:39.250 - 00:13:57.080, Speaker A: Sure. So a big one was decentralized social media. And I think to me decentralized social media is compelling both because there is a need. I had some slides there where I showed just myself, tweeting my last three blog posts and the responses were like when ETH hey, you should check out Harmony dollar sign one hey, when dogecoin and it was just for myself personally. Twitter is just a completely useless medium for the discussion at this point, which is sad. Anti network effects are a real thing and also there's I think a real need for a form of social media that technically it doesn't have to be decentralized to achieve this, but creates an architecture other than trying to make everyone be distance one away from everyone else. And there's a lot of opportunities to innovate, right? Like there's coming up with other kinds of structures, there's introducing incentives and introducing various ways to try to just optimize for getting more quality.
00:13:57.080 - 00:15:27.246, Speaker A: There's all sorts of things that you can do and decentralized social media is interesting because it's a very nice playground for doing those kinds of things. It's also very friendly to the model of separating the content from the view, right? The content is decentralized and the content can live could be on chain, could be on a whisper like network, we can debate the details and then different people can make different views to the same content which could just allow for a lot more competition and experimentation with different views. Crypto and decentralized tech is just ideal for kind of creating that credibly neutral grounds that the content can live on, that all the views can access. And the other thing that crypto provides is a very easy to use built in layer for incentives, right? You can have incentives for could be posting, could be moderation, could be meta moderation. There's all sorts of ways to potentially integrate incentives in there's, I'm sure, lots and lots of really bad ways but there's also some good ways as well. And I think realistically the only way to discover the difference between the two is probably going to be experimentation. And experimentation is something that the blockchain space does well at as well.
00:15:27.246 - 00:16:04.794, Speaker A: So there's a need, there's an opportunity. That opportunity seems compatible with what crypto provides. So that's one thing. Another thing is as a short term bridge this concept of decentralized login and basically you should be able to use your Ethereum accounts to log into things. And I think Ethereum accounts with. If we also move to Smart Contract Wallets and add things like Social Recovery Wallets, which I'm a well known big fan of, then you can create something which is both self sovereign and I think provides a better experience than existing Google and accounts.
00:16:04.842 - 00:16:05.198, Speaker C: Right?
00:16:05.284 - 00:17:03.618, Speaker A: Like the usual cited advantage of centralization know if you screw up you can always contact Go, talk to mommy and Google or Twitter will help you. But in practice I've had friends that have actually lost access to their Google or Twitter accounts. Actually existing mommy is not very responsive. If you're rich and famous, mommy can often be responsive but if you're not then that can be very like social recovery I think can even outcompete the existing centralized providers there, which is interesting. And also getting the adoption for these things often ends up being very network effect dependent. And the really nice thing about Ethereum accounts is that they already have the network effects. There's already millions of people that have them so piggybacking off of that and off of the fact that they're not going to lose their account because their account already stores other crypto tokens and DeFi things that they already care about.
00:17:03.618 - 00:18:34.834, Speaker A: So that's two and then three is retroactive public goods funding. So basically, Ethereum, I think we're already entering this transition stage from DeFi to d gov and talking about dows and how those dows are going to be governed. And those dows have big treasuries or at least the opportunity to get a lot of revenue. But At The same time, figuring out how to actually Spend that revenue in a both Credibly neutral and non terrible way is A Hard Problem For A Lot Of them. And so I suggested basically committing to giving out these retroactive prizes for things that the Dow recognizes as being valuable and then essentially creating a prediction market where people can speculate on those prizes and kind of issue and trade project tokens as being this model that is worth experimentation. I think it's interesting because it kind of combines together different components that kind of cancel out each other's weaknesses, right? Like decentralized voting is good at being credibly neutral but it's often bad at understanding what things are important ahead of time because decentralized voting is conformist and conformism often is not good at figuring out what's going to be valuable in the future. And then prediction markets are this wonderful technique for basically empowering people who are good at predicting the future and letting them guide decisions in the present.
00:18:34.834 - 00:19:09.770, Speaker A: So combine those two together and this seems like it's a direction that seems very worth experimenting with. I think there's other themes as well and I think the core themes are one is branching well, the core theme is obviously branching out beyond DeFi and I think branching out onto just spheres of human coordination that are non financial and discussion is a big part of that and governance is the other big part of that. So can we make both of them better coordination?
00:19:10.430 - 00:20:37.206, Speaker D: Paying for retroactive funding of good works is a thing that crypto can enable now that people have been talking about for a very long time as something that is clearly very useful and clearly necessary for many kinds of impact. And in R and D especially, you have this world where the science and what you know so far can give you a glimpse of what is likely to be made. The market is not good at incentivizing what's very close to the science. The market is good at incentivizing the production of the actual making of products that are very close to end users that can pay for something. And so you have this chasm in this death alley chasm in the middle where R and D is fairly difficult to do and pay for and so on. And historically it's been the realm of either entrepreneurs building a new thing and that's a pretty difficult hard pathway getting way easier with time, but fairly unpredictable, or the realm of massive tech companies that can stomach the kind of billion to $10 billion per year budgets for R and D, or governments with kind of large agencies. But when you add up all of the funding scales of all of the government agencies and these large corporations and whatnot, it doesn't actually take that much money to do that kind of large scale R and D.
00:20:37.206 - 00:21:35.242, Speaker D: The problem is it's a coordination problem. And if you can do the kind of retroactive funding of R and D scalably with this and kind of pipe in the tens of billions of dollars worth of value through, you could vastly accelerate very hard work that right now is not getting done at all. So many industries are rate limited by the ability to do this kind of R and D pipeline work. And the retroactive funding thing, I think, can play a super key role. One of the things that I've been actually talking a lot about today with folks recently is this idea about certificates of impact. So this is a concrete institution of a retroactive funding scheme where people can create a certificate of having done really good work in the past, having a good impact on something. A really good articulation of it comes from the effective altruism community, highly recommend folks to go check it out.
00:21:35.242 - 00:22:22.410, Speaker D: You can make that on NFTs today. So we could have a certificate of impact market right now built in a few days using the NFT machinery and then create the larger scale retroactive funding system ever built. And that's something know, maybe it's like a hack away, like maybe one of the teams in the hackathon could go and build that thing that could have super valuable impact in the whole world. And there's a combination of kind of all of this convergence of threads on the NFT boom plus the creation of markets around them, plus it's kind of like retroactive funding algorithms, plus crypto and the ability to kind of move capital flows much more efficiently than traditional markets.
00:22:25.270 - 00:22:59.690, Speaker C: So let me offer a few points. Those are all great, actually maybe two complimentary points. One is this is kind of a little bit exactly what you asked Karthik, but in the ballpark. One is that regarding everything vitalik, and I have been thinking a lot about decentralized media. Another angle on this is that we're moving from internet influencers to crypto creators. And an extremely important thing for everybody in Ethereum and then generally crypto is find your nearest influencer and get them into crypto. Find your friend and get them into crypto.
00:22:59.690 - 00:23:45.210, Speaker C: Let me explain why. First is these are folks who are distribution channels that are not legacy media channels, that are individuals that you can have like a human to human conversation with and you can kind of turn them on to what crypto allows. In particular, many of these influencers get either $0 or very throttled dollars from their existing platforms. YouTube gives them some money, other platforms like Twitter give them none. And we're already seeing that move to substack and so on, and now to mirror and to bitcloud and other kinds of things. And so I don't think of this as a small thing. I think of this as at least in terms of scale the transition from communism to capitalism in East Asia and China and what have you.
00:23:45.210 - 00:24:15.206, Speaker C: Obviously there's a lot of human rights abuses that were happening there, but just at the property rights level, you didn't actually own anything in China. The teeth in your head under communism weren't actually even owned. There's this great article on the secret document that transformed China@npr.org from several years ago. Point being that nobody could actually own anything. They didn't have property rights in the sense of, you know, it was essentially something where everything belonged to the collective. And that actually is the state of Facebook and Twitter and social media right now.
00:24:15.206 - 00:24:48.686, Speaker C: There is no such thing as digital property rights prior to crypto. And once you actually truly own your profile and it's not really owning your data per se, that's kind of a misnomer because you could always download that. It is the ability to contact other people on platform. That messaging ability is intermediated by these hubs, these Twitters and Facebooks. And as they did with Trump, they can just remove your ability to contact others. Now, whether one agrees or not with that decision, the point is you don't have property rights on such a platform. There's no due process.
00:24:48.686 - 00:25:28.602, Speaker C: And the sort of, I think, thoughtless recourse to, oh, it's a private company, they can do what they want, is kind of stupid because really it's a technological failing that something so valuable could just be seized from you. Arbitrarily right. There's due process in other areas. So it's not just about property rights. It's not just about due process. It's about direct monetization for these crypto creators because in the same way that you wouldn't rent a domain name for a primary project, you'd buy it. These people are going to move from renting effectively usernames from Twitter and Facebook and having them appropriate all the money that is going through there, to having things like ENS, to having their own sovereign kind of things.
00:25:28.602 - 00:26:46.680, Speaker C: Not because they're know crazy censorship resistant kind of people, but simply because they want to monetize without some giant corporation being able to take all of it right. They give leverage against that giant corporation, right? So that's a crypto creator aspect and there's like the immediate visceral monetization kind of thing. But then there's the second order, which is having creators on sides is going to be crucial in terms of having a voice to push back against silly regulations, thoughtless regulations both in the US and abroad. And if you've got something where someone's making even a year from accepting cryptocurrency on their website or they have a handle where they realize, hey, I can't be deplatformed by Twitter or Facebook, then they realize that a lot of these pushes for regulation are not about consumer protection, they're about bank protection. They're about Facebook protection and Twitter protection, right? They're not about protecting consumers, they're about protecting corporations from the depredations of disruption, right? And so once you make that argument to those influencers, you turn those internet influencers into crypto creators, that builds a defense department for our entire space. So find your nearest influencer, convert them to crypto, help them see this, get them on Mirror or something like that. And that's kind of my advice to folks watching this.
00:26:48.730 - 00:27:33.538, Speaker B: That's amazing. I think that's first of all, that kind of covers five questions I had. So we can probably end this early. But no, I think what's interesting here is that mozzie what you just did is you just wanted a nuance on. Like I feel like there is so many different slices for what decentralized media means to I guess all of us here and just overall outside and we're looking at a different slice for different layer of that stack. You kind of talked about what matters here is if the property rights of actually having your identity be portable. Kind of in previous talks with Vitalik and Juan, we've talked about what matters more is just being able to be essentially resistant primarily and make sure that you don't get censored or get your content taken out from the platform you're choosing and some of them care.
00:27:33.538 - 00:27:48.300, Speaker B: And I guess like another point that you made Vitalik early on was just what matters more is just minimizing spam and just being able to actually facilitate a code of conduct or a better behavior or ideal behavior on these platforms. So kind of having said that.
00:27:50.270 - 00:27:50.586, Speaker D: Is.
00:27:50.608 - 00:28:08.990, Speaker B: There any disagreement in the slicing? Do you all just concur with what Balaji said or do you think there's something else to be focused on? Because I think the next set of questions are about specifically what a better alternative would look like and the properties of that alternative. But I want to make sure that we're not talking on different stacks of that layer.
00:28:09.410 - 00:29:59.342, Speaker D: Yeah, I think you'll probably find a lot of agreement. There's probably some nuance in our opinions about how things might develop and so on. One example that might be interesting to discuss is how can you describe a good reward mechanism for media in general for all the different kind of roles within media? Everything from kind of like fact discovery to information collation to writing, all of the roles of a great journalist and then great editing and then great distribution. There's a lot of different roles that play a really critical part in distilling what's actually true and distilling. How do we know that that's true? And how do we propagate the news to people broadly? And how do we kind of make the most distribute the most important things to know efficiently and then reward that reward all the activity within that system? Well meaning right now, a lot of the incentive structures within media, especially in social media, are all around kind of like just manufacturing attention. What Vitalik was saying earlier is the social media networks right now just emphasize this kind of like race towards the bottom in terms of getting more attention. And so this is kind of why things that produce anger travel further which will then kind of create more clicks which will then kind of sell more ad dollars which will then kind of drive revenues to kind of corporations that own media establishments.
00:29:59.342 - 00:30:50.420, Speaker D: You get this incentive field that affects all of the media process with kind of like this set of reverse incentives around just kind of like attention. But it happens all over the place and you could start breaking out apart into component pieces. And so I think you might get a bunch of different nuanced opinions on how might we get there, what might good experiments now that could be done now what could that be to kind of get us closer? So? Yeah. I don't know. I think we're fairly in agreement that we have a lot of tools and potential and things that could be built now. We probably have a lot of disagreement but different ideas on what might work and how you might produce kind of like a brighter future.
00:30:51.590 - 00:30:52.340, Speaker A: Absolutely.
00:30:55.510 - 00:31:38.020, Speaker B: I think it's one of those things where most of us are talking about the same thing. We're just repeating it because we're mostly in agreement. But what I'll do is kind of switch topics to go a bit more into detail. So Vitalik kind of talked about, I think, a crypto first social network has the ability to kind of add all these incentives that kind of keep everybody aligned as you talked about the spam problem. So could you walk us through what an example of one of these mechanisms could be that actually helps us get to the right behavior in the system compared to people spamming you and more specifically just kind. Of incorporating a question from the audience how do you feel like this type of decentralized platform would actually specifically solve the garbage or spam post issues?
00:31:39.830 - 00:32:44.602, Speaker A: Sure, I mean one simple thing that could probably be done is just like better anti sybil mechanisms. There's just a lot of these very low quality accounts. Often enough it's just bots that have lots of them and some kind of reputation system. If I notice an account and I notice that it's a low quality, that's information that should at least somehow filter through to people who trust me. So these are kind of non economic mechanisms, but they can still be implemented and probably should be implemented more. And they're easier to implement when the data is all on one common layer and you can talk and so you can just do all of the or it's easier to just do all of these different analyses on it. One kind of economic mechanism that I like is the idea of basically scaling up a moderation panel by basically making a prediction market on it.
00:32:44.602 - 00:33:58.160, Speaker A: Like if you flag something and then you should get rewarded if it later turns out that you flagged it legitimately. This is the sort of thing that even centralized social media has employed successfully before. I think it was slash dot that had this concept of metamoderation where kind of the moderations will themselves get moderated, but you could potentially use kind of augur or queros type escalation techniques to make that even more powerful. And basically just scale up the power of a much smaller group to a kind of very high quality moderation effort that's low scale to a much higher scale. Another thing is just something as simple as just requiring a deposit to create an account or potentially just allowing a filter that says only look at accounts that have at least some deposit and if you want you could crowdfund the deposit. This is also something that internet forum successfully did before. Basically just make it expensive to get banned and if you make it expensive to get bans then quality goes up.
00:33:58.160 - 00:35:24.700, Speaker A: What other things reputation systems could be used for? A lot of things like the concept of blue check marks on Twitter, right? Like it's basically this system of essentially social stratification that's being implemented on a platform whose CEO is a person, I think last time I checked, half of whose Twitter is promoting bitcoin things. And something that's more credibly neutral and user driven in some way would be just interesting to see and something based on some could be reputation scoring and then could be economic for people who aren't already plugged into a network and so don't have reputation to fall back on, could be interesting to see as well. So I guess it's some combination of incentives but also economic rate limiting. But exactly what combination of those works better is something that I think we can only figure out well after experimentation. Which is also why I'm very bullish on this general concept of just content view separation, so you can have just more alternative views of the same content. And each new experiment on doing that doesn't have to spin up its own network. Right.
00:35:25.870 - 00:37:21.890, Speaker D: I think we need some economic structures here that can distinguish the quality work done towards achieving kind of success in the journalism process that just can't be easily bought with money from some other economy. Meaning if you have some structure where the reward structures or the spam prevention or the filtering and all of that kind of is happening through economies where you can just go somewhere else, make a lot of money and come into this network and then just pay your way through all the filters. Then you get a structure where it's just kind of expensive to manipulate and you kind of can ratchet things up that way. But I would love to kind of find very good economic structures that quantify and reward the signal to noise ratio filters. Meaning, where you have excellent propagators of quality information, where people are being really good at filtering or recasting or connecting pieces of information and making it much more highly effective to kind of listen to the things that those people have filtered or improved or kind of recast or added to that, I think is like the economic activity that we have to be very good at identifying and rewarding and then giving those parties kind of influence over the system in a way that can't easily be bought. Because, in fact, I think systems that make it hard, very hard to buy kind of like this good activity here, I think could be extremely successful.
00:37:25.350 - 00:37:30.258, Speaker B: Is it just a distribution of your fan base? Is that the best way to understand this?
00:37:30.424 - 00:38:48.510, Speaker D: No, I think we live in a world where it is fairly easy to capture for there to be kind of like just the same way that there's regulatory capture, there's like journalism capture in deep levels and sometimes these are together where some party gains control of a country and then you get media capture over it. Right. The 20th century was rife with examples of this. Some group took control of a region, took control of the media and then could cement their sometimes quite literally we actually cement their control over some area and that was connected to the set of people that they put in control of media establishments. Right. And so I think to build a drastically more resilient, freer and accurate and good system, you need a structure that is very resistant to capture when it's super easy to move around vast amounts of money. You need economic structures where you just can't buy your way to manipulating the truth or it was extremely difficult to buy your way into manipulating the truth.
00:38:51.250 - 00:38:51.694, Speaker B: Go ahead.
00:38:51.732 - 00:38:52.266, Speaker C: Go ahead, Juan.
00:38:52.298 - 00:39:05.730, Speaker D: Finish finding ways of making it extremely expensive to try and do that or think of, like, staking at large volumes, any kind of manufacturer of truth.
00:39:08.550 - 00:39:12.306, Speaker A: That's a good distinction between okay, you go first. Yeah.
00:39:12.328 - 00:39:46.702, Speaker C: I was just going to say I like this line of thinking, but I also like the other line of thinking, which says it's kind of taking it from a different approach, which is it's not free speech. We need to reduce the cost of speech. What I mean by that is the cost of speech is the cost of saying something true that gets you attacked such that you lose your job, you lose status, you lose your position, et cetera. I think that is another it's a useful frame. You can actually quantify the cost of speech. Right. It is no longer the cost of buying a printing press.
00:39:46.702 - 00:40:25.494, Speaker C: Right? Like, that was actually the bottleneck. The Unabomber in the early 90s, why did he go and send these bombs? Because he wanted to get an op ed in The Washington Post. Right? Now, that kind of lunatic is on Twitter. And if the Unabomber was willing to kill people for the distribution, there's a lot of crazy people on Twitter who are certainly willing to fight you online for the distribution. Right. And like, the their tweets may parse. They may seem moderately coherent or know, but they're know psychopaths and sociopaths, maybe not quite to the point of blowing you up, but certainly of wanting attention for their cockmamie concepts.
00:40:25.494 - 00:41:29.594, Speaker C: Right. The issue is, in this kind of environment, we do have lots of crazies out there, but the response has been basically to try to jam the whole thing in a box where, okay, yeah, the cost of speech in the sense of you can just hit enter and tweet. That's gone down like the printing press. You don't need that anymore. But people have been trying to raise the cost of speech of anybody who's not in the establishment by various kinds of things where you can't say that the coronavirus could have been a lab leak, but when it's printed by the great and the good, then we can now all discuss it, right? It's like that FedEx ad from a while back where everybody in the room, some guy proposes that you send it via FedEx and everybody kind of looks at him, and then the CEO says, we should send it with FedEx, right? And it's know, I was like, Whoa, great idea, you know? And so who's saying it versus what is being said? So I think that that's an alternate take. I'm not disagreeing with you, Juan. I'm just saying an alternate take on it is reduce the cost of speech with pseudonymous publication.
00:41:29.594 - 00:41:56.714, Speaker C: Reduce the cost of speech with the pseudonymous economy so people can't be canceled and they can actually earn outside of these social networks where they can be pressured into saying something false. Reduce the cost of speech with remote and with allowing people to work overseas. Reduce the cost of speech by bringing new kinds of voices into the discussion as opposed to these legacy media corporations. So that's my only thing is I like to have multiple experiments in crypto. I don't disagree with your approach, I just want to put that out there as a complimentary way of thinking about.
00:41:56.912 - 00:42:57.982, Speaker A: Yeah, I definitely actually really agree with both of those. I guess both of you. Now, Juan, what I wanted to say about economic incentives is that I think economic incentives are not a homogeneous category and there are incentives that are very exploitable and there are incentives that are much less exploitable. One just example of this is like prediction markets. After the election last year that Biden won in early November, there were a bunch of people that were still betting and were willing to bet huge amounts of money on the fact that the Supreme Court or whoever would somehow pull a deus ex machina and turn the whole thing into a Trump victory. And I just put hundreds of thousands of dollars of my own money against them and I made a nice $50,000 profit, right? So that's a good mechanism where the harder you try to manipulate and mislead, the more you're just feeding profit to your enemy. So that's as good as an incentive to get right.
00:42:57.982 - 00:44:20.950, Speaker A: But on the other hand, there are things where with a uniswap votes for governance, there's literally already people trying to make private deals to pay people to vote on their proposals. So there's both extremes on the pseudonymous economy stuff. The thing I wanted to just say is that I think it's a great point and that I think having good or having incentives aligned with quality requires both improving incentives that are in favor of quality, which I think are definitely not good enough now, right? Like on Twitter, the r zero of crap is definitely higher than the r zero of a lot of quality things and then there's also decreasing the misaligned, the incentives that are misaligned with quality. I actually had a bit of a run in with this literally 24 hours ago, so I published and tweeted a link to this blog post that I wrote about why I think the Genie index is overrated. And I think James Prestwich, Just and other people too just made this reply that was ha. A guy with a lot of money makes a comment about how we shouldn't be measuring wealth inequality. And if you actually look at the thing I actually said, that was not my point at all.
00:44:20.950 - 00:45:10.706, Speaker A: I actually even argued in the context of cryptocurrency replacing an index with an index that even more explicitly tries to measure the top of the distribution. But alas, we have this culture where by default everything you say is just so totally supposed to be totally enmeshed with your identity, which just makes it much harder to have actual decent arguments. And if we can use pseudonymity and zero knowledge proofs and similar technologies to kind of separate speech from identity while at the same time retaining the benefits of persistence or the way in which persistent identity encourages quality. With things like pseudonymity, I think that's something that could be really amazing. So I totally get it, even very personally.
00:45:10.898 - 00:45:13.160, Speaker C: Yeah, go ahead.
00:45:13.850 - 00:46:17.114, Speaker D: I completely agree with a lot of these points. I think that one of the worries though. So trouble in both directions, right? Because in one direction you get into a world where you can diffuse access to speech and propagation of speech. You can lower the cost of speech, but then you need some mechanism by which you can gather around signal and not just truth, but putting not just verifying that things are true, but verifying the context in which that conversation is being made. So one of the things that social media right now sets up is the kind of breakup of the mainstream conversation into a bunch of small bubbles of conversation. And that becomes way easier to just go in a bunch of directions because you allow a lot more contrarian thinking, a lot more exploration of new ideas, a lot of exploration of what might be possible. You make it harder for the mainstream to control opinion and so on.
00:46:17.114 - 00:47:53.754, Speaker D: And so it makes it harder to kind of take over opinion and whatnot. On the flip side, it also creates an environment where it is way easier to manipulate conversations and way easier to manipulate beliefs. And so you have right now, with the Internet already today, even though there is way faster diffusion of knowledge, way more access to all information that humanity has ever assembled, way higher quality distillations of that information, way more direct access across people in a real time fashion to every expert on the planet, on every field that you can think of. You could talk to them that day if you really needed to, Twitter, things like that. However, the conversation are so diffused and so kind of there's so many battlegrounds drawn on so many different kind of means that you're in a situation where people are going into various different bubbles. And in this period you have a rise of way information manipulation and belief in all kinds of things that are very easily proven false. And so you have this simultaneous thing of making it easier to explore the non mainstream ideas, also paying the cost of eating the fact that that is going to cause a huge diffusion into many more ideas that are many times also super dangerous, right? We're living it through right now.
00:47:53.754 - 00:48:45.514, Speaker D: The antivaxxer meme complex is extremely powerful and growing a lot. And every country I've been traveling for a few weeks and all the countries that have visited so far, their antivaxxer population is increasing dramatically even through the last pandemic. And so it's one of those bizarre pieces of reality right now where while we're all connected, while we have access to all the facts and knowledge. You still have information manipulation being so easy to do now that the facts could be staring people in the face. And we just don't have the right epistemology for people to kind of understand how to process those facts, how to process that information, how to get to know what's true. And I think solving that problem is a very nontrivial thing and we don't have a good set of structures. So maybe a question for the groups, how do we solve that?
00:48:45.632 - 00:49:18.086, Speaker C: Well, I actually have a talk on that coming. I can preview if you're very interested. But basically like rebuilding our information supply chain. And one thing, by the way, I think it's really important is to distinguish between social consensus versus truth because they're not the same. But often we'll say, oh, that is true because there was a social consensus. And in fact, I think you can sort of position facts at two poles. Like there's the political facts and the technical facts, right? So political fact is something that is true if enough other people believe it to be true.
00:49:18.086 - 00:50:05.846, Speaker C: For example, who is the president? Or where is the border of a country? Or what is the value of this good? Right? That's actually like a psychological phenomenon. If you can install software to enough people's brains, you can change the value of these variables, right. They're social consensus. Then on the other side there's things that are purely technical, like what is the result of this equation? Or what is the diameter of the coronavirus under an electron microscope? Or what is the value of the permittivity of free space? Those are physical constants where it does not matter what people think. That's not something where installing software in people's brains changes the outcome. Those are physical facts that are independent of any human being and an alien would come to the same conclusions. Right.
00:50:05.846 - 00:51:05.334, Speaker C: And then what's interesting is what cryptocurrency has done is it's actually taken things that were previously purely in the realm of politics, like the O'Brien style, 1984, where if you can beat enough people, you can change it. And it started to anchor them with technical facts. Like the value of this equation determines the value of this currency. You sort of pull it back over here so the Matting crowd can't just flip on a dime and be like, oh, it's a lab leak, it's not the lab leak. Oh, we value this. It puts at least some friction there, right? The social consensus is around a mathematical fact that can't just change instantaneously, right? So it's a degree of mob resistance, a degree of intentional friction in the equation, right? And so to me, prediction market style bets vitalik. I know you won money on it, but if, for example, just take a historical example, your prediction market was, okay, who's going to be adjudicated the guys who committed the mass murder with Catch and forest right, which you may be familiar with.
00:51:05.334 - 00:51:49.542, Speaker C: That was something where the Soviets blamed it on the Nazis and everybody thought it was the Nazis who did this murder of Polish officials during World War II. But after the Soviet Union fell, the archives revealed it was actually the Soviet Union. Right? And that's like an know, this may be an apparent historical example, but it's actually not so much because there's this great book, by the way, you should read called The Gray Lady Winked. I actually put it up there with a sovereign individual. It just came out a few months ago, which shows that we've been constantly gaslighted by the New York Times Company and by these other institutions. And it's not just that they sort know, wrote themselves out of causing the Iraq war with false information or wrote themselves out of messing up COVID with false information at the beginning. They wrote themselves out of all of these other historical episodes where they never actually did have a good informational track record.
00:51:49.542 - 00:52:25.218, Speaker C: They printed Nazi propaganda verbatim, soviet propaganda verbatim, castro's propaganda verbatim. All of these historical episodes, they basically just were on really the wrong side. And then because they had controlled microphone later, they could kind of rewrite that. Right? And so the extent of it, it's like you kind of realize when you go back into the archives and you actually look and you compare what they actually said to what they said they said you're like, oh, that doesn't add up. Right. So we have a huge problem for every area where social consensus determines truth. That's much, much deeper than people think.
00:52:25.218 - 00:52:33.480, Speaker C: Yeah. So the book is called the Gray Lady. Winked. It's by here, let me see if I can.
00:52:35.370 - 00:52:37.110, Speaker B: Get that up to everybody else.
00:52:37.180 - 00:53:32.470, Speaker C: Why don't you put that on screen or something? Ten of ten recommendation. The reason everybody in crypto should read it is the reason I put it up there with the sovereign individual is what is crypto about at the most fundamental level. It is about nakamoto consensus and decentralized truth, right? That's what started the whole thing, is how to arrive at objective fact in the event of adversaries trying to muck all that up, right. And everything else, proof of stake and so on. Obviously I'm a fan of all of that, but all that kind of stems from that seminal moment, right? And so this decentralized cryptographic truth is our one shield against centralized falsehood by corporations and states. And so this book is so important because it kind of shows the depth of that degree of falsification where the Soviet regime has collapsed, the Nazi regime has collapsed. So we know all the things that they falsified and they lied about, but we're still kind of in the middle of this one.
00:53:32.470 - 00:54:07.006, Speaker C: And what I think the next big one is going to be is inflation, right? We're already kind of in the middle of that. We're going to be first told it's not happening. That's starting to shift to it's a good thing. And actually prices are down. Take a look at the CPI, which conveniently excludes a bunch of things from the market basket, like the big ticket items like health care and education and so on. Pay no attention to those citizen and then inflation will be after it's denied, it'll be marketed as good because it wipes out all your debts after all. And only the rich really stand to lose because only people with a positive net worth benefit from not having inflation.
00:54:07.006 - 00:54:37.354, Speaker C: All your debts are going to go away. Isn't that good? And then it's going to turn to what happened in Argentina and Venezuela and what have you in a particular sense, which is inflation is a social phenomenon. So if you talk about inflation, you're causing it because you're causing other people to believe prices are going up. So therefore, talking about it, it's actually kind of a thought crime and it's irresponsible to do that. Right? And I know that sounds paranoid, but that's exactly what has happened. If you go and read the history books, not even the history books, the present books, right. You talk to Venezuelans, unfortunately, that's what's going to happen.
00:54:37.354 - 00:55:14.310, Speaker C: Now is it going to play out? Exactly. Who the heck knows? I do know that this decade is going to be a crazy collision between, I think, Bitcoin maximalists and the state and so on. And I'm not looking forward to that. But I do think that whatever we do, we do need to have decentralized sources of truth. We need to have shadow statistics that are not simply guys in their basement making things up. It's very important. Like the establishment tries to portray deviations from the consensus as being QAnon, as opposed to satoshianon, which is pseudonymous and above the establishment as opposed to below.
00:55:14.310 - 00:55:33.402, Speaker C: Right. And that upward deviation. Yeah, there's anti vaxx, but yeah, there's also the folks who saw Coronavirus before the mainstream pressed it. And that's like for the most part pro vax. Right? And so we have to be here. We have to have a better set of facts than the establishment. We have to have pseudonymous publication.
00:55:33.402 - 00:55:47.060, Speaker C: We have to be here and completely resist both this and the branding of being deviation and below it's like contrarian but right. If that makes any sense, there's more I can say on actually we'd go after the inflation service, but let me give the mic to somebody else for now.
00:55:50.070 - 00:56:29.038, Speaker D: On the contrarian but right perspective, that's exactly the area where we need this most. Right. The problem is right now, so far, human systems are pretty bad at figuring out when things are contrarian. But right. The closer you are to physics, the easier it is basically because you can run experiments and test it or the closer you are to math. So math and physics are fairly easy. As soon as you get away from that, it gets harder and harder and harder, and you enter much more into intersubjective realities that you're talking about in.
00:56:29.044 - 00:57:38.546, Speaker C: Terms of, okay, so let me talk about that for a second. Let me talk about that for a second, because actually I have a spiel here and I'll put out a talk and you guys can shoot down, critique it, right? So basically right now we have this huge problem where people are like, oh, you don't agree with science? And the thing is, what they're doing, there's a difference between science and, quote unquote, science. What's happening is people are stealing the prestige of Maxwell's equations for some shitty data. So some study that came out last week, because it's the form of science, it's got the authors and the affiliations with the superscripts, all that stuff that I did in grad school, that you did in grad school, one, all of that kind of thing, it's got the form of science. So it's science. This came out in nature or science or PNAS or whatever, right? But the thing is, the number of independent replications of that study is 1,000,000,000,000th of Maxwell's equations, less than 1,000,000,000,000th every single time. What we're doing right now is an independent replication of Maxwell's equations, right? If we were wrong about how the E and B field evolved with time, this wouldn't work, right? And we're replicating various results in quantum mechanics.
00:57:38.546 - 00:58:57.054, Speaker C: All these different things have to work in an extremely consistent way for us to even have this conversation, right? And so those are scientific results that deserve the prestige of capital S science. But some study that came out last week, which doesn't have a public data set, which often doesn't have the code to generate that data set, and which often the PDF is behind a paywall, simply is not on the same scale when you measure it on the right scale, which is number of independent replications. Now, the thing is, what people will then say is, okay, what are you saying, Balaji, that everybody's supposed to go and replicate every study in their home? We're supposed to build a chemical VAT and a cloud chamber, an incline plane, all this apparatus here, I'm like, well, maybe, but I will give you something else, which is, yes, independent people, most people don't have these scientific apparati in your house. But you know what you do have? You have these things, right? You have these computers, right? These phones, these laptops, these very powerful computers. And so everything that is computational, you can replicate locally. Now, there's actually a concept here in science called reproducible research. And the idea is that just like you template a website from a database, you template a PDF from the code and data, and so you release the data and the code where you can hit enter and rebuild a PDF, right? So this concept is reproducible research has been out there for 20 years.
00:58:57.054 - 00:59:48.506, Speaker C: One concept I have is truly reproducible research where a service like IPFS or Filecoin could be used to host that data and that code and that paper. And now what you get is actually a citation graph where you're not simply citing a past paper, you're importing it. And the process of importing it actually has an implicit replication in it in the same way that when you get clone something and run it, you are effectively replicating that result. It is engineering, not science. Right now vitalika you the. So the point basically is that this is something where, yes, you are still separating it into that which was reported. The code and the data are the only thing that the average Joe can kind of download and muck around with, but that alone is often enough because you can add up columns and rows.
00:59:48.506 - 01:00:41.506, Speaker C: You can see if things are internally consistent. You can run Benford's Law type tests to see if the stats have weird digits. There's all kinds of tests that you can at least see to see if the thing is internally consistent, number one, and then number two, if you want to go further. For example, in sequencing analysis, anytime you're doing anything with real data, you'll find so called batch effects, right, where you run the exact same experiment on this instrument and this instrument, and there's slight differences in levels of the illumination and so on just due to batches. So what we do with that is we record the instrument number along with it and you do a regression to pull out instrument level variation before you do any further analysis. Point being, it's very easy to imagine crypto instruments that then take out the human step. So the data is just streamed on chain and it's digitally signed, and you have the full chain of custody for the data where you'd actually have to mess with the actual instrument itself when the data was being recorded.
01:00:41.506 - 01:00:46.340, Speaker C: Now, what I'm describing is something where on chain capacity of AC increases. But I know, Juan, you're working on that.
01:00:48.230 - 01:00:51.106, Speaker D: Yeah, we've got the code piece here.
01:00:51.128 - 01:00:57.126, Speaker C: With ethereum, we got the data piece here with Filecoin. Put them together, we're going to get cryptoscience and we get Ihub to help.
01:00:57.148 - 01:00:58.722, Speaker B: Facilitate all that witchcraft.
01:00:58.786 - 01:01:00.200, Speaker C: Yeah, that's right.
01:01:00.890 - 01:01:37.074, Speaker D: There are things happening right now that are precisely what you're describing. The instrumentation software stacks that are connected to the instruments, putting it into the kind of reproducible set of experimentation that you're describing, I think, yeah, it's a pretty bright future. There's a lot of possibilities. A lot of people are working on this stuff. Probably not enough. I think when I look at a lot of these projects, what they're really limited on is people more than capital or ideas or things like that. So we need more people working on these things.
01:01:37.074 - 01:02:55.180, Speaker D: So thought out to all the hackers here. If you're into science and into looking for interesting projects, this area what you're. Describing of kind of like getting into much more higher quality reproducible research is exactly a great one and it connects 100% to the Epistemology question and to figuring out what's true question. Because we need to turn our collective gathering of information across the planet into a process where you can connect every fact that you hear to the chain of providence of exactly how we know what we know and how sure are we. And when some result happens, invariably later on, that falsifies some prior results as sometimes happens, we can model that and we can then cascade the overturning of that fact to understand what else should we be worried about now and so on. There's been multiple crises in biology, for example, where certain results got overturned and then called into question tons of science and including some medication where people had been treated with a bunch of medicine that got overturned later. I think a lot of really good possibilities here, a lot of hard incentive design and a lot of tool building that needs to happen.
01:02:55.180 - 01:04:07.970, Speaker D: I think it would be pretty interesting to see experimentations on this connecting of the provenance of scientific data to Epistemology in decentralized media. So for example, could you build social media where you use the latest in NLP, which is actually really good to distill out what is being said and connect it to what we know so far. So there's a lot of pieces that people need to build to be able to enable that, but a lot of the component systems are there. You can nowadays generate a pretty good concept graph of what a tweet might say or what a blog post might be saying it might be implying. And you can connect that to a lot of the facts that we know in kind of the scientific graph of knowledge. And you can connect it to the specific papers and experiments and so on that have shown, that have told us or give us evidence for that fact being true. And that would be an amazingly interesting experiment to build, interesting product to build what happens when you start annotating the media that people are describing with the connectivity to the graph of what we know is true and how we know it is true.
01:04:07.970 - 01:04:11.860, Speaker D: So thinking of that kind of stuff might be super interesting too.
01:04:12.710 - 01:04:49.230, Speaker B: I was going to say this might be the easiest moderation job I've ever done because you guys are just at it, just having the best conversation without any direct prompts. But I do want to just ask one question from the audience, and I think it goes back to a point that Abalji pointed out on the Sadon committee or the cost of speech sort of theme here, which is, just in that world, does that mean that you end up actually having more spam or just kind of BS? Because now people can just say whatever they want and have that tied to just not a lot of consequences. What I think you really need how do you moderate?
01:04:50.930 - 01:06:15.162, Speaker C: I think right now what we have, and we're going to look back on this as a disaster, but essentially what happened was what we have are things like Twitter, which are just public war zones, right? They're like a combination of a library in, you know, was in the middle of the Civil War for many years, right? And the thing is that you have folks who are there to learn and you have folks who are there to fight, right? And fighting gets engagement and fighting is kind of a low IQ thing you can do. I don't know if you guys have ever had this experience, but any post that you put up that has an equation, it's like garlic to trolls. It basically just repels them because they're like, I don't understand this. I kind of want like every time I type water to substitute with dihydrogen monoxide as a sort of a troll repellent or something like that, right? But rather than try to do that sort of verbally and erect these sort of impromptu defenses that's kind of like wearing a mask when you go outside, you might have to do that when the state has failed. But ideally what you want is a collective that prevents the virus from even getting there in the first place. So I think the next generation of social networks will not be these giant assemblies of people who have nothing in common besides a desire to get as many likes as possible that day, but instead they'll actually be cryptographically moderated networks with purpose basically protonations. And I think that's a huge thing of the future.
01:06:15.162 - 01:07:04.554, Speaker C: I mean, basically what we're about to see, we're starting to see this with Bitcloud and with actually some stuff that Twitter is doing with Bitcoin thing. We're starting to transition from just mere social networks to social networks plus cryptocurrency equals network nationalism. That is to say, you don't really care if somebody joins Instagram, but if you're a holder of crypto Instagram, you do care. Suddenly you're recruiting for it in the same way that you were recruiting for a cryptocurrency. And so the point is that these network nations will have not just their own cryptocurrencies and their own values, but their own standards for what is true and not true and so on and so forth. And ideally there's at least one that is run by rational scientists and engineers and that is essentially the filtering. If you centrifuge something, you get all these different layers out there.
01:07:04.554 - 01:07:45.286, Speaker C: Is that supernatant, right? This is the thing that floats the top. There should be at least one of those subnetworks that is genuinely rational, that knows when to fight, when attacked, but that is not like a first strike kind of character that is rational enough to entertain new things, but not so empty headed that all kinds of woo and crystal stuff is taken on board. And what I'm describing is, I think, where we stand. Of course that may be self serving, but I'd like to think that's where we stand, where you can tell the difference between let's know, early cryptocurrency versus get rich quick team. One has technical substance, one does not. Same with longevity. There's actually technical substance there.
01:07:45.286 - 01:08:15.582, Speaker C: It's not simply Charlton's Peddling and Fountain of Youth, but there's actually data and science there. Right. So I think the answer here is we actually need to have groups, social networks, sort of like what ETH research is in some ways, sort of like what Zcash has their forum, Filecoin has its forum. We've built these kinds of things in small groups. We haven't done is actually take the torch and say, look, we're going to actually enforce civil discourse here. We're going to have physical levels of civility. We're not going to have the free for all of Twitter.
01:08:15.582 - 01:08:39.594, Speaker C: If you want that Twitter's right there, go and knock yourself out. This is actually something which is more like a house or more like a community where we're actually trying to seek truth. And I think that's likely to be the way that we do it. And we're going to need to use cryptocurrency to align the incentives to build a defense there, right, to build essentially an online Athens of a kind. Right. And that's how I think about it.
01:08:39.632 - 01:09:10.050, Speaker B: I'm open to just, like, for vitalik. Maybe kind of similar line to that same question, which is just understanding. Like, okay, if you have this as a premise, does that mean, to my understanding, this creates more of these? Sub communities and fragments kind of groups to self associate with the similar types of groups. And there are definitely negative effects to that type of behavior. I feel like Twitter, even though you have celebrities and doctors at the same time, they can still have a discourse. But do you kind of prevent fragmentation in these worlds?
01:09:10.390 - 01:09:36.582, Speaker C: But here's the thing. 1950 was like peak homogenization, right? You had one telephone company, at and T, and two superpowers, the US. And USSR. And three television stations. ABC, CBS, NBC. Right. And Transcendent was the age of these geiger states, right? The US and the USSR, but also the PRC and so on and so forth, right? And as you go forward and backward in time, forward to like 1991 and backward to 1890, you actually start decentralizing.
01:09:36.582 - 01:10:04.706, Speaker C: That was like a super centralized moment. Go forward in time, you get cable TV and then the internet backwards in time. You start to have the rob barons that got crushed by FDR and Teddy Roosevelt and you have the closing of the American frontier in 1890. And in many ways, our future is our past, where we're kind of having the tech barons, like the rob barons or the cryptocurrency, like the era of private banking. The Coronavirus is like the Spanish flu socialist and nationalists fighting in the streets is like Weimar. The inflation is like Weimar, and so on and so forth. Right.
01:10:04.706 - 01:10:45.370, Speaker C: We're kind of replaying in sort of a kaleidoscopic way pieces of our past because I believe the fundamental driver is that the strength of the centralized state is kind of weakening, at least in the so, you know, another way of thinking about this is absolutely the I Love Lucy days are on their way out, where everybody gathered in front of a TV and they all just kind of watched the same thing. Right. We have all these channels, but that's actually a rediscovery of all of this intellectual diversity that existed before that homogenizing moment of the mid 20th century. Right. So in a sense, we're actually going back to the future. If you take the long enough view, many different schools of thought, many different kinds of traditions were wiped out by these geiger states of the 20th century. Now we're sort of having that flourish again.
01:10:45.370 - 01:11:05.030, Speaker C: And yeah, some of them are bad, but some of them are really good. And so we're going to have deviation upward and deviation downward because that's what the Internet does. The Internet increases variance in everything by removing the middleman, removing the moderator, removing the mediator, removing the medium, which are both good and bad things. It just increases variance in everything. You get more upside and more downside. So we just lean into that. We want to amplify the upside.
01:11:05.030 - 01:11:05.894, Speaker C: Yeah.
01:11:05.932 - 01:11:52.134, Speaker A: And I think I'd definitely say a very similar thing, which is that I definitely don't think that it's true as a blanket statement that fragmentation is bad. Often fragmentation can be good. Right. I think there might have even been I don't remember the exact details, but studies where you do the thing where you get a bunch of people to vote on how many balls are in a jar and the results are more accurate if you ask people independently and they don't see each other's answers. Fragmentation just is intellectual diversity. It allows different groups of people to focus on specific things and make focused efforts to figure out specific things, even if the larger environment doesn't understand what they're doing at first. Right.
01:11:52.134 - 01:12:53.180, Speaker A: Like longevity research. The fact that's just like a bubble that managed to happen despite almost everyone in the world not caring about it for so long, caring about existential risks like AI risk, that was also the result of a rationalist and kind of effective altruist philosopher bubble, I think it's not so much fragmentation versus being worse than no fragmentation. It's that there is fragmentation. And the question is, are the fragments going to have positive sum or negative sum interactions with each other? And status quo social media definitely creates lots of ways for fragments to have very negative sum interactions with each other. Right. The problem is basically that one way to think about this is that the selection function that's operating on these fragments is one that basically is this kind of Internet warfare. And Internet warfare does not at all, obviously corresponds to quality of an idea.
01:12:53.180 - 01:13:35.270, Speaker A: Part of what I think people might be seeing is that Internet warfare is an even worse selection function than highly civilized long form debate. And that's where you can get this kind of reduction in quality from basically Prince Media to Twittering. But a selection function that's even better is just the ability to actually build something and to have a fragment that actually creates something of value, right, and some fragments can and lots of other fragments can't.
01:13:36.410 - 01:13:39.450, Speaker B: I think that's a really well put decision framework.
01:13:40.350 - 01:14:52.820, Speaker D: Yeah, I think we agree on a lot of this. I think that the thing I would say about fragmentation is that it's extremely critical to be able to fragment and be able to fork, be able to go and create these different communities and so on. And at the same time, we are in a larger integrated system and so the actions of one fragment are not isolatable from all other fragments. And so there is some amount of connectivity or some amount of shared fates. We're entering into a century where the capabilities of technology are so tremendously powerful and the cost of using that technology is getting smaller and smaller and smaller to the point where it's going to be super tricky and dangerous to allow a lot of fragmentation. If we don't immediately, as fast as we can connect it to a very good way of testing what's true, the fragmentation will lead to vast amounts of manipulation, way worse than what we see now. And remember that the gigastates that you referenced formed out of the easy to take over fragmented states of before.
01:14:52.820 - 01:15:50.066, Speaker D: And so in a world where it's just dramatically easier for small groups to coerce and manipulate large amounts of those fragments by kind of like poisoning the Mimetic complexes, we're going to need that appeal to good epistemology across the system. So, yeah, I'll leave that with to the Hackathon hackers. Figure out good ways of connecting us to reality, figure out good ways of making sure that in all our decentralized, small, fragmented webs of information that we're kind of building for ourselves in all our bubbles, we can still reasonably quickly distill and connect what we're saying to reality. Because if we don't do that, we're going to enter into worlds of fiction unlike what we'd have ever seen before. And those are super easy to take over. So just yeah, fair warning, that's not.
01:15:50.088 - 01:16:10.330, Speaker B: The MetaWars I'm excited about. I'll end this off with one last question for all of you. If you were a hacker at Hackafest, and you have the next three weeks to build something cool in any category that we either talked about or didn't talk about, what would you either build yourself or tell others to build? You can start this off with Balogy.
01:16:11.470 - 01:16:57.402, Speaker C: Well, go and subscribe to 1729 dot because we're actually going to put out a prize for a decentralized inflation dashboard. I actually think that's going to unite the clans because it validates the BTC worldview, which I in many ways subscribe to, that inflation is coming and the state is going to print tons of money. It validates the ETH worldview that DApps are important. It validates crypto oracles. It's basically a stress test of our entire infrastructure to just get a few numbers on chain in such a way that everybody can see them. And I think it could be like the next Coin market cap where globally this dashboard just gets refreshed constantly. Most people don't know this, but CoinMarketCap.com
01:16:57.402 - 01:17:37.462, Speaker C: passed Wsj.com several years ago in terms of traffic actually, because it's like the global financial dashboard. Who cares about the public stocks anymore? It's all crypto. And so this inflation dashboard, the critical thing is to have a really good information supply chain that is auditable and better than CPI because you can't just be, you know, the vegetables at my store more expensive or whatever because that can be dismissed as anecdotal evidence. You need to basically out PhD, the PhDs and do so pseudonymously. You have to be like satoshi level. But I think that something like that done well, will kind of unite the clans and be a very important thing for us to build.
01:17:37.462 - 01:17:56.460, Speaker C: It's like a true application that millions of people around the world will have to use. It also brings people into crypto in several different ways. Buying bitcoin, using ethereum, using maybe filecoin other things to store the data sets required to build those inflation dashboards and so on. So that's something that go to centreon.com. We're going to send out a prize on that pretty soon.
01:17:58.750 - 01:18:00.880, Speaker B: I think you wanted to say a few things.
01:18:01.970 - 01:19:27.594, Speaker D: Yeah, I would say just what we're talking about earlier, I would say certificates of impact, you can now make them as NFTs and they could be super valuable. So go make those. This kind of collecting the chain of verifiability of information. So create NFTs out of go look into the science NFTs and create NFTs out of every single scientific artifact, everything from an experiment to a figure to the data sets, to the papers, to all of that maybe funding mechanisms around that. So use Sourcegrad or Split and split streams to flow rewards back and funding structures back through the scientific graph and then hacks around being able to kind of connect all of that information flow with appealing to kind of like the social media type aspect of things, ways of elevating our conversation. Whether it's in short form things like Twitter or longer form things like blog posts or news articles or books or you can pick any kind of media size most appeals to you and find ways of connecting what is being said to what we know so far is true and why and how make that evidence chain super clear. So hacks around.
01:19:27.594 - 01:19:29.626, Speaker D: That awesome.
01:19:29.808 - 01:19:33.850, Speaker B: And lastly, Vitalik, any suggestions for ideas?
01:19:35.550 - 01:20:49.620, Speaker A: Suggestions for ideas? I think another thing that's just important from a technical point of view is just like the basic infrastructure that we need for any kind of crypto social thing to work at all. Ethereum Logins, that's something that the foundation recently pushed out an RFP for and there was lots of ideas there to kind of do some work around the concept of attestations. So just the concept that you can detect what kinds of properties some account has, does it have some ETH balance, does it have a proof of humanity, does it have a Pope token, does it have some other kinds of record behind it? Maybe even making some kind of better system for attestations? Incorporating that in some way, better smart contract wallets? Just all of this infrastructure that's not connected to very specific ideas for social things but that has to exist in order for all of this stuff to be built on top in the first place.
01:20:50.310 - 01:21:34.400, Speaker B: Amazing. Well, want to thank all three of you for giving us your time today. I mean from just our perspective it is incredible that we're able to kind of talk about all these ideas and talk it to a group of people that are going to eventually build it and the results of which we're going to see in a few years from now. And just the fact that we can have these types of conversations in this community and just have people like all of you involved is truly credible, all from the global side and just from our side. So we really appreciate your time and it's just another endorsement from our side to kind of make this decentralized movement a lot more possible and distributed. So thanks again to everybody and really appreciate you taking the time and through all these different time zones. Everybody's in.
01:21:35.730 - 01:21:36.480, Speaker D: Amazing.
01:21:37.410 - 01:21:38.140, Speaker B: Thank you so much.
