00:00:00.280 - 00:00:58.510, Speaker A: I am more bullish than I've ever been about crypto, and I really am. I've been working on this for eleven years, and I've sort of seen not just the eleven years in crypto, but I've seen many, many technology market cycles as well in the Internet as a whole, dating back to like 1990. So I've sort of seen decades of sort of these cycles of technology adoption, improvement, market activity, et cetera. It feels to me when I look at the combination of the maturity of blockchain network infrastructure, some of the fundamental primitives that are becoming possible in terms of user experience and abstracting away the complexity of interacting with this technology and the legal certainty that's coming, that's really, really important when you put those things together. It really feels like we're coming onto that moment where this can really, really go to Internet scale. We're right now crossing the chasm.
00:01:03.110 - 00:01:15.090, Speaker B: Jeremy, I want to go all the way back to the beginning of your time in crypto. How and when did you first enter the space? I think a lot of people want to know, was there sort of a eureka moment that made you want to focus all of your time and your energy on this industry? And if so, where did that happen?
00:01:15.390 - 00:01:51.218, Speaker A: Yeah, there really was. So I first became interested in crypto in 2012, and I think my background is as like an Internet technologist, software entrepreneur. And in 2012, I started reading about bitcoin first and was just very intrigued. I actually had a background in what I kind of describe as international political economy. So economics, political science. I spent a lot of time thinking about the international monetary system, but completely separate from crypto. It was just an interest of mine.
00:01:51.218 - 00:02:43.060, Speaker A: And so I naturally became really interested, given my background in working on open software infrastructure on the Internet, sort of seeing bitcoin and being very curious as a technologist, like, wow, this is a protocol. This is a distributed computing innovation. And so I was very interested in it as a technical innovation, but also as like a monetary system innovation. And really, I think for me, like the first time that I sort of synchronized the bitcoin blockchain onto my laptop and conducted my first bitcoin transaction was a total eureka moment. And I've had a couple of those in my career. I think, like in September of 1993, I downloaded the first graphical web browser. It had just come out like two days before, and I'd been an Internet, like, been involved in the Internet for a number of years before that.
00:02:43.060 - 00:03:19.674, Speaker A: But then I was like, okay, there was a huge eureka in terms of what the web would become, and that I committed myself to helping build the web. And so then at that point, I was just like, this is the next logical infrastructure layer of the Internet. I can actually see a path to this actually being foundational to the way all economic activity in the world is organized. And I can see working on it for decades. And I just sort of said, this is what I'm doing, and fairly quickly developed the fundamental thesis and ideas behind circle. And that was really in early 2013 at that point.
00:03:19.762 - 00:03:34.550, Speaker B: Right. I was just going to ask actually, so briefly, take me through that journey of, you have the Eureka moment, and then you've obviously been a lot of milestones along the way until we're here at ECC in 2024 in Brussels. What are some of the highlights for you over that last, what, eleven years now?
00:03:34.670 - 00:04:58.620, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, look, there are a lot. I'll condense it very quickly. I think the first was this founding belief that when I looked at the technology back in 2013, there was a sort of belief that the technology would mature to a point where blockchains would be scalable, they could support much larger volume of usage, that blockchains would allow you to issue other assets on top of them. Not just the native token like the bitcoin token, but issue other assets, and that the concept of running a compute engine on these networks and a virtual machine that you could actually write smart contracts with, all those were things that back then I thought, okay, I think those things are going to happen. Thought it might take three, four or five years, which is how long it took. Ethereum matured, but very early. We focused on how do we connect actual real money in the existing government backed money world? How do we connect that to these blockchain networks and begin to figure out a way to legally make that work? And so we became some big milestones, were sort of becoming licensed to actually connect dollars to blockchains, to sort of enable kind of like regulated interaction between the existing financial system and this new blockchain based system.
00:04:58.620 - 00:06:09.604, Speaker A: And eventually, though, like a huge milestone, was really in 2016, when I kind of considered like Ethereum still in beta, but like, the primitives were there. And so we got very excited that we could now execute this idea of like a protocol for dollars on the Internet. And so we kind of conceptually designed what we wanted USDC to be in 2017, and we launched it in 2018. But we had already built up so much infrastructure in terms of banking and crypto infrastructure and licenses that we were actually able to legally and compliantly launch this dollar digital currency. That was a huge milestone when we launched USDC itself because it was like, ok, we're now starting to realize the fundamentals of the idea and fast forward now, it's been six years since we launched USDC. It's incredible when I think about a lot of milestones along the way. But last week, which was the week of July 1, I viewed July 1, 2024 as a major milestone because basically USDC and our euro stablecoin EURC became legal electronic money in the entire European Union.
00:06:09.604 - 00:06:40.108, Speaker A: And that's such a huge deal. It's the first major market and kind of country region where what we've done is now legally part of the financial system. And so it's sort of a turning point, in my view, from the early adopter phase of this into what I think is going to be like the mainstream global scaling phase of this. And I viewed July 1, 2024 as sort of a big milestone along that journey.
00:06:40.204 - 00:07:24.356, Speaker B: Thank you for bringing us up to date with that time. I think it's quite important for the audience to understand where it all began and the sort of key milestones and where we are now. I do have some questions for you about the recent updates and the regulatory changes, but before we get there, I just want to get your sort of thoughts on the industry as a whole, because we're here during etc. We were at the RWA summit yesterday, and as much as there's so many different talking points in the industry, your name actually popped up a few times with our interviewees who said they were either attending panels with you or fireside chats. So I'm curious about your thoughts on the growing RWA space, given that they seem to be quite familiar with the work that you're doing, for obvious reasons. How do you view the rapidly growing RWA space?
00:07:24.548 - 00:08:31.490, Speaker A: I mean, I think it's a huge area and one we're very involved with. I mean, I think in simple terms, right, if basically people are taking existing investable assets and they're tokenizing them and they're bringing them on chain, if you want to be able to either purchase or sell or create or redeem or do these things, you need cash. You need a digital cash to do that. USDC, because it's a legal form of this electronic money, this digital cash, electronic money, it is the natural settlement asset for moving between cash and these rwas. And so what we found is that like all these different RWA projects around the world and tokenization projects, they're all building in our stablecoin infrastructure as part of what they do. And what's amazing to me, and this gets to like part of the vision that we had early on, is like this idea of like open, permissionless, programmable, composable money is like this. That was like really what got me excited in 2013.
00:08:31.490 - 00:09:11.314, Speaker A: I've worked on programming languages, developer tools, app platforms. Like in my career, I've built a lot of these things. And so the idea of programmable money that's like on the public Internet is so radical. And so tokenization and rwas are like really bringing that to life in new ways. And so we're obviously still in the super, super early stages of that. And obviously there's like charts and they're up and to the right and people are excited about it. But like, when you actually think about if you'd look at like global equity and debt markets, it's like $250 trillion or it's some enormous number.
00:09:11.314 - 00:09:30.876, Speaker A: And so the size of assets that can actually come on chain and become transactable and exchangeable and otherwise programmable, it's enormous. So it's a super exciting space, and we're happy to be explicitly and implicitly partnering with so many of the projects as well.
00:09:31.028 - 00:09:59.310, Speaker B: Gotcha. I want to ask you a few questions about stablecoins because got mentioned there a few times in that previous response, and I want to begin, obviously, with the very big news. You touched on it. Circle's announced that USDC and EURC are available under new EU stablecoin laws. I think that's groundbreaking. And that makes circle the first global stablecoin issuer to be compliant with Mica. Could you just briefly update us on the developments that led to that? And from your perspective, what's circle's involvement in these regulatory changes?
00:09:59.500 - 00:10:41.500, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think multiple years ago, there's a lot that people don't realize how much has gone on in the background, which is, it kind of started actually with Libra. So Libra, which was of course, zuckbucks, kind of got announced as a white paper. And basically governments around the world, especially the biggest governments with the biggest currencies like the eurozone, the dollar, all these kind of freaked out. And basically they were obviously announcing this idea of a global stablecoin. They had their own design and their own blockchain and all these other things that they were trying to do with it. We had already launched USDC. We were in the market.
00:10:41.500 - 00:11:23.878, Speaker A: We were more of a bottom up. Like, we're not Facebook, we're a bottom up. We're building from the ground up. But what was interesting is it really was perceived by global governments as this is happening, stablecoins are happening, and we need to have a clear set of rules for how stablecoins are going to work. If there is going to be these stable coins and they're going to interact with the existing financial system, there needs to be a way to regulate that. And so that led to, through the G 20, it led to the body of all the biggest regulators in the world through what's called the Financial Stability Board. They all got together and said, ok, we need global stablecoin policy.
00:11:23.878 - 00:11:53.290, Speaker A: It took them like two years to develop it. We consulted to that lots of projects, Makerdao, lots of different projects, consulted on stablecoin policy. And then it was adopted at the G 20. They voted on it and said, we want to do this. And so then what happens is you have like this framework and you can go back and you can look at like the policy recommendations that the G 20 came out with. Then all the members of the G 20 are essentially saying, we're going to go and put in place laws. And so the way laws get put in place in the US is through Congress, in the EU parliament.
00:11:53.290 - 00:12:32.812, Speaker A: And all these are, you know, I'm not an expert in EU lawmaking, but in all these jurisdictions, basically all these governments said, we're going to commit to doing this. And so that's coming online. And so we knew this was all coming online everywhere in the world. And our view is like, this is a really positive development. If we want this kind of innovation to be accessible globally and to become like, to actually have an Internet financial system, like having clear laws around the world is really key. So when and when Mika was sort of being agreed upon, we looked at that as a huge milestone. And it was clearly like an enormous region that was going to be at the forefront of this ahead of other major regions.
00:12:32.812 - 00:13:40.600, Speaker A: Really the only other major jurisdiction that was ahead of the EU on this is Japan, which had stablecoin regulations that went into effect a year ago. And so the moment that came, we said, okay, this is a really big opportunity. We also were focused on launching a euro stablecoin. So the day Mika was announced as an agreement, it was actually the day we launched EURC, and we made a public statement saying, we're committed to bringing this under these new EU rules when they go effective then. We really did spend the last couple of years working with regulators, working with policymakers, providing input into how this could work. And I think really crucially, and this is part of the breakthrough of what we announced last week is how can you have a fungible, globally available digital dollar like USDC that is simultaneously issued and regulated in the EU and issued and regulated in the United States and make that work? And we did find a way to make that work under these EU laws, and that's a really big deal. And I think it's a testament to sort of how we operate and how we run things that we've been able to do that.
00:13:40.600 - 00:13:44.978, Speaker A: It's a really major milestone.
00:13:45.154 - 00:14:04.710, Speaker B: I certainly think so too. And on that note, what do you, as you see the implications of USDC being natively issued in the EU and what are perhaps the main implications for end users? Is it going to be from a distribution standpoint, will EU banks be more likely to hold USDC or EURC? What are the sort of major changes that we can expect to see in the near future?
00:14:05.370 - 00:15:04.980, Speaker A: Yeah, I think about it in their sort of short, medium and long term. I think in the short run, part of what Mika is doing is saying, hey, there is this big market already, and it's the market for digital assets. And there's now a framework for regulating how digital asset products and services are sold, marketed, offered, et cetera, in the EU. And that spans both electronic money like stablecoins, as well as other products that people are offering. Exchanges, brokerages, investments, all these kinds of things. Now that you have that, it sort of defines that space. And I think because digital asset markets, whether it's defi or centralized exchanges or other things so heavily dependent on stable coins, including dollar stablecoins, I think in the short term it creates a really great opportunity to grow USDC in Europe because we are sort of this available compliant liquid instrument that now can be used.
00:15:04.980 - 00:16:04.438, Speaker A: And so in the short term, I think it's a great opportunity to grow how much USDC is used by european people and entities and businesses over the medium term, we see this as an opportunity to grow euro stablecoin adoption as well. To date, euro stablecoin adoption has been really, really limited because most of the activity has been in trading markets, and trading markets are principally denominated in dollars. And it's not because people don't want to hold euro. I mean, people everywhere here hold euro because that's what they're paid and that's how they pay for goods and services and taxes and all that fun stuff. So now that you have clear regulations on crypto assets and on digital asset markets, we believe that you're going to start to see more and more corporations, traditional financial institutions, others who want to get into this space, and as they get into this space, they're going to want to transact in the regional currency. And so that will create more demand for euro stablecoins. So we actually think over the medium term this will grow.
00:16:04.438 - 00:17:09.130, Speaker A: Euro stablecoin adoption and then over the long run, our own belief is on chain money is superior to legacy electronic money. Programmable, composable money is superior to open banking. The efficiencies of blockchains that effectively provide settlement finality and ultimately fractions of a second transaction costs that are fractions of a penny. That that's going to be really attractive. And eventually we expect like euro stablecoins to become highly competitive in retail payment systems in Europe as well. And the innovations of things like nfts, social commerce, the ability to have different types of customer engagement as merchants and brands using web3 technology, like we think web3 user experiences in commerce, web3 user experiences in social and in payments will kind of converge and will drive a next wave of innovation in retail experiences. The best that most of the world has is the neo banking products.
00:17:09.130 - 00:17:25.411, Speaker A: But I think web3 allows for a next generation of application experiences, maybe more similar to what Tencent had been able to do with WeChat, but all open, composable, programmable, interoperable, built on a web3 technology stack.
00:17:25.605 - 00:17:57.576, Speaker B: Quite a few potential implications there, and I think a lot of people are looking forward to seeing them materialize. I'm curious what you think these changes mean for the idea between regulated versus unregulated stable coins. Is it possible in the not so distant future that we see unregulated stable coins getting phased out? More specifically still, what does this mean for tether and USDT, which is now the leading stable coin by market cap? Is there a possibility that unregulated stablecoins are phased out? Or are they just going to have to get regulated the way USDC has?
00:17:57.728 - 00:19:01.764, Speaker A: I mean, I think there's sort of a couple things. Sort of like what is the market doing? And then what is the regulatory guidance? And so the European Banking Authority, which is the authority over this, issued their explicit guidance on this issue actually in a statement on July 5, so last Friday. And I think they're very clear about like anyone who's sort of listing, offering, selling, promoting to the public a stablecoin that is not mica conformant, that is no longer allowed. And so I think there's sort of broadly, the industry perceives there to be a time period between now and December 30 where either products are compliant or they're not. And sort of you'll see products that are delisted and other things over that time and you'll see a lot more products that are compliant come in. So I think you're going to see like while we're the first global stablecoin issuer and we're one of a number of euro stablecoins that are authorized now, I think you'll see more, right. So I think between now and the end of the year that will develop.
00:19:01.764 - 00:19:33.944, Speaker A: But I think even more importantly, over the medium to long term, a lot more players now that you have regulation are going to come into the market. I mean, SoC Gen launched a euro stablecoin on public chains last week as well with permission through France. And that's a big deal. Major bank launching a free floating euro stablecoin on permissionless blockchains, that's a really big deal as well. So I think you'll see more things coming. And then there's sort of what the market is doing. I mean, like binance had a big announcement the day that we announced the USDC conformance.
00:19:33.944 - 00:20:04.566, Speaker A: And they've been pretty clear about kind of how they're treating things and they're the biggest exchange in the world. And so I think sort of watch what market actors do to kind of get an indication of, of how this kind of, we think results in a kind of market structure shift. And we think that Europe is the beginning of that, like us is going to follow. We already have that in Japan. You have these rules coming up in a lot of places. And I think like globally regulated stablecoins are going to become a much larger thing as we go through 2025.
00:20:04.758 - 00:20:21.990, Speaker B: And speaking of that structural change and new entrants and competition is then the fact that USDC and EURC are now regulated under EU log, is that going to be the main competitive edge going forward? And how is this going to change the share of market cap between the two biggest stable coins?
00:20:22.690 - 00:21:08.430, Speaker A: So our focus is on building the world's largest, most actively used stablecoin network in the world. And that's like a global initiative. And so part of that is making sure that the stable coins that we issue are legal and compliant everywhere in the world where they need to be. So that's just like a commitment that we've always made and that we're making. We think that if you want to build a large stablecoin network that's broadly and actively used as a platform that developers build on, that households, corporations, other firms use, we need to do that. But we're building that out in a lot of different ways. So we're building that out by building our own on chain infrastructure that makes this super compelling for developers and for users.
00:21:08.430 - 00:22:36.374, Speaker A: By making USDC available on all these blockchain networks, by building new protocols like CCTP, which basically provides a safe, secure, capital efficient way to move value across these different blockchain networks and allow users of apps on different chains to be able to exchange value easily by investing in things like gasless transactions where people can onboard and just use stablecoins for fees and make payment transactions without needing to know about gas tokens and other things. So we're investing in blockchain infrastructure that makes this really, really usable by both end users and developers. But we're also investing in liquidity. And so in some ways, the promise of liquidity is that wherever you are in the world, you can get or redeem USDC as fast as possible, as cheap as possible, within your local banking system. We've been expanding internationally so that if you're in Singapore or in Hong Kong or in Mexico or Brazil or obviously here in Europe and the US, that there's rails, there's actual underlying banking infrastructure that is available to all market participants to be able to seamlessly get and redeem that safely. And that's a huge competitive differentiator for us, is that we have this quality banking infrastructure everywhere in the world, and we're accelerating that and expanding that through partnerships with leading banks all around the world. And so that's key.
00:22:36.374 - 00:23:02.940, Speaker A: Just like, I think about it as like digital dollar dial tone or digital euro dial tone, and like making that available all around the world. And so we have a huge initiative there. And all those things are ultimately, at the end of the day, it's about we build these developer platforms, we build this public infrastructure, we build this liquidity infrastructure. This is all just sort of part of setting this up for the next stage of growth in this market, which is just, we think, more and more mainstream in terms of the adoption.
00:23:03.360 - 00:23:22.422, Speaker B: And while we're still on stable coins before we move into regulation, got a few questions on cbdcs in the near future as well. But with the entry of PayPal's stablecoin into the market, how do you see this impacting the current sort of stablecoin ecosystem, or do you see it impacting it at all? Do you welcome the competition? Do you welcome new entrants, generally speaking? What are your thoughts on that?
00:23:22.576 - 00:24:02.678, Speaker A: Well, I think the fact that we're getting more regulatory clarity is a great thing and will lead to far more companies wanting to compete in the space. The total addressable market for legal electronic money in the world today is over $100 trillion. That's the amount of legal electronic money there is in the world in different currencies within all of the banking systems globally, you have this huge market of legal electronic money. The total amount of revenue generated from the payment utility on that is over $1.5 trillion. So you're talking about huge, huge markets. The Internet has never actually, like, the media market, the communications market.
00:24:02.678 - 00:24:57.504, Speaker A: Like this is a big market, right? So this is absolutely going to attract tons of competition and tons of new companies and big established companies that have big user bases are going to come in and say, hey, there's a lot at stake here. And so we definitely welcome it because what it says is that, yeah, this is a huge global market, right? So I think if there wasn't competition, there would be, there's not a viable market, right. So that's really important. And so we do welcome, and every time one of these launches, I'm the first on Twitter to congratulate them and welcome them to the space, because I really mean that. And then we compete on the basis of our product, we compete on the basis of like developer adoption and all the things that we're building. We've got a good track record. We feel really good about what we've been able to execute, and we definitely feel like we're going to continue to be a pretty competitive company right now.
00:24:57.632 - 00:25:29.220, Speaker B: Certainly looks that way with the recent developments. And again, while stable coins are often seen as the future of money, granted, there's this huge addressable market potential is certainly there. But I have to ask you this, because we are at etc. Pro privacy sentiment is obviously fairly high. Curious about your general consensus and thinking about privacy. And I guess more specifically in terms of the way privacy is generally perceived here at etc. Do your ambitions and aspirations for stablecoins in any way support or hinder privacy?
00:25:29.680 - 00:26:51.204, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a huge topic, obviously, and I gave a talk actually yesterday, and I talked about there are a couple of major unsolved issues in the broader adoption of this tech. If we want this to be billions of users and every household or every corporation are using this day to day kind of like we use email or the web or social or other things, we have to solve issues around identity, we have to solve issues around privacy, and we have to actually solve issues around the law. And what I mean by that is there have to be legal definitions for what it means to have value intermediated on chain, or a contract between parties that's executed on chain and enforceable on chain. There's a lot of open legal questions, like what is a dao? What's an on chain organization? Like, how's this all going to work? That's going to proliferate? So we need to think about how does law continue to adapt? This isn't just about stablecoin regulation. It's about society at large, and how society deals with on chain living and on chain economics. But privacy is one of those huge unsolved areas. And right now there's a danger, in my view, there's a danger that things like stablecoins, which are going to proliferate and grow, there is privacy erosion that goes on with stable coins.
00:26:51.204 - 00:27:15.826, Speaker A: Not necessarily because a company like circle is looking over your transactions. We don't have the ability to do that. These are digital tokens that are on blockchains. But there's now new tools for observation. And that could be from a criminal bad actor, that could be from a government, that could be from your competitors. And so privacy, like, there's privacy erosion. And so we need to see improvements in privacy technology.
00:27:15.826 - 00:28:31.454, Speaker A: On chain privacy technology we need, whether it's Zk or fully homomorphic encryption or other methods, we have to have deeper, enhanced privacy. Let's say I'm Siemens and I'm manufacturing products, and I'm settling transactions between all my counterparties in different parts of the world, and I'm using stablecoin rails to do that. I don't want my competitors to be able to figure out what I'm doing and look at my cash flows. So you need to be able to even just for a corporation, the privacy covenants that you can get from a blockchain right now are not sufficient actually to actually do work, and households will feel the same way. That's a huge area that needs to be improved. And then obviously, how do you balance that with all of the law enforcement requests that are out there and that exists? We see those issues playing out in communications tools and various assertions of governments there. And so how that gets resolved is a huge open question, because we need to simultaneously dramatically improve the privacy capabilities of on chain existence and enable also identity to work.
00:28:31.454 - 00:29:03.058, Speaker A: So that whether you're a smart contract or a counterparty, that I know you're provably human and you're provably someone who's not a lawbreaker, there's going to be all kinds of things that have to happen in terms of the way identity proofs work. So these are midterm things, in my view, that have to be worked on. And we care a lot about all those issues because we think that without those getting resolved, this isn't going to be able to flourish in the way that we think it can clear.
00:29:03.194 - 00:29:25.392, Speaker B: Another discussion that sort of goes hand in hand with that is CBDCs. I know you have spoken about it in the past and you have written about in the past. I tend to generally agree with you. But just for the sake of where we are and who the audience is, what are your general thoughts about CBDCs? Do we need them? Do you see them as complementary to stablecoins, or is there a potential conflict of interest there? Can I get your sort of high level thoughts on that?
00:29:25.496 - 00:30:18.218, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I think there's a few things. I think the first is sort of like, I like to describe myself as an Internet maximalist. And so what do I mean by that? I mean, I believe that Internet based systems, open networks, open software, open source code, open protocols, and the continuous innovation cycle of entrepreneurs that are building on that stack is like this force that is growing and it's taking on more and more of the infrastructure needs of society. And I think that's a very, very powerful force that compounds. And you see that in ECC right now, this incredible range of people who are building code, a lot of it open source, contributing to this. The continuous improvement cycles are incredible. And so you don't want to lose that, right? That's so powerful.
00:30:18.218 - 00:31:19.470, Speaker A: No government can compete with that. It's impossible for a government to compete with that. And so you want to harness that. And if you want innovation in monetary systems and financial systems and economic systems and other uses of this technology as well, you want to tap that, right? So my view has really been like the, you know, open innovation and private sector innovation is fundamental to how you're going to improve monetary systems. And what's important is that the core infrastructure of fiat, in this case, the core infrastructure in fiat, should be improved and it should be upgraded to be built on newer technologies. But the intermediation of how users interact with that and the way in which it's sort of the kind of technical innovation for how that actually gets out, the world should be more of a free market activity. And so that's sort of my general view.
00:31:19.470 - 00:31:54.058, Speaker A: And I think that's upheld by how we've seen Internet and software technology adoption happen more broadly in the world. But that doesn't mean you don't need central banks involved in, say, who's issuing these digital currencies, or how's it stored? And their ability to set interest rate policy and do all the things that are important there. But it's not clear that central banks themselves are going to be able to be the actual technology innovators. I think that's unlikely to play out.
00:31:54.194 - 00:32:14.140, Speaker B: Thank you for bringing some nuance to that. I also want to ask you, as a technologist and an Internet maximalist, if you think about Crypto's ethos of decentralization, immutability, security, among some of the other principles that you just mentioned there, what might cbdcs potentially mean for Crypto's ability to deliver on that original ethos?
00:32:16.840 - 00:33:18.626, Speaker A: I think crypto will just continue delivering on that original thesis. My view is we're in a period of immense technical creativity and innovation. Society is going to decide in the end what is the best way to move forward. And so I think policy and politics respond to society's overall needs, demands, wants, as opposed to the other way around. And so I think it's really incumbent on the crypto industry to, to keep delivering value to society that society wants and doing that better and better. And if the crypto industry can do that, then those deeply held beliefs and goals will be met and upheld.
00:33:18.818 - 00:33:29.080, Speaker B: On that note, on the near future, how do you envision the future of money looking in the next decade? And what do you think the role of stablecoins and DeFi as well, is going to be in building that future?
00:33:29.620 - 00:34:19.302, Speaker A: So I talk a lot about this idea of the Internet financial system. And so in my mind, we're in the early stages of the development of an actual Internet based financial system, where from the bottom up, it's built natively on the Internet. And at the base layer are these new Internet operating systems that we call blockchain networks. And on top of those with regulation, we're issuing cash, digital cash instruments. That's what a stablecoin is. And so my view is that the Internet financial system can be a safer, can be a more efficient, more inclusive financial system than the current financial system. And I think at the core of that is this concept of full reserve money.
00:34:19.302 - 00:36:09.504, Speaker A: So you have this fully reserved money, not fractionally reserved money. You have fully reserved money that exists in the form of stablecoins. And I think the closer that those can get to being cash equivalency with a central bank, the better. And then what you do is you marry that to what I describe as the physics of the Internet, which is the ability to have the velocity of money, basically be the speed and throughput of the Internet, which is effectively this infinite velocity, you have the speed of essentially light, you're able to have value move with such speed and such velocity that you're able to do that with as safe of an asset as possible. And that's where I think what we think of as defi today really comes in, which is if you have a full reserve digital currency, whether it's a euro digital currency, dollar digital currency, and you have on chain infrastructure for intermediation, you can actually build a far more safe and efficient and transparent and well risk managed intermediation model than the legacy banking system. And so my own view is that on chain financial primitives, whether it's borrow, lend, save, invest, swap, exchange, option, future, all these primitives that we think of, which we're already seeing, these are on chain. When you start to build those up and you build those up in this infrastructure, and then financial firms and commercial firms and others can start to utilize that, you actually can build.
00:36:09.504 - 00:36:39.524, Speaker A: You're basically building a better financial system from the ground up natively and with. Inherently, I believe it can be done in a way which has less risk in it and more transparency and obviously more accessibility and inclusion. So I mean, those are all the goals, but I really think that those are possible. But we're at the very start of that. We're at the very early stages of that right now. So in ten years I think we'll be a lot further.
00:36:39.652 - 00:36:52.720, Speaker B: Can't wait to catch up with you in ten years. I know you're on a very tight schedule. Jeremy, just before we let you go, we are in a bull market that's been playing out a little differently to previous cycles. We like to ask our guests this question just before we let them go, could you please give us some alpha?
00:36:55.180 - 00:38:14.546, Speaker A: So, you know, I had a post on x recently where the headline was like, I am more bullish than I've ever been about crypto, and I really am. And I think that perspective is sort of. I've been working on this for eleven years, and I've sort of seen not just the eleven years in crypto, but I've seen many, many technology market cycles as well in the Internet as a whole, dating back to 1990. So I've sort of seen decades of sort of these cycles of technology adoption, improvement, market activity, etcetera. And my view is, when I sort of try and place at a moment in time, it's oftentimes useful to look at history and sort of say, where are we relative to when the Internet was like this or the Internet was like that, and you see these charts of crypto and the adoption cycle, and it's at 200, 300 million people, and it means it's going to explode to billions, whatever. That's probably true. But I think it feels to me, when I look at the combination of the maturity of blockchain network infrastructure, some of the fundamental primitives that are becoming possible in terms of user experience, and abstracting away the complexity of interacting with this technology and the legal certainty that's coming, that's really, really important.
00:38:14.546 - 00:38:43.082, Speaker A: When you put those things together, it really feels like we're coming onto that moment where this can really, really go to Internet scale. And so my own view is that 2025 is going to be 2024. We're in it. I think we're in an improving environment. I think 2025 is going to be a really extraordinary environment. And I'm not focused on prices of crypto assets. I'm focused on how this technology is being built on and used.
00:38:43.082 - 00:39:12.866, Speaker A: And I think 2025 is going to be a really significant year, and I think we'll be. You know, there's lots of these concepts of crossing the chasm, which is an old concept in technology adoption life cycles. And crossing the chasm is like when you go from the early adopter phase to the, what's called the early majority, and that's like the steep slope. And so I think we're right now crossing the chasm, and so I think that steep slope is coming in the next year or so.
00:39:13.018 - 00:39:18.170, Speaker B: I can't wait to catch up with you in the near future. Thank you so much for taking the time to sit down and talk to us. Really appreciate your time.
00:39:18.250 - 00:39:19.130, Speaker A: My pleasure. Thank you.
