00:00:00.400 - 00:00:25.768, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 4 March 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into the news quickly. Before we get into that, I just wanted to give a quick shout out to my good friend Kita here. He's going to be doing a series of Nfts called the world of Ethereum. He'll be unveiling them, I guess over the next few days. You can follow him on Twitter to keep up to date with that.
00:00:25.768 - 00:00:58.432, Speaker A: And the Genesis mint will be dedicated to Gitcoin, which means that parts of the proceeds will be donated to Gitcoin as part of the next matching round, which is really, really cool. So yeah, fun fact about that kiddie, he actually had a lot of, I guess, like feedback in the daily Gwei logo. I had my friend in real life design it and then Kirito kind of like, you know, refined it, gave a lot of feedback on it. So he was pretty instrumental there and he's been a good friend for a long time. So definitely check this out. You don't have to buy it or anything like that, but I've seen the art itself and it's, it looks really, really cool. But if you.
00:00:58.432 - 00:01:31.630, Speaker A: Yeah, if you're into nfTs, into crypto art or anything like that, definitely you want to be checking this out. And it'll be the, the bidding will start on the fifth, Friday the fifth for these auctions. I think they're going to be on rarible or something like that. But yeah, basically there's a, there's a few different things to kind of get your hands on. So definitely go check that one out. So I put out this tweet today called, basically saying, turns out that the EVM was the moat all along. Now I wrote about this in deli Gray newsletter today, a more detailed piece, but I just wanted to quickly mention what I meant by this.
00:01:31.630 - 00:02:17.974, Speaker A: So for those who don't know, Ethereum has a virtual machine called the EVM or the Ethereum virtual machine. And this is basically what powers the smart contracts and all the code and logic behind it. And without the EVM, you couldn't have kind of like smart contracts without a virtual machine. Now the reason why I say that the EVM is the moat, right? Because in crypto people are always asking like what is the moat of an open source protocol, right? Is it the users? Is it the developers? Is it the liquidity? Is it the code, you know, all this sort of stuff. I think some of that plays into it, but I wouldn't call them, like, massive moats. I think developers is a pretty good moat, but liquidity definitely isn't, right, because you can make liquidity go from protocol to protocol just by incentivizing it at the end of the day. So I don't think liquidity is a very strong moat.
00:02:17.974 - 00:03:13.514, Speaker A: Developers are, but I believe the strongest moat is the EVM, the Ethereum virtual machine. Now, this is the case because of the fact that if we look at something like BSc binance smart chain, which is, as I've mentioned before, a centralized clone of Ethereum, it means that developers, if they want to, can just take their code, take their applications, and just redeploy it on BSC with next to zero cost, because the code and the smart contracts and everything like that are going to be exactly the same because BSC is EVM compatible, because it's essentially ethereum, and BSc isn't the only one. There's a bunch of other EVM compatible chains out there, and there's going to be EVM compatible L2s. I mean, there already is, with Polygon, you know, slash, Matic. And everyone's excited about optimistic Ethereum, of course, you know, which coming out this month, which is going to be EVM compatible, and then arbitrum as well. So those are all L2s. But in terms of other blockchains, you know, there are these kind of things.
00:03:13.514 - 00:03:48.510, Speaker A: And I think I put out another tweet a few weeks ago saying that it's funny how all these other, you know, quote unquote Ethereum killers or other chains, you know, spent many years raising billions of dollars to build all this fancy tech, and then, you know, binance just comes along, clones Ethereum, and gets more users and usage than they do in all the years that they've been around. And that's simply because of the EVM. You know, developers don't want to have to rewrite their entire app for a new ecosystem, right? That takes time. It takes money. You have to reorder the code. You have to learn a new language, right? If it's not solidity, you have to learn some other language. It just doesn't make any sense.
00:03:48.510 - 00:04:32.778, Speaker A: So if you're a developer, you know exactly what I mean. But if you're not, just know that developers do not want to have to rewrite their entire app just to support your chain, especially when your chain has no users, right? So that's why the EVM, I believe, is the moat. And I did conclude my piece in the daily way by saying that I don't think that it's actually parasitic to Ethereum. I think it's additive because I do believe these other chains are a stopgap between, you know, Ethereum and Ethereum's L2, where the fees are higher on a theory, as people are using these other chains. But then once the Ethereum L2 ecosystem is kind of more, you know, fleshed out, I believe pretty much most of the activity will just happen on there. And these other chains won't really have, you know, be much, right. They'll just be like kind of like a check mark in history, short sort of thing.
00:04:32.778 - 00:05:15.566, Speaker A: Because these are, as I said, these other L2s, at least most of them are EVM compatible. And that's exactly what you need, right? You don't want to have to force developers to recode everything and anything like that. And the reason why you're seeing actually projects port to, you know, BSc and other places is because of this as well. It's like free for them to do, right? You just take your existing code, redeploy it, right? There's developers have deployment scripts for their smart contracts. So it is so super simple. And out of that you get free marketing, right? You get, you know, potentially some more users who have been out priced out of Ethereum. And you also get the favor of binance because you deploying to BSc means that binance views you more favorably and maybe you'll get a token, a listing for your token.
00:05:15.566 - 00:06:09.574, Speaker A: So I understand why projects are doing it. And at the end of the day, if it doesn't take off and nothing happens and the chain like dies down and dies, dies off and, you know, ethereum's L2 ecosystem takes over, then it really didn't cost you anything to do it, and you got like a bit of benefit out of it at the same time. You know, you might lose some community goodwill and all that sort of stuff. But I don't think, you know, I mean, I don't think that matters too much, right? There's people that like me who are ideological about this stuff, but we're not the majority, unfortunately, or fortunately, whatever way you look at it. So, you know, totally get why projects are doing this, and I don't blame them for doing it at the end of the day. But at the same time, I will always kind of like fight back against like centralization and centralized chains and, and always promote the Ethereum alternatives, which are decentralized, right? Like the L2s but it's kind of hard to promote that right now when a lot of it still isn't live or, or, or just kind of going live and being fleshed out. So looking forward to that.
00:06:09.574 - 00:07:03.864, Speaker A: And on that note as well, Metamask added a really, really cool feature today where developers can now kind of recommend L2 networks or side change to people as they come to their app. So say you go visit an app that's living on, say, a L2, right? Say you go visit an app that's running on optimism at some point in the future, and then, you know, Metamask needs to kind of like, maybe switch networks or something like that. You can basically embed this in the app so that it'll give a pop up on metamask and tell the user to switch. Right. This is especially really, really good for things like, you know, side chains, I guess, like XDai and stuff like that, where you have to actually change your network RPC manually, you know. Now you can just basically go to an app that lives on XDAi, and the app will tell you, hey, you're on the wrong network. You need to add this network, and then you add it, and then it just gets automatically added in there, and then you switch over to that network and you can go about your day.
00:07:03.864 - 00:07:32.408, Speaker A: So, yeah, pretty big, big feature release here. I think it's pretty cool that they're not only supporting L2, but other chains as well. You know, if users are going to do this anyway, we may as well just make it easy for them. Right? Excuse me. So, yeah, really good release here from Metamask, and I think it's. I mean, I saw a tweet saying that, like, this is better for L2s and Ethereum and the Ethereum ecosystem in general than the other kind of side chains and stuff like that. And I think, I mean, it's, it's good for, for all of it.
00:07:32.408 - 00:08:21.056, Speaker A: Um, I I don't think that it's a bad thing, uh, for any, any particular kind of chain, I guess. Um, but it'd be interesting to see kind of how it plays out and the usage numbers around this. I do hope that metamask publishes some public use usage numbers around, you know, how many people change their network and are using, like, different networks as opposed to Ethereum? Not just like other chains, but L2 ecosystems as well, because I'll be very excited to see what the traction is like on that. So George Constantinopolis from paradigm put out a really great thread today, and I'll link it in the YouTube description, you can go check it out. But basically, as I've been saying over the past few days, the Berlin Ethereum network upgrade is scheduled to go live in April at block, block 12.2 million around there. And with it comes a bunch of different AIP.
00:08:21.056 - 00:08:45.808, Speaker A: So it's about 41 days away from now. And the eips that are coming are quite technical, as I've mentioned before. So George Os does a great job of breaking it down here and linking to further kind of reading on these sorts of things. So if you want to, you know, learn more about that, definitely go check this out. One thing I will note is that EIP 1559 is not in this network upgrade. I want to make that very clear. If it gets accepted on, I think, tomorrow or Friday's all core dev call.
00:08:45.808 - 00:09:36.930, Speaker A: If it gets accepted into the next network upgrade, which is called London, it will be scheduled for around July, or at least tentatively scheduled for July. So I'm expecting and so is, you know, pretty much everyone else, that 1559 will be accepted, and then we'll pretty much have it in July, which is not that far away. I mean, we're in March, March, April, May, June, July, it's like four or five months away. And we'll have 1559 on the network and we'll start burning those fees, which I think is going to be really, really cool and really good for the narrative as well. I mean, there's always some debates about 1559 and how much impact it will have on Ethereum's price. I think the narrative, you know, of, of the fee burning is stronger than the actual fee burning itself. And on top of that, I think making the Ethereum network much more usable in general because it improve, you know, it doesn't only just burn fees, it, it greatly improves the kind of Ethereum gas market or fee market.
00:09:36.930 - 00:10:08.700, Speaker A: I think that as well will add a lot of fundamental value to, to Ethereum, too. So looking forward to that. But yeah, there's a bunch of different and interesting aips in Berlin that you should go check out as well. You know, if you're a technical person, you'll enjoy it more, more so than the non technical people because maybe you won't understand it. I'm going to say I don't understand most of it because a lot of it is pretty technical. But, you know, just reading the surface level stuff, it's very exciting. So Matthew Feinstein from loopring put out a really cool tweet today saying that over 50,000 ETH is now in the loop ring L2.
00:10:08.700 - 00:10:30.782, Speaker A: And that's been growing pretty steadily, as you can see from this chart. Right. I mean, it started off, you know, pretty much like under $10,000 in. $10,000 under 10,000 in. I guess, you know, December, it looks like here now it's up to over 50,000. Ethan just growing at a really steady pace here, which is really cool. And he goes on to say, you know, forget about USD TVl.
00:10:30.782 - 00:10:58.508, Speaker A: He cares about the ETH TVL. We measure the ethereum economy in Ethan. I agree with him. You know, I think there's 8.5 million ETH locked in DeFi right now, last time I checked. And, you know, that's just such a great measure of the health of the ethereum economy, I think, you know, TvL and USD is, is fun, but also it counts, like, a lot of the non ETH TVL, which is fine, but it can be inflated in certain areas. And, you know, it cannot make, like, total sense to kind of compare that.
00:10:58.508 - 00:12:07.012, Speaker A: But definitely, you know, seeing it grow and seeing the ETH locked in, not just looping, but in defi in general grow is great because it means more people are using ETH as a collateral asset or as an economic asset in their DeFi activities, which is what we want. Right. As I've explained on the refill before, that's one of the three core value pillars of its value accrual, and it's a critical one that it's used as trustless collateral within DeFi as an economic asset to increase the economic bandwidth of the ethereum network. So really, really cool stat from, from Matthew here. So arbitrum, another team building optimistic roll ups, basically announced today on Twitter that their kind of technology is no longer patent pending, which means that they are not going to patent any of their technology, I think, or any of their kind of L2 tech here. And they, and they go on to say that arbitrum is a community project, and abandoning the patent was a critical step for them in preparation for their upcoming main net launch. You know, I think their main net launch is going to come like probably this month or next month, right? If I had to guess, just because of the fact that optimism is launching and arbitrary, basically, I guess you could call them a competitor, or at least they're building kind of like similar tech.
00:12:07.012 - 00:12:32.672, Speaker A: So they definitely want to get, to get to mainnet, you know, just as, just as quick there. But it's really cool that, you know, this, this is not going to be patented now, right. All the code will kind of be open source, people will be able to use it, fork it, all that good stuff. So, yeah, good job to arbitrum here. And for those who don't know, I mean, arbitrary is just the name of the optimistic roll up technology. It's actually being built by a team called off chain labs and, you know, optimism and gets a lot of attention. Right.
00:12:32.672 - 00:13:00.506, Speaker A: But I think arbitrum and off chain labs are just as important to the future of ethereum kind of scaling here with optimistic roll ups. And I think that they've got just as much smart people as optimism does. So, always good to have competition, healthy competition and different options. We don't want a monopoly on anything in the space. And, you know, it's really great that maybe other, you know, others can kind of like, fork this code and if they want to, and maybe make their own ecosystem. I think it's really cool. So gods unchained.
00:13:00.506 - 00:13:48.964, Speaker A: Now, for those who don't know, gods unchained has been a trading card game that's been around for quite a while now. You know, all the way back in maybe 2018, maybe 2019. I can't remember exactly how long it's been around for, but it's been around for a while. And this was built by a company called Immutable, who are also building a tool called Immutable X, which is their L2 ZK roll up NFT exchange that is going live very, very soon as well. But what they announced today, or what they published today, I should say, in this blog post, is basically a rollout plan for gods unchained on immutable X. Now, the reason why I think gods unchained hasn't taken off like, you know, people have, would have hoped it would, is because when you buy the trading cards, you know, a lot of them aren't worth very much. So when you try to trade them, the gas fees end up being more than, you know, what the card is worth.
00:13:48.964 - 00:14:15.266, Speaker A: So, you know, the trading ecosystem is pretty, pretty poor because of that. Now, with immutable X, this kind of solves all those issues because we're going to L2. There's going to be like, basically free transactions, super scalable, all that good stuff. And I think God's unchained is going to be a centerpiece of that ecosystem there. So this post basically runs through the rollout stages, how it's all going to work, you know, what the features are like, how it improves upon the experience, all that good stuff. So you can go check out this blog post. It'll be linked in the YouTube description.
00:14:15.266 - 00:15:09.508, Speaker A: Obviously, I won't read out the whole thing, but yeah, this is another solution that I'm actually really excited about because they're focusing on nfts. You know, a lot of the other platforms are generalized, so, you know, they're not going to, there's going to put their tech out there, but not have any kind of specific focus. I think optimism is definitely, you know, be focusing on DeFi first. And I think, you know, Arbitrum will be the same thing simply because of the fact that Defi is that killer use case. But, you know, Defi, I think nfts are getting, you know, they're not as big as Defi in terms of like value, kind of like flowing through it, but they're going to get there. So I'm really looking forward to immutable x kind of being released and, you know, showing the power of what, you know, what I guess like a theorem scaling can do not just for Defi, but also for nfts. So speaking of optimism, Ben from Rari Capital put out a really cool tweet today, and I'll link it in the YouTube description so you can go to all these links.
00:15:09.508 - 00:15:28.248, Speaker A: But basically he says, if you only just kind of understand optimism, it's time to get serious. I present to you optimism boot camp. So he gives four links here, which are pretty much like required reading and watching. And he put some times here. I think that's just part of the joke that it's like a bootcamp. You don't have to wake up at 06:00 a.m. To read Vitalik's blog post here.
00:15:28.248 - 00:16:14.944, Speaker A: But basically, I mean, this is Vitalik's kind of like incomplete guide to roll ups. There's a video here about it about optimism from Calvin Fitcher, Fichta Ficha, who works at optimism, of course, paradigms research that they published a couple of weeks ago, I think, or a few weeks ago now back in January. Wow, okay. Or end of January, to be fair, that I kind of talked about on the refill that you should definitely go read, and then the optimism docs themselves. So yeah, they've got like a really great kind of docs kind of section here. So if you want to dive deeper into optimistic roll ups and how optimism works specifically, definitely go check out these resources that Ben provided here. So a major release for Go Ethereum today on the ETH one network, this is version 1.10
00:16:14.944 - 00:16:36.496, Speaker A: called the, I think, the Panjaya expanse. They've code named it. With this release comes snapshots through snapsync to pruning and database optimizations. And they've said it's got everything to make Ethereum better. So if you're running an ETH one client, which you should be, if you can, you should definitely upgrade your client to this version because there's like a lot of upgrades. I mean, this blog price is packed. Look at that.
00:16:36.496 - 00:17:20.404, Speaker A: Look how much, you know, upgrades have come to it. A lot of it's technical upgrades. But you know, by running this, you're helping kind of like the network, you know, by decentralizing it by running a node. And there's a new sync called Snap Snapsync, which will actually get you kind of synced up faster with the Ethereum network, which I think is really, really cool as well. So yeah, if you're running in an ETH one node, definitely go, go download this, check it out. I mean, you know, if you don't want to, you don't have to because like there's other versions that you can be running, a little bit older versions, but I think that you should definitely upgrade this. And they made a note here as well, saying that this doesn't come with the Berlin hard fork, which means you'll have to upgrade again when the Berlin hard fork client is released here.
00:17:20.404 - 00:17:56.664, Speaker A: Apparently there was some set 11th hour concerns about specific EIP. So maybe it'll come out next week or something. So maybe you want to skip over this version and just wait for the Berlin hard fork compatible version because you'll need to upgrade, I kind of upgrade that, upgrade to that version if you want to be on, on the Berlin hard fork there. So an update from yam today. They released a new, I guess kind of like feature called Dow House, which is a treasury management solution for daos. Now they're actually using set protocol under the hood here, which I think is really cool because as you know, as you guys know, I'm an advisor to set. I worked there for quite a while.
00:17:56.664 - 00:18:29.016, Speaker A: And I mean, they've basically already kind of like got products on set's infrastructure. They've got like the Yam Dow house, where they're managing yam's treasury through to a set, essentially. And you can actually go on token sets and see this. And you know, they're basically releasing this as a kind of open solution for other dows to tap into it. Basically, you can see here, this is how it kind of looks. The Dow house sits on the top and then the yam Dow is underneath here, and yam Dow House is underneath that. And then, you know, there's other dows that can be on top with the Dow houses under there as well.
00:18:29.016 - 00:18:57.850, Speaker A: So, yeah, really, really cool. I mean, I wrote about kind of like, I guess, governance yesterday in the Daily Gray newsletter, but I didn't talk about treasury management much in there or at all from memory. But I think treasury management for Daos is critically important. You need ways for daos to kind of, I guess, be flexible with their treasury because they have large treasuries. I mean, I've spoken about Uniswap's treasury before. That's massive, right? It's billions of dollars worth, I think. And there's other protocols with big treasuries as well.
00:18:57.850 - 00:19:27.696, Speaker A: Now, you know, a lot of these treasuries are denominated in their own token. So maybe they want to divest out of that token and go buy, you know, some ETH with it or go buy some stable coins and do yield farming and all that sort of stuff. So this is what this kind of solution aims to help with. And, you know, because it's built on set protocols infrastructure, it can do a lot of this stuff natively through set protocol and through it, like, you know, I can, I can kind of vouch for set. Like, it's a very kind of secure protocol. It's been around for a while. You know, the team knows exactly what they're building for here.
00:19:27.696 - 00:20:14.808, Speaker A: And you can actually see here, like all these features are built in as well, you know, into the token sets website where you can do trades, you know, using your kind of like, you know, your dow house, which is essentially like part of, part of all of your treasury, which I think is really, really cool. But yeah, I mean, you know, what's funny about yam is that I think I've been talking about them for a, for a while now on the refuel. And I know a lot of people still think Yam is a joke, right? Because it started as like, it started off pretty random, right? Launched during defy summer. There was like ThAt whole craze about it. Then it, there was a massive bug in it which kind of bugged out the rebalancing, rebasing, sorry feature. And then they disabled the rebasing feature and now they just doing like all these cool products like these Dow house, they've got like umbrella protocol, which is like an insurance protocol. I think they're working on a few other things as well.
00:20:14.808 - 00:20:32.680, Speaker A: So really cool to see them like not capitulate and just become another kind of footnote in, you know, ethereum, defi, summer history. They're actually building things. They're actually doing really cool stuff. And disclosure, I mean, as you guys know, I own yam tokens and I mean, I own them because I'm bullish on the project. I think it's gonna go far. Not investment advice. Right.
00:20:32.680 - 00:21:24.012, Speaker A: I don't know if it's going to go up or down, but, you know, I'm taking the bet that it'll go up over time because of all the stuff that they're kind of building here. And it's funny, I didn't buy yam until they removed the rebasing either, because I didn't want to hold a rebasing token because if you, if you haven't looked at them lately, pretty much all the rebasing algorithmic stable coins, they're just wrecked, right? They're absolutely wrecked because they were all Ponzi games, essentially. So, yeah, I didn't want to hold it then, but now that they removed it, it's fine. And it's just like a normal token and everything like that with governance rights and all that shebang. So yeah, really, really cool to see this out of yam finance today. There's a pretty lengthy blog post, so definitely go read it if you want to learn more about it. So speaking of governance, mstable, another project that I'm advising and an investor in as well, just to disclosure there, they put out a pretty lengthy governance update here.
00:21:24.012 - 00:22:02.238, Speaker A: So I've been kind of like working on them, working with them. Sorry, on this, you know, kind of in the background, not, not too involved, but like, you know, I've been seeing it evolve over the last few months and it's been really cool to watch. They've basically created a whole system where they've got a bunch of different kind of daos, right. There's actually a picture here of how it works down, down here, I think. Yeah. So they've got like an association which is in, is a Swiss not for profit kind of entity, which is basically kind of like separated from the protocol itself. So you can see here in the image is like an ethical wall between the association and M stable Dow and the protocol DAO.
00:22:02.238 - 00:22:56.868, Speaker A: And what the M stable dow is, it is that it's an entity that manages M stables public token treasury. So as I was just saying, this treasury management, which they've kind of separated into a separate DAo here, and then there's a protocol dAO which executes and manages upgrades to the M stable kind of protocol. And there's, there's their multi sigs right? Now. And there's also, you know, MTA token holders can vote on what happens in the protocol, but the execution is actually done by the multisig. And the fun thing is, or like, at least I thought it was pretty cool, is that the signers on the M stable Dao on the protocol DAO are actually different, and there are certain parties that are part of the M stable kind of ecosystem that can't be a signer, for one, you know, Dao or both the daos because of conflict of interest and stuff like that. So you can actually see all the details about this in this blog post. I won't kind of, like, go through it here, but I think Mstable is doing some pretty good pioneering work here on governance.
00:22:56.868 - 00:23:14.476, Speaker A: I mean, I mentioned in the Daily Gray newsletter yesterday that we can't solve governance, right. It's not something to be solved. As humans, we've. We've kind of, like, built up governance systems over thousands of years, and the best system we came up with is democracy. And democracy is great, right. But it has deep flaws. I would like.
00:23:14.476 - 00:23:39.746, Speaker A: I would call democracy, like, the least worst system, right? There's lots. There's of lots of other systems and ways to govern, like, you know, a nation. But democracy is the best we've come up with. It's the, you know, it's pretty much the fairest, most inclusive, and, you know, you know, it represents stakeholder interests relatively well, but also it has its deep flaws, right. Where, you know, it's. It's. It's kind of like with politics in general, not many people kind of pay attention to it.
00:23:39.746 - 00:24:04.636, Speaker A: So people just end up kind of like either not voting or voting for someone that, that is against their best interest because they're just not keeping up with it. Right. I mean, there's so many different. Different issues. But the thing is, is that there are issues because we're all human at the end of the day, right? We all have our own views. We all have our own kind of ways of doing things, and we all believe in different things, and it's very hard for us to agree on everything. So there's never going to be a governance system that is just going to, like, please everyone.
00:24:04.636 - 00:24:21.046, Speaker A: That's. That's impossible. So what. What we do in governance, and not just in kind of crypto, but in general, is that we iterate towards the best solution. And democracy took a long time to come up with. Right. So I think the same thing is going to play out with kind of protocol governance within Defi, where we're going to see lots of experiments play out.
00:24:21.046 - 00:25:02.714, Speaker A: We're going to see lots of iterations of different things play out, and we're going to see what works, right? What doesn't work, what represents people well, what people like being a part of. You know, the power of these things is that the community doesn't have to stick around. It's not like, you know, where you're a citizen of a nation and you kind of like stick around for. Because you're, you know, in meat space and there's lots of different reasons, like your family's there, right? You have citizenship, which, you know, to get citizenship of another country depending on where you are is quite hard. Whereas on chain, you know, even if you're known or you're anonymous, you can just move. Like if you don't want to be part of like M stable anymore or the mstable governance system, you can just sell your MTA tokens and go away, right? That's the kind of exit cost there. Very, very small.
00:25:02.714 - 00:25:49.532, Speaker A: But if you want to, on the flip side, if you want to be part of a protocols governance, all you really have to do is, I mean, you don't have to, but, you know, it's good to, you know, you buy the token, right? And then you go on the forum and you start participating, you're on discord, you start talking to people. It's like giving ideas. You know, if there's a governance proposal that gets posted, you say to them, hey, you know, I think this is a good idea, or how I think this is a bad idea. And you can do this completely anonymously or you can do it under your own name. You can jump on community calls, right? You can kind of speak, speak to the community on there and speak to the developers and all that sort of stuff. Whereas as I said, in real life, it's a lot harder to do this sort of stuff to enter an exit. Like, I can't just say, oh, I'm gonna go become a citizen of, you know, some european country, right? Because, you know, I mean, something that's not in actually something that's not in the EU.
00:25:49.532 - 00:26:17.370, Speaker A: Because I could get EU citizenship if I wanted because I've got a background, my, I've got an italian background, but, you know, say, you know, I wanted to become a citizen of like Switzerland, which isn't in the kind of the EU there, then, you know, I couldn't. Right. It'd be very hard for me to do it. I have to go there, get residency, right, go through the whole process, and it usually takes a long time. I know in Australia, you have to basically live here for five years, and then you can apply to become a citizen. And, you know, that's. That's just.
00:26:17.370 - 00:26:36.628, Speaker A: That's a long time. Right. You have to make a commitment, right. You have to be sure that Australia is where you want to kind of settle down in and that you want to become an australian citizen and that you're not, like, a. A citizen, like, of another country that won't let you become a citizen of Australia. There's all these kind of rules, whereas with crypto governance, there's none of that. You can go in and out whenever you want, which I thought, which I think is really cool.
00:26:36.628 - 00:27:07.770, Speaker A: So, yeah, kudos to mstable here for innovating. I mean, I don't want to show too much, because, as I say, I'm an advisor and investor to them, but I think that they're doing very, really cool pioneering work here, and so are a bunch of other projects. I mean, there's another one that I spoke about yesterday in the Daily Gray newsletter, inverse finance, which actually ended up seizing the tokens of people who weren't voting in governance proposals. And the fun thing is, is that this token isn't tradable yet. It'll be tradable soon. So the only way you could actually get the token is you have to get it from an airdrop. And I got some in the airdrop.
00:27:07.770 - 00:27:48.364, Speaker A: Just disclosure here. And then, you know, if you didn't vote on any of the governance proposals, there was a governance proposal to seize people's assets. And people said, seize people's inv. Tokens? And people said, okay, you know, do that. And then what ended up happening is that there was plenty of warning beforehand, but because people weren't paying attention, their tokens got seized. And then as soon as their tokens got seized, all these people came out of nowhere and came, like, to the discord and started complaining, right? Being like, what the hell? You took my tokens away from me. What is this? Right? So it's just kind of hilarious that these people were essentially freeloaders, right? They were not paying attention to any of the inverse finance channels, because it was posted all over Twitter, all over discord, right? I think the governance kind of forum as well.
00:27:48.364 - 00:28:14.080, Speaker A: Um, but what they were paying attention to was their kind of, like, wallet, right? And kind of like tokens in their wallet. So they were purely speculators that were just waiting for the token to be tradable, right? To be able to kind of either sell it or trade it or do whatever. And that's not what inverse finance kind of wanted to, to optimize for, which I think is pretty cool, right. I don't think that could work at a large scale. Like inverse is a pretty small project. I don't think something like make a governance could get away with doing that. Right.
00:28:14.080 - 00:28:48.724, Speaker A: Could you imagine make a governance basically being like, okay, anyone who doesn't vote in this proposal is going to have their MKR seized. I think at most there's like, I think the biggest vote, maybe 1015 percent of MKR tokens or something like that. So you can imagine all those other tokens being seized. That would be catastrophic. I think a lot of people would, would be upset with about that. And on top of that, there are actually a lot of, I think, big players, especially VC's and funds that own MKR that can't actually use them in governance because they're not allowed to because they've regulated against doing that. So it doesn't always work.
00:28:48.724 - 00:29:10.048, Speaker A: But I think it really works for these smaller, more nimble and innovative kind of like projects that can innovate faster because they don't have that massive kind of like, you know, network effect or anything yet. They don't have like that massive kind of holder base. So that was interesting. But yeah, definitely go give this, this post a read from Mstable. I think it's well worth it. Alright, that's it for today, everyone. Thank you again for listening and watching.
00:29:10.048 - 00:29:17.344, Speaker A: Be sure to give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the YouTube channel, join the Discord channel, subscribe to the newsletter and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
