00:00:16.880 - 00:00:45.848, Speaker A: Hi, everyone. Well, thanks for being here. I know it's the end of a very hot day and I'm very glad the aircon is working now. And if you're here, I really appreciate it. So just short on who am I? I've been around for a while. I founded some stuff, I tried a bunch of stuff, saw some shit. A lot of didn't work, but I've saw a lot of markets and bears and bows.
00:00:45.848 - 00:01:37.080, Speaker A: And one thing I am not is a trader. I never really cared that much about where the market is going up or down or focus on that. And I do think that people might have come for the casino, right? I think it's obvious. People come for because they want to make money. But if they stay around, it's on us, the builders, the people who are building things, the dreamers, people who have a vision. And if everyone went away when the casino stopped, then that's also our fault, right? And we should ask ourselves, did we give them a purpose? Did we give everyone who came a dream? Oh, no, it's cutting down there. But should you give them a purpose? So I work on ENS, specifically doing public goods on ENS.
00:01:37.080 - 00:02:25.416, Speaker A: And why does ENS care about social media and decentralization like this? So ENS became only half accidentally a decentralized profile for apps. If you log in into anytun app, you have your ENS name on the top there. And it's nice because suddenly you don't need to create a new password, you don't need to create set up a new profile. Everything is just there. They recognize you, you have your name, your information is there. We care about the future of social media. And I've done a little experiment back in March in which I just asked around who is building that? Who is building the next Discord or Mayo on crypto? And I've got a lot of interesting answers.
00:02:25.416 - 00:03:08.004, Speaker A: And here's what I found out. There's a team doing Outer Mayo. It allows you to message any tune address and create token gated communities. There's a team called Nftshat, allows you to message any tune based address and allow you to create token gated communities. There's a team called DNS Mail, allows you to send a message to any Chun address. And there's a team called Common Ground, allows you to create token gated communities and message any Ethereum address there's. Block Scan you've seen not on Achille editor Scan allows you to guess what, send a message to any chiron based message there's strike Quiet, a decentralized social media that allows you to send messages there's.
00:03:08.004 - 00:04:10.764, Speaker A: Rspaces allows you it is a decentralized social media, allows you to send messages to I think you get the point, right? Everyone? Those are just the ones I found. Every one of those is a sort of decentralized social media that allows you to send messages to anyone with an Ethereum address and create token gated communities. Right? The rest of my talk will be sort of like why are we doing that? Why are you not doing that together? Because those teams are not like small. Those are just the teams I found that had a website or many other builders have told me that, oh, they want to be building that. And what all of these had in common, they want to build decentralized social networks. Many of them have like solitims million dollar fundings and you probably never heard of them unless you are working on one of them and they don't talk to each other. And I think that's the crazy thing.
00:04:10.764 - 00:04:56.510, Speaker A: If you create you can message anyone on Nifty chat, but you're not going to receive that message if you're using ensma or hash chat. Which actually I just found out about in this room like earlier today. So we have over 30 apps all trying to do the same thing, decentralized messaging, but none of them talk to each other. And I think that's just wrong because a data silo, one of the reasons they do that is that that is sort of how the old web works. And the data silo is sort of a user mode, right? You want to create a mode, you want to protect your users. But most are for media vocastos driving cities. They don't have modes, they have gates, they have highways, they have train stations where you can come in and out.
00:04:56.510 - 00:05:50.696, Speaker A: What would happen if one of those silos ecosystem won? If let's say Nifty Shed won, then they would be the new silos because they are not sharing their data anywhere. And why would they? They are the one winning the game. But likely they won't because the silo is discord. The silo is Twitter. They are not sharing data with why, right? And it sort of becomes an incentive problem because if everyone is building modes, if you're the only one who's building a bridge, then your competitors will use that to steal your users. But if everyone is building bridges and you are the only one just trying to build a mode, then people look at that and say I don't want to use your app, I want to be on the other side. And then they studio users.
00:05:50.696 - 00:06:56.592, Speaker A: So what we want to try is the classic prisoners dilemma, where we want to be here, we want to be where everyone wins, but everyone is building on the direction where is a winner takes all, where there's a single guy that's going to take over everything until the next guy takes over everything. So how do we solve that problem? And of course there's a standards problem because every one of those apps, they are trying to build their own Shed standard and they just hope that everyone adopts their other one, right? And they're like, yeah, I mean the others one suck, they should just use mine. And then you have another standard. So how do you solve that problem? How do you make everyone talk together without just creating more and more standards? That just proliferate. So I think what we should do is not what ENS wants to do is not a new standard. What we want to do is a bounty for finding a common minimal denominator, right? You have your app, there are features. You have your app, there are features.
00:06:56.592 - 00:07:37.100, Speaker A: But there's something that all of you have in common together. So ENS is offering a prize money for the first three social media apps that interoperate messages. Meaning I write a message on my app, it can reach your app, your app, or that app as if it was a native app. So we are starting right now with 60K from multiple sources and we are looking for price partners to increase that. And we are looking, of course, for people to apply that and try to figure out what it is. But here's the thing. It doesn't really need to be complicated.
00:07:37.100 - 00:08:05.848, Speaker A: It doesn't even need a blockchain. It just needs crypto. But really it just needs cryptography. It doesn't need a token. All you need is sign messages. And I'm sort of looking at Lens protocol right now because it's a very cool protocol, but it's also super complex, allows you to mint your NFT, your profile as an NFT where other people can collect and other people can post. Which is cool for some apps and won't matters for others.
00:08:05.848 - 00:08:38.052, Speaker A: Right? So I think we can find something that is even simpler, that is also on the land. Right? I'm not saying again, it's not a new standard. It's just whatever we can. And I think the minimum requirements we should be using is our data must be self validating. I love this idea of self validating. It came from Blue Sky, which is a Twitter project trying to do open source social media. If you send me a Twitter post, the only way that I can check if it's a real Twitter post, I have to see if it's on the Twitter.com
00:08:38.052 - 00:08:56.308, Speaker A: website. If it's not, it's not real. If you send me an Ethereum transaction, I don't need to check the Ethereum Foundation website. I don't need to check Etherscan. I can check on the transaction itself if it's a valid transaction or not. Right. So it means that text content should be signed.
00:08:56.308 - 00:09:44.792, Speaker A: If it's an image content, then you just take the hash, sign the hash so I have this image, I can check if the hash matches. Right. And all data should be querable. Right. We cannot win this by having everyone have different silos where I have my own messages, you have your own messages and et cetera. What we need is that everyone has a feed of messages that they own that not necessarily belong to them. That probably does remind you, if you've been around a while, that will probably remind you of the blog era where everyone had their website and then they had a feed and public open feed where you can catch content.
00:09:44.792 - 00:10:53.708, Speaker A: The difference here is, and that's why self validating data is so important, if your on your feed, on your blog, you can only put content that you offer on your blog because that data is not self validated. But if you sign messages, then Alice over there can share their posts with Bob and Bob can collect from Alice and then from Brian. And then he will have on his blog a feed for messages from other people which can share with Adam that will give that to, I don't know, Amanda, and then that she will be collecting on her feed a bunch of messages that are signed that they know that came from these people. And she doesn't need to be checking all those feeds. Maybe she just needs to check two sources and maybe like that pink guy over there is just receiving a bot and he's the one working as a future. Right? So those are the two minimum requirements, get the data to be signed so everything is self validated and all data must be openly quarable in some sort of feed. It could be as simple as an airs feed of signed messages.
00:10:53.708 - 00:11:49.548, Speaker A: Things that are not even in the scope. There's no obligation to use any specific blockchain, there's no need to use PWP Torrent IPFS or having a key managed. That depends on your app, right? Even like which content you keep, which content do you filter? That's up to each app. What we only want is just to have all those social media apps talk to each other and have a quarable feed of sign messages. So here's how to profit if you are building a decentralized social media app that allows you to connect to any other ETR address and to create a token gated communities, just get two other apps, talk to them, share data and you split the price. Easy money, right? And social media is not one website. You think about social media, think about Twitter and Facebook and et cetera.
00:11:49.548 - 00:12:39.504, Speaker A: It's our lives. It's where most of our friends are. It's where people get married, they find life partners, they gator, they create, their content is there. That's our life. It cannot be decided by a couple people living in that circle, right? Almost everything about our lives, even design decisions on how does something looks or doesn't look, is basically decided by someone living and working inside that red circle. And I grew up on history books, on very serious history books. And that's how you learn that Paris used to be like Lutetia and old Roman Town, but Paris is still around, the Roman Empire is gone.
00:12:39.504 - 00:13:20.840, Speaker A: And then how many empires have gone through what we call now with France? Right? And I think communities need to outlive the empires that founded them. This is so important. Often on the internet we've seen that where there is a community that is created by a corporation. That corporation goes bankrupt. So does the community. Everyone dies with it. Can you imagine what would happen with cities if when the empire fell and then the Roman Empire, and then how many revolutions, but the cities stay there because the tech here is all open source.
00:13:20.840 - 00:13:53.350, Speaker A: And that's how we get cities to live for a thousand years. And that's how we are going to get our social media and our digital cities to live for thousands of years. So we want to help the prize. You want to apply for the bounty? Contact me at this Twitter and this address. And also, like, one last thing on ENS we just launched also at Ensgrants XYZ, where you can apply for a quick self serving grant of one eater for each project. So that's it. Thank you for coming for my talk.
00:13:58.240 - 00:13:59.230, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:13:59.760 - 00:14:01.550, Speaker A: I think we have time for questions.
00:14:02.320 - 00:14:12.852, Speaker B: Yeah. Do you have any questions? No. Okay, so thank you very much.
00:14:12.986 - 00:14:14.070, Speaker A: I'll be outside.
