00:00:05.370 - 00:00:24.030, Speaker A: The next talk is going to be about covering the future of Ave Grant style. So we have Shreyas, who is going to be talking about all the things that are happening in the Ave Grants ecosystem and how everything is set up. So without further ado, let's welcome Shreyas.
00:00:31.290 - 00:00:33.926, Speaker B: Hey, everyone. Can everyone hear me?
00:00:33.948 - 00:00:35.800, Speaker A: Well, everything is great.
00:00:36.170 - 00:00:42.042, Speaker B: Great. I'm just going to share my screen. Let me know if you can see this.
00:00:42.176 - 00:00:43.180, Speaker A: We're all set.
00:00:44.110 - 00:01:38.410, Speaker B: Awesome. So, yeah, really excited to be here. I think I started my full time crypto journey, actually with an ETH global hackathon building something on Llama. So it's really cool to come back and speak here. And I think we've seen this with Ave grants too, but there's an amazing influx of developers and talent here, and it's a really amazing onboarding experience for someone into web3 stoked to be here. I'm the program lead for Ave Grant Style, and I also am the founder of Llama, which helps DAOs and DeFi protocols manage their treasury. So one thing I thought would be interesting to start with is something that influenced my thinking of crypto protocols and ecosystems.
00:01:38.410 - 00:03:18.230, Speaker B: And this was a post by Lakshman Shankar from the Ethereum Foundation where he compared crypto ecosystems to natural ecosystems. And he was talking about how biodiversity is just as important in crypto ecosystems as it is in natural ecosystems, and that the reason why Ethereum as an ecosystem is kept alive is because of this constant influx of new developers and builders in this platform. When that dies, and when the sort of genetic variation of the Ethereum ecosystem is stopped, ethereum will die. And I think of other protocols similarly, where ecosystem development is sort of at the heart of really what makes a protocol in the community thrive. And ecosystem development includes sort of this community that's building the protocol and all these other integrations and support and culture and a bunch of other things around the protocol. So that's influenced, I think, how I've thought about the mission at Ave grants and how we approach it, which is building this thriving ecosystem of contributors building on Ave. And we are a team of nine reviewers plus two to three other folks on staff, and we basically provide projects, grants to projects and ideas and community events that benefit the RV ecosystem.
00:03:18.230 - 00:04:25.060, Speaker B: And we're quite open minded to what that could be. We have a list of RFPs on our site, but we're very open to people coming up with creative ways that they can have benefit the avi ecosystem and the broader sort of crypto ecosystem, because anything built on Ave is open source and can really push the development of the space in general. So, summary of the program we launched in May 2021 and it got overwhelming community support. I was on the other panel. It's quite clear that grants programs are really a critical piece of what to do with the Dow, especially after a certain size. And it's probably one of the most obvious use cases of what to spend treasury money on when you have hundreds of millions of Dollars in assets you want to spend on some way to grow and maintain the protocol and build this ecosystem. If contributors doing that.
00:04:25.060 - 00:06:04.462, Speaker B: So the plan is to have a pilot program of two quarters that ends in on November 10, 2021. The budget that Governance has given us is a million dollars a quarter, and the hope is to expand that budget after we go back to Governance. With the work we've done so far, I think with the projects we're funded, there's definitely a case for a larger budget, especially if we need to support, I think, some of the events and some of the sort of sponsorship type work, which right now is being done by the Ave company. So, yeah, look forward to that over the next few months. Our group right now is nine reviewers, two staff members, one bill, who's interesting that he actually posted threads when I did the initial community calls. He would post threads on these community calls and really useful threads on what happened in the community call in a summary of key activities in Aave. And so I just reached out to him saying if he'd be interested in being a sort of content lead and a terrific job in terms of having an Ave GrandStar newsletter and sort of growing the Twitter community engagement beyond just what we had originally to actually hosting community calls and Twitter spaces with Grantees and things like that.
00:06:04.462 - 00:07:00.562, Speaker B: And then we also have Neil Schraff, who works on grant ops and ways to actually make the process much more efficient in terms of the review speed as well as the support to grantees after. And then we have Laura, who's helped with the design of the Pops. We redesigned the logo because we wanted a different branding from Ave, but something that was related. And so we actually used this theme of ecosystem development to come up with that. And yeah, she's done a great job with that stuff. So the progress so far is about 37 grants, so it's 29 until yesterday, where we just approved a set of eight more that should come out soon, and a little over $1 million worth of grant awards. All this has not been distributed yet because these grants come in are milestone based.
00:07:00.562 - 00:07:58.534, Speaker B: And so it's usually an initial upfront payment and then a payment after a completion of one or two milestones. If it's a really small grant, say below $5,000, in some cases we just make the payment upfront. But if it's a grant, say anything from 20 to 50 60K, which is common, it's usually multiple milestones. And if it's a larger grant, we have few over $80,000, then it's typically over three payments, an initial payment, one milestone, and then the final payment. And we've typically awarded grants below one hundred k. And so anything between 105 hundred k, we can technically approve according to our initial sort of governance proposal. But we'd like to get community sentiment on whether we should approve it or not.
00:07:58.534 - 00:08:50.690, Speaker B: And so we'll put up a snapshot vote get community sentiment. We actually did this for the DFI app. There was this mobile app that was going to be open sourced and built on the Ave repo. We went to the community and asked basically if it makes sense funding this. I think it was about a $98,000 grant, and the community overwhelmingly supported this, so we went ahead with it. The idea is to pretty much support any projects that really benefit the RV ecosystem. The focus is on things that are realistic, are possible to actually do, and can show some positive outcome for either Ave users or Ave governance or just like processes for the Dow.
00:08:50.690 - 00:10:06.590, Speaker B: So yeah, here are just a few examples of projects that have actually shipped and launched and done well. On the left side you have Flipside Crypto which has built some cool analytics. They have this community enabled analytics system that I think has really helped with improving the data accessibility for things that happen on Aave, we have Symphony Finance that provides yield on limit orders and uses Aave to do that. Rabbit Hole had some cool tasks, rewards for completion of tasks. Actually on Polygon, I think it was completed within a few hours or something like that. And so it was cool to see the demand for something like that. On the right side, we have Gelato Network that basically built a really neat solution to prevent Avi users from getting to these really costly liquidations, where they'd have something unique on the smart contract side to adjust the positions to prevent those liquidations, which a huge value add for Ave users.
00:10:06.590 - 00:11:05.300, Speaker B: These are a few examples. One of the things that we've been doing besides just the grant amount is actually supporting projects beyond just the dollar amount. So in some cases, if a project needs an auditor, we'll have them connect them to someone. We definitely provide sort of marketing support in terms of featuring them in the newsletter and on Twitter and on the governance forums. If they need an integration with the Aave protocol, we'll make an intro to some from the Genesis team as long as they have time and making sure that we can prioritize a review of something or an integration wherever possible. And we're trying to grow that more. I think there's much more we can do, and we'd love to build some systems in place to just make that process really efficient and just take these projects to the next level.
00:11:05.300 - 00:12:33.150, Speaker B: One other example of that is actually we funded DeFi Alliance to actually continue their accelerator program for two projects from the Avi ecosystems. And it would be really cool to take some projects that have come out of the grants program, especially at a nascent stage to the next level with additional support and funding if needed, or specific sort of expertise step support. And the feedback has been overwhelmingly positive from the grantees. Most of them have been quite happy with, of course, the amount, but also just the support in terms of the receptiveness of the grants group to the things they need and have they need. It's great to see that. I think there's a lot more we can do and a lot more we can set up to just make sure that the projects that we fund actually not just execute but also achieve much more than they initially set out, even if that doesn't mean something. That the initial scope of what was laid out with the grant, but just like build this group of people that will continue to return to Ave in some way, even if they temporarily don't.
00:12:33.150 - 00:14:26.162, Speaker B: The idea as we get into I'll go here first, we enter the future of Aave grants. The way I think about it is we really want the current set of grantees to eventually have a say in the approval of these future grants and that's how we build this grant staO which is through the set of contributors. So if we right now have nine people reviewing grants, we're setting up the processes right so that eventually it can actually scale to many more people having some sort of say on what grants get approved, ideally based on expertise and reputation. So for example, if there's a group we funded for sort of a risk management type thing and we get a bunch of grant proposals on risk related projects, then it'd be cool for them to approve it. It'd be cool to have some sort of reputation weighted scoring for something like this and slowly build out the membership of the Grant staO and almost like think of it as the people who have a reputation in the ave ecosystem, which is people who have built for Aave will have some rights over treasury spending power, which is kind of different from maybe the typical token holder vote, which will be dominated by investors who hold a lot of tokens or the core teams. In this case, you could actually move to a case where treasury spending power is allocated more to people who are actually contributing and building and have a reputation in the protocol, which might be a different set of people it might overlap. And so that's how I'd think about it.
00:14:26.162 - 00:15:34.770, Speaker B: I'd say that we want to build this group that will expand it's right now, 37 projects. But it will expand to 50 to hundreds of projects and have some way that these folks can benefit from each other can. Support and vet the new set of grants and build this cool sort of network that continues to help ave and benefits themselves in terms of sort of their career crypto experience just a little bit on some of the content work that we've done. We've published 15 issues of this newsletter and it's actually a really cool way, I would say. If you don't know anything about Ave, or even if you do, I still find it useful that I'm quite involved with Aave to just get a sense of what's happening in the community. And Aave actually does a lot, which is something I love. It has a strong culture of bottom up experimentation.
00:15:34.770 - 00:16:42.390, Speaker B: There's of course, the core lending protocol, but there's so many other things happening in the Avi ecosystem like Avi Arc or the decentralized social network that's in the works, or sort of Aave deployment on Avalanche or other chains. And I think Avi News is a cool way to track that. And Israel writes in quite an easy to access funding way. That's a cool way to, I think, start off just knowing what's happening in the RV system and we also give an overview of what's happening with the grants and the grants that we've funded so far. The community calls happen once a month and we do this on Twitter Spaces. We've found that actually to be quite useful because it gets a higher degree of participation and it's cool at the end. To answer some questions, we typically have an initial intro and then I'll give an overview of some things that have happened in the grand style.
00:16:42.390 - 00:17:36.062, Speaker B: Sani will chime in with Jenny. What's happening at Aave protocol. We'll have Emilio or someone else from the Dev team give a Dev update and then we'll just get into the community. And so this could be proposals that have come out from contributors from the community. So this could be like a liquidity mining proposal or a proposal for Aave to deploy in another chain. We might include sort of say like one of the folks from the Arbitrum team or Avalanche to chat about why Ave should deploy there. And then we feature a bunch of grantees who have gotten funding or are still in the iteration phase and just learn more about what they're building and get questions from the community.
00:17:36.062 - 00:18:33.040, Speaker B: And so I think the community calls are usually always quite energizing and give a good sense of what's happening with Abe. And we've also started these AMAs with grantees and with other community members where this is separate from the main community call but it's just getting a deeper dive into who the people are in the ave ecosystem and how we can actually get to know them better and just, again, form connections between different people in the ecosystem so that they can actually help each other and take what they're doing to the next level. Great. This is kind of all I had. This is sort of a summary of some of the projects we're funded, but I'll stop there and happy to take any questions if there are any. If not, we can sort of move on.
00:18:34.690 - 00:19:06.060, Speaker A: This was awesome. There's a couple of questions around just sort of your learnings from the past few months. So I think you kind of talked about the new plan, but maybe it'll be good to dig into sort of what you did to come up with this new plan. How did you go about getting feedback from all the other grant programs out there? What did you learn in terms of how things were set up for everybody else and some of the lessons learned? And could you just walk us through some of that decision making process and how you think changes you've adopted are going to help address some of those existing issues?
00:19:06.670 - 00:20:28.790, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. I think in terms of the next evolution of grants, it's still definitely in the works and I would say it's still a work in progress. But I've spoken a bunch with Ken from Uni grants as well as Larry from Compound, and they've been great in terms of sharing their lessons learned. And I think there's a lot of similarities between our grants programs and some differences, I think just based on the way that Ave operates. And so I think the way I've gone about is thinking through talking to projects and seeing what's actually helped them and what's not and things that they sort of value and appreciate and ways that that can be improved. And so one of those things is definitely like the post grant support in terms of helping projects with doing things like getting auditors or getting connected with the Avi Genesis team when needed or just someone. Some of these are really young teams and have no sort of social capital in the ecosystem and so just bridging that gap where we can.
00:20:28.790 - 00:21:51.550, Speaker B: And right now it's been sort of done ready person one on one type basis. But I think there's definitely scope to systematize that and make sure that we actually actively reach out to projects even before they do with asking them for the help they need. And then I think the next evolution is going to be a process and it might take some time, but slowly I think giving some of the existing grantees who are interested in doing it more of a say in what's happening with Avi grants, I think that's really crucial just to make sure that they're still involved. These are folks who have clearly signaled that they want to do something for the RV ecosystem and a bunch of them have, and they've successfully completed something. And so we don't want them to go away, we want them to continue to do that and there's some way we can incentivize them to stay in the ecosystem and continue to support. I think that would be great. Of course, first with their projects and with maintaining what they built or having a way that they can transition it to other groups who can do the maintenance.
00:21:51.550 - 00:22:24.826, Speaker B: It's of course helpful that all this is open source, so that makes it a little easier. But there are cases, of course, where a project's built and then something goes stale after a few months because the original team sort of isn't there. But yeah, the goal is to make sure that these projects continue to engage with Ave after the initial grant and I think having them have a say in the future grantees is one really cool way to do that.
00:22:25.008 - 00:22:51.140, Speaker A: No, that sounds really awesome. I think one thing you touched on, and this is kind of one of the very kind of common themes is post grant support and you already kind of brought it up. What are some of the challenges here? And sort of obviously as you're giving out grants more actively, it can kind of go from ten teams to 100 very fast. How do you think about structuring the grants program or even the staff to actually position everybody to get the help?
00:22:51.670 - 00:23:57.974, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a good question. I think one of them is marketing and just ways like I said, some of these projects, they might be an enon project or someone with very little social capital and they might build something really cool, but they actually need users and they need the RV community to be aware that they've built this. And so we really try to make sure we push that. So we'll invite them to the community call. We'll definitely share on Twitter, both in terms of the grand style Khan as well as personally, all of us. And then when they launch, we'll try to make a governance forum post, we'll try to make intros where, you know, I've introred a bunch of teams to other protocols where needed. And so yeah, it's sort of personal help, but I would say just helping use some of the social capital that we have to make sure that really interesting projects get the attention they deserve.
00:23:57.974 - 00:25:22.034, Speaker B: And what's great about the crypto ecosystem is that everyone's really receptive to this and it's definitely like early enough days where everyone's down to sort of try out, actually take a chance on someone relatively new. So I'd say marketing is one. The other ones I would say are more like they sort of differ by projects. Like few projects have asked for help with getting auditors. I think, you know, few projects have asked just for technical, sort of smart contract architecture type review and having someone getting connected to someone who can do that. A lot of times it is, I would say getting connected to XYZ person either from the Ave Genesis team or from outside and helping them with that. There's more we can do and I think it would be good to come up with one survey grant members, but also just come up with, hey, these are actually three to four things we should just do as a default for all projects and then there's something additional we can explore it case by case.
00:25:22.152 - 00:25:36.360, Speaker A: No, that makes a lot of sense and I guess does that mean this is how the RFPs are set up for Ave grants? Who comes up with what is important or should be funded or we want to work on and what's kind of the process of prioritizing or getting something on that list.
00:25:36.730 - 00:26:32.166, Speaker B: Yeah, so we've sourced our list from one, the sort of AVIC community, basically the governance forum and things that come up in the Telegram group. And so we sort of source it from there, we source it from the Ave team. There's a bunch of things that they might want to build that they don't have time to build. We'd love the community to engage with building that. And as we speak to a bunch of these projects, there are ideas that come up that we have that might sort of direct, that might just help an existing sort of integration or something like that. And we will put that up. But I'd say that the top ones right now listed are a governance front end on Ave that's open sourced and built in the Aave repo.
00:26:32.166 - 00:27:13.960, Speaker B: That's something that's high priority that we're looking for basically a simpler UI for anyone right now. If you're technical, it's relatively easy. If you're not technical, it's not straightforward to actually make a governance proposal and so make it easier to do that. The second one is like a developers Dow that we're hoping to wrap up soonish, but actually have a team of developers work directly for Aave protocol that work on some of the core development, but also some of the work like reviewing governance proposals or things like that.
00:27:15.370 - 00:27:35.198, Speaker A: From what the Dow is, the developer Dow is super interesting actually. So how do you kind of set something like that up and sort of how do you in a way, if you were to look at as like a chart yeah. I hate to say the word chart, but if you look at it that way, what is sort of like the set up here of who responsible, what, and which organization manages what.
00:27:35.364 - 00:28:18.186, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a good question. I don't think we have it figured out. But the idea is to there will be a team lead and maybe five to six other people. So the team lead I think will work full time. Five to six other people will work part time. I think in the beginning Avi grantsta should have pretty much corbin from our team has been leading the process and either him or someone else should have some type of monitoring of what's happening with the developers. Dao and of course the developers know should be quite transparent with the work they're doing with the Ave community.
00:28:18.186 - 00:29:46.598, Speaker B: So I'd say some of these structures, they start off maybe with especially when they're seeded by the Grant staO, where they I'm not going to say, like sort of hierarchical, but more that we at least take some ownership. Over monitoring what's happening and making sure that if there's a bunch of funds in the multi SIG besides having something like Tallyguard, we also have some human monitoring of what's happening and make sure there's reporting to the governance forum and things like that. But I think eventually the pathway is you have these subdos that come out of Ave grant staff, but eventually if they're successful, they just get directly funded from the treasury and report to Ave Dao. There's a mechanism to do that and maybe you see dozens of these DAOs that can actually coordinate on some level, that can function independently to some degree, but yeah, are able to report to Governance and continue that way. But yeah, I think the structure of this is still TBD in terms of what works. I think we need to experiment with it, especially with the larger projects. There hasn't been too much of this and so it's cool for us to pioneer something like this, but there'll be some mistakes along the way and we can change the exact structuring of this as we go.
00:29:46.764 - 00:30:32.838, Speaker A: Absolutely. And I think this is going to be a recurring theme in most of our talks here today, which is it is a pretty massive experiment we're doing at scale and so much we're trying to figure out as we kind of go through it too. So we'll take some time. But given that this came out in May of this year and it feels like forever and you've already given close to a million dollars in grants, it's just incredible that we've made so much progress already. I want to also give a special shout out to Bill on the Chat, who's been really been incredible at answering all these questions. And for those of you who are interested in learning more, especially about what's happening in the Ave ecosystem, be sure to subscribe to Avenues Substacks.com because that does cover all the great things that are happening.
00:30:32.838 - 00:30:58.542, Speaker A: And I know we're getting I do want to ask a handful of other questions, but I feel like it'll probably take away from another talk that you have in about an hour, which is on how do you actually successfully receive a grant from the Ave Dow Committee. So we'll save some of those questions for that. In the meantime, I want to thank Shreyas for that amazing overview and we'll move on to our next talk. So thanks Shreyas, and we'll see you soon.
00:30:58.676 - 00:30:59.610, Speaker B: Yeah. Thanks, Kanti.
