00:00:06.730 - 00:01:14.970, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap biden's executive order leaves regulators with tons of homework. On Wednesday, President Biden signed the much anticipated Executive Order on Ensuring Responsible Development of Digital Assets. The document requests preliminary research and policy proposals from various government agencies on digital assets, defined as CBDCs, cryptocurrencies and stablecoins by the Executive Order. The White House described the Executive Order as the first ever whole of government approach to addressing the risks and harnessing the potential benefits of digital assets and their underlying technology. The Attorney General, Secretary of State, Secretary of the treasury, the Secretaries of Labor, Commerce, Energy and Homeland Security appear to be spearheading the research, along with directors, administrators and chairs of various other agencies. Financial regulators like the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, securities and Exchange Commission, federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Office of the Controller of the Currency will also add commentary.
00:01:14.970 - 00:02:11.970, Speaker A: Topics expected to be covered include CBDC technology, which the Biden Administration says it is considering with the highest urgency, along with the environmental impact of digital ledger technology and the potential money laundering and illicit finance risks associated with digital assets. Coinscender's. Executive Director Jerry Brito felt the executive order struck a good tone. He tweeted, the message I take from this EO is that the federal government sees cryptocurrency as a legitimate, serious and important part of the economy and society. The Blockchain Association's Jake Shavinsky agreed with Brito anyone worried that President Biden's Executive Order would spell doom and gloom for crypto can fully relax now. The main concern was that the EO might force rushed rulemaking or impose new and bad restrictions, but there's nothing like that here. It's about as good as we could ask based on crypto price movements.
00:02:11.970 - 00:02:57.206, Speaker A: The market reaction to the order was also positive, with the total market capitalization of cryptocurrencies rising 6.2% on Wednesday from Tuesday. On a related note, the US. Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the Consumer Price Index, a tool gauging inflation, rose 7.9% over the past twelve months. Ukraine is using its crypto dollars to buy nonlethal military equipment. Data from blockchain analysis firm Elliptic shows the government of Ukraine has received nearly $63 million in crypto donations to Ukraine's blockchain addresses and the NGO Come Back Alive, which includes a $1 million gift in ETH from the Board Ape Yacht Club NFT collection this week.
00:02:57.206 - 00:04:34.820, Speaker A: A report from CoinDesk, which cites Ukraine Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Digital Transformation, Alex Bornayakov, estimates the number is closer to $100 million when factoring in money sent from other small funds. It appears donations will not stop at $100 million because on Wednesday, Cryptocurrency exchange Kraken announced a $10 million package for Ukrainians that will see $1,000 in bitcoin dropped to any account based in Ukraine created before March 9. Additionally, Kraken will donate an amount equivalent to the total trading fees paid by Russian clients in the first half of 2022 in a later package to Ukraine. According to CoinDesk, the funds are being used for fuel, food and other nonlethal supplies such as bulletproof vests, with the suppliers directly accepting Bitcoin and ETH and Ukraine holding the funds in a multi SIG wallet with five potential signers. It is easier, not complicated, transparent and faster in comparison to a swift transaction, which could take more than a day, explained Deputy Minister Alex Bornikov to CoinDesk on paying with crypto. In related news, Coinbase, the second largest cryptocurrency exchange in the world, announced on Monday that it had blocked 25,000 addresses related to Russian individuals or entities and believes to be engaging in illicit activity. Coinbase said that many of the addresses were identified prior to Russia's invasion of Ukraine and that the exchange has not seen a surge in sanctions evasion activity in recent days.
00:04:34.820 - 00:05:12.458, Speaker A: Coinbase reported that it has also shared its internal block list with the government to further support sanctions enforcement. This payment giant now supports crypto businesses. Stripe launched crypto support on Thursday for exchanges, wallet providers and NFT Marketplaces. As part of its crypto toolkit, Stripe is facilitating ID verification, fraud prevention and fiat on ramps and off ramps. FTX and FTX US have already partnered with Stripe to improve their KYC processes. The DeFi Godfather rage quit. For real this time.
00:05:12.458 - 00:06:00.110, Speaker A: Andre Cronia, known as the Godfather of DeFi is leaving the crypto industry. Antonell, a business partner of Andre's who played a prominent role in Phantom's success, wrote Sunday morning, Andre and I have decided that we are closing the chapter of contributing to the DFI crypto space. Crony's departure is not exactly surprising. His LinkedIn was updated last week to show jobs at Phantom Foundation crypto briefing, Urine Finance and DFI architect ending in February of 2022. His Twitter account was also recently deleted. Additionally, his relationship with the crypto industry has been exceptionally rocky. Andre has been threatening to quit for almost two years and once published a two part blog post titled Building in DeFi Sucks.
00:06:00.110 - 00:06:37.750, Speaker A: It appears Cronia is leaving for good this time. Nell wrote. Unlike previous building in DeFi Sucks Rage quits. This is not a knee jerk reaction to the hate received from releasing a project, but a decision that has been coming for a while now. Thank you to everyone that has supported us over the past few years. According to Nell, Cronia's departure will mark the end of support for 25 apps and services, such as Andre's personal front end for Urine Finance. However, any smart contracts deployed by Cronia, such as Urine Finance and Solidly will continue to run on Ethereum and Phantom, respectively.
00:06:37.750 - 00:07:28.458, Speaker A: Kronia associated tokens such as Solid, IB and KP three R each saw substantial dips in prices. On the News Urine Finance Prowley Cronia's most successful in influential innovations, dropped more than 10% after Nell's tweets. However, as pointed out by Banteg and a nondev on Urine Finance, Andre has not been active in building urine for some time. People burying YFI you do realize andre hasn't worked on it for over a year, and even if he did, there are 50 full time people and 140 part time contributors to back things up. That being said, as covered on the chopping block, Compound Labs CEO Robert Leshner still thinks Entree's departure is a rug pull due to the billions in wealth Cronia created for himself. US. Regulators had a busy week.
00:07:28.458 - 00:08:09.754, Speaker A: It was a tough week for Ponzi schemes, fraudsters and the third BitMEX founder. First. On Tuesday, the CFTC brought charges against four men for their alleged role in operating a Ponzi scheme. Separately, three of them were indicted on criminal charges of wire fraud and money laundering in New York by the Justice Department. According to a filing from the CFTC, the men allegedly ran two Ponzi schemes that promised users daily interest between two to 5%. Ecoin plus brought in over $23 million in Bitcoin from investors, of which the alleged business partners kept $10 million for themselves. They also started a project called Jetcoin, which took in $21.7
00:08:09.754 - 00:09:19.710, Speaker A: million in Bitcoin, of which the men kept 36%. Two, the SEC went after an even larger project alleging that John and John atina Barksdale defrauded investors out of $124,000,000 through their token Armia's Coin by giving buyers false information about the project. We allege that the Barksdales acted as modern day snake oil salesmen, using social media, promotional websites and in person roadshows to mislead retail investors for their own personal benefit, Melissa Hodgman, associate director in the SEC's Division of Enforcement, wrote in a statement. Third, following the recent guilty pleas of Arthur Hayes and Benjamin Dello, the third founder of BitMEX, Samuel Reed, pleaded guilty to violating US antimoney laundering rules on Wednesday. Reed will pay a $10 million fine and faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison. As today's guilty plea reflects, the office will not permit cryptocurrency exchanges to operate as a shadow financial system that enables criminal actors to move their illicit proceeds without detection, declared US. Attorney Damien Williams in a statement.
00:09:19.710 - 00:10:40.060, Speaker A: Bain Capital jumps on the crypto Bandwagon this week, Bain Capital, an investment firm with approximately $155,000,000 in assets under management, announced its first crypto based fund, Bain Capital Crypto. The fund will utilize $560,000,000 to support the renegades and pioneers building the next generation of the Internet, according to partner Stefan Cohen. In a conversation with the block, Cohen revealed that the crypto unit had been in the works for about a year and that it planned to get its hands dirty on chain a little more than a year ago. We set out to design a founder oriented fund to help them through inception to growth, Cohen explained, advising on key economics, interacting with on chain governance, providing liquidity and staking. Bain's arrival to crypto comes when funding is exploding, with Sequoia, Pantera Electric Capital and FTX all announcing 100 million dollar plus funds in 2022. It was, however, not a completely smooth arrival, as the team was memed for its all male composition and the fact that its announcement occurred on International Women's Day. Cohen later proclaimed that Bain is committed to hiring women, investing in women led projects, and being a driving force in the industry for sponsoring the creativity and genius of women non binary people and people of color.
00:10:40.060 - 00:11:26.198, Speaker A: Time for fun bits. Bianca de Medici is Crypto Influencer bianca de Medici revealed her true identity this week to be the pop singer SIA, who is one of my favorite artists. She doxed herself on both her own and Bianca's account and wrote the following dear friends, thank you for being so cool and letting me into your world. I got into BTC in 2016, picked up some altcoins in 17, but was never much of a speculator. I became a fan of Vitalik Buterin and his particular genius. But it wasn't until I saw the birth of Punks Kitties and the wave of art that followed that I truly fell in love. And I mean down the rabbit hole, total Djen, multiple wallets, JPEG addicts kind of love.
00:11:26.198 - 00:11:51.550, Speaker A: At the core, I'm an artist and appreciate any medium that allows people to express who they are inside. I hope that you'll allow me to keep supporting this ecosystem, sharing and creating things that can help move the genre forward. I love you all. See ya. And SIA, if you're listening, I love you and there's an open invitation for you to come on Unchained anytime. All right, that's it. Thanks so much for joining us today.
00:11:51.550 - 00:12:07.010, Speaker A: To learn more about Chris Harlan Dunaway and his article for The Verge as well as Justin's Son, be sure to check out the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by me. Laura Shin Pueblo from Anthony Yoon daniel Ness mark Murdoch shashank and LK Transcription thanks for listening.
