00:00:00.400 - 00:00:28.954, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily GUi refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sosano, and today's the 8 September 2021. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So, bit of a kind of market turmoil overnight. Over the last kind of like 24 hours, we had a bit of a sell off. ETH went from, I think, about 3800 or 3900 to 3000 and just below 3000 on some exchanges. It seemed to have been a mass deleveraging event because there was just too much leverage in the system.
00:00:28.954 - 00:00:54.998, Speaker A: There was just a massive sell of, massive liquidations. Um, and kind of, I think the liquidations were, I think, as big as what the May crash that we saw, or maybe almost as big. So, yeah, it was. It was very similar. I kind of felt similar. I was sitting here at my computer watching it kind of like, fall, and I was like, wow, okay, this is starting to feel like what it felt like in May, and then it went to three k, and it bounced pretty strongly off that, and I was like, okay, well, you know, that that should be the bottom now. And it was, and, oh, well, I mean, it is for now.
00:00:54.998 - 00:01:26.656, Speaker A: Let's not kind of, like, say it's going to be the bottom, you know, going forward. I don't know what's going to happen going forward, but I don't really have any concerns about this. I don't feel. I like a pit in my stomach. I'm not really upset over this at all. Like, I bought more Ethan around 3200, I think I bought, which was nice, but generally, yeah, I mean, this was just like. I mean, it was a little bit, kind of like, I don't think people were shocked by it, because over the past few days, there have been people kind of, like, warning about this, this high leverage in the system, and they're kind of like, warning about all the froth going on.
00:01:26.656 - 00:01:55.506, Speaker A: I even put out my thread yesterday, which I went over in the refuel, about all the froth going on. On, like, a lot of the crap that was pumping, and that's usually a signal or at least a sign of, like, a short, short term, kind of local top where everything kind of dumps together, because there's just too much kind of froth in the system. We wash that out, and long term, it just ends up being healthy. So general, like, my general thoughts on. On that is just basically, I'm not worried about kind of what happened. I don't think that we're going into a bear market or whatever. And I hope none of you got liquidated or anything like that.
00:01:55.506 - 00:02:38.804, Speaker A: I mean, I always advise people against using leverage. Leverage is very, very dangerous. I think a lot of people, over a long enough time frame, at least most people will give back all of the profits that they make from leverage trading. So I would suggest people not, not, not, not to get involved with that, you know, unless you know what you're doing. Like, at the end of the day, like, I can't tell you what you, what to do and what not to do. And, you know, I've obviously kind of like done some leverage trading in the past as well, but not anything of size or anything like that as more just to kind of like, I don't know, get my feet wet with it, especially with Dy DX on L2, I put like $500 in there and I went like, I think I went like three and a half x long on ETH because you had to do some trading on there to get the airdrop tokens, which is coming out today. And I'll talk about that in a bit.
00:02:38.804 - 00:03:01.148, Speaker A: But essentially, that's all I had kind of like done. And then I think maybe a few years ago I had done some other stuff with it, but generally I stay away from leverage. And I think last night is the main reason why. Right? Like you could think, oh, yeah, okay, it's going to break all time high. Like, I'm going to leverage up here. I'm going to go long, and then you can get completely wiped out. And then potentially you could lose like a large chunk of your stash just because you got too greedy.
00:03:01.148 - 00:03:44.312, Speaker A: So there's that aspect to consider as well. But on the kind of like note about, I guess, like sell offs and just general kind of like activity happening on the Ethereum chain during times of volatility, because activity always goes up. This tweet came that I kind of like, quote tweeted from August 2 that I put out where I said, once ERP 1559 is implemented, every time someone sells ETH via a Dex, it will be bullish for ETH. Why? Because every Dex trade on layer one has to pay gas fees in ethics. And most of those fees, we, these fees will be burned. And we invented bullish selling checkmate bears. And it played out exactly like this because pretty much like all, I think, way went to like 400 or 500 or something like that during kind of like the heart of the turmoil for a couple of hours.
00:03:44.312 - 00:04:14.296, Speaker A: And we were burning a lot of ETH during that, that period of time which I'll go over in a sec. But it's just funny how, like, just, you know, I said this on August 2, and seeing it play out, I was kind of like, okay, well, you know, back then it was a little bit of a meme, but with some truth behind it. And now more people kind of, like, seeing this and being like, okay, well, yeah, this is bullish selling. And, I mean, just speaking of the fees that were burned, $6.6 million worth of ETH was burned in a single hour. And that's almost 1% of all ETH that has ever been burned in the last month. Just in the last hour, which is crazy, right? Six.
00:04:14.296 - 00:04:44.334, Speaker A: $6.6 million. Absolutely insane. And, and there's another tweet that the ETH burn account put out here, basically putting that in context, saying that the issuance for the hour was 605 ETH, which means that we had, like, 1960 ETH burned, which is a net change of 1000 -1300 uh, 55th 55 ETH for an annualized, uh, kind of like percentage here of 10%. 10.15%. Um, so, yeah, I mean, we were ultrasound like that. That's like a massive ultrasound hour, right? That's huge.
00:04:44.334 - 00:05:08.284, Speaker A: So these kind of things is just always funny to me where you kind of, like, come up with these memes that kind of, like, turn into truth. Uh, and, you know, it wasn't just this, like, while I was sleeping, there was some NFT drops as well. And, you know, we're burning just so much ETH. It's actually just crazy. 240,000 ETH. Before I started recording last time, I kind of checked there, which is an insane amount of money. I'm pretty sure it should be up to close to a billion dollars now, depending on the price of ETH, I guess.
00:05:08.284 - 00:05:16.296, Speaker A: Yeah, 240,000. Yeah. Yeah, it could be. Could be close to that. If the price was to go up a bit more. We've earned a bit more ETH there, so. And that's only in the first month.
00:05:16.296 - 00:05:43.024, Speaker A: I mean, what, September 8 today? So that's just a month and a bit since 1559 went live. Absolutely incredible amount of ETH being burned here. But, yeah, just hopefully all you guys are okay after the kind of like, bit of a sell off last night. I don't think that there's anything to worry about going forward. I think that we're either going to do a bit of a slow bleed down, maybe to three k again, or we're just going to continue up from here. I'm not sure. Short term stuff's always hard to tell, but long term, nothing's fundamentally changed.
00:05:43.024 - 00:06:06.106, Speaker A: So, guys like, come on, there's no reason to be bearish right now. We're still on the path of kind of like growing and adopting ethereum. There's still a lot of stuff happening. I haven't noticed any kind of like, activity kind of falling off yet. Maybe it will over the coming weeks, but I doubt it. Summer is kind of like over for the northern hemisphere, or at least getting close to being over. So, you know, what else are people going to do? They're going to be at home on their computers trading crypto, I suspect so, yeah.
00:06:06.106 - 00:07:08.618, Speaker A: Well, we're going to have to see how that plays out for sure. All right, so the second biggest piece of, I guess, news from the last 24 hours was this thread that Brian Armstrong, the co founder and CEO of Coinbase, put out. And he started this thread with by saying some really sketchy behavior coming out of the SEC recently. Story time. Now, I'm not going to read through the whole thread read, but basically what's happening is that they went and asked the SEC for kind of like, I guess like their opinions or kind of like feedback on their kind of new lend product that they were going to be offering, where you could basically earn 4% APY via Coinbase by using USDC. Now, in response to this, what the SEC has done is that they've basically said that they're going to pursue legal action against Coinbase for all this and try, there were some kind of rooms that they're going to try and classify USDC as a security and just like a bunch of rubbish going on here. And Ryan's thread goes, goes through this in detail and basically goes through kind of like how they've been approaching it and trying to open a dialogue and how the SEC just really has been stonewalling them and kind of like doing all this really weird stuff.
00:07:08.618 - 00:07:42.704, Speaker A: So you can read this, it'll be in the YouTube description, but I'm sure you've probably read it already. But I wrote the newsletter about this today and I want to kind of expand on it on the refuel here. I am not shy about how bearish I am on financial regulations and regulatory bodies in general. I think that they generally just exist to protect the incumbents, protect the, or the people that are already in power, the institutions that are already in power, and kind of keep them in their place. And any kind of threats to that are something that needs to be shot down. Now, obviously, crypto and DeFi are a massive threat to all of that. And I think we're seeing the regulators move now.
00:07:42.704 - 00:08:13.672, Speaker A: They did it with uniswap labs. I'm sure they're doing it with a bunch of other DeFi protocols that are based in the US. And now, you know, they're going after us based exchanges as well, for lack of a kind of like better, I guess, thing to say here, and I don't want to go on too much of a ramp, but this is total bullshit. Like, this really is total crap. At the end of the day, the SEC has become pretty much, I mean, it maybe always was, but I never really paid attention to them too closely. They are pretty much like the laughing stock now of crypto. They are not a regulator that has anyone, when anyone's interests in mind, in my view.
00:08:13.672 - 00:08:54.834, Speaker A: They are not protecting investors by doing this. They are essentially just protecting the incumbents. And for that they are going to face stiff, kind of like, I guess, pushback from the crypto community because at the end of the day, this entire ecosystem is built upon disrupting the incumbents. So. And from that point of view, the SEC is kind of actions, especially actions like this, which seem very misguided, very kind of like short term oriented, is just going to push innovation overseas. The US, if it continues down this path, is quite literally going to lose out on trillion, if the billion, hundreds of billions, if not trillions of economic activity in the coming kind of like years around crypto. And that's going to be a very, very big blow to the US economy, I believe.
00:08:54.834 - 00:09:40.896, Speaker A: But, you know, I'm just one guy saying this and not going to, they're not going to listen to me, but they will listen to a collective community and they will kind of, and especially politicians will as well. We had the whole stuff with the infrastructure bill where these politicians essentially kind of, I guess, came to realize that the crypto community isn't just some niche small thing anymore. It is a massive global community. And we have a lot of people kind of like fighting for us, a lot of people, well funded people as well, fighting for us, and a lot of big companies around that as well, like, such as Coinbase and Kraken and Gemini and stuff like that. And I think crypto will become like a single issue kind of thing that people vote on within the US. So these politicians, some of them at least are wising up to this and will be appealing to these kinds of people to get their votes and they'll be fighting for them within kind of like Congress and stuff like that. That's just one angle of it.
00:09:40.896 - 00:10:05.906, Speaker A: The other angle is, of course, we can do lobbying efforts as well. You know, lobbying is just a fancy way of saying bribing. So we can just bribe these politicians and say, hey, we're going to pay you this money to do this for us. Like, thanks. That's exactly how it works right now. And I don't think that's going to change just because this is crypto. And just generally, though, I guess, like, the long term goal here is for crypto to basically just disrupt everything and, and not have to kind of like, work around these regulators.
00:10:05.906 - 00:10:24.994, Speaker A: Um, we just work through them. Basically, we just say, you know, you can't regulate us. We're a decentralized ecosystem. We're going to move to wherever is the most favorable because crypto is an incredibly mobile ecosystem. You can work on crypto from wherever you are in the world. You don't even have to register a company. You can create a dao issue, a token, and just pay yourself out from the token from this global community.
00:10:24.994 - 00:11:04.040, Speaker A: And then as your dow grows, as your token kind of like grows in value, you know, you're, you're kind of like, um, your contributions are more valued over time and you can, you know, you can get, you can recruit people, all this sort of stuff. So really, we don't need these kind of, like, we don't need this anymore. We don't need these regulators. We don't need the real world to register us as like a corporation or whatever. We are basically going to just disrupt all of that. And I think that's what scares them the most. And I think that there are some smart people within these kind of, like, regulate regulatory bodies who see this and are like, well, I can't let this happen because, you know, this is going to basically disrupt my, my donors, my other people who pay me to do this, the people who kind of keep me in power.
00:11:04.040 - 00:11:43.200, Speaker A: Um, and this is kind of like a vested interest that I have. So I'm going to fight against this. We, as I said, we saw this with the treasury around the infrastructure bill. Now we're seeing this with the SEC. And what really gets me about the SEC is that they have so many, like, literally hundreds, if not thousands of rug pulls, scams, ponzis that they could go after, but instead they've chosen to go after us based companies that are legitimate companies that have provided a lot of value that no one's complained about. Have you seen anyone complaining about Uniswap? You know, the most thing that you could kind of like, I guess argue as a complaint is people, is like, people like bitcoin maximal are saying that Uniswap is. Is a scam or a shady because it's on Ethereum, but like, they're just crazy.
00:11:43.200 - 00:11:55.912, Speaker A: No one listens to them. So in terms of legitimate complaints, there hasn't been any. Uniswap gave their token to everyone. Gave like a massive free airdrop to everyone. Uniswap is the most beloved app on Ethereum. Everyone uses it. It just, it hasn't hurt anyone.
00:11:55.912 - 00:12:35.242, Speaker A: No one's asking for protections from the SEC, and yet they're going after them. And same with Coinbase. I mean, Coinbase has some issues around kind of like freezing people's accounts because they have to, because the law enforcement orders them to it from time to time, or they have to. For KYC, AML obligations and their customer support, from what I've heard, can be, could be better. But I think just generally, I don't know, I don't think people have been harmed by Coinbase on a mass scale where the SEC needs to hop in and basically say, hey, we're going to regulate you or we're going to essentially, you know, bring charges against you or whatever. So really it's just, it's, it's total crap. And I really have.
00:12:35.242 - 00:13:03.782, Speaker A: I mean, I didn't have any faith in these kind of like, regulators to begin with. And I think that, you know, I'm not even surprised that they're doing stuff like this. I kind of expected it. I kind of have been saying for a while that we've entered like, the geopolitical sphere as well. Uh, and, and that includes politics of all kind of like walks of life, whether that be in the US or, um, you know, politics within regulators, politics within Congress, politics within local communities and stuff like that. That's just going to be a big theme going forward. But, yeah, really, really crappy to see this.
00:13:03.782 - 00:13:24.780, Speaker A: Um, I'm hoping that Coinbase can succeed here in pushing back the SEC because unfortunately, you know, Coinbase is a centralized exchange. They don't have the luxury of just saying, oh, well, we're decentralized. You can't shut us down. We can just ignore you. Right? Uh, they can't do that. And we need. We need people like coin, people like, we need companies like Coinbase because they're the front door to crypto for a lot of people.
00:13:24.780 - 00:14:00.514, Speaker A: And if they kind of get neutered or if something happens to USDC, well, that's really bad overall for the ecosystem. Doesn't matter that we decentralized, that would be very, very bad over the short to medium term. And we would have to rebuild a lot of the ecosystem if something happened there. So yeah, I'm going to, I guess, see how this pans out over time. I'm not sure how often we'll be hearing updates about this. I guess like the SEC move slow being a government, government agency, but it's funny because they move slow generally, but when they want something to happen that favors themselves or they're kind of vested interests, then they move faster. So maybe we'll see kind of like this play out faster than that we've seen in the past here.
00:14:00.514 - 00:14:38.586, Speaker A: And then a final thing I wanted to kind of note was a tweet from Eric Conner here who says Anthony and I, and that's, that's me, Anthony. We talked about this on a recent podcast episode. But I think elected officials are extremely underestimating the influence of incoming influence, incoming from the crypto community. There's a gigantic power, culture and wealth shift happening in that that most are ignoring. And this is very, very true because as I was explaining to around the infrastructure bill, I think the politicians finally realized that we're a very big community. So they were like, holy shit, like we need to actually kind of like shift our stance here. We need to go be more crypto friendly if we want to get these voters on board and stuff like that.
00:14:38.586 - 00:15:23.944, Speaker A: But it's not just with within power, it's also in the culture and the wealth. Like think about the wealth transfer that's happening right now within crypto. There are a lot of people that come as like the late adopters and they've still yet to come. And the late adopters are going to be the, I guess, like institutions and the institutions like retirement accounts and stuff like that, that have a lot of these, this money, all this old money in it that's going to buy these things after they've gone a 1000, 10,000 x from, from their starting points. And that wealth shift is insane, truly. Like, I don't think people realize how insane this wealth shift has been and how many newly minted, kind of like millionaires there are that are young people that are going to fight for this crypto ecosystem till their last breath. And this is the kind of like gigantic shift that's happening, as Eric notes here.
00:15:23.944 - 00:15:54.066, Speaker A: And we're going to see it play out over the coming years. But yeah, I think the final thing on, on this one was from Chainlink God, who basically, quote, tweeted one of Brian's tweets and said, this is called legally enforced racketeering. You know, you ref, the SEC refuses to publish public guidelines, tell companies to work with the SEC, sue them after they ask for help and profit. And so who's the SEC protecting? The consumers? Lol. No, it's a traditional rent extracting prison of our financial system. I mean, I couldn't put it better myself. This is exactly what's happening.
00:15:54.066 - 00:16:22.306, Speaker A: They're not protecting consumers or investors. That's always been a psyop. That's always been a lie or a narrative that they've told. They are protecting the vested interest, which are the big, big institutions, large institutions in the traditional finance space. And they will continue doing this for the, for the time being until we get like more of a power shift there. The culture and wealth shift is happening, but the power shift takes a, I think, longer to play out and there's a bit more of a, kind of like a heavy fight there. But the crypto ecosystem is ready to fight.
00:16:22.306 - 00:16:39.654, Speaker A: We're not just going to lay down and let the let kind of like these bodies that we're trying to disrupt just kind of roll all over us. That's not going to happen. All right. Moving on to about something else for now. So dy DX's token is going live today. Might already be live by the time you've watched this. It's kind of unlocking.
00:16:39.654 - 00:17:07.044, Speaker A: And Antonio, the founder of DYDX, kind of put out a highlight thread of kind of like what the current state of DYDX is. So there's 37 32.7k Dy DX holders. It's a very even distribution, not whale dominated, which is cool to see. There's been $13.8 billion of total trade volume, $256 million of open interest, and $141 million of maker capital stake. Now, that's not maker Dow, that's maker as in the market maker capital stake there.
00:17:07.044 - 00:17:30.520, Speaker A: So, yeah, and then he goes on this thread to kind of like detail more about this. But, yeah, I mean, this is going to be a big token launch, I think. I mean, if you look at kind of like the most successful apps on Ethereum in terms of like, volumes, users, all that sort of stuff, dy Dex is right up there. And they're a L2 protocol as well. They're built on star Quest technology. They're, they're not built on layer one at all for their perpetuals exchange. They're fully layered, too.
00:17:30.520 - 00:18:19.016, Speaker A: And they still have incredible trading volumes, you know, in terms of like, both 24 hours and total trade trading volumes and kind of like rivaling their layer one counterparts, which is really, really awesome to see. So in terms of like what the token can be valued at, I'm not sure I have, I think I have like 1100 tokens that I got in an airdrop coming to me. I don't know what I'm going to do with them. I mean, I might sell them if the price gets ridiculous from the get go, might hold them. You know, it's always funny because if the, I mean there's, I think the total token supply is like, I can't remember what the total token supply is, but it's something really large. So if the price goes ridiculous, if the market cap goes to like $10 billion or $20 billion on day one, I may just end up selling it. But who knows? Like it's always hard to tell with these, with these things because at the end of the day dy DX has this insane growth and they're just getting started.
00:18:19.016 - 00:18:51.118, Speaker A: Like this is really early days for them. They're going to, I guess like have much, much bigger growth. The perpetuals is a massive market. They're taking more and more volume from the centralized space as well. Well, so who knows? I don't really have an opinion on the value of DydX going forward, what it's going to kind of open out or anything like that. But I mean, my DyDX tokens are at Cecil ETH so people can just see when I sell them, if I sell them like on, you know, on day one or whatever, I probably just will just put it back into ETH anyway. But it doesn't mean that I'm bullish or bearish, it's more so just kind of like taking free money off the table.
00:18:51.118 - 00:19:17.460, Speaker A: And also taxes because I owe kind of like taxes on that because it's considered income. Air jobs are considered income in Australia. Um, and I think the cost, you know, it's funny though, the cost, this is, man, this is getting to the tax stuff now. But it's funny because like I got my Dy DX tokens when the value of dy DX was zero. So technically is my cost basis zero. I don't know, I'm gonna have to talk to my accountant about that. But I mean, tax is always a headache when it comes to this sort of stuff.
00:19:17.460 - 00:19:57.614, Speaker A: But anyway, I don't know what, what kind of like I'm gonna do there. I don't know what people are gonna do. I'm sure it's gonna be a volatile opening here and I'm sure it's going to get a day one listing on, like, Coinbase. I don't know, day one or kind of like very shortly after day one because Coinbase is an investor in Dy DX and Antonio is actually Coinbase alumni, one of the first employees there as well. So I would, and there's like, I mean, a lot of investors in Dy DX that kind of, like, probably poked Coinbase and be like, hey, you need, you need to list this. So I wouldn't be surprised to see that. But who cares about the centralized exchange listing? It'll have incredible kind of, like, look, liquidity and volumes on decentralized exchanges anyway, and probably on the Dy Dex exchange itself.
00:19:57.614 - 00:20:19.150, Speaker A: So, yeah, it's going to be interesting to see how that launches today. And speaking of L2, optimism over the last 24 hours did $450,000 worth of fee revenue, which is insane. You can see on the chart here the growth. I mean, that's an insane amount. I mean, that's almost as much. I mean, that's most. More fee kind of like revenue than, I guess, like a lot of protocols out there.
00:20:19.150 - 00:20:55.284, Speaker A: And now, you know, some people are complaining about this, saying, oh, my God, the fees on optimism are kind of like really high already. And I explained all this yesterday on the refill. I'm not going to go through it again. But essentially, optimism currently has transaction limits, and there's more transactions that happen. The lower the fees for everyone, but only once those transaction limits are kind of like much higher or kind of like, removed completely. So for now, you know, on optimism, because the market volatility happened yesterday, people were willing to pay whatever to do arbitrage transactions between, you know, uniswap and kind of like other exchanges or other kind of pairs and stuff like that. There's synthetix and Lyra and stuff happening on there.
00:20:55.284 - 00:21:58.726, Speaker A: But, you know, it was just really cool to see that optimism is already kind of getting them this much revenue. And one thing that I should highlight about this as well is that optimism has said that all of the kind of, like, fear revenue that they make, that goes to their centralized sequencer, all of the profit from that. So not, not the total kind of fear of a new. Because they have costs, obviously, they have to pay, opposed to layer one for batching, and they also have costs of running the kind of like software and hardware and stuff like that. But essentially they promised to give all profits to public goods so they could end up having tens of millions of dollars by the time they kind of like pay that out just from these fee revenue alone, which is incredible, right? Like, that's really, really cool that they can give this to public goods funding and, you know, they can split it between things like Gitcoin and maybe coins center and other sort of stuff like that. So it's really cool to see that. But, yeah, I guess on the, on the free revenue side of things, the, the thing with L2s is that the cumulative or kind of like, I guess total aggregate fee revenue can be really high while the individual transaction fees can still be really low.
00:21:58.726 - 00:22:28.356, Speaker A: Because if you have, you know, I think optimism and arbitram can theoretically do, what, four and a half thousand transactions per second or something like that. Or maybe, maybe, maybe that's too high. I haven't checked the exact numbers here, but let's just say for simplicity, um, it's like 3000 transactions per second. That's per second, right? Like so per day. I just, I can't even do the math in my head that quick. But anyway, I think it would be 180,000 transactions. If it was that capacity, it would be 180,000 transactions per minute.
00:22:28.356 - 00:22:59.486, Speaker A: Minutes, right? Like this is the scalability that we're kind of talking about here. And then, you know, per hour, that's obviously, you know, 180,000 times 60, that's many, many, many millions. And then per day, you're getting into like the tens of millions territory of, of transactions per day, probably like hundreds of millions. I don't know, maybe I'm doing my math wrong there, but if each of those transactions are paying like $0.10 in fees, well, that's still $10 million of fee revenue. If it's 100 million transactions or for the day, that's still $10 million of fear revenue for the L2. So in aggregate, the trend, that's, that's really cool.
00:22:59.486 - 00:23:33.950, Speaker A: But for each individual, they're only paying like $0.10 or something like that. So that's always something that good to keep in mind as well. And speaking of optimism, there is kind of like a forum post here from Calvin Fikner, who works at, at optimism. He's taking on an EVM expert in training as part of the ethanol. So basically, if you are someone that wants to get involved, I guess, like with optimism, with Ethereum, with the EVM, outside of maybe the core protocol development stuff, then definitely go check out this blog post. Because as optimism says here, if selected, you'll learn all about solidity, the EVM, and what makes Ethereum tick under the hood.
00:23:33.950 - 00:24:04.182, Speaker A: You'll know Ethereum like the back of your hand. If you're a software engineer looking to deep dive into the ether, you should go apply and I'll link this in the YouTube description. You can go apply. I think this is a really great initiative. We need more people kind of like doing core protocol stuff at both layer one and L2. So hot protocol is kind of like asking which networks and tokens they should add next to their bridge here. So you can see they currently support polygons, POS chain, Xdai optimism with arbitrum coming soon, and another one coming is coming soon here redacted.
00:24:04.182 - 00:24:48.304, Speaker A: And they have support for USDT, USDC, Matic and Ethan Dyer coming soon as well. So I've discussed kind of like the bridges before and how I've kind of said that I think that these bridges should really just focus on supporting, I guess, things like the stable coins and ETH and maybe even wrapped bitcoin, just like the most liquid things on ethereum. Layer one and then kind of go out, go out the long tail on it. Because bootstrap and liquidity for those critical pairs is, is, I guess, like very, very important. And then if people want to trade between things on L2s, they can, they can just use uniswap or sushiswap or whatever on the L2 and then bridge out using kind of like these stable coins. And I did mention at the time when I was talking about this, that unfortunately these kind of things have tax implications as well. So I'm not exactly sure how that would benefit each individual person.
00:24:48.304 - 00:25:40.928, Speaker A: And it really does depend on the individuals at the end of the day. But yeah, if you want to kind of like go reply to this tweet for hot protocol and let them know which networks and tokens you would love to see next, then you can go either reply to this tweet or go to hop feedback here. This will be linked, of course, and kind of give your feedback there. All right, so last up here, we have taken theorem with a really great little chart here showing the statistical, statistical, causal evidence that nfts are strongly moving the needle when it comes to gas prices. So this was a case study done on the 2 September. You can see the OpenSea subset nfts is time t base fee at t plus one grainger causality test on deltas pull is less than 0.003. I'm not even going to pretend to know what that means, but I just read it out anyway, which, and I mean, taking this all together, and it counts for a 42% variation in base fee.
00:25:40.928 - 00:26:51.024, Speaker A: So essentially, in plain English, this is validating the thesis and the hypothesis that kind of like myself and a few other people in the ethereum ecosystem has had that nfts are what's driving the gas fees higher, at least the base fee higher over time. And I mean, all the evidence is point to that, all the on chain evidence, all the heuristic evidence, all the kind of like social evidence, there's no doubt in my mind that that's what's caused it. So if you see anyone saying 1559 cause gas prices to go higher, just say, no, it was network activity going up because of nfts. And if you've got some charts and stuff handy, you can link it to them because I think that's what's most important people to kind of like get their, get their head wrapped around. But yeah, cool to see just another kind of like chart validating this thesis here. And I guess like on the topic of fees as well, there's one other thing I wanted to kind of talk about here, and that's on, on the topic of kind of like layer one fees and people asking me, you know, are they ever going to go down so I can move things that are considered dust? Now dust assets are considered assets that cost too much to move in fees. So say you only have like a dollar worth of ETH in a wallet and you want to move that, well then it might cost you $5 to move or that doesn't make any sense to move that ETH, right? So let's just get stuck there.
00:26:51.024 - 00:27:11.192, Speaker A: It's just dust. You can't really do anything with it. I'm going to be honest, I don't think fees are on layer one ever going to get to that point where you can move that, that sort of stuff out. So, and it's not even just a dollar. I mean, if you wanted to transfer an ERC 20 token right now, I can't remember the exact cost of it. Maybe it's ten or $20 depending on the token, all those sorts of things. I don't know.
00:27:11.192 - 00:27:44.418, Speaker A: I don't think the fees are going to get that down that far on layer one. Maybe they will eventually when we do kind of like, I guess increase the state, sorry, the gas limit. And for a short period of time you have a window where gas fees are lower again, or maybe the market just goes really quiet and you have a short window. But in terms of like the average gas fee and over the longer term, I don't expect them to fall to a point where you can move kind of like $10 worth of a token with cheaper than you know you can move it for. So cheaper than it's worth and stuff like that. So unfortunately, that's the case. So I mean, that's just another case to just do all the stuff that you can do on L2 now.
00:27:44.418 - 00:28:27.508, Speaker A: Because if you just have stuff on L2, well, then you're not going to get kind of like, I guess, into this position where you can't move things because it costs more than it's worth to move it. And this is why I've been saying for a very long time that l, one will just be the kind of like security whale chain, I mean, security layer for L2, but also like a whale chain or like a chain with just like L2 proofs and batches on it, and everyone else will just sit on L2. That is the Ethereum roadmap. That is how Ethereum is scaling. It is painful in the short to medium term for people who are like us, who are innovators and early adopters, but in the long term, it will work very, very well for onboarding the world and keeping things decentralized and secure. And on that note, I'm going to end it for today. So thank you everyone, for listening and watching.
00:28:27.508 - 00:28:34.204, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
