00:00:00.360 - 00:00:29.268, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cisano, and today's the 3 November 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So Ens dropped some more details about their token. So their ens token that I talked about yesterday, they did this because I think some people figured out the token address and figured out kind of like the token distribution and all that sort of stuff. So they have just basically dropped the details officially here. Now the token distribution is basically here.
00:00:29.268 - 00:00:48.836, Speaker A: It's a 50% to a community treasury, about 19% to core contributors, 0.5% or 0.58% to launch launch advisors 1.2% to future contributors, 1.2% to external contributors translators 0.05% select integrations 2.5% keyholders 0.2%
00:00:48.836 - 00:01:21.812, Speaker A: active discord users 0.12% now you can see pretty much that adds up to 25% for, I guess like, I guess like a team distribution, right? I think that it's not that bad, to be honest. Remember I said yesterday that I thought that if it was like too high, it probably wouldn't be good for the, for the down for the governance process of Ens. But you know, seeing it split out like this makes a lot of sense. I mean, core contributors, you can see the numbers at the top, there's eleven of them. And these are the eleven that have been around for quite a while now. They've pretty much been around since day one, a lot of them actually.
00:01:21.812 - 00:01:44.750, Speaker A: So yeah, I mean, as I said yesterday, I don't have any problem with them. Kind of like getting an allocation here. You'll again notice there's no vc's, which is really, really cool to see. No investors, nothing. It's just basically team community and the airdrop. But then in the kind of like team allocation, you can see it broken down here and see all the different kind of like places it's going to and the people that it's going to. So I think this makes a lot of sense.
00:01:44.750 - 00:02:22.366, Speaker A: I mean, to reward people that have contributed value to the protocol over time, not just as kind of like registering an ENS name, but also as kind of like working on the ANS ecosystem directly. And even they're even kind of like giving tokens to the active discord users as well, which they're just over 400, I think, of them. So 0.125% of the token distribution is going to them as well. So I, you know, I've kind of gone through this before. I don't know if I've gone through it on the refuel or on the Discord channel, but people ask, like, how do you, how do you get an airdrop? Right? Like, what, what can you do to best position yourself for one of these airdrops? Everything. Like, use the projects, join the Discord channels, be active.
00:02:22.366 - 00:03:17.496, Speaker A: Like, all that adds up. And even if it doesn't kind of like, eventuate into anything, um, still doing it and still adding value is, is worth your time as well, I think, and getting noticed and kind of like building up a little bit of reputation if you want to work within the ecosystem is also very much worth it. Uh, but yeah, as I said, like, the community treasury is 50% of the allocation with 10% unlocked on day one and 40% vesting over, I think, four years, and also the team contributions, I'm pretty sure investing over four years as well. Um, I don't know about the, everything other than core contributors, but I know that core contributors are vesting over four years. And then there's the airdrop, which is 25% of the allocation to over 137,000 ethereum addresses. Now, to be eligible for this airdrop, you needed to basically have an ENS name, and you needed to have an ENS name with reverse record set, basically tying your Ethereum address to your ens, uh, ens name. Now, those aren't the only kind of requirements.
00:03:17.496 - 00:03:46.120, Speaker A: There's two other requirements, not requirements. There's two other kind of like weightings for the airdrop. And that's how long ago did you register your ans name? And kind of like, how long into the future have you registered it? So in the blog post here, actually, I've opened it up here, there's a formula for it. So if you scroll down, you can see the formula. So basically, if you want to work out how many tokens that you'll roughly get, the formula is 0.27 times the number of a days. The account has owned at least one Ens name.
00:03:46.120 - 00:04:04.378, Speaker A: So if you had owned a name, you can check it on. Basically, I checked mine on Etherscan. Under the ERC 721 tab. On Etherscan, you can kind of like go back and check how long ago you bought your Ans name. Mine was bought, I think, like over 700 days ago. So I just did 700 times 0.27 to get that number.
00:04:04.378 - 00:04:43.684, Speaker A: Then you add 0.067 times the number of days until the expiration of the last name on the account. So I've registered my sassle ETH till 2060 but it's an eight year cap. So basically I just took like eight times, you know, 365 days took that number, can't remember what it was. I think was over 2000, multiplied that by 0.067 and then added it to the previous number that I got, and then I'm, and then you, and then finally you multiply that total by two. If the account also has a primary Ens name set, which is what I described before, I think for me it roughly came out to 800 tokens or something like that.
00:04:43.684 - 00:05:22.550, Speaker A: 800 ENS tokens. Now obviously we don't know what the value is, there's 100 million total supply of tokens, but we don't know kind of what the valuation is going to be out of the gate or anything like that. I'm not going to speculate too hard, but you know, given the state of the market and given what we've seen in the past, I don't think it's far fetched to say that Ens could achieve a billion dollar valuation. This is a fully diluted valuation which would put each token at $10 each. So that's a pretty, you know, pretty healthy, pretty healthy airdrop there for longer term Ens holders. But yeah, if you want to work out exactly what your airdrop is going to be, or at least roughly what it's going to be, you can, you can check out this formula here. So, yeah, I think, I thought this was really cool.
00:05:22.550 - 00:05:56.396, Speaker A: I thought that it was cool that they basically announced this and didn't wait and didn't wait a week to do so. But you're still gonna have to wait till next week, on November 8 to claim your tokens. And then, you know, they'll be trading and everything and it'll be, it'll be go from there. So just an update there on Ens and the token distribution. Alright, so the CME group is launching micro ether futures on December 6. And what this means is that these futures contracts are sized at one 10th of one ether. Now why would they do this? Because with futures contracts, you can't buy are kind of like a fraction of them.
00:05:56.396 - 00:06:18.860, Speaker A: Like you can't like with ETH, obviously you can buy one ETH, or you can buy like 0.18 or 0.05 ETH. With futures contracts you can't buy a fraction, you have to buy a whole contract. So, you know, ETH price is at whatever it's at right now, 4600. And by, by sizing it at one 10th of one ether, the contract size becomes $460. So it just opens it up to more participants within, within the kind of.
00:06:18.860 - 00:07:01.034, Speaker A: Within the, the futures contracts here. I think bitcoin, this happened with bitcoin as well, naturally. And I think that this just signals further kind of like institutional demand for ETH, which is really, really cool to see. And it also feeds into the other thing that was kind of like speculated on today, or at least kind of like announced today, that Bloomberg, their intelligence team, basically stipulates that they think that us regulators are more likely to approve an Ethereum futures based ETF than a fund that holds bitcoin directly. And then there's a quote in the article here that says the SEC could approve the Ethereum fund as early as the first quarter. So I mentioned when bitcoin's ETF went live, that eats ETF wasn't far behind it. I didn't expect that this quickly.
00:07:01.034 - 00:07:22.034, Speaker A: And this isn't an announcement or anything like that. This is just kind of speculation on Bloomberg's part. But, you know, I think for them to be making this statement, it could come in q one, ETF could come in q one. But again, it'd probably be just be a futures ETF. It wouldn't be spot based. So it's not that big of a deal. I don't even think that it would have that too much impact on Ethan.
00:07:22.034 - 00:07:56.138, Speaker A: Kind of like the short term. I think in the longer term it'll have a much bigger impact because it just, it further institutionalizes ETH as an asset. So that, I think that would be the most bullish thing and also from a narrative and kind of like a marketing point of view. But I guess in saying that too, it's funny because like bitcoin had its ETF go live, it pumped up to what? Sixty seven k and it's all time high. And then it came back down and ETH is pretty much in price discovery and bitcoin is still not there. So when taking that into account, you can kind of see that the futures based ETF is not really something to kind of like, write home about. I feel like a spot ETF would be much better.
00:07:56.138 - 00:08:25.458, Speaker A: But with, when it comes to. When it comes to ETH, we already have so much demand for this asset and so many people buying it and so, and, and so much kind of like supply getting locked up and, and burnt with 1559 and all that good stuff there that I really don't think that it's a critical thing for, for Ethan. ETF. It's gonna, it's gonna happen, right? Don't get me wrong. And, and I'd be happy when it does, but I just don't think it's a critical thing. I think ETH is going to go much further than what it is now. I think it's going to go to 10,000 and beyond, even if it doesn't get an ETF.
00:08:25.458 - 00:08:57.202, Speaker A: There's no doubt in my mind about that. But still cool to see that Bloomberg thinks it could happen as early as next year. So, speaking of institutional adoption of crypto, this was a big announcement today. So the Commonwealth bank has announced that they'll be, they're going to be adding crypto support to their app, which offers the ability to buy, sell and hold crypto assets directly in the app. Now, for those who don't know, the Commonwealth bank is the largest bank in Australia. I've used them for quite a while now. This is a huge deal for all the Australians, obviously, listening and watching here.
00:08:57.202 - 00:09:57.302, Speaker A: I think they're probably the most progressive bank in Australia, if I had to say. And they're the only one with an app that actually works like mobile app. The rest of them are really, really bad, but the app is really, really nice. They seem to be, they integrate a lot of these progressive features much, much faster than other banks. I like it as well because I have instant deposits into a centralized exchange from my bank account using kind of like Combank's features. But on that note as well, I think the reason why combank is doing this is because of the fact that they're probably seeing on their end, a lot of their customers sending dollars, australian dollars, to a centralized exchange to buy crypto. So they're probably thinking, well, why don't we just do this directly in app? Why are we losing customers? Why are we losing literal, like, they're literally leaving money on the table? Because all they have to do is add a kind of like crypto trading desk and then offer these services to customers, charge a one to 2% fee, which is essentially what the centralized exchanges already charge on fiat, on fiat buys, and they have a massive new kind of like revenue model.
00:09:57.302 - 00:10:24.496, Speaker A: And then on top of that, they can, if they want to, later on, integrate things like Defi and crypto lending services, all that sort of stuff. And I think they will. I've mentioned plenty of times before that I think the banks are pretty much like done fighting crypto. They, they know that they can't fight it, and the ones that are still trying to fight are fighting a losing battle, and the more progressive ones are just going to integrate with it and just accept that it's an inevitability. It's coming. It's. I mean, it's already here and there's huge customer demand for it.
00:10:24.496 - 00:10:49.040, Speaker A: So this was, yeah, super exciting. I think it's due to go live kind of like as a pilot in the coming weeks and then pretty much go live to everyone in Q one next year. You know, I don't think they're late to the party here. I think this is actually just right on time for banks. I think that they're making the move at the right time. And being a pioneer, I expect this to keep happening. I saw also a news article that there was a bank that's taking a 51% stake in a crypto exchange.
00:10:49.040 - 00:11:25.190, Speaker A: I think it's some. I think it's in Thailand or something like that. So the banks really are feeling the pinch here because, as I said, they have the data. They can see all the money flowing out of there, their banks, into centralized exchanges, and they can see how much money they're leaving on the table because of that. Because really you can do a kind of like, extrapolation here and you kind of say to yourself, okay, let's do some naive math. If, you know, $10 billion has left australian bank accounts, and this is probably on the low end, to be honest, but if $10 billion has left australian bank accounts in the last few years to go into a crypto exchange, then most likely pretty much all of that was used to buy crypto. Now, if it was a 1% fee on that, right, if you.
00:11:25.190 - 00:12:05.416, Speaker A: If it was a 1% take on just the buy, it goes both ways as well. But just say, say 1%, that's $100 million of revenue just there. And as I said, that's on the low side, and that's only for a buy. That's not including people who like to regularly trade the selling coming out the other way and everything like that. So they've obviously done a lot of market research here and basically said, well, this is a massive opportunity, we need to do this right now. In saying that, I'm not sure if they're going to allow kind of like users to withdraw their crypto directly from kind of like their service. It might end up looking like a Robin Hood kind of thing, but at the same time, their target audience is not your eye.
00:12:05.416 - 00:12:32.970, Speaker A: Like, we already have a centralized exchange account. We've already done KYC. We already know how to buy crypto. Their target audience is literally boomers. Like, and I'm talking the actual generational boomers now, not the mindset that I was talking about the other day. Their target is the older generations who, one, don't care and don't want to set up a centralized exchange because they trust their bank and they don't want to have to go somewhere else with their money. To combat will make it a lot easier at the cost of a higher fee for these people to enter.
00:12:32.970 - 00:13:04.530, Speaker A: And three, these people don't care about removing their assets from, from the wallet and putting it into their own wallet. They're probably never going to do that, or at least they're going to do that very far into the future. So that's what combat will be able to offer them that these centralized exchanges may not. And that's def, as I said, that's definitely a huge kind of revenue stream for them. Um, but it also opens the door for them supporting other things like Defi and crypto based lending and stuff like that later on. Uh, because, I mean, there's no reason for them not to be able to do that once they've got things up and running. And they're going to do custody services as well, of course.
00:13:04.530 - 00:14:01.048, Speaker A: And they're going to be very, very secure because they already have great security practices generally when it comes to securing customer funds, and they're obviously already fully regulated to do that. So, yeah, I mean, I'm, I'm really proud that Australia is taking a not, uh, like, just as a whole, like, not just with comm bank, but Australia seems to be taking a very progressive approach, approach to crypto, and he's trying really hard to be a crypto friendly nation now in saying that the tax situation is still broken as hell. Like, I. The way crypto is taxed in Australia, I disagree with a lot of it. I think it is far too complex. I think that it is far too punishing for investors. And I know that there are some kind of like, groups trying to change this, but it feels like we're kind of in two kind of like places right now where on the, kind of like tech and adoption side of things, where we're progressing really, really quickly, but on the tax side of things and on the legislation around that and maybe even regulations, they're moving much slower, which is to be expected, but still a bit disappointing.
00:14:01.048 - 00:14:30.188, Speaker A: So. But I'm glad people are tackling this. You know, I should probably get more involved with it, to be honest. Maybe, maybe offer my kind of like, guidance to people who need it there. But generally, I am very, very happy to see this because, you know, I don't plan to leave Australia. And I see people kind of like always talking about, oh, you can go to this country and get like 0% capital gains tax and, and this and that other benefit. And I kind of think to myself, well, okay, that's nice, right? But like, there's a catch, like moving to certain jurisdictions to just for tax advantages.
00:14:30.188 - 00:15:18.358, Speaker A: I mean, it's, there's so much more to where you live than just like how much tax you pay at the end of the day, unless you're a billionaire and you have like residences and shell companies everywhere. I mean, and you live where you want, but you ha, you kind of like move around in order to maximize your, or to optimize your, kind of like your taxes there. It's just not worth it. And for me, I'm just like, okay, I'll pay the taxes because I love living in Australia. I have no plans to leave where I am. So I'm very happy to see more of a progressive stance here being taken by not just the corporation, such as the banks, but also the government trying at least listening to feedback about how to improve the regulatory landscape as well as the tax landscape. I think the tax landscape is the most important in the short term because of the fact that it affects pretty much like everyone.
00:15:18.358 - 00:15:46.360, Speaker A: Regulations fall into that, of course. But I think that is probably a little bit less critical than the tax situation because of the fact that it affects everyone. So, yeah, still cool to see this. I hope to see. I mean, I think we will see the other banks kind of like jump on board here with this, but comm banks being a pioneer like they usually are, actually. So, yeah, cool to see. All right, so another update from Danny Ryan today, finalized number 30.
00:15:46.360 - 00:16:43.612, Speaker A: This update quickly covers attacks, mitigations and timelines, attacks being the attacks about the proof of stake reorg on the beacon chain, that fix and how that fix is being implemented, and the fact that this isn't going to delay the merge. Now, you can check out this post for yourself. It's very short, but essentially what the bulk of this post covers, or pretty much all these post covers actually, is this paper that was published the other day by a bunch of kind of researchers around an attack vector that they were able to discover on the Ethereum beacon chain where you could essentially cause a change, split from my understanding, with very little validators. I think that you could do it with only maybe 500 validators or something like that under certain scenarios, certain conditions and certain scenarios. Now, there is a simple fix for this. Of course, it's already kind of like spec'd out. It's already kind of like going to go on test nets and it's expected to go live early next year.
00:16:43.612 - 00:17:11.993, Speaker A: And it doesn't require a hard fork. This can just be built directly into clients. And it is what's called the fork choice rule. And yeah, it doesn't require a hard fork, but it does require it to be in place before the merge happens, which is, which is fine. It's all happening in parallel. What I did want to kind of go over, over a little bit here is the amount of fud I saw about this. As I've said many, many times before, and I wrote about this in the newsletter yesterday, no matter what Ethereum does, whether it's good or bad, it's going to get farted.
00:17:11.993 - 00:17:52.776, Speaker A: And when it's, when it's, when it's perceived as something like extremely negative or it's perceived as something that could be used to tear down Ethereum's key innovations like proof of stake, people latch onto it, especially people like bitcoin maximalist, which I saw, I saw a lot of them spreading this around. What I want to make clear here is that, yes, this attack is serious, right? If exploited, it would be bad, but we have a fix for it. The, the ethereum ecosystem is very pragmatic about this. It was publicly disclosed, it's publicly published there. No one's kind of like trying to sweep it under the rug or anything like that. The, everyone's been working on a fix. They, they kind of like identified the issue and a fix is pretty much going to go live early next year.
00:17:52.776 - 00:18:50.674, Speaker A: That is what's always been special about the ethereum ecosystem and the ethereum, like developers and researchers, is that they don't just kind of like throw up their hands and say, oh, well, this is like, this is, this is screwed. Like, we know, let's give up, or they don't just try and sweep it under the rug and say, oh, yeah, okay, there's this issue, but it's not actually that big of a deal. You can see here that Danny Ryan literally says these are serious attacks with a formal, formally analyzed, technically simple mitigation. A fix will be rolled out prior to the merge and will not delay merge timelines. In just this couple of sentence, these couple of sentences, Danny basically acknowledges the fact that they're serious, says that there's a simple mitigation already in place that's, that's, that's already kind of like being worked on and that this fix will be rolled out prior to the merge and will not lead to a delay in merge timelines. So he's not kind of like brushing anything under the, under the carpet here. He could have literally said, oh yeah, this exists, but like a fix is in place and who cares? Let's, let's all focus on the merge.
00:18:50.674 - 00:19:15.122, Speaker A: Cool. Triple harvening yellow, whatever. Like he could have easily done that, but he's not going to do that. Like, he's not the type of person to do that and neither is pretty much any of the core developers and researchers. So I think that the fud that you see about this, whenever you see that stuff coming from people like bitcoin maximalist, don't listen to it. Like, I'm sorry, but like literally do not get your information from people like that. It's not going to help you in any situation or any scenario.
00:19:15.122 - 00:20:05.926, Speaker A: It's biased as hell. And I know, like it's ironic me saying that because obviously I'm biased towards Ethereum, but you know, don't just take one person's word for it. The way I kind of like gather information and come to like consensus and come to truth on things is that I look at what the smartest people I know are talking about and what they're, what they're all kind of like doing research on and doing development on and kind of like putting forward ideas on and I collate that all together and then I form an opinion on it. This is exactly what happened over the last few months with the modular blockchain design that was basically, you know, Polly now was the one who kind of like popularized it. But that, but they weren't the only person I was like listening to. I wasn't just taking what they said at face value. I had already known about obviously L2s and sharding and kind of like data availability and execution layers and all that sort of stuff.
00:20:05.926 - 00:20:40.478, Speaker A: I had known about that myself, but even then, that's two data points myself from all my own research and polynyard. Then I was seeing a lot of the core researchers and developers talk about this and I talked to some of them and we kind of like agree that this is an amazing way to kind of like, sorry, an amazing roadmap to focus on. And then I went back and saw Vitalik was obviously talking about the roll up centric roadmap a long time ago. The L2 researchers are already talking about this. You know, people kind of like echoing Polynya comments and work. So that's how I came to the conclusion that, okay, like, I'm not crazy, I'm not just being like an ETH maxi here. I'm not just being biased.
00:20:40.478 - 00:21:16.622, Speaker A: This is actually the best way to design a maximally decentralized, secure and scalable blockchain. And that seems to be the consensus now. Like, you're even seeing other ecosystems pivot to this now because it is so, I mean, it's so in your face about like how, how good this, how good this design is. And it's just, it's impossible to ignore. So it's kind of like I apply that to everything and whenever I'm learning anything, I apply that. Because if you don't, what ends up happening if you're only getting your news from one source? And again, I know it's ironic because a lot of you probably get your news about ethereum from me, but like, don't just rely on me. Like obviously look at what other people are saying.
00:21:16.622 - 00:21:45.554, Speaker A: You know, go, go look at bankless, go look at some of the smart people on crypto, Twitter and Reddit and all that sort of stuff. But generally I just, I just don't take anything that one person says as true fact. I have to, I have to go and like, look at it. It's kind of like when your teacher told you not to take what Wikipedia says as fact, even though there's kind of like references. Go check out the references. Right? Cross reference it and see what's, what's actually true. See the disagreements about it and see kind of like the, the other side of the argument as well.
00:21:45.554 - 00:22:24.488, Speaker A: And then you can form a consensus or an opinion around it. There's, in this day and age, too many people form an opinion about something from just one source. And it's what actually causes a lot of divide within the world, I believe, and, and not just within crypto, just in the wider world, is that too many people get their information from bias sources and just trust it blindly, which is not a great, great way to go about anything, really. But anyway, I'm going to, I'm going to end that little rant there. But, but seriously, there's a fix in place for this, for this attack, which, as I said, is serious. It's not going to delay the merge. And you know, speaking of the merge as well, Terrence from the Priorlabs team shared this document today that there's a new merge testnet Kintsugi.
00:22:24.488 - 00:23:08.256, Speaker A: I hope I said that right, coming in November. So this merge testnet will basically bring the, all the execution and consensus layer clients together up, sorry, together in November up to spec, perform initial interoperability exercises and build a series of weekly devnets. All this will culminate in the launch of a persistent devnet at the end of November to observe and possibly break through the holidays. So this will probably last till January, right? Like, holidays being December, maybe early January period, and then we'll kind of revisit then. This is going to be following the same kind of process that they did during amphora, which is during that interoperability week. Or they had the milestone tracker that I went through on the refuel where you had, like, milestone stone zero through six. I don't know.
00:23:08.256 - 00:23:23.824, Speaker A: I don't know if there was a six. I think it was only a five last time. So they've added another one here called the Kintsugi code released. Okay, so that. That's really cool. And, yeah, so they're gonna basically be following that through there as well. So, yeah, I mean, as I've always saying, guys, the merge is coming.
00:23:23.824 - 00:23:45.804, Speaker A: We're just working towards it. We're getting there. And, I mean, as I said, I don't know if there's kind of, like, there hasn't. Sorry. There hasn't been any hard timelines given yet still. And I don't believe that there will be for some time, but I think that from what I can tell on my own personal opinion, we're still on track for a q two release here. So we'll have to see how that all shakes out.
00:23:45.804 - 00:24:43.448, Speaker A: So Ribbon Finance announced a new product that's coming soon called Ribbon treasury, which apparently, or is supposed to help Dow treasuries generate yield on their native assets using covered calls, which are option strategies that let people sell potential upside in exchange for cash today. So what daos can essentially do is that they can, as Ruben Finance describes here, finally monetize their native assets, which sometimes makes up 90% of a Dow treasury native assets basically being their native token. Right. Like, for example, I believe the index corps treasury is, like, 80% index tokens or something like that. And then, you know, selling calls and receiving premiums in stables helps to diversify that treasury. So it's essentially a way for the DAO to say, okay, well, we have a lot of these tokens, and we know people want them, so let's kind of, like, sell these calls and get a premium in stables and kind of, like, fund ourselves in stables. And as Rubin says here, daos are well suited to.
00:24:43.448 - 00:25:23.984, Speaker A: To sell potential upside because they own so much of that native asset. So. And then they say, enter the ribbon treasury, which is a private ribbon vault built specifically for Daos to run covered calls on their native tokens. These private vaults are segregated from the main ribbon vaults and runs a custom strategy for each dao depending on their needs. So they're currently looking for pilot partners who are keen on allocating some of their native tokens into the ribbon treasury. So if that is someone, if that is a project that you know, or you're kind of like ahead of that project or working on that project, definitely reach out to ribbon here to kind of get involved with this, but kind of like my view on this, I think it's a cool primitive. I think that it makes a lot of sense.
00:25:23.984 - 00:26:03.514, Speaker A: But at the same time, there was a blog post from Hazu the other day. I think he co authored it with someone else. I can't remember the other person's name, I apologize. But it was talking about how Dow treasuries, really, the assets that they have in there, you know, it's kind of a stretch to call them treasury assets because it's their own native token, right? For example, they printed it for themselves. It's not like they acquired it like, like they went out there and bought it. They basically printed it for themselves, allocated it to themselves, and now it just sits there and it accrues value based on kind of, I guess, what the, the Dow is doing, what the, the protocol is doing. So from that perspective, I think that they said it was better to not refer to them as kind of like treasury assets.
00:26:03.514 - 00:26:54.880, Speaker A: But I think that's just getting caught up on semantics here. They're still assets that are worth money at the end of the day. And if you can sell covered calls on them and basically hedge the risk out and get stable coins for it into the treasury, that's really positive as well because it also helps to bootstrap an ability for the treasury to liquidity provide too, because normally these treasuries have like their native token and then they have to sell that native token for the other side if they want to lp for, if the liquidity on their, on decentralized exchanges is really low, it's really hard for them to sell into the asset that they need in order to provide liquidity themselves. So this could help with that of course, as well. And I think just generally getting more of those tokens out of the treasury and into the ecosystem is very healthy as well. So cool new product here from ribbon finance. So just a reminder here, the EVM equivalents or the OVM 2.0
00:26:54.880 - 00:27:27.916, Speaker A: upgrade is coming to optimistic Ethereum in I think it's eight days at time of recording now. So November 11, there will be 46 hours of downtime starting at 10:00 a.m.. PST on November 11. I don't, the thing is, is that like there's going to be, there's going to be downtime here. But it's funny because this is like a L2, right? Imagine the 46 hours downtime. On a layer one it wouldn't work, whereas on a L2 it's fine. And, you know, this is such a major upgrade, it's basically pretty much like rewriting the whole thing at optimistic Ethereum.
00:27:27.916 - 00:28:01.880, Speaker A: But once this is done, as I mentioned before, the optimistic ethereum, or oe, is going to be fully EVM equivalent, not just EVM compatible. And costs are going to come down considerably, I believe, as well they've mentioned before. So, yeah, just a reminder there for everyone. I'm definitely looking forward to this, and I'm also looking forward to arbitram nitro going live, hopefully sometime this month as well. We'll have to see. They haven't given a date on that yet, but I'm sure it can't be far behind. And I'm also excited to see if optimism will finally remove their whitelist after this upgrade goes live because I want to see people deploying their apps to optimism without having to go through the whitelist process.
00:28:01.880 - 00:28:26.606, Speaker A: So we'll have to check that out. So we have to see what happens there. And I hope it happens sooner rather than later. So there was this tweet here from Matthew Deferrante today where he said deploying a smallish contract on Ethereum right now costs over 2000 USD. Insane. If gas stays anywhere near this level for too long on l one, it'll mean the end of the era of ETH being a platform of for experimentation. This is a bigger issue than most realize.
00:28:26.606 - 00:29:00.148, Speaker A: Now, I don't think this is an issue at all, to be honest. And it's a bit sad because Matthew is one of the smarter people in the ecosystem. He's been a smart contract dev for quite a while. He's in auditor as well. But, you know, me and a few of the other people on here are kind of replied saying, you know, there's l two solutions as a polygon pos chain, you know, antipro synthesis said the same thing here. Um, you know, a couple other people said, uh, you know, use a testnet, but you obviously can't use a testnet for some things because there's not a lot of live apps on there. Um, but I think that's where something like the polygon Pos chain comes in, where there's a lot of activity and a lot of live apps on there.
00:29:00.148 - 00:29:24.784, Speaker A: Um, yes, it's less security than something like the Ethereum l one, but you get to kind of like, deploy a contract for, as Mahalo says here, dollar two instead of 2000. Now, this is a kind of like, similar thing with, with Ethereum l two, like on arbitrum, on optimism. You can do it. Not for, I don't believe it's as cheap as $2, but it's not very expensive to deploy contracts there. And you can experiment with things not so much on optimism yet because they're still the whitelist. But on arbitrum, definitely. Right.
00:29:24.784 - 00:30:06.928, Speaker A: There's anyone can deploy on there. And what I kind of, like, take issue with is Matthew saying that it's a big issue, that l one can't be used for experimentation anymore. I don't believe that to be the case at all because l one is not supposed to be used for experimentation anymore. It is a settlement layer now. Like, I'm, I got to keep spreading that message because it seems that a lot of people still aren't aware of this, even people more involved in the ecosystem. But this doesn't mean that we've lost the magic of experimentation. It's just happening at different layers now, which is, which is actually really cool because those layers, we know are going to be more long term sustainable in terms of keeping the fees down, whereas ethereum l one, there's upgrades coming, you know, sharding statelessness, stuff like that, but that's probably not going to be in place till 2023.
00:30:06.928 - 00:30:40.640, Speaker A: So I don't know. I don't think this is an issue at all, to be honest. And I was a bit disappointed to, to see this tweet here today. And, you know, one other thing that I actually want to just bring up, and I hope that all of you guys actually spread this message far and wide. I'm seeing a persistent, a very persistent narrative being kind of, like, peddled by a lot of people these days, that this mythical thing called ETH two, which, by the way, the ETH two kind of like terminology has been retired. We don't really refer to, you know, the thing that's coming as ETH two. We refer to it in kind of like, not even in phases, really.
00:30:40.640 - 00:31:12.214, Speaker A: We just say, you know, there's the merge, and then after the merge, just going to be one ethereum, and then we're going to have, like, statelessness and sharding and all these other upgrades coming. But I've seen this persistent narrative that this mythical thing called ETH two is going to solve or lower gas fees on Ethereum. This is not going to happen. If people are referring to the merge as being quote unquote ETH two and that lowering gas fees, that is so far from the truth that it's totally wrong. It's literally, completely and utterly wrong. The merge does nothing for gas fees. Like, I want to make that very clear.
00:31:12.214 - 00:31:43.342, Speaker A: It does absolutely nothing. It will not affect the gas fees at all. What affects gas fees, as usual, is network demand. And the only way that we're going to scale l one to meet that network demand is through sharding and through statelessness. Sharding scales at horizontally scales for L2s specifically with data. Sharding and statelessness allows us to basically increase the gas limit or the block size, which gives us more room for activities. But the merge and this mystical, mythical ETH two thing that people keep referring to is not going to do anything.
00:31:43.342 - 00:32:20.426, Speaker A: And I really need help here spreading that message and fighting back against this pervasive narrative because I already know what's going to happen. The merge is going to go through, fees are going to be exactly the same, and then there's going to be all this fud from people saying like, oh, I was promised ETH two was going to lower gas fees. I was promised, like it was, it would fix everything. No, like, and I really don't want to get to that point because it's going to be a really, really annoying time to be in a theory and when that happens. So yes, if you guys can help me here to spread that message out there and also don't, don't spread it in like a negative way, but just say no. You know, actually ETH two or the merge or whatever doesn't fix gas fees. Doesn't lower gas fees.
00:32:20.426 - 00:33:01.806, Speaker A: But we have this awesome L2 ecosystem that does do. So you can go to like l two beat.com, check all the apps out on board, get on there and you'll be able to have like a really awesome and cheap experience. And you can also use things like the Polygon Pos chain and Ethereum aligned, aligned chain there. But yeah, I really need that narrative to die before the merge happens because if it doesn't, it's going to be a really shitty time in terms of the narrative and everything like that. But yeah, just wanted to kind of point that out there going over time here. So just wanted to get through these updates quickly so loopring have released their long awaited l two block explorer, so users can now easily pass through loopering l two blocks and data, as well as download or exploit their own transaction data.
00:33:01.806 - 00:33:31.696, Speaker A: So you can see here it's a nicely little, little design block explorer. You can search by block transaction or account id and you can go through and click through and see all the, all the swaps and everything happening here as well. So really cool to see another l two block explorer live here. And finally on the l two front, l two beat now has a way to donate to them. So if you've been enjoying l two beat as much as I have you, you can basically go to their website here, l two beats.com donate. Go to their Ethereum address and make a donation.
00:33:31.696 - 00:33:54.326, Speaker A: I love l two b. I use it pretty much every day. I love what these, these guys are doing, not just from tracking the TVL of l two, but all the information that's there and the host of it. There's so much really cool educational information on there that I donated one ETH to them. You guys don't have to do that. You can donate whatever you can spare, but definitely make a donation. If you've gotten value out of l two beats, I think it's really, really important.
00:33:54.326 - 00:34:06.154, Speaker A: But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
