00:00:11.850 - 00:01:17.960, Speaker A: Thanks for coming. I hope you got to see a very tiny piece of the bitcoin interest rate curve at the product keynote this morning. I wanted to give a quick thank you Tagando, for talking at the keynote. He's head of product at CF benchmarks, and we'll be going a little bit more into the methodology later on. So one of the best things about coming to Smartcon is that I get to see so many different perspectives on what people think of when they think of Defi. And I usually think of defi like a jigsaw puzzle that you get in a cardboard box, but instead of the normal kind with the picture on the top of it, you have no idea what the puzzle is going to look like. So when you put the puzzle down on your kitchen table or your dining room table, you might get a few bits and pieces of what the color scheme is, but you really don't get a sense of the size and scale of the puzzle until you start working on it.
00:01:17.960 - 00:03:00.150, Speaker A: And I generally think of the bitcoin interest rate curve as that corner piece of the puzzle, that one that really sets off you being able to speedily get through the rest of it, that first edge, when you can really see the size and scope of what the defi market might look like. And then hopefully, as we go more into the bitcoin interest rate curve in action, you'll be able to see a fuller picture of what that final Defi puzzle looks like. So when I'm talking about the bitcoin interest rate curve, I'm really putting it in the context of reigniting the DeFi growth engine. I think we've all seen some maybe unsustainable growth habits during Defi summer that we really want to be able to perpetuate healthy, sustainable growth in the Defi market. And one of the big pieces that's missing here is proper tools to do so. So if I want to borrow bitcoin and put it into a new project, or a new to me project, I have to go to different liquidity providers, OTC desks, liquidity pools, and research on my own what kind of interest rate risk I want to take on, what kind of prices I have and how I want to borrow. And if I'm one single piece in that Defi puzzle, and you take a look at a macro view of that, there's really a case where without a meaningful benchmark to lending and borrowing in DeFi, it's holding the industry back, it's slowing us down from sustainable growth.
00:03:00.150 - 00:04:15.130, Speaker A: And if we take a look at really some of the fragmented information that we saw during DFI summer. Even the most cautious investor can have a feeling of missing out when you see APY, like 20%, 15%, and you don't have the proper tools to evaluate what your risk is there. And so when we're talking about any type of interest rate, we're talking about interest rate risk that is everywhere. So the interest rate that you get on borrowing, the interest rate that you get on lending, it's a piece of the market in DeFi, a fundamental piece, even if you don't realize that it's there. And maybe some of the things that we've seen happen during DeFi summer, we might take a second look and say there must be a better way of deciding how we want to evaluate our risk in this scenario. So without that corner piece, without that, North Star capital becomes far less productive. There's merciless yield, farming, Ponzi schemes.
00:04:15.130 - 00:05:12.830, Speaker A: All of that that you've seen comes from exploiting uncertainty. And the more uncertainty there is in the market, the less new growth happens, the less new money comes in. The more people put their money into subsidized protocols. And while that might be great for the individual user, it's really holding us back, is preventing financing new growth. And when I think of the real root reason for this is that we're speaking a different language. Information is all over the place, but there's no one single way that we can really begin to talk to each other, both as retail investors, institutions, defi protocols, et cetera. And when I think about the type of language that I would use to talk about it, I take a look at the debt markets in traditional finance.
00:05:12.830 - 00:06:20.962, Speaker A: They have what started out as Libor and now as SoFr and other base rates, a clear cut language that they can talk about lending and borrowing. And if you take a look at the debt market in traditional finance, crypto is so far from its potential, I don't want to call it small. I want to call it far from its potential over there in the corner. And if you take a look at interest rate derivatives, which are a huge piece of the global market, they are really there because interest rate risk underpins so much new growth. And being able to have that sofa, that base rate that the traditional finance market can use to communicate the interest rate market completely dwarfs the entire crypto market, total market cap. If I take a look at what Chainlink has done in the web three space in the last few years, they really democratize information. In web three, they allow to have the same language surrounding our price feeds.
00:06:20.962 - 00:06:39.050, Speaker A: So it makes complete sense to me that Chainlink could be a democratizer of information in this lending and borrowing space. And that's why we want to introduce the CF bitcoin interest rate curve in association with Chainlink. And I'm going to hand it over to Gandh to talk a little bit more about the methodology.
00:06:39.950 - 00:07:07.126, Speaker B: Thank you, Nora. Excited to be here. Thanks everyone for joining. I'm going to dig a bit deeper into what we do generally and then how we decided to approach this problem. I'll dig a little bit into some of the context which may feel like similar to what I've spoken about in the morning. So apologies if some of you have caught that, but the methodology piece is going to be new. I did not dive into that level of detail in the morning.
00:07:07.126 - 00:07:57.700, Speaker B: So let's get started. So a little bit about CF benchmarks. My name is Gandho. I'm head of product at CF Benchmarks. We are the leading crypto index provider. We like to think we're best known for our bitcoin reference rate, the BRR, which settles the CME futures, as well as our digital asset classification structure, the DAX, which provides a taxonomy and a framework of how to invest in crypto, similar to what the GiX is for equities, if you know about that. And when we think about doing benchmarks, any kind of benchmark for prices, for basket and thematic indices, or in this case, interest rates, we have our principles that we make sure we apply in every case.
00:07:57.700 - 00:08:53.202, Speaker B: In the case of every benchmark, we make sure it has to be representative of economic reality. So it needs to reflect what's happening in the market at the point in time when we are snapping for the day or for the second or for the minute. It needs to be replicable. And that's really, really important to facilitate hedging and risk management, is that participants have to be able to say, if the benchmark is saying for today it was like 4%, there must be a way for me to replicate and get that return on that day for 4%. So it's not just a number, it's a number that participants can go and replicate using financial instruments. And then last but not least is the manipulation resistance. It needs to be highly resistant to manipulation to maintain the integrity of the benchmark in all price conditions and bull runs and busts of different assets.
00:08:53.202 - 00:10:08.484, Speaker B: And given everything that's happening in the macro environment, we make sure our benchmarks can essentially be robust enough to withstand some of these crazy events that happens on markets sometimes, as nora mentioned, global debt is a massive, massive thing. And I think just for context, for people that do not interact with debt and credit markets every day, a reminder of what is the purpose of these credits and debt markets. The purpose of these instruments is to parse risk and reward. So it allows one participant in a certain endeavor to take limited risk with limited return, versus if you're an entrepreneur starting your own company, building your own protocol, you are undertaking all the reward and all the risk for that endeavor. So this is the main kind of purpose of debt and credit, and it allows for ecosystems to grow in a much more efficient manner as the industry grows that debt go back. One more thing on this. That debt currently that has no indication of slowing down is spread across geographies.
00:10:08.484 - 00:11:01.736, Speaker B: It's spread across industries, it permeates really all industries. And crypto is no different. And for that ecosystem to continue to evolve in a healthy way, in an efficient way, and something that can be scalable, it needs benchmarks for risk to be priced as a spread, too. So that's what we're trying to do here with this benchmark transparency. Really important. When people see a return of 25%, sometimes it's not clear if somebody's offering you 25 versus 30. But if the benchmark is saying that the returns for bitcoin should be 5%, a replicable return with very minimal risk, then a participant can ask themselves, if such and such project or protocol is offering me 25, that's 20% above the benchmark rate.
00:11:01.736 - 00:12:03.164, Speaker B: What incremental risk am I taking to deserve that incremental reward? So that's really important from a user standpoint. It allows users and investors to parse through the risk and reward of various different projects. So that's from the user standpoint, and then from the other standpoint, from the protocol side of things, you want to be able to assure to the whole ecosystem that you're transparent about how you're pricing both the risk and reward of all of these products that you're offering. And this allows market makers and other financial participants to then start offering hedging solutions to people that are using the protocols. So, for example, I might be lending my bitcoin to you for 5%, maybe somebody else with counterparty risk. Higher counterparty risk I lend to for benchmark plus 3%. But this allows everyone to be able to go and start hedging that benchmark piece.
00:12:03.164 - 00:12:45.080, Speaker B: And there are market makers out there that will step in and help people hedge out the benchmark piece, and you would be left with kind of the user specific risks that are priced as a premium to the benchmark. So that's really important to just unlocking the hedging solutions for all of this. Now, let's go under the hood a little bit and see how we're putting this together. So, as Nora mentioned, this is a unique partnership. We're leveraging CF benchmarks expertise, building benchmarks and Chainlink's on chain capabilities to power defi smart contracts. So together we're building this. It's going to be an open source methodology.
00:12:45.080 - 00:13:14.390, Speaker B: It's going to be publicly available. People can scrutinize it. They can see exactly how we're calculating everything down to the formula. So you could literally go out there and replicate the rate calculation if you wanted. And we are pulling data from three distinct sources. The first one is derivatives markets. So the futures markets, so perps and fixed term futures.
00:13:14.390 - 00:13:52.754, Speaker B: This is probably by, in terms of size, the largest markets. So these are the markets you see on venues like the CME or binance or FTX. We're also collecting data from DeFi protocols such as aave or compound. We're observing kind of what's happening in these smart contracts where you could lock, kind of pledge your bitcoin and earn a yield. Last, we're going to collect data from OTC activity, borrowing and lending activity of bitcoin between institutions. And we're doing that on a survey basis. And we're combining all of these.
00:13:52.754 - 00:14:46.462, Speaker B: And you'll notice that the data that we're collecting from market transactions under DeFi and fixed term futures is partitioned, and that partitioning of the transaction data is to the service of the manipulation resistance. So, if we're just doing an average of everything together, one bad actor might try to manipulate the benchmark by doing a concentrated large transaction or a series of transactions. But if they want to manipulate this benchmark, they have to manipulate all the partitions because all the kind of volume weight averaging is happening on a per partition basis. So we're observing between three to 04:00 p.m. London for the fixed term futures, we're observing between twelve and 04:00 p.m. For DFI. And we're taking a snapshot of transactions and quotes from OTC lenders.
00:14:46.462 - 00:15:28.880, Speaker B: At 04:00 p.m. We're taking all this data, probably thousands of inputs at a time. We're doing typical financial engineering statistics, interpolation, bootstrapping type techniques to kind of make it coherent and normalized across these sources. And we're going to be publishing it at 430 London time once a day. And this is what it looks like in terms of final output. So this is an example of what the curve looked like between beginning and end of August. You'll see that it's a little bit bouncy on what we're calling the session rate, which is akin to the overnight, but not quite.
00:15:28.880 - 00:16:23.354, Speaker B: But this is the very front end of the curve. And then you can see because of the perp markets, that very bounces around a lot. Once you get into week one, two, three and months one through five, then you can see it's kind of yielding a small positive yield for bitcoin out for four, five, six months, which is a far cry from what bitcoin yields were this time last year when it was north of like around 20% annualized. So this is what we're doing. I think if you're engaged in borrowing and lending of bitcoin in your protocols or any kind of derivatives for bitcoin like futures and options integrating, this can be really useful just to be transparent with users around what risks they're undertaking and for what return. Back to you, Nora, thank you.
00:16:23.492 - 00:17:46.762, Speaker A: So hopefully, if you've seen some of the potential of the size and the scope here, we really hope that if you take that corner piece and run with it, you end up with something that is useful for an array of users. So it's not just my particular example of me going to take a pretty minuscule amount of bitcoin and putting into a project that I particularly care about. It's also institutions who want to leverage interest rate data for portfolio management and risk management. It's the OTC desks themselves who want to offer a competitive rate because they also want to know what the market is like for interest rates at the time. For automated market makers, they want to automatically recalibrate their leveraged positions and set more efficient collateralization strategies. And for models that are very common in traditional finance, like black shoals, that interest rate is an integral part of asset valuations and big part of options exchanges. So we are going to leave a QR code up year, and if you are interested in learning more about the bitcoin interest rate curve, we encourage you to scan it.
00:17:46.762 - 00:17:48.954, Speaker A: And thank you very much.
00:17:49.152 - 00:17:49.960, Speaker B: Thank you very much.
