00:00:10.120 - 00:00:50.338, Speaker A: Okay, so today's talk is about the titles from idea to mainnet obstacles for founders. And mainly together with the title, it's also a little outline of what we do at the Interchain Builders program. So the agenda overview for today is, yeah, we'll talk about these mentioned obstacles. We'll talk about how the program actually supports teams through different tracks, and we'll talk about who the teams are. We're supporting who we are, and of course a call to action. Before that, a little bit about myself. I'm Steph.
00:00:50.338 - 00:02:09.516, Speaker A: I'm the lead of the interchange Builders program. I've started with an interchange, building out the program and structuring it from the ground up, end of 2021 up to launch, and now working out of binary builders on the builders program. My background on that before is I used to study art, ran an art gallery and a tech unrelated startup, and now I'm happy to be in this space since almost two years. Building a chain is very exciting. At the start you might, you know, you're a developer, you might have an idea, you are already in the space, you're using different networks, and you kind of realize, oh, there's like something that's needed and something that needs to be built and that you're excited about building. So all of a sudden you see yourself, you're like, okay, yeah, we're building a chain, but leading up to the actual mainnet launch, which means you're launching a token. There's a lot of obstacles and a lot of things that might cause you a lot of anxiety and a lot of things that a lot of young founders, especially coming from the technical sides of things, might not be aware of at all, which again, is why we're here.
00:02:09.516 - 00:02:37.644, Speaker A: And I'll dive into some of those topics. The first one. So, yeah, most topics is specifically what we've been seeing with teams. So the first one is the actual pitch. Again, we're starting from the start you've been developing for a couple months. You realize in order to continue this, you need to raise some funds. So first of all, you need to put your product into an actual pitch.
00:02:37.644 - 00:04:05.460, Speaker A: You need to explain it to people, and you should have a full outline. So the whole question, of course, is what actually makes a compelling pitch? The pitch usually starts with, of course there's a problem, there is a solution, but then is what is actually the most important thing about this narrative that is often left out is, of course, why is this actually a problem that's worth solving? Right? Like, anybody can make up a lot of problems in this space. Um, but then are these solutions actually needed? Are there actually people um that, that, yeah that need them. Um, a second point here is um another mistake, um, in general, but especially also in these pitches, is um, a lot of teams have an idea for a token, um, how this token um, will be distributed, why it's needed in the network for security and whatnot. But the whole question that is often missing is what is the actual business model around this token? How does it accrue value? What is the actual value flow overall? And some of these things that I'm talking here about right now is in the current stages or in the current sentiment. Also in terms of what investors are seeing, it might have been possible to go to investor two years ago during a bull market and say hey we're building a product. We don't have a business model yet, but we are working on it.
00:04:05.460 - 00:06:02.124, Speaker A: But right now most investors do want to see this laid out and at least like that there has been a model or some thought put into it. Another point is token incentives. Yes, but then who are the actual customers? And this is another point that is often missing or that teams at these early stages haven't really thought of yet because again you're concentrating on the product, but these are points you shouldn't be leaving out. Also together with the actual go to market strategy, ok, you do have now an idea of who your customers are or who your earlier customers are, but what are the tactics in which you actually get to them? And lastly, and again, why these are important is within these pitches, the most important part is also who is the team? As much as it's a pitch, it's also a job interview to the investors who do ask who is your team? Oftentimes it's a lot of devs, a lot of technical people who have an idea for a product as they know the networks, but what they're often lacking is sure there's a technical side, but there also needs to be the business and the marketing side, which is why a lot of investors do want to see a team that has the full scope. So yeah, that's the first obstacle, the pitch in itself, which of course combines a lot from the business model to the go to market strategy. A second early on obstacle that teams might run into are the actual fundraising instruments. Um, why are they important? It's because at the early stages um, you might, it's easy to already make some um bigger mistakes that might have um huge implications on actual project's trajectory.
00:06:02.124 - 00:07:15.856, Speaker A: So the question is, um, or sometimes the question is not which fundraising instrument to use. Um, the common ones we know are okay, that teams are familiar with or that are being used right now in the space or safes, um, plus a token warrant or a token side letter. Um. Oftentimes teams might not exactly know the difference between the two, um, and another really common instrument that people are aware of, or that people young founders might know in the space are saf simple agreements for future tokens. But kind of what um, isn't in the common know how is like what these fundraising instruments might imply on, um, on the future, such as with both token warrants and safs, teams might tend to actually put a price on their token at the very early stages of their development. Meaning the founding team signs the agreements, puts down a number such as twenty cents, fifty cents for a token. It puts down the number of tokens that exist, but there's, what are the actual effects when doing so? I'll touch on this a bit later, but this is something that needs to be considered.
00:07:15.856 - 00:08:35.852, Speaker A: Another consideration, of course, is which documents are suitable for which jurisdictions. If you're a us team, what do you sign? If you're a european based team, what do you sign? And of course, wait, what legal structure is actually needed? Your developer company should not be signing agreements for future tokens where you are already pre selling tokens, um, but rather raise via, um, safes. Um, on the other hand, what legal structure is needed if your us company signed a token warrant? Um, and so on. So there's again, uh, what I want to point out here is what are all the things that you need to be thinking about without giving all the answers? Um, today of course. Um, next really fun topic that every founder, um, especially from the technical side, will probably, you know, want to like bump their head against the wall. Is the incorporation structure that structuring or that you will have to set up leading up to mainnet launch with the common questions? I'll just touch on it briefly. What entities are needed? How many are needed, what are they for? Why do you need them? What are their tasks? When do you set them up specifically? And again, back to the last topic.
00:08:35.852 - 00:09:30.836, Speaker A: How do these different entities actually correlate with fundraising, and why are they important? I'll just give a really simplified version of the different entity types, jurisdiction, the development phases, how it correlates with fundraising and tasks. Just to give you a brief idea, this is specifically as mentioned for us teams, as again, it differs according to the different jurisdictions. So the first step most commonly is setting up a developer company for us teams. This tends to be a Delaware C Corp Corp. Where the team starts the centralized development of the project and usually raising the pre seed and seed rounds. And in this case signing a safe and a token warrant specific task. Yeah, it's signing the docs, potential advisory agreements, NDAs and so on.
00:09:30.836 - 00:10:50.904, Speaker A: And of course it gives a general structure for like employees in this certain setup, which again is correlated to the fundraising and the token warrant. A team would need a token SPV, a special vehicle, token special vehicle company that is basically, I'll touch on it briefly, that will be mainly responsible for converting the token warrants into the actual tokens. Why is this important? Because in the case of the us company, your us developer company should by no means have anything to do with the actual token distribution. So it's actually, it takes care of this and it converts the warrants and distributes all the tokens to the investors, to the team members, again avoiding any tokens touching or being related to the developer company. And the last step in this case is the actual foundation, which is set up for launch usually, and which needs to be set up post launch. In terms of fundraising at this stage, there isn't usually any fundraising. It's more, if anything, liquidity acquisition for the network, token sale agreements, OTC deals, and so on.
00:10:50.904 - 00:11:44.360, Speaker A: There's again, also in terms of foundation, there's different ways to set this up. This could be more centralized, a structure with a foundation council that will make decisions. The foundation could also be the legal dow wrapper with a Dow constitution. And again they could then sign OTC agreements, grant agreements, service agreements with the developer company. So this is just a really simplified version of how this all looks. And now as the last point, I'll touch on general decentralization, which is a really important point for teams to have in mind as they are building a decentralized network. The question is, what are actually like some of the most important steps to make sure that the network is decentralized, as I already touched on, and again, you will see everything is intertwined and correlated.
00:11:44.360 - 00:13:00.830, Speaker A: Starting really from the early stages of fundraising is of course don't price the token. This is especially important in terms when, if the regulators do look at it, which again they will, if a project will be successful, is not pricing the token. Because the moment a founder puts an actual number on a token, it implies that there has already been some centralized control over this token, implying that, yeah, decentralized control by the founders making all of this up, basically another part of pricing the token. I didn't mention early on is of course also tax implications when launching the token that has a price. These tokens will hit founders wallets, advisors or anybody else's or some people's stakeholders wallets with a certain price which is then correlated to a certain fiat value which certain individuals will have to pay taxes on, which is a token that might not be liquid at this point. So again, that's why this is important. Another part here I'll just touch on briefly, of course, is a well balanced token distribution for equal voting power.
00:13:00.830 - 00:14:53.820, Speaker A: And also in terms of delegations of the tokens, that should be considered quite early to make sure no one foundation holds too much of the tokens. One individual, whether it's investors, team members, that could imply to any regulators that there is a majority of voting control in the same parties of interest. Another way to do this is of course, distributing this voting power is where the tool of airdrops comes in again, other than marketing and just to distribute tokens to the general public, but to really also be able to get governance going from the get go, basically starting with early proposals such as where we come to the next crucial point is decentralized secondary market creation, as no founders at any point, to really for the network to be seen as decentralized should be associated. No founders, no Devco or no core contributing company that created the network should be affiliated with any secondary market creation, nor the marketing around it. So ideally, a secondary market could be created in a decentralized way by a governance proposal where it is proposed to the community. It's a mere suggestion to create an liquidity bootstrapping pool from the community pool, from a dedicated pool that is set up or that is in place for secondary market creation, but that the community then votes on and it's a decentralized decision by the community. So yeah, that's a bit of a roundup on the decentralization.
00:14:53.820 - 00:16:22.476, Speaker A: And yeah, I'm also done with the main obstacles for founders. So again, it's mainly like things to watch out for that you might not be aware of otherwise. So to round this up, so how does the builders program support teams? Actually, we do this at this point through three different tracks, which I'll touch on in the next slide. So our preliminary track still being the accelerator track where we support Cosmos builders to launch and beyond, meaning we support teams using the Cosmos stack, building their chain from fundraising to their legal strategy through technical support, token design, go to market strategy, and of course we help them with our wide network and partnerships. Whereas the orientation track we figured out we've been getting a lot of inbound from teams, from other ecosystem, from teams, other ecosystems, from teams who are still orientating around the stack, the ecosystem being quite decentralized and hard to navigate sometimes, so we do help them. Also on the technical side, we're starting to build out migration strategies for the teams who want to migrate alongside the network and partnership sides that we try to provide them with. And lastly, the integration track for teams who just want to connect to Cosmos in general and or integrate IBC.
00:16:22.476 - 00:17:28.480, Speaker A: So it's similar, the technical support, ecosystem navigation and of course partnerships. Alongside all this, we're also creating our internal knowledge base, the knowledge hub where we provide teams with best practices around technical topics, around the fundraising topics, everything I just mentioned in the, in the obstacles, alongside with some helpful overview of different grants programs and so on, that all the teams have access to and that will also be open to the public. Yeah. Then the last cohort that we just announced we're really proud to be working with are the following eight teams and some of the previous. Yeah, you can see them, so I don't need to read them, read them out. Previous teams we've worked with are some of these. Yieldmos Calgatopia squid Paloma source also, in terms of the program structure, the idea is to support teams on an ongoing basis.
00:17:28.480 - 00:18:07.192, Speaker A: As many teams do come into the program, they're in the process of fundraising. Fundraising closing around easily takes three to four months. Um, but then of course, you know, half a year down the line, they might need actual support on, on the mainnet launch or something else. So we do want to make sure we're still around and don't off board the teams after their three month of closing their round and then it's goodbye. So it's. The program is long, it's made for longevity and for a long term partnership between us and the teams. Lastly, on who we are and where the builders program is operated.
00:18:07.192 - 00:18:38.384, Speaker A: It's out of binary builders, which is also home of the Cosmos SDK Anumia and also runs a validator. And we're proudly funded and supported by the Interchain foundation. So that's it. Apply now builders. Follow us on Twitter or reach out via email if you'd like to. So how does the funding of the foundation work? It funds our operation. It's a public.
00:18:38.384 - 00:19:09.450, Speaker A: So the interchange builders program is public, good for the ecosystem, supporting teams. So we do provide the hands on held experience to support teams in terms of fundraising. Again, we help teams with a pitch deck. We have a network of investors with whom we then share the teams, but nor the interchange foundation or we are doing any investments in the teams. Exactly. So, yep, that's it.
