00:00:00.360 - 00:00:30.270, Speaker A: What's up, guys? Taiki here. And in this video I'll be going over reflexivity in means in crypto. If you like the content, please like and subscribe and leave a comment in the comment section below. So let's get started. The goal of this video is to share some, you know, thoughts, share some insights from thought leaders in this space from these folks here. Matty, who is the author of the essay I'm gonna share, is a partner at Z Prime, a crypto VC. Hasu is an independent crypto researcher, well as Suzu, a CEO and CIO of three arrows Capital.
00:00:30.270 - 00:01:24.962, Speaker A: And namely, I'll be going over this article that was written by Mati on November 3, 2020 on reflexivity and imitation. I learned a lot from this article, and I want to share my commentary along with some key insights that I learned with you. And if you're like me, I usually don't like reading long essays, and you probably would rather have someone like me tell you about it instead. So I've gone over the troubles to basically consolidate the key insights and share with you what I think is important. So first, you know, Matthew begins the essay saying that, you know, this essay aspires to introduce the reader to a couple of philosophical frameworks in a playful way, offering a different analysis of the current market situation. This is really important because the crypto markets is affected, like, by market psychology, right? Like, sentiment is really, really important, and you should. And it's important to think about, like, what's driving, like, random price movements when certain cryptos go on this parabola and then dumps 50%.
00:01:24.962 - 00:01:46.650, Speaker A: It's because crypto markets are, you know, fueled by emotion. People get really excited about a project, and people pay whatever they can to write the hype, and then the smart money dumps on them and. Or even to the developers, right? If it's a Ponzi or whatever. And anyways, let's. Let's focus more on this article, which was really thoughtfully written by Matty. But now let's. Let's go over the theory of reflexivity.
00:01:46.650 - 00:02:35.360, Speaker A: If you don't know what reflexivity is, it basically states that investors don't base their decisions on reality, but rather their perceptions of reality instead. And this leads to a virtuous cycle where a change in price leads to a change in perception, and a change in perception leads to the justification of fundamentals, and that justification of fundamentals leads to a change in price. So let's go over some examples of how this works. So whenever you see. So when you see the Ethereum logo, right? Do you see a pre mine scam from, you know, this russian dude from named Vitalik Terran? Or do you see a world computer? The future of finance. Well, it depends, right? Like, when the price of Ethereum starts going up, it's like, oh, Ethereum, it's going up again. Like, what the hell? Oh, wait, more people are using it.
00:02:35.360 - 00:03:11.542, Speaker A: And, you know, there's demand for transactions on the Ethereum blockchain. Maybe this is the future of finance. Oh, wow, there's so much you can do on Ethereum. And this is the virtuous cycle and the reflexivity theory that George Soros talks about. And obviously this appeals. This applies to bitcoin, where right here, do you see a pyramid scheme, digital gold, or an alternative monetary system? So let's dig deeper on how reflexivity works with bitcoin. So looking at this chart here, obviously as number go up, people start to learn about it more, right? Oh, bitcoin's back.
00:03:11.542 - 00:03:42.570, Speaker A: Like, I thought it was a fad in 2017 after it crashed. Now, no random celebrities like Lindsay Lohan is tweeting about it. It's on CNN, CNBC, Fox News, like, whatever, you know? Well, more people learn about it. And as more people learn about it, you know, they're gonna learn. They're gonna watch YouTube videos like mine. They're gonna read articles and think to themselves, huh, is bitcoin digital gold? Well, it's a trillion dollar asset, huh? Maybe this is, you know, maybe. Maybe boomers might not own it, but Zoomers will.
00:03:42.570 - 00:04:24.402, Speaker A: And in 20 years, like, we're gonna throw away gold, but buy bitcoin, right? And as people start to ask those questions, they're gonna look at, oh, my God, there's only 21 million bitcoin. It's completely decentralized. And, oh, yeah, it can totally replace gold. Like 500k price target. And that's gonna keep pumping the price up as, like, random analysts from, like, random banks and random youtubers start to, like, you know, save bitcoin to a million by 2021. Like, whatever, right? And, you know, this is like a way to consolidate, like, this kind of cycle on the left hand side, you see, you know, this virtual cycle of price going up, but it can also go on the way down, right? If bitcoin were to dump 50% like it or 50% or more, then people will write bitcoin off as a fad. It's a Ponzi scheme.
00:04:24.402 - 00:04:53.530, Speaker A: Like, ah, I knew it would fail. There was no way that this random dude named Satoshi Nakamoto could meme a currency out of thin air. And, you know, that's a summary of reflexivity theory. And that's one of the reasons, you know, crypto tends to have these boom and bust cycles where price goes on a parabolic ride to, like, insane levels. And as people start dumping, then, like, crypto crashes 80, 90%. Now, let's go over memes and mimetic theory. Mimetic theory.
00:04:53.530 - 00:05:40.510, Speaker A: So, you know, Jeff Bezos defines a property of information that has a high virality potential as something that removes nuance and also something that adds emotion. And this is basically defining memes, right? Memes are basically marketing tools that spread information in a symbolic way. Often memes are really funny with something that we can relate with and something that, you know, we're going to share with our friends. You know, we're going to tag people, we're going to retweet, and, and we're going to spread information around. And as we spread information around, more people will become aware of a meme. And ultimately, memes influences investor behavior. So let's take a look at money printer Gobert, right? Like, we all of this meme, bitcoiners, like, retweet this thing every single day, copy and paste every single week, et cetera.
00:05:40.510 - 00:06:02.326, Speaker A: Well, let's dig deeper into this meme. So, obviously, you know, there's a federal reserve right there. You know, whenever they see the markets go down, they're going to print money. They're going to print money to save the markets. And until, you know, like, every ten years, they're going to do this, right? Like, it's kind of ridiculous. But, you know, that's kind of how markets work. You know, old people in DC print money.
00:06:02.326 - 00:06:18.196, Speaker A: Us dollar turns into toilet paper. And, you know, like this, this, this means that they're destroying our wealth. The money in your checking account is becoming worthless over time. You're becoming poor. If you don't own assets, what do you do? Buy bitcoin. That's how you do it. That's how you, you know, that's how you save your wealth.
00:06:18.196 - 00:07:13.282, Speaker A: That's how you don't have these, like, corrupt government officials, you know, destroy, you know, our livelihood. And if you think about the Jeff Bezos framework of, like, something that goes viral, you know, the first two points, it's reducing nuisance, right? Like, obviously, monetary policy is really complicated. There are, like, Jerome Powell and his team is, like, thinking really, really deeply about, like, how to conduct monetary policy. Looking at unemployment numbers again, inflation, looking at the DXY relative to other currencies it's really complicated. But at the end of the day, you know, it's old people printing money in DC, and the dollar total turns worthless over time, right? If you're trying to explain this to, like, if you. If you're actually trying to explain what happens behind the scenes to, like, some random Tiktoker, like, you'd rather just use, like, this explanation instead. And obviously, like, this leads to the second, the third point of no, they're destroying our wealth, right? It's.
00:07:13.282 - 00:07:41.990, Speaker A: It adds emotion, and there's. There's truth to that. There's a reason housing prices and stocks always goes up. And there's a reason why, you know, 100 years ago, you could buy a loaf of bread for like, $0.05 or whatever. And ultimately, you know, how do you preserve your wealth? You just buy bitcoin and, you know, leading to this and combining reflexivity and memes together. Human desire is born out of the idea that, you know, other people around them also desire the asset, which becomes reflexive.
00:07:41.990 - 00:08:14.008, Speaker A: And with bitcoin, it's really interesting because the price is often the meme, right? As the number go up, people start to ponder, like, maybe this is, like, maybe there's. Maybe this is a real thing. Maybe, like, it's not going to go to zero. And as people start to, you know, think about, like, what the hell bitcoin is and why it's getting so popular, people start to see their friends and people around them buy bitcoin. And I, that also increases demand. Huh? All my friends are buying bitcoin. Everyone I respect buys bitcoin.
00:08:14.008 - 00:08:53.505, Speaker A: Elon Musk bought bitcoin. Maybe I should buy bitcoin, too. This is a funny illustration of memetic theory where, you know, there's a guy like Peter Schiff, like, a permanent perma bear, that says bitcoin is a ponzi. And maybe he's right the first time when bitcoin went to dumped a dump, okay? But, you know, as bitcoin gets the six figures and it keeps, the demand keeps going up, people will start to take notice. And at the end of the day, you can't be a perma bear forever. When the asset keeps going up, you're gonna have to capitulate and just say, you know what? I'm gonna buy more bitcoin. I'm gonna stack Sats.
00:08:53.505 - 00:09:22.480, Speaker A: Obviously. Like, Peter Schiff isn't gonna do this, right? He's. He's a perma bearer. That's. That's his personal brand. But if you think about, like, random hedge fund managers, like those boomers, like 60 year olds on CNBC, saying bitcoin is not going to end well. At some point, they're going to have to basically admit that they're wrong and be like, you know what? I decided to invest 1% of my client's portfolio into bitcoin because it's an inflationary hedge asset and it has asymmetric, it has an asymmetric risk reward, yadda, yadda, yadda.
00:09:22.480 - 00:10:05.090, Speaker A: And, you know, this was a really cool quote that I saw where, you know, the mind tells markets how to move, but the markets tell the mind what's desirable, and it's the reflexivity. And memes are so integral to why bitcoin and other crypto assets have garnered so much demand in the past, you know, twelve months. And, you know, it also applies to Ethereum, too. And, you know, it also makes you think about, like, how narratives affect the crypto space where, you know, with Ethereum recently, this narrative is starting to pop up that ETH is dead, right? Because gas is too high, it's not scalable. ETH is dead. No one's using eth. Like, no one can use ETH.
00:10:05.090 - 00:10:45.130, Speaker A: Obviously this is false because gas is high, because there's so much demand on ETH, right? People want, so many people around the world want to get transactions done on Ethereum. That's why gas is so high. But it also doesn't scale if gas is also super, super high. Obviously the team is working on this. There's L2 solutions, etcetera. But this narrative is why some other crypto assets, like BNB, on binance, smart chain, Solana, Polkadot, Cardano, they're mooning because this narrative exists that Eth is not scalable. So if Eth is not scalable and we believe in crypto, maybe Cardano, maybe people will go to Cardano, maybe people go to Polkadot, et cetera, et cetera.
00:10:45.130 - 00:11:17.312, Speaker A: You know, this whole narrative that is that most likely false, but it gets people to invest and speculate in other assets because we simply do not know. In summary, it's all about the narrative, right? It's all about the narrative. People are going to invest in whatever they think has value and whatever they think they're going to pump. Because crypto is so speculative. Like, no one knows it's going to happen. Like ten years from now, the top ten coins outside of bitcoin might be totally different. So we're simply speculating on what we know today.
00:11:17.312 - 00:11:54.082, Speaker A: And what we know today is simply, it's really affected by the people we follow, the random youtubers we watch, and whatever we see on the news. And ultimately the market is what others see the market as. This is really important because with memes, the money printer go for meme is so important because it's so simple to understand, right? Like money printed gober dollar turns into a paper buy bitcoin. With Ethereum, it's a little more complicated. It's a world computer, decentralized finance. It's peer to peer money. We're removing financial intermediaries.
00:11:54.082 - 00:12:23.692, Speaker A: It's harder to wrap our heads around. So maybe it's harder for Ethereum to go up and for assets like Keeper Dao, which I'm really bullish on. It took me like two, three weeks to fully understand what Keeper Dao is. And now that I understand it, I'm pretty bullish. But I also have to understand that it's also going to take other people to. To spend two or three weeks to fully understand it and buy into the asset. So this is why, like, riding the hype train sometimes works, right? Like something buying a smart chain.
00:12:23.692 - 00:12:53.096, Speaker A: Oh, it's so much hype. Pancake swap goes to the moon. Berry goes to the moon. BNB goes to the moon, and it's riding a hype train. It's one type of investing, but, you know, I like to stick to fundamentals and what I believe in, which is bitcoin, Ethereum and Defi on Ethereum. I don't like to go to other chains, but, you know, that's my thoughts. But I thought it was really interesting about how memes and reflexivity really play a role in crypto.
00:12:53.096 - 00:13:24.660, Speaker A: And if you'd like to follow, you know, Matty, Hasu and Suzu, here are their Twitter handles. I think they're fantastic figures. It's cool that, you know, these anonymous figures have a really good, really big following in crypto. People don't really like what? Like, your background has less merit. It's like, what you say has more merit, if that makes sense. And these pseudonymous characters in crypto are really interesting follows because they're really honest. Like, there's nothing holding them back.
00:13:24.660 - 00:13:33.040, Speaker A: So, you know, that's the end of the video. Let's sit on our gigachad brains and think about it and, you know, happy investing and have a great day.
