00:00:00.240 - 00:00:08.325, Speaker A: I think you need high throughput data availability and if Ethereum does not do that, then I don't see how they're going to be as relevant long term.
00:00:21.825 - 00:01:13.233, Speaker B: Welcome to Unlayered, the show where we talk about next generation blockchains. I'm your host Saul, alongside my co host Dave. And today we have the privilege of talking to Logan Jastremski, founding partner of Frictionless Capital. Also has a podcast of his own, one of the oldest kind of Solana leaning, high throughput leaning podcasts, which I believe is also just called the Logan Dristrensky podcast. And I think has been one of the oldest voices in all of, you know, whatever you want to call it. Crypto, Twitter, just crypto generally in support of scaling approaches like Solana's. But of course there's other blockchains that take similar approaches and I think in a lot of ways has been right for a long time, but has had to kind of fight through lots of pushback, whether it's in real life on Twitter from Ethereum Maxis.
00:01:13.233 - 00:01:28.195, Speaker B: And so this is an episode we've been wanting to do for a while. I think Logan and his team at Frictionless have been kind of a guiding light for a lot of people in Solana and super excited to kind of get into what you guys are finding exciting these days.
00:01:29.015 - 00:01:43.795, Speaker A: Really appreciate the kind introduction. Sal and Dave, thank you so much for having me on the podcast. Really looking forward to this. Been watching your guys work from afar from some time, so I appreciate the opportunity to come on.
00:01:44.815 - 00:02:17.205, Speaker B: Amazing. Now we appreciate you coming on. You know, there's a lot of things we can kind of get into today, but I think a good starting point is let's talk a bit about just the state of Solana and the state of high throughput chains. It feels like in a lot of ways there's been some capitulation on I guess the more eth aligned side, but how does it feel to kind of be right? And on the flip side, are we still kind of testing out if this thesis is going to prove to be true?
00:02:18.585 - 00:04:00.731, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, maybe jumping Back to like 2022, 2023, we were kind of chit chatting a little bit before we started recording. I mean, at that point in time, especially kind of post Luna, post ftx, if you're even remotely bullish on Solana, you were laughed out of a room. And I think for us, why we had such high conviction on generally Solana and now the multitude of high throughput blockchains, because it seemed inevitable from a true Scale standpoint, if you actually wanted high performance that you couldn't really obfuscate physics, you could move the data availability around, you can move the compute around from the L1 to the L2, but at the end of the day you still had to have that kind of compute in high bandwidth done at some point somewhere in the stack. And so we kind of went all in even prior to 2022, just saying, hey, this is probably a architecture that we should explore and really just leaned heavily into that, even post FTX when it was deeply unpopular. I think fast forwarding to today, I mean, we had the run up in Q4 of 2023 and Q1 of 2024 and more. So to me that was just kind of, hey, maybe Solana is not actually going to die and these high throughput blockchains may still be kind of stay around for the future. But I think as we've kind of progressed through 2024, to me, one of the more interesting things and things that you highlighted, Sal, was more kind of the mental capitulation in Ethereum's underperformance than anything else.
00:04:00.731 - 00:05:10.557, Speaker A: And I, I think that's really just been highlighted that it's kind of clunky to use. It's not super straightforward whether you should build on base, arbitrum, optimism, ZK sync. And that's like not a knock on like any of those individual teams. There's very smart engineers. It's just when you introduce different standards and no one can agree upon standards, it just makes it a little bit more cumbersome to try to do the technical due diligence to which one I'm going to build upon. And that fragmentation, I think just causes a lot of confusion for engineers to say if I pick the wrong stack, then I'm kind of sol because I did all this engineering work and maybe it's easy to kind of copy and pasta your project because it's evm, but maybe it's not. And so to me that has been kind of really interesting to just watch the Ethereum community start to grapple with some of the design decisions that they've really made the last, I'd say two, three years.
00:05:10.557 - 00:06:23.875, Speaker A: And the high throughput blockchains really spearheaded by Solana are really, in my opinion, more dumb in the fact that it's saying, hey, we're going to add more bandwidth, we're going to add more compute as you need additional scale, and we're going to scale in a large single shard. And by having a large single shard, what ultimately you're creating is one shared standard where when you use Solana or use Sui, use Aptos, Monad say there is no sharding, there is no different versions of the optimism arbitrum base. And that shared standard that everybody opts into just makes everybody's lives easier from day one because you're opting into a system that is all agreeing upon a shared standard to use. And so I've really been in awe just by some of the mental capitulation that's been happening. And I think I wouldn't claire high throughput as kind of obvious winners, but I think the trend is very clear and high throughput is going to remain the dominant architecture. In my opinion it should emerge as the dominant architecture going forward.
00:06:26.255 - 00:07:27.275, Speaker B: So I think one thing that's been clear now and we were talking about this a bit earlier versus when Solana was still a non consensus let's say like in 2022, even obviously 2023 after FTX. So back then everyone said that you need to put an order book on chain and Solana is the only way to do it. And so that was oftentimes a very common thesis Today one of Solana's strongest areas of PMF is meme coin trading or long tail asset trading. Permissionless creation of assets like pump fund launch pads. And all of those markets are traded pretty much exclusively on AMMs because AMMs are better suited for long tail asset creation as well as trading. And so interestingly there's days where Solana Dex volumes flips Ethereum and that's become the dominant way people do defi and slot. On the flip side, I mean maybe I'm kind of out of tune with this.
00:07:27.275 - 00:07:41.935, Speaker B: I just don't hear a ton of people talking about protocols that are getting substantial volume using an order book model. And so was this something you saw coming and how what's kind of your reaction to this, this weird kind of emergence?
00:07:44.245 - 00:08:45.211, Speaker A: Um, I think in all these ecosystems, I mean when you compare Trad5 to DeFi it's really like a spec. I mean if you look at market makers, market makers haven't really makers of liquidity. They've generally only been tickers of liquidity. And so we haven't really seen someone come in and say hey, there's enough volumes here to actually start being a market maker on blockchain. So I do expect that to change in the future as volumes continue to increase. But I wouldn't say it's super surprising that AMMs have kind of been the predominant form of trading, especially in assets that are kind of new and emerging and kind of slightly strange. And so our, our thesis more broadly was that hey, if you have high throughput blockchains, meaning you have more block space, ultimately that will result in cheaper fees.
00:08:45.211 - 00:09:51.547, Speaker A: And cheaper fees will ultimately enable engineers to experiment with different types of applications that would no longer previously been possible. And I think that was directionally true. And what we've started to see now is that more and more applications can kind of live within these high throughput blockchains. They're in a shared ecosystem, they do opt into that shared set of standards, as I mentioned. But there are really in my mind going to be no applications that are better suited on a low throughput blockchain than a high throughput blockchain. And I think that is kind of the beginning of what we're starting to see is that people are questioning, hey, why are we paying more here? We have higher latency, worst block times, so we have larger spreads. All these kind of things that Frictionless capital has really been saying from the early days and it's now just starting to manifest itself within different communities outside of the Solana community.
00:09:51.547 - 00:10:32.295, Speaker A: And I think that has kind of been more interesting to watch than anything else. But I don't think it's been super surprising to me that AMMs, especially within these long tail of assets have started to kind of or have caught on. I, I do think the end state will probably be some combination of AMMs to get a certain amount of liquidity. Once things hit certain volumes, you will have market makers say, hey, I can actually profitably market make this. Let me start to do that. If there's enough volumes and majority of those volumes on the high trading pairs will actually be done on an order book instead of an ammunition.
00:10:33.185 - 00:11:32.535, Speaker C: Yeah, and let's go with that. Let's say that order books do become the dominant way that people are trading these large scale assets. But I think the trend that we're maybe starting to see is Backpack and Cube have sort of done it. And I know Zeta are now talking about doing an L2 on Solana where there's going to be a hybrid sex decks. And the reason is because even if Solana gets, you know, optimized as well as it can be due to the, the laws of physics, it can only really get down to maybe 200 milliseconds and Binance is around 20 milliseconds, let's say. So as a result, they're sort of all having to converge if they want to be able to legitimately Compete with Binance on a sex Dex hybrid, if you like. So do you think that this idea that you need high, high throughput blockchains in order to allow trading and in order to allow order books, is that maybe not being proven? Are we instead just going to end up with a sex with slightly better.
00:11:32.535 - 00:11:36.267, Speaker C: Yeah. Conditions around the security of it?
00:11:36.451 - 00:12:54.083, Speaker A: I would actually disagree with the first claim around that. I mean it is technically true and obviously true from a physics standpoint that if you have a single sequencer with an order book, then you can do millisecond latency because it's one computer. You don't have to communicate with other computers that are geographically dispersed around the world. And so you can trade at like milliseconds or nanoseconds, which is interesting. I mean, I think one of the things that I've been thinking a lot about with blockchain architectures is you remove quote, unquote, the blockchain part like or the naming of it. If you strip that off and just said, is this a better product? What do blockchains actually enable for as better products? And I actually think you can have better price discovery in a high throughput blockchain than you could a centralized order book like the New York Stock Exchange. And I think the more that I've been thinking about this, one thing that I've really appreciated about Anatoly was him being really steadfast in his vision of NASDAQ on a blockchain.
00:12:54.083 - 00:13:59.569, Speaker A: And I think why I'm kind of pushing back against the assertion that these central limit order books that are on single sequencers or single computer will never be better than a global price discovery engineering is because at the end of the day really all trading is done on new information, information flows. And it really prices are being reacted to. Hey, something has changed in the world now for I should change the price of this product or I should react to that. And everything is really bound by physics. So the speed of light, um, Tole often uses this example of say an earthquake happens in Japan that has to propagate through a fiber optic line to New York. If the, the sequencer is the New York Stock Exchange. And so that takes about 60 milliseconds.
00:13:59.569 - 00:14:58.265, Speaker A: But there's no reason why that trade should not have been reflected already by the time it got to New York. So that trade happened in New York. It then that trade is propagated through the same fiber optic cable to New York. And by the time that that information has arrived in New York, the price is already reflected, saying hey, this thing has dumped 20% because there's an earthquake. And so I, I think the end state and I, I gave a talk at the escape velocities guys Deepin Summit recently about the end state which I believe is going to be these multi leader systems that allow you to cut down on the latency. You have high throughput, obviously parallel processing. But these actually are, are better ways to do price discovery than a central limit order book because of how information is actually propagated around the world.
00:14:58.265 - 00:16:10.095, Speaker A: And I actually think this is a better product than having the New York Stock Exchange where all computers are co located to a single sequencer. They're giving the same fiber optic cable so that no one has information advantage and you pay hundreds of thousands if not millions of dollars to be co located with everybody else in the same data center. And to me that the fact that blockchains can actually compete on this standpoint, yes, we're not competing on like millisecond latency ticks. You're competing on better price discovery when information is actually synchronized around the world is like really, really interesting. And so I think today there's a variety of reasons why teams are exploring the L2 design and happy to get into that, but I would generally say people have underappreciated the vision of what global price discovery can actually do and I think they're too myopic on focusing on the millisecond ticks versus is this actually a better product to enable price discovery? Which I think in the end state it will be.
00:16:11.435 - 00:17:10.499, Speaker B: What's been your reaction to I guess like during periods of high congestion. I think this is one of the things that made me, I don't want to say less confident in the high throughput chain approach, but made me question a few things. Was during the spring, let's say March, April, there was times where trading on Solana was pretty much as expensive, sometimes more expensive than on an L2. Obviously that's come down since then, but so did network activity. So it could be just a consequence of reduced demand and strain on the network. In a world where we're really trying to get hundreds of millions if not billions of people on blockchains, I still really haven't seen strong evidence that these things can handle insane amounts of demand on the network side. And so in that light it does sometimes make some sense to have this modular world where chains just all do one thing really well.
00:17:10.499 - 00:17:35.995, Speaker B: Perhaps maybe there's an entire chain for just one application and so it's not affecting applications on other Chains. Not that I believe it, but I, I think the argument got a bit stronger after seeing Solana struggle so much during the spring when, when there was so much like activity on meme coins. I mean do, do you have any kind of learnings from that whole experience? Do you think their scaling approach will actually solve some of these, these challenges that they've, they've faced?
00:17:37.455 - 00:18:24.921, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean one of Frictionless Capital's first blog post was about the different scaling essentially about high throughput blockchain and why we had such high conviction and generally this correct architecture. If you wanted to separate the L2s and the L1s, essentially we were articulating was you need high bandwidth and you need high compute. You can separate those into modular if you want or you can integrate them. I think the integrated point of view is cleaner because of that shared standards that I've kind of been alluding to throughout this podcast. But mm. One thing about Solana's roadmap that they've never done yet is a block size increase. And like if you look at like Ethereum's roadmap, I mean they started with smaller blocks and have eventually been gradually getting larger and larger blocks.
00:18:24.921 - 00:20:04.223, Speaker A: And Slana is still really in its early days, I would say still there's a lot of bugs with stakeway quality of service, with trying to figure out single leader ecosystems before getting into multi leader, how to ultimately charge fees, what is the best way to price resources. And all those bugs have kind of been the core bottleneck that the engineering team has really decided to focus on before saying hey, let's just increase the block size limit by 2x because realistically today Solana, most blockchains are still doing kilobytes per second, which like in Ethereum's case they're doing less than 56 kilobytes per second, which is worse than dial up in the 90s. And Solana was really the first blockchain that was able to do like low megabytes. And for the non networking nerds, kilobytes to megabytes is a thousand X, megabytes to gigabytes is another thousand X. And so these are dramatically large increases in overall kind of data being propagated through the system, which ultimately is the limiter when you have these decentralized systems and need to achieve consensus because the quorum needs to agree on the state of information. And why I'm kind of highlighting this is because there has been issues within Solana in the past, really around downtime, around fixing these bugs. But They've never done a block size increase limit.
00:20:04.223 - 00:21:05.963, Speaker A: And Solana today is only doing a couple megabytes of throughput. Like they're not even doing hundreds of megabytes, let alone gigabytes. And so I kind of laugh if people say, look, we've reached saturation today and Slana is no longer going to be able to scale. What the engineering team has been focused on is fixing these issues. So when these, whether pricing, whether ddosing the network, fixing those first to say, hey, when you actually double the block size and increase throughput, as Solana's roadmap has really articulated from the beginning, that you actually get a linear increase in performance which is a 2x and then you can do that again and again and again. And I just like, to me, I don't think people have really appreciated the architecture of high throughput. And the dumbness of it is you increase bandwidth and you increase compute and that will increase the amount of total throughput in the ecosystem.
00:21:05.963 - 00:21:55.669, Speaker A: And it's the same for modular blockchains, whether it's Celestia Eigen layer, their whole goal is to go from kilobytes to megabytes to gigabytes and then on the L2s. Essentially it's a form of parallelism. If you want to do 10 L2s, it's similar to like an integrated blockchains that just have multi core performance but you increase compute. And so again like the physics of these systems are generally the same. Sure, maybe you can customize them slightly more if you want to do a completely modular approach. But I generally think the integrated chains are getting more customizable over time too with like things like token extensions. But we're really still on the precipice of like what these chains can do.
00:21:55.669 - 00:22:22.335, Speaker A: There's just been issues and Solana was the first high throughput blockchain to really encounter what it means when you get these DDoS attacks. I think Sui will go through this Monad Aptos. Solana is just again kind of pioneering this and those chains should learn from Solana. But the fact that we're only doing megabytes and we're not doing gigabytes, I think we're a long way from like the actual physical limitations of how hard we can actually push these.
00:22:23.275 - 00:22:59.925, Speaker C: I think Solana got overlooked as well loads during 2021, 2022 because there was quite a bankless themed message coming out that it was only the message was to increase bandwidth and compute and missing off the point that it's also to optimize the software side of things. And I think we're obviously hopefully about to see a big improvement on that again with the launch of Fire Dancer. I was just wondering maybe through all your discussions whether you have any expectations for what Fire Dancer could do for the Solana network. Is it being overhyped? Underhyped? Yeah. How do you see it all going?
00:23:02.025 - 00:24:21.087, Speaker A: I mean if you look at the Fire Dancers pin tweet on X, what you'll see is them doing I think with four a four core machine, 22 gigabit of traffic, which ultimately starts again, it's in my mind another kind of like thousand X in like networking traffic from like where Solana is today to go from like low megabytes to gigabytes. And again this is why like I'm super excited just about the high throughput architecture is because we know what the physical limitations are, which is bandwidth and compute. And ultimately the goal of these high throughput blockchains is so that when you increase the bandwidth and when you increase the compute you have linear scaling. And to me that's kind of the holy grail as you throw more resources at these things, these things can actually support it. And so I'm excited about Fire Dancers. Them, they've demonstrated some pretty incredible numbers and I think in the long term it's very much underhyped because the amount of capacity that can be piped through the systems has, will drastically increase. And I think people underappreciate.
00:24:21.087 - 00:25:25.591, Speaker A: Every time you go from kilobytes to megabytes to gigabytes, you can generally do more interesting things. You couldn't do YouTube on dial up Internet, you couldn't do 4K cloud gaming on broadband, but you can on fiber optics. And so I would say engineers are even just now starting to experiment with what is enabled with high throughput blockchains. And again, that's really been bottlenecked by some of the issues and bugs that the system has been kind of working through the kinks. But I fully expect people to continue to ex, to experiment with the sandbox as that sandbox get larger in terms of the possibilities that engineers can ultimately do. And so I would say maybe short term it's like from price action, it's overhyped because even with Fire Dancer, increased capacity does not automatically say increased demand. And so even though you have increased capacity, you're not going to get increased demand overnight.
00:25:25.591 - 00:26:23.943, Speaker A: Generally I'd be surprised if that happened. But long term, very much underappreciated. I think again I'm very excited to see what engineers ultimately do because high throughput blockchains are nowhere near their physical limitations. And as kind of an engineer at Tesla, what they always taught us to do is think in these, think from kind of the first principles of physics and push these engineering systems to a hundred percent. And we're nowhere near what you can actually do from like a physics standpoint. And so I'm excited to push the physics aspect a lot harder before exploring these different trade offs. And I understand why today software engineers want to explore the different landscapes because they say, hey, I understand this theoretical solution may be possible in the future, but I have a business and that business needs to operate today.
00:26:23.943 - 00:26:29.695, Speaker A: And so I don't fault them at all for wanting to experiment with different, different solutions in the short to medium term.
00:26:30.155 - 00:26:48.135, Speaker B: Let's shift gears a bit and talk about what you're seeing in the venture landscape, what categories or types of companies you're excited about. As we kind of wrap up 2024 into 2025, what use cases do you think will start to pick up a lot of steam?
00:26:48.995 - 00:28:09.843, Speaker A: I still think we're at the early precipices of the trading aspect. One thing that we have been thinking a lot about has generally been how do order books actually work? If you think of JITO as takers of liquidity, in the order book they build a block, they make sure that that block, that block gets to the leader and your transactions ultimately get executed in a certain order. That is generally takers of liquidity. But as I was kind of mentioning earlier in the podcast, I think one of the more underappreciated sides today, and this is largely because there hasn't been enough, enough volumes to justify it, has been more on the maker side of liquidity. So market makers getting involved to actually make markets on decentralized ledger. Um, and so I think we've been trying to really study the decentralized or the traditional finance system and say it's not going to map one to one completely, but there may be similar types of scenarios that ultimately play out. And one of the things that we have really been studying deep more recently has been order flow.
00:28:09.843 - 00:28:57.815, Speaker A: And I, I think this is generally probably an underappreciated topic, similar to MEV before MEV debates. I think order flow is probably going to be as impactful, if not more impactful than generally MEV and these ecosystems. And what I mean specifically about order flow is that ultimately market makers want to be profitable. If market makers are not profitable, they're not going to make markets. And it, if you're either competing against other market makers. If you're competing against bots. Generally what market makers need to do is quote wider spreads within the order book because they have less confidence that they're going to make money.
00:28:57.815 - 00:30:09.821, Speaker A: And ultimately what this results in is worse execution for traders because market makers are just quoting wider spreads in the order book. And so if you're able to get order flow, which is, for example, Logan wants to submit a transaction on Phoenix, he's doing that through a phantom wallet or a backpack wallet. If they have high degree of confidence that I am not a bot or I'm not another market maker, they say, hey, this person just wants to be filled, that's fine. If you have a high degree of confidence within that, you can actually tighten the spreads because you know you're. I'm not a malicious, not malicious, but I'm not a bot trying to pick off them and make a small amount of money off each trade. And so what the end result is is that market makers can. Sorry, what market makers can do is start quoting tighter spreads if they know their counterparty is not a bot or some quote unquote sophisticated actor.
00:30:09.821 - 00:31:04.801, Speaker A: And so this ultimately gives retail better pricing execution and ultimately gives market makers higher confidence to tighten their spreads that they will still be more profitable. And what this results in is just higher trading in these ecosystems. And this has kind of been predominant within TRADFI for a long time, but hasn't really been explored within these decentralized ecosystems just because there hasn't been enough volumes. And now that volumes, with the emergence of meme coins have really started to kick up volumes in these systems. I think you'll now start to see people be more and more opinionated about hey, where is this transaction or flow coming from? I want to know if it's a bot or not a bot. If you're not a bot, I'll give you tighter execution. If you are a bot, that's fine.
00:31:04.801 - 00:31:40.913, Speaker A: I still want to trade with you, but I'm just going to have to give you slightly wider spreads because I also need to be profitable as a market maker. So to answer your question, Sal, long winded answer. That is one area where specifically focus on trading. And I think the order flow is a very underappreciated category. The flip side of that is moving up the stack to applications. And we're very excited about Deep end. But I don't know if we want to chat about order flow first or if you guys have any questions there.
00:31:41.049 - 00:32:27.823, Speaker B: Just, just a quick follow up on the order flow piece because I think it's, it's interesting and what you're referring to is like we can essentially give better pricing if we know that the order flow is not toxic. It's just kind of like an end user, not just someone on Wall street or a bot or something like that. The other piece to that though. So obviously you can invest in the infrastructure to support better trading on chain. The one trend I'm curious to hear your thoughts on is just I guess the lack of lots of protocols tokenizing assets on Solana specifically. Like I feel like that real world asset trend has really been mostly kind of an EVM thing. If you look at all the top protocols that have lots of tokenized assets, right, like your makers of the world, Pendle Goldfinch, there's probably a bunch of others I'm forgetting.
00:32:27.823 - 00:33:01.605, Speaker B: But whereas I haven't heard that really kind of resonate with building on Solana. There might be a lot of reasons for it could be just awareness, could be that there's a lot more infrastructure for like, I don't know, tooling, wallets, custody for, for ETH versus Solana. I think that's changing there. It's. It's getting to parity, but I wouldn't say it's at parity today. Do you think that kind of demand side for, you know, obviously you can have the best infrastructure to support trading in the world, but if there aren't like things to trade on the chain, then you know, it's kind of a moot point. Like how do you, how do you respond to that?
00:33:02.465 - 00:33:46.829, Speaker A: These. I've been talking with a lot more institutions now and I would say these people at institutions are humans. They're generally biased by other people's opinions. And this, the wanes and sentiment also does affect how these institutions ultimately think. They're just not as quick to pivot the ship. And so as we were kind of alluding to, the high throughput blockchains have really only become in vogue I would say within the last six months. That's not much time in tradified world.
00:33:46.829 - 00:34:29.805, Speaker A: But in my conversations with them, I think the conversation today is still very much Ethereum, but it's also and Solana where before it was ethereum or Ethereum L2s. And so I think that is shifting. I would love to see meme coins have been great to bootstrap volumes. TBD on whether meme coin meme coin volume can sustain itself. I don't know. But I would love to see trading pairs. I would love to see equities, more and more things move onto high throughput blockchains.
00:34:29.805 - 00:35:22.025, Speaker A: But again, that ultimately has to come back to my point about I actually do think these blockchains can enable better price discovery. People are not going to move assets on a blockchain just to move assets on a blockchain get worse execution and like worse slippage, like it has to be a better product. And so there's been a lot of things that have ultimately kind of been building up to this, but it's in my mind been fixing the infrastructure so that application engineers can focus on applications. And like to be clear, we're still like working through that. I don't think we're done by any means. And that's evident to some people are exploring different L2s. And so I think these large institutions are very excited specifically about Solana.
00:35:22.025 - 00:36:44.697, Speaker A: They're a little bit more slow moving. It takes them probably at least a year to get people on board to do anything in blockchains and probably another year to say, hey, this is our blockchain of choice. And so I think in my opinion it's more of if we can continue to onboard more and more users. And this is kind of comes back to like the Deepin. Why we're so excited about Deepin is because I think that is a very clear use case for building better products, not better crypto products. And if Solana ultimately becomes the place for Deepin that just has the most trading volumes, has the best products and people can point to that. Everybody's always said where's crypto's product market fit? And people have historically only been able to point to stablecoins if they can point to stablecoins and a hivemapper of the world that is saying, hey, this is actually a better solution than Google Maps or a helium or an Adrena of the world, hey, you're building wireless carrier, that's actually better than what it I have in the past or with Andrena, lower costs of Internet access, that has higher Internet speeds.
00:36:44.697 - 00:37:26.915, Speaker A: These are actually better products. And so I kind of think with these blockchains you're going to have a very high power law outcome because like liquidity begets liquidity, more users will beget more users. And historically that's all lived on Ethereum. And then you just fragmented that with all the L2s. And that's why you're seeing a lot of the confusion with the EVM community where Solana has particularly said, hey, trading will happen here, deep end will happen here, NFTs will happen here. And the more and more people that kind of migrate over there, I kind of feel like it's going to be a black hole because it's just like, oh, Solana was the NFT change. Solana was the meme coin chain.
00:37:26.915 - 00:38:00.375, Speaker A: Solana then was the deep end chain. And then Solana was just like, this is the chain use to build applications. And that really is just a function of are more and more people using the blockchain. I think application engineers want their products use, institutions want their products use. And if they think they can build a better product and it's sound from a technical standpoint and they have a high degree of confidence that it will continue scale, they will shift.
00:38:01.955 - 00:38:59.211, Speaker C: Yeah, I really don't understand the confidence that some people have of still saying our Solana is going to die after these meme coins are gone, because maybe they just weren't paying attention for the last two years, but this is like the fifth narrative that we've had on Solana. And the community stayed through it even post ftx. So I don't doubt that they're going to stay through it even if pump fund revenues start to reduce a little bit. I just wanted to go back to the MEV point that you're talking about and I think it links in with what an argument that I've been seeing on Twitter recently, which is historically multicoin have said that L1s will predominantly be valued based off the amount of MEV that they can accrue. And that's specifically because like the base fees are just going to be dirt cheap because the actual cost of doing transactions from a validator's perspective is very, very, very small. And so you can't really charge very much. So you can really charge for is this contested state piece where people are prepared to pay a premium premium.
00:38:59.211 - 00:39:28.425, Speaker C: But increasingly people are saying actually no, firstly mev, basically we should try and minimize it as much as humanly possible. And the second point is it's going to be captured by applications and not the L1s. And then if that goes, then maybe all we're left with is this very dubious monetary premium argument. So how do you think the value accrual, I suppose, of L1 is going to go, and where's that MEV value going to be captured with relation to things like order flow that you were talking about before?
00:39:32.285 - 00:40:10.745, Speaker A: I. I tend to directionally agree. I mean, minimizing MEV is like minimizing gravity. I think they're just going to exist. I think what people have a hard time Today with is like the monopoly of MEV for the single leader. And this is why I think ultimately you have in the end state multi leaders ecosystems that make MEV competitive. In reality when you remove monopolies and start making things competitive is generally where you get much better price discovery.
00:40:10.745 - 00:41:11.379, Speaker A: And really all blockchains have been single leader systems. I think Sui actually may be the first to within I don't know if it's live yet but within the next couple months should have a multileader system and I'm very curious to see how that goes out. Solana though has been saying this since really day one with Anatolia that they want to be a multi leader system. Ethereum now is kind of the resurgence of make Ethereum great again and trying to do the multi leader ecosystem. So I think priority fees fees in general if you can in parallel blockchains if it's non contentious piece of state are fairly trivial. They're like fractions of a penny if that. And then for priority access I guess you will always have people that are going to pay up to some economic value to do that.
00:41:11.379 - 00:42:33.225, Speaker A: Arb But I think within L1s it's probably going to be a combination of MEV. I I guess one thing that I'm still trying to figure out is if these things actually enable better price discovery than say a central limit order book and majority of trading actually happens on these high throughput blockchains instead of a New York stock exchange of the world. The thing that is kind of always pointed to is like the sex to Dex arbs and I'm curious today that is kind of an inverse where 99.9% of trading happens on centralized exchanges but a very small fraction of the total trading is done on blockchains. But if you flip flop that then I'm I'm curious just to see like where the different arbitrage opportunities come from. If people are just saying hey the only arbitrary is going from a sex to Dex. I still think within these ecosystems long term the value is generally the platform that it creates.
00:42:33.225 - 00:43:40.035, Speaker A: Kind of the FAT protocol thesis ish. But the value of the underlying blockchain ultimately should enable applications to make a significant amount of money and capture some form of mb. And I think in the past people often stated that you need your own L2, you need your own app chain to capture MBB and I just don't think that's true. More so what we've seen is hey, you can just encode in your logic of the smart contract I want to keep this amount of the revenue or MBV trade. If this happens, especially with things like token extensions, that makes the underlying blockchain more expressive. And so I don't know. To answer your question, I think we're still trying to define this as an industry.
00:43:40.035 - 00:44:22.409, Speaker A: What I'm confident about is that these blockchain ecosystems can actually enable a better product of price discovery. I think blockchains are useful for global coordination. The platform that these enable will ultimately be valuable and you'll have very valuable applications that sit on top of it. I kind of reject the premise that you need your own L2 or app chain to capture all that value. I think there's going to be a lot of value in having opted into that shared set of standards with others and having access to liquidity. But I don't know. It's.
00:44:22.409 - 00:44:45.455, Speaker A: It's a hard question and I think one of my superpowers has been saying I don't know. And this is still something that we're trying to explore and grapple with as an industry. I think MEV generally makes probably the most sense, but we should continue to pull on that thread and explore it more.
00:44:46.475 - 00:45:05.655, Speaker B: You mentioned earlier when we were talking about themes, you're excited in Deepin's one area. I think we've talked about that topic a decent amount on this pod, but wondering are there any exciting projects or verticals within Deepin that perhaps are underexplored that you think could become really big?
00:45:06.515 - 00:46:48.672, Speaker A: We generally look at it from a market's perspective, so trying to understand, hey, is this a $10 billion outcome, a hundred billion or a trillion? And today the largest markets just globally have traditionally been computer, kind of like the aws's of the world, telecom with both wireless and fixed Internet, home Internet access and then kind of energy. And so those are kind of like the broad ones that we've been spending more and more time on. A lot of people are experimenting with like the decentralized GPU networks, particularly around inference. I think training is still kind of out for whether you can do neural network training on decentralized compute clusters when historically those were all co located in a single data center, similar to blockchains. You have bandwidth issues because of the communication overhead from decentralizing kind of the hardware stack. I am generally though fairly excited about one of our recent portfolio companies called Adrena or Dawn. What their focus on and what ultimately they figured out was that data center Internet is very cheap for probably the amount of Internet that you use per month is you pay say 80 to $100 for Comcast Verizon, whomever, your local ISP.
00:46:48.672 - 00:48:03.221, Speaker A: But the data center Internet is actually like 50 cents. And so there's a huge arbitrage opportunity if you can figure out how to get that last mile of the data center Internet to your house in a fairly low cost manner. And that has been expensive for a variety of reasons because you need to actually wire up the building that last cost a mile. Transportation, figuring out the logistics of all the wiring and tunneling, the permits, that is expensive. But what Adrena has ultimately figured out is that you can use a similar technology to Starlink, where essentially you beam Internet access from one point, which is the data center, to residential buildings and make it wireless. And this has only become possible recently because you have multi gigabit, essentially wireless communication channels that allow you to do this at high speeds. And so again, coming back to like, why I'm excited about cryptos, not better crypto products, they're just better products.
00:48:03.221 - 00:49:13.051, Speaker A: And this ultimately is enabling 50 cent Internet per month with a slight markup, say 10 or $20 than 80 to a hundred dollars. And that's actually a better product. And so I'm generally excited about those type of applications. With HiveMapper, you can squint and see, hey, if I have this dash cam in my car and I have enough people actually doing that, I can very easily squint and say, this is actually going to compound at a much higher rate than someone that's paying a couple hundred thousand dollars a year to drive Google cars around that only get mapped once a quarter at most, most likely once a year or every other year. And so these ins, these systems that incentivize people to do interesting things that actually create better products. Really excited about. I think it's probably overhyped within the crypto sphere, but it's underhyped from like a product space.
00:49:13.051 - 00:49:21.579, Speaker A: And long term, it's kind of maybe the opposite of Fire Dancer. I mean, one quick follow up there.
00:49:21.627 - 00:49:54.877, Speaker B: Because I hear this thesis a lot that depin can kind of create better products. I agree. Like, hivemapper is a very clear example. If you have a bunch of people recording they're driving, those maps by definition have to be more up to date. And I think there's been some tweets out there where, you know, like a hive mapper map caught a construction site and rerouted someone and Google Maps was putting them right in an area that wasn't even drivable. So that's, that's great. My question though is the moment that these things go mainstream and these giant corporations realize that this is a good idea.
00:49:54.877 - 00:50:26.955, Speaker B: I mean what's stopping Google from creating a loss leader hardware product, giving it out for free and then, and now it's a well known name and maybe they, I don't know, decide to launch a token or have some other incentive system that's off chain where they get points that they can redeem for something, gift cards or something like that. My question is like can't this playbook be replicated and actually be replicated better by a corporation with deeper pockets? And the end state is still kind of the same, the consumer gets a better product. But like how do you think about the business side of that?
00:50:28.245 - 00:51:20.739, Speaker A: And I, I misspoke on my last thing. It's similar to Fire Dancer that it's overhyped in the short term, under hyped in the long term. Yes, I mean all, all these things are competing on products. The more people in there, I think generally the better the competition, hopefully the better the product will be. I think the unique unlock though is if you're a pure pure play, quote unquote, deep end company, part of that is pushing the capex onto that community and there's pros and cons of that. But your balance sheet looks much different than a Legacy kind of web2 company that already has a bloated balance sheet. And so sure they could come in either pay people more or just subsidize the cost completely and pay and maybe people do that.
00:51:20.739 - 00:52:19.969, Speaker A: But maybe there's a structural cost advantage to just being pure play deep in projects that the community essentially opts into running that infrastructure for you and you're rewarding them through to ownership of the network. That pure play aspect I think is kind of underappreciated. Um, what we saw in like the early Internet days is there was a lot just companies that were brick and mortar that tried to adapt to the Internet and those were generally less successful than the companies that were just like pure Internet plays. Right. I mean Amazon versus like any bookstore, Walmart. So yeah, and so, so I think those cost advantages are just underappreciated. Now on the flip side, it makes it harder to bootstrap and are not bootstrap.
00:52:19.969 - 00:53:24.379, Speaker A: But it, you still need a leader or like to move in a general direction and get everybody aligned by that. And I think some deep end founders just think like hey, let's push everything to the community and then like let's kind of back off. I don't think you can do that. You need a leader in both regards and Perhaps the more centralized kind of traditional companies of the world are just have better leader structures. I think what I'm personally excited about is generally some of these Web2 founders that have a lot of domain area expertise in a telecom, in a networking, in a, in a mapping solution of the world and just figured out hey, crypto actually enables me to build a better product and I'm going to come over to crypto because of that. And that was very much the case with Andrena. I think Neil the founder was skeptical of blockchain for a long time.
00:53:24.379 - 00:54:04.415, Speaker A: He's like why do I need this, the fugazi? And then you kind of slowly get crypto pilled and be like oh shit, this actually makes better sense, I can build a better product. So I think that is probably going to happen more and more instead of maybe the more in my opinion. I'm interested to see if it's going to be less crypto native founders that are trying to say hey, I'm going to build a decentralized energy grid versus like a seasoned person that has spent the last 10 years knowing the ins and outs of different energy grids and saying hey, if I throw crypto onto this, I can use that as the backend coordination network to actually scale my business.
00:54:05.595 - 00:54:35.693, Speaker C: It is a really interesting question that Sal has posed. I just think that the corporations are never going to be as cheap as these startups. You know, obviously their operational costs are just going to be way higher. In Sal's example, they'd be buying all of that hardware themselves rather than getting users to buy themselves. And crucially they're just not going to want to give away equity. I just think then they would never be prepared to give up that control. And so they're always going to try and as you said, do like gift cards which is going to cost them money and ultimately their costs are just going to end up higher.
00:54:35.693 - 00:55:17.525, Speaker C: And, and also it's, it's so easy to spin up a competitor like crypto competitor because you basically need very little startup costs, don't you? You're just incentivizing them with equity which you've magicked out of thin air basically. So I think one of the great things about Deepin is it's just going to allow these industries, which traditionally have been nigh on impossible to break into, to suddenly have a lot more competition. And yeah, I think that has to be great for the customers. How about energy? You've mentioned that before. I haven't really heard many projects work in that area. We hear a lot about compute, we hear, you know, obviously helium and hivemapper, but energy is something which is sort of fallen under the radar for me so far.
00:55:18.425 - 00:56:41.967, Speaker A: Energy is interesting. There's a lot of teams today trying to tackle it from like a data perspective, saying how much? If I can collect data on like your computer is using this much electricity, your AC is using X amount of electricity, is that data valuable to sell to data providers? I'm less convinced about that, but that's generally kind of where we have seen things fall within the decentralized energy today. I think the holy grail of that is ultimately people have batteries, people have solar, and you can kind of create new energy grids by having these buy and share power between them. I think that is probably a little bit further away because batteries generally are still a little expensive to have home storage. Solar obviously is coming down as well, but still a little bit expensive. I would be very curious to hear from people that are trying to figure that out both from a costs and structure standpoint, but also a regulatory standpoint. Energy generally is very regulated and there's a lot of legal hurdles to jump through with that.
00:56:41.967 - 00:57:26.285, Speaker A: And so energy is a massive, massive market though and I'm sure someone will take a crack at it. I think the first people that start to figure out how to buy and sell energy at a more localized scale and using blockchain as the backend kind of coordination rails will tap into something fairly large. But again that is a very hard challenge from a regulatory perspective and legal perspective, which I'm kind of bullish. The more quote unquote boomers coming in and building these than kind of the crypto native that is kind of just now saying hey, I'm going to build these decentralized energy grids.
00:57:27.865 - 00:57:48.225, Speaker B: I wanted to get your thoughts on just a few other ecosystems, some which are in that category of high throughput and some which are not. Let's start with the high throughput ones. I mean, what has been your guys reaction to, you know, the emergence, emergence of Monad, Mega ETH and some of these more ETH aligned but kind of borrowing some of the ideas from Solana and other chains.
00:57:49.645 - 00:58:37.443, Speaker A: Super bullish Monad if they, I mean if you could probably go back in history and redesign Ethereum, it looked like Monad, you'd have parallelization, you'd have high throughput. It's unfortunate that ETH kind of ended up in the spot that it did. But understand the reasons why. I think it's interesting you're going when you're designing systems from Scratch, you're going to always be able to take some of the best practices that you've seen from other chains and do those as well. So I think from day one they'll do asynchronous execution, which is interesting. But by strictly keeping the evm, you're also working with some of the limitations of evm. And so I'm curious how Monad will balance that long term.
00:58:37.443 - 00:59:17.545, Speaker A: But to your point, Sal, earlier, the EVM has a lot of applications. I don't think those necessarily die. I think in my opinion for continued scaling you probably want to move to something like Monad. I think Mega Eth is interesting. I'm actually doing a podcast with them in person here tomorrow. But I'm very curious just about the latency games. When you push block times to say a millisecond, it's not that you can't do it, you obviously have done that can do it and we've done that in Tradfire for a long time.
00:59:17.545 - 01:00:41.135, Speaker A: I think it just hyper optimizes people to be co located especially for financial applications. And maybe the pitch is hey, we think this is the best way to do trading and on a single sequencer we can push block time super low. Instead of you trading on the New York Stock Exchange, you trade on Mega Eth. And Mega Eth is just open in terms of hey, you can verify that this is executed correctly and that is a better product, but you still have co location and maybe it's slightly a better product, I don't know. You can obviously do some interesting things if you're co located to the sequencer. But on the flip side, if you're not co located to the sequencer, you're always going to get front run by someone that has better information than you. And I think that is kind of the bigger question in my mind is I want to get away from people having information advantages and this is why I'm really bullish on the multi leader end state of these ecosystems because I think you can actually do a better product than what currently exists today because of the limitations of speed of light and just newsworthy events propagating through the world.
01:00:41.135 - 01:01:09.793, Speaker A: So I don't know, I appreciate these experiments being run. I think if you were to push L2s to their logical extreme, what they would look like is the New York Stock Exchange. You would have them a giant single sequencer. Everybody would co locate around them because you want that information arbitrage. So I think it's an interesting experiment. I think we probably should have run it A lot sooner. And I'm surprised Meg Eth is the first one.
01:01:09.793 - 01:01:19.409, Speaker A: A little bummed like base or harbor term optimism. Haven't done this sooner, but interested to see how it plays out and the.
01:01:19.457 - 01:02:00.095, Speaker B: Completely unrelated set of ecosystems. But I just wanted to get your quick takes on these. You know, we're hearing a lot about Tron these days, not just because they have a lot of usage with stables, but also getting a bit more usage now with trading. I think a lot of it just has to do with meme coins, but it's interesting because there's just a lot of capital there and then kind of an to that is Telegram and ton. And I think, you know, after the arrest this weekend, there's bit of a, bit of a cooling in terms of sentiment for Ton, but certainly like they have applications that have garnered tens of millions of users. What has been your thoughts on these two ecosystems that clearly have usage, but perhaps I think both of these chains are not very scalable at all as far as I understand.
01:02:01.955 - 01:03:07.235, Speaker A: Tron. And tonight I haven't dug too much into Tron's. Tron's architecture. I know Ton, though does a form of sharding. And I think one of the interesting things about these ecosystems for me is having that single shard. The more that you fragment the state, I think generally the worst price discovery that you'll have, um, you can kind of think of sharding as a form of different exchanges around the world where you have the New York Stock Exchange, the London Stock Exchange, Japan Stock Exchange, and there's a lot of MEV between those because they're not one ledger. And when you have sharding and form in a blockchain format, I think generally you're going to just have worse price discovery because different shards will reflect different prices.
01:03:07.235 - 01:03:52.473, Speaker A: And so I'm just not a super big fan of the sharding design. Especially kind of going back to what we've talked about is I think these blockchains have just gotten to low megabytes and they have not even tested gigabytes. So there's a lot of performance left to ultimately push these. I not totally convinced that the distribution of TON is going to necessarily translate to blockchain adoption. Maybe they do for like simple token transfers. And we saw that on Tron with like just payments. So maybe that's sticky.
01:03:52.473 - 01:04:40.815, Speaker A: But I think for generally trading, I have a harder time seeing how that ultimately manifests on those different ecosystems. And I truly think the winning ish blockchain will be the one that kind of becomes a more black hole where there's more users, more applications you can interact with. Go long Tesla or Short E, or play a blockchain game all within one ecosystem. Think less about hopping from system to system and the more that you have more, the more and more users that kind of coalesce there. I think it's going to be a compounding effect and this is why again, I still think it's too early to say high throughput blockchains have won, even though I think they're directionally very cracked in the architecture design.
01:04:41.875 - 01:04:49.175, Speaker C: And maybe quick final question. Do you think eth needs to scale the L1 to remain relevant in the long term?
01:04:50.605 - 01:05:42.609, Speaker A: I think you need high throughput data availability and if Ethereum does not do that, then I don't see how they're going to be as relevant long term because you're always going to hit blockchain saturation at some point in time and the only way to decrease the prices is to increase block space. Even if you use a hundred percent of that blockchain for block space for data compression, that's fine, you're just using that block space more efficiently, but you're going to have start having resource constraints once you bought up against those limitations. Which is why I've always been a fan of the more dumb version of increasing block space. Increased compute. Ethereum in its end state wants to get to 1.3 megabytes per second and that's kind of roughly on the order of where Solana is today. I don't think that's going to be enough.
01:05:42.609 - 01:06:28.705, Speaker A: And so I think they should think very hard about trying to make better products. You can still keep the properties of decentralization, but I think where they ultimately went wrong is optimizing for solo stickers instead of just people to create the best product experience. You can still have a very high decentralized network. Even if the computer costs $5,000 instead of 500, it's more so around the number of replicas geographically dispersed around the world. I think they really went wrong with focusing on the solo stickers and I think they're just going to have to do a little bit of soul searching, especially to kind of continue to justify the valuation that they're currently at.
01:06:29.045 - 01:06:39.625, Speaker B: Makes sense. I saw a tweet recently from, I think it was David Hoffman on yeah, let's. Let's make it so that the last two generations of MacBooks are approximately like the hardware requirements.
01:06:40.565 - 01:07:03.685, Speaker A: I mean, to me that's funny because that's again, this is more of like the capitulation that I was starting to see, like these. It makes no sense to run things from 10 or 20 years. Yeah. And like Internet is generally getting faster. Like when I first moved to Miami, I had 1 gigabyte. Now it's 5 gigabytes. Oh my God.
01:07:03.685 - 01:07:54.079, Speaker A: Like at data centers you have 20 gigabytes and some, some of the newer data centers have a hundred gigabytes. So like in a couple years I'm sure you'll have a terabyte and compute will continue to get faster. You'll get more cores on a single chip. And so I think just betting against humans and the progress is not good. And you should just naturally lean into increasing compute and increasing broadband. And if you don't, I think it's going to kind of be shooting yourself in the foot because you have to rewrite the technical software system every time the system throughput doubles. Instead of naturally writing the software to say, hey, we know that compute and bandwidth are generally going to double, let's write the software stack.
01:07:54.079 - 01:08:05.505, Speaker A: So every time it does double, we don't have to rewrite that software stack. I think was the fundamental shift that Solana really highlighted and now is pioneered by a couple other high throughput blockchains.
01:08:06.245 - 01:08:32.201, Speaker B: Yeah, put differently, you get free scaling guarantees just with Moore's Law. Advancement of technology broadly outside of crypto, which is the brilliance of Solana, I think. Amazing. Well, this has been a super fun convo, Logan. Very comprehensive. Always enjoy having you on, or rather you guys, we had Solana legend on a couple of times. Always some fun takes and yeah, looking forward to running this back again soon.
01:08:32.273 - 01:08:32.945, Speaker A: Appreciate it, guys.
