00:00:00.330 - 00:00:23.246, Speaker A: Good morning. It's time for first look our unboxing series. And if we look what's inside the box, it's very exciting because, well, there's nothing inside the box. That is because we are not doing physical items today. We're doing the basis trading protocol, otherwise known as lemma. It's market neutral. What on earth does that all mean? Well, I'll tell you after these messages from our sponsors, don't they?
00:00:23.268 - 00:01:03.290, Speaker B: High gas costs keep you out of Ethereum at Balancer's, a gas optimized vault architecture makes trading cheaper than anywhere else. Liquidity providers can optimize their fee earnings using the dynamic fee system that automatically adjusts to market conditions. You can also use asset managers to lend out idle assets, dramatically increasing your capital efficiency. And because balancer is an open platform for flexible automated markets, you can choose from stable pools or weighted pools. And in the future more designs will be created that they don't even know about yet. Check it out at Balancer Phi defi users, you no longer need to pay expensive and unpredictable interest rates on your ETH loans. Liquidity, a decentralized borrowing protocol, allows you to borrow against your ETH.
00:01:03.290 - 00:01:18.870, Speaker B: Interest free loans are paid out in LUSD, a USD pegged stablecoin, and need to maintain a minimum collateral ratio as low as 110%. To learn more, head over to liquidity.org defiant to get started and get the most out of your borrowing needs today.
00:01:19.020 - 00:01:37.430, Speaker A: So let's just get straight into it. Lemma. These are market neutral derivatives. And what does that all mean? So it's a basis trading protocol. They take market neutral positions. So it's a position that doesn't have any directional risk with regard to more volatile crypto assets. So it doesn't matter what the market is doing, you are neutral.
00:01:37.430 - 00:01:59.970, Speaker A: We looked at delta neutral strategies last week. This is a market neutral strategy. That's simple enough. And basically you're going to earn yield by lending assets to long traders and earn sustainable USD denominated yield. Sounds straightforward. Well, it kind of is, basically. So what's happening here is they're using derivatives and funding rates to generate yield.
00:01:59.970 - 00:02:36.922, Speaker A: So this is a basis trading strategy. And basis trading is essentially where you buy a financial instrument, a commodity or a bond, but you also sell its related derivative. And what you're looking to do is try and profit from the mispricing of securities and capitalize on small basis points changes in value. So we've often heard about how bitcoin futures price deviate from the spot price. This is essentially trying to capture some of that difference there. And this is known as a cash and carry trade. And here with lemma, we are looking at inverse perpetuals.
00:02:36.922 - 00:03:09.042, Speaker A: So the same kind of contracts you see on Bitmex futures contracts with no expiry. So they go on and on and on and on and on. We also call these coin margined perps. So they use US dollars as the quote, asset, but they're settled and margined in a base asset, which is usually BTC or ETH. And the whole way that they make a profit on this is through funding rates. So bear in mind, we're market neutral here, so the market can go up or down, it doesn't really matter. But what we're looking to do is exploit where there could be a potential profit.
00:03:09.042 - 00:03:55.074, Speaker A: And here it's in the funding rate. So the funding rates on perpetual exchanges are designed to keep the price of the perpetual contract in line with the underlying spot assets price. So what they do is they say, well, traders get frothy, they go long, they go long, they go long, and the price starts to deviate from the spot price everywhere else. And the funding rate is designed to incentivize traders to take the other side of the market, to bring it back down, so they can see a profit on the funding rate. And they go, yeah, I'll take that trade because I want to bring the market back in line, and I think I can make more money taking that funding rate. It also accounts for the difference in interest rates between the perpetual contract and the underlying spot asset. So when a funding rate is positive, long traders will have to pay a small fee to short traders, and vice versa when it is negative.
00:03:55.074 - 00:04:39.798, Speaker A: And what we can see here is a graph of bitcoin futures from a period from January 20 to kind of the middle of this year. And you can see here that the funding rate was overwhelmingly positive, although we had these big negative surges down here. So the funding rate being positive means more longs are in the market than shorts. And then suddenly, when it went really far down here, the longs were cashing out and the market needed long traders to come in and rebalance the pricing. And therefore the incentives were very high for them to do that. But overall, you can see here it's very, very green. And that's important because that positive funding rate is how Lemma is going to actually function.
00:04:39.798 - 00:05:15.082, Speaker A: So Lemma's basis trading vault yield. So this is the yield that you can expect to see as someone taking advantage of this protocol. It comes from the funding rate payments generated by a short position backing USDL, the lemma stablecoin. So how is that going to work? Well, it works on the assumption that the market is more often positive than it is negative in terms of its funding rate. And they made this assumption that there are generally more long traders in crypto than short traders. I think that's probably fair. When the market is bullish, cryptocurrencies like BTC ETH are much cheaper to borrow than USD based stablecoins.
00:05:15.082 - 00:05:53.638, Speaker A: They have the data to back that up in the documents, but essentially they're playing the ODs here more positive than negative. But it does feel like a bit of an assumption that this situation will continue. If a long bear market happens, then presumably the opposite will occur and lemma will have to adjust accordingly. So here's what's going to happen to make things basis neutral. So you deposit an asset into the protocol, and that's either swapped for ETH. If it's not ETH already, and then it's moved to a decentralized derivatives exchange, then that ETH is used as collateral to short itself, but without leverage. And this creates a market neutral position from your point of view.
00:05:53.638 - 00:06:44.762, Speaker A: You get leveraged profits and losses from the funding payments on that market neutral position. So it doesn't really matter where the ETH is going up or down, you just generate profits from the funding rate. So if you assume the price of ETH is around $1,000, if the price of ETH increases to $100, then your short position loses $100, but your collateral gains $100 in value, so your overall portfolio value remains at $1,000, and the opposite is also true. So you are market neutral. So there's this stablecoin USDL. So this is a stablecoin that is backed by the short position on derivatives exchanges, and it's going to generate yield from funding payments as long as they remain positive. However, only staked USDL receives the yield.
00:06:44.762 - 00:07:29.866, Speaker A: So it's probably possible that there's USDL that isn't being staked, and because of that they're not entitled to the yield generated by the vault. And so everyone who is staked gets a larger percentage of that vault than they would if everybody was staked. So that kind of operates what they call as kind of leverage on your yield, but it's hard to determine what exactly that would be. Let's take a look at how this is actually going to work in the protocol itself. So here we have, there's an earn side, there's a mint side. So if we were just to mint USDL we can deposit ETH and we can deposit USDC, and we will mint USDL. And this is a token that's backed by the short position on derivatives exchanges, but isn't entitled to the yield from them.
00:07:29.866 - 00:08:19.350, Speaker A: They've separated that out. If you want to get the yield from the vault itself, then you're better off going straight through here in the earn side of it. So you can deposit ETH, USDC and USDL, and in return you will receive x USDL. And that XUSDL represents a share of the yield from the funding rate vault. So you can only earn the yield if you hold XUSDl, but not if you hold USDL. Makes sense. So one thing to note here is this is on arbitrum, and if you deposit USTC and USDL, bear in mind that those two tokens will then be converted into ETH, which will then be deposited on derivatives exchanges.
00:08:19.350 - 00:09:06.120, Speaker A: So you will have to pay the cost of that exchange alongside everything else. If you're depositing ETH, you don't have to do that, but bear in mind that this is on arbitrum, so you will have to have your ETH on arbitrum as well. So we're going to look at some statistics here. There's just shy of a million dollars staked in the vault at the moment, but this hasn't read out that long, so it's kind of sitting steady at the moment. But those are the people earning a yield at the moment, and the estimated APY is eleven point 75%. Not terrible double digits generally better than stablecoin deposits at the moment. And of course you have this neutral position backing it all up.
00:09:06.120 - 00:09:24.540, Speaker A: Well, that's one way of doing a market neutral position. We looked at delta neutral last week, and if you have any suggestions for us to cover in first look, do let us know in the comments below. If you like the content we made, please do consider dropping us a subscribe a like all of those things, and I will see you on the next one.
