00:00:00.970 - 00:00:42.140, Speaker A: Hello everyone and welcome back to Decentralized Finance. Today we're going to discuss derivatives. We're going to talk about them in TradFi and we're going to talk about them in DeFi. Derivatives are paid conditional on the outcome, which is usually the price, but it could be something else of some other asset sometime in the future. And they're called derivatives because their value derives from what another asset is doing. The types of derivatives that we discussed were futures and forwards and also options. When you look at a derivative contract there are two things to think about.
00:00:42.140 - 00:02:01.940, Speaker A: One, why are they designed the way that they are? And typically the answer to that question is they're designed that way to make it as easy as possible for the natural buyers and the natural sellers to interact in the market. So the contract design is made in such a way as to bring the most possible people into the market. The second thing to think about with contract design is how it admits leverage. We talked about the use of leverage in amplifying payoffs and one of the things about derivatives is that they're usually designed in a way that look a lot like levered payoffs. Of course that means yes, you can get higher returns, but because of the leverage you're essentially getting higher risk as well. Another important characteristic to note about derivatives is because the payoff is contingent on something that happens in the future. Essentially you're relying on the person that you entered into the contract with or the company that you entered into the contract with to actually pay up at a future date.
00:02:01.940 - 00:03:19.100, Speaker A: This exposes you to counterparty risk. If you're just buying something in a marketplace you usually have delivery against payment. You really don't care who the counterparty is because if the payment doesn't move, the thing that you're buying or selling also doesn't move. But with derivatives you're making a contract or an agreement today for settlement in the future that always exposes you to counterparty risk. The question is how is the derivative contract going to manage this risk? Is it going to manage it through the way it's traded or is it going to manage it through some sort of collateral or escrow account? We briefly touched on futures and forwards basically to talk about their payoffs and how they looked over time. Just as a quick recap, what is a forward contract? A forward contract is an agreement that you make today to trade at some point in the future and you fix a price. In the context of this example, the price that you're fixing is $20 and the trade time that you're going to agree on is ten days in the future.
00:03:19.100 - 00:04:10.170, Speaker A: So you sign a contract today to trade at this price, $20 and then you sit and then you wait for ten days. Over the course of that ten days, what happens? Well, the market price of whatever you have decided or agreed upon to trade is going to move around. Prices always move. It can go up, it can go down, it can do all sorts of things. At some point ten days from now, it's going to settle down and there's going to be one specific price. We call that price the spot price. So what is the payoff to your forward contract? Well, the payoff is going to depend on whether or not you agreed to buy the underlying or sell the underlying.
00:04:10.170 - 00:05:23.620, Speaker A: If you agreed to buy the underlying, you've locked in a price of 20. And the amount that it's worth is whatever the market or spot price is on the day that the contract settles. If you agreed to sell the underlying, then your payoff is going to be the price that you locked in to sell, in our example, $20 minus whatever you could buy this thing for in the open market. What it's worth today, which is the spot market. Another way of seeing that description of what the payoffs are is to look at what we call a payoff diagram. So in this picture, I'm looking at the profit that you're making from a contract against the X axis, which is the market price of the underlying, or as we described it on the previous slide, the spot price. If the price that you agreed on, $20 in our example and the market price are absolutely identical, then the amount that you make is zero, your payoff is zero.
00:05:23.620 - 00:06:21.830, Speaker A: The higher the market price is for somebody who has the higher the market price is for somebody who is long a forward contract or has agreed to buy forward, the more money they make. Why? Because they've locked in a price to buy of 20. And in the open market, the price is way above 20. And so the profit that they make from entering into the forward contract increases linearly with the price, the spot price. Notice, however, that if you locked in a price to buy at 20 and the market price is way below 20, you're actually going to lose money. So in a forward contract, somebody makes money and somebody loses money. It all depends on what the spot price happens to be on the day that the contract matures.
00:06:21.830 - 00:07:19.242, Speaker A: So I use the word forward and I've also in the past, used the word futures. What is the difference between the two? A forward contract is a commitment to purchase at a future date a given amount of a commodity or asset at a price agreed on. So that corresponds to the diagrams that I've drawn. Typically, forward contracts are one off or bespoke, and they're traded over the counter. There's not a deep and liquid market for them because they're all unique to a specific situation. Typically, no money is handed over at any point during the trading process. And so, of course, with a contract like that, you're really relying on your counterparty to come through.
00:07:19.242 - 00:08:17.850, Speaker A: So there's large counterparty risk. By contrast, a futures contract is standardized and it's a standardized forward contract and it's marked to market. And I'll talk a little bit in the next slide about what marking to market is. All futures contracts are against the house. So you don't actually have to worry about who your counterparty is. The only thing that you have to worry about is the venue where you're trading your futures contract. So what is this marking to market? Marking to market is just a process where the cash flows and margins and collateral of all people who are participating in the futures market are adjusted on a day to day basis.
00:08:17.850 - 00:08:59.030, Speaker A: If you want to enter into a futures contract, there are a couple of things you have to do. One, there's an initial margin. You basically have to put money down in order to participate in any one of the futures contracts. The initial margin is set by the exchange where the futures contract is trading. And it typically depends on the asset volatility. The higher the asset volatility, so the higher or the more extreme the price movements are, the more money you have to put down. In addition, there's always a variance or a maintenance margin.
00:08:59.030 - 00:09:48.060, Speaker A: So if the dollar value in the account is too low. So for example, if there is a run up in price, so the value of the futures contract gets very high, you may be asked to put more money down. So this is like a collateralization ratio. In addition, futures contracts have a mechanism known as marking to market. And with marking to market every day, profits and losses from whatever the new futures price happens to be is reflected in the account. And this account is the margin account. And this will determine whether or not somebody has to put up more money or can actually take money out.
00:09:48.060 - 00:10:45.530, Speaker A: In addition, this process of marking to market means that everyone agrees on what the futures price is. It's not the case that there are many different people in the market at the same time who've entered into contracts at different futures prices. And so there's conflict about how to describe this futures price. With marking to market, there is a common futures price. Here's a concrete example about how marking to market works. Let's think about somebody who has bought, or in terminology is long one contract and a contract for silver on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, or CME. Each contract is defined to be based on a certain base quantity of the underlying the silver contracts are for 5000oz.
00:10:45.530 - 00:11:37.900, Speaker A: So what happens? Well, on the day that you go in and you buy your Hughes contract, the price that everyone agrees on is $5.10 per ounce. The next day, traders come into the market, there's buying, they're selling, and the market is doing its thing. And at the end of the day, the people who are trading futures contracts are trading futures at a futures price of $5.20. Well, the day before you locked in a price to buy of $5.10. So basically your price is $0.10 better than the price that everyone is willing to pay today for settlement that in this case is going to happen on day five.
00:11:37.900 - 00:12:31.246, Speaker A: So what happens? Well, basically that amount of money, that $0.10 benefit multiplied by the number of contracts. The number of ounces in a contract is your profit for the day. So what you get is you get an additional $500 that come into your account. Where did this $500 come from? Well, it got taken out of the accounts of the people who were selling these contracts. So the day after there'll be another price and the same thing happens. And every day the amount of money that you get into the account will adjust for the difference between the price that you locked in and whatever the current futures price happens to be.
00:12:31.246 - 00:13:41.380, Speaker A: That means that on any day you agree with the futures price because your margin account has basically accumulated cash differences that compensate you for whatever difference in price there was. What happens if the price goes down? If everyone's happy at a price of 525 on day two, on day three, if the price drops to 518. And for people who are long one contract, what's happened? Well, they've basically lost seven cents per ounce. Each contract is worth 5000oz. So basically they have to pay up $350. And the process continues. On day five, when the contract matures everyone is happy to buy 5000oz of silver for $5 and 21 an ounce because the sum of all these changes, these marking to market changes basically reflect the difference from the original futures price that you entered into and the price on the settlement day.
00:13:41.380 - 00:15:10.990, Speaker A: So marking to market is an important mechanism to one handle counterparty risk. If somebody is losing money every day they'll be asked to put more money into their margin account. In addition, it ensures that everyone agrees on the price of 1oz of silver in the futures market. Why are futures contracts and trading designed the way it is? Well, futures contracts originally arose to fulfill a basic economic need. And what is that? If you think about a farmer who is growing corn, essentially there's a long gap between when they put the seeds in the ground and when they actually get the crop and can sell it in order to essentially insure themselves against fluctuations in possible grain prices that could come about sometime in the future. A farmer would be happy to partially or wholly sell his crop on the futures exchange to lock in a price now so he can make rational economic planning. The people who would take the other side of the transaction would essentially be speculators who are willing to provide insurance to the farmers who presumably are risk averse.
00:15:10.990 - 00:16:10.050, Speaker A: Similarly, if you think about somebody who is a producer and who have to buy inputs for some production process. They might find it efficient to lock in a price so they know exactly how much their raw materials are going to cost when they actually start their production process. So futures are designed to allow risk sharing between natural hedgers and natural speculators. And the market is vibrant because both of those parties find it useful to trade these contracts. The actual design of the contract I e. Its dollar size and the features of marking to market. These are designed to essentially maximize market liquidity.
00:16:10.050 - 00:17:16.550, Speaker A: The contract size makes it economically efficient for as many hedgers and speculators as possible to trade in the market. It's not too big and it's not too small. Two, the marking to market process and the fact that the exchange takes care of collateral management means that hedgers and speculators will participate in the market without having to worry about who their specific counterparty is. They don't have to go and search and find somebody who's going to be a good credit risk or try and charge more to somebody they think is a bad credit risk. Similarly, having this common price makes it easier to trade because it makes it much, much more efficient for people to negotiate. So the futures contracts are designed to maximize trading volume around this very, very important economic need. Another type of derivative is a bilateral derivative or a swap.
00:17:16.550 - 00:18:13.082, Speaker A: The swap market in all its forms is absolutely massive. The industry body that governs the swap market is known as ISTA, or the International Swap Dealers Association. Typically the way swaps work is all large institutions have a master isto agreement that sets out all the specifics of how they're going to transfer value and arrange their swaps and defines all the language. And then many, many swaps are basically entered into under this giant master ISTA agreement umbrella. The types of swaps that you might see are currency swaps. Somebody is in US dollars and they want to have euros. They don't necessarily want to buy euros with their US.
00:18:13.082 - 00:19:02.490, Speaker A: Dollars. So they enter into a swap agreement with a euro company and basically both of them get the currency that they want through a swap, not through trade. The original swaps were fixed income swaps, so people would swap fixed rates for floating rates. And we'll go through a detailed example of a fixed income swap. It's interesting to note one of the earliest forms of swaps were fixed income swaps. A lot of these were designed to get round frictions or impediments or even rules in the marketplace. And we'll go through a detailed example of a fixed income fixed rate for floating rate swap in the next few slides.
00:19:02.490 - 00:20:03.978, Speaker A: Credit default swaps might have come to your attention during 2008. These are a way of exchanging a fixed cash flow for a payoff conditional on the default or a default event or a credit event of another entity. You can have much more complicated ones that are usually entered into by hedge funds, which are equity return swaps. These are a way of leveraging partially and also changing their return streams without actually going into the marketplace. So what exactly is a swap? Or this diagram represents a fixed for floating rate swap. So what is it at its core? Well, there are going to be two parties to a swap every time period. The fixed leg owes whatever the rate is that was contractually agreed on in the swap.
00:20:03.978 - 00:20:53.018, Speaker A: In my notation, C times some notional amount. The notional amount is the base value on which the swap is determined. So they will always transfer that amount to their counterparty. Conversely, the counterparty who is paying a floating rate will pay whatever the floating rate, usually Libor times the notional amount. Because one has to pay a certain amount, a fixed rate, the other has to pay a floating rate. Typically, the way these are arranged is only the net amount is exchanged. Sometimes you'll see dollar values on the swap markets that are absolutely massive.
00:20:53.018 - 00:21:40.510, Speaker A: Frequently these include the notional amounts. So if the notional amount is a million, if you're paying 1% or 50 basis points on a million, it's substantially less than transferring a million in its entirety. To be a little bit more specific about the cash flows, let's think about the guy who's paying fixed, and we're thinking of a notional value of 1 million with a 5.7% annualized rate, and the floating rate is paying Libor. And in context of this example, we'll just assume that the relevant Libor rate is 5.1. Bear in mind that Libor changes. It is a floating rate.
00:21:40.510 - 00:22:32.080, Speaker A: It changes every month or at different periodicities. So the guy who pays fixed, what does he pay? Well, throughout the lifetime of the swap, he is paying the six month rate, which is the annual rate divided by two times whatever the notional amount is. In our case, a million dollars. The floating rate guy is supposed to pay whatever Libor is. Typically you pay the Libor from, say, six months ago, but there's going to be some floating rate. He pays that amount multiplied by the notional value. In the context to this example, the net amount is $3,000, and that is the cash flow that the fixed guy has to pay to the floating rate guy.
00:22:32.080 - 00:23:39.630, Speaker A: As a quick sidebar, obviously the cash flows depend, the netting cash flows depend on the fixed rate and the floating rate. Well, the floating rate changes over time, so having a trusted and agreed upon floating rate is very important. Now, one of the most frequently used floating rate is the London Interbank Offer Rate, or Libor. This historically was based on banks reports of the rate that they were quoted when they tried to borrow from other banks. In 2012, a massive scandal started brewing and it became clear that some of the traders in the banks had manipulated their report of the libor rate. There's been a massive cleanup of Libor. There is now a revised formula and it's administered by a completely different entity.
00:23:39.630 - 00:24:36.530, Speaker A: So it's administered by an exchange based in Europe that's owned by the New York Stock Exchange. Interestingly, this manipulation of Libor is similar to essentially an Oracle attack. If you're going to rely on an external reference price, it's got to be the case that you trust that price and that price is not manipulatable. In Libor in the before it clearly was. Credit default swaps are also an important part of the swap market. A credit default swap looks a lot like an insurance contract. So there are two parties in a credit default swap.
00:24:36.530 - 00:25:54.080, Speaker A: There is a protection buyer who is getting insurance and a protection seller who is providing insurance. The protection buyer pays a periodic premium to the protection seller and the protection seller only pays out conditional on a specific credit event. So a credit event could be a missed coupon, a credit event could be an official default. The definition of what a credit event is that determines payouts is obviously very important. What is interesting about credit default swaps is these are two parties, the protection buyer and the protection seller that might have absolutely nothing to do with the underlying company that they are trading, whose credit risk they are trading, pure trading of credit risk. Neither party necessarily has an economic stake in the underlying entity whose credit is being evaluated. Credit default swaps came to public consciousness in 2008.
00:25:54.080 - 00:27:31.246, Speaker A: So the basic question is why are swaps designed this way? Well, partially swaps are designed the way they are because the people who enter into swaps want a specific economic exposure, but they find that it's too expensive to sell and buy the underlying. So if you think about somebody who enters into a fixed for floating rate swap, they could sell their fixed position or find a buyer for it and then buy a floating rate position. And in a world with no frictions, they'd be in exactly the same place. But clearly a swap is more efficient for them because there is some sort of cost associated with actually buying and selling. So swaps are a way of getting around expenses, be they finding a counterparty, be they regulatory, it's too expensive to sell and buy the underlying given that it's too expensive to buy and sell the underlying the way they're designed. So that cash flows are only exchanged on the notional value essentially mean that there is lower counterparty risk. You're not actually exchanging $1 million with the other person, you're keeping your $1 million.
00:27:31.246 - 00:29:09.370, Speaker A: They're keeping their $1 million and only the cash flows, the net cash flows are being exchanged. It is true that somebody is more likely to walk away from a swap when it's economically advantageous for them to do so. So, for example, in the floating rate swap, if Libor suddenly spiked up to 20 or 30%, well, the people who are due to pay that floating rate are more likely to walk away from their obligation. But if they do, the only thing that you as the fixed rate payer are losing is the future benefit of getting those Libor payments. You don't actually lose any collateral or any value of that nature. The other thing to think about about the design of swaps in so for example credit default swaps once again it turns around this idea that you want to enter into a swap because it's too expensive to buy and sell the underlying with credit default swap you're trading pure credit risk. The other way of getting pure credit risk is to buy a corporate bond so if you're interested in the credit risk of corporation XYZ you could buy the bonds or anything issued by that corporation and you'd have exposure to that risk.
00:29:09.370 - 00:31:05.320, Speaker A: In addition you'd have exposure to risk free portion of it which is sort of like a treasury. So a corporation has control over its own risk and it sells bonds but credit default swaps were a way for people who weren't that corporation to essentially create securities that track the risk that the corporation controls and essentially sell them. Another way of saying that is that credit default swaps plus some underlying risk free cash flow like a treasury if you put that together and tie a bow around it essentially what you've done is you have created your own corporate bond even though you aren't the corporation. Of course that includes a little bit of extra counterparty risk because you're buying the credit to fault swap or selling the credit to fault swap from another person but effectively this is what they're trying to do. The last thing I want to touch on with this discussion of traditional derivatives is clearing. One of the issues that came out of the financial crisis 2008 was at some point when markets froze, nobody knew who had exposure to anyone else, so there was a lot of confusion about what people's net positions were. And so there has been a push since then to move to central clearing of derivatives.
00:31:05.320 - 00:32:35.220, Speaker A: And central clearing does two things. One, it nets trades. So everyone who is, say, trading in swaps at any point in time, if they report them to a central entity, that central entity knows exactly what the net cash flows due to any individual bank and from any individual bank. And this can be more efficient than if you think about some sort of random sequence of bilateral netting, because sometimes the sequence will affect whether or not particular banks are going to be stable or not stable. The other characteristic of central clearing is typically a central clearing agency becomes the counterparty to all trades and they effectively assume credit risk. All trades are against the house members to central clearing pay margins but everything is against the house and the argument is that the house is much more transparent and it's much more clear where the credit risk is. And so markets are going to be less fragile if there is no specific worry about individual counterparties.
00:32:35.220 - 00:33:18.384, Speaker A: That was a quick view overview of traditional finance and some of the issues in derivatives. Now let's think a little bit about how these translate into DeFi. Hello again and welcome back to DeFi. In this segment we're going to discuss synthetic assets and DeFi protocols that are trying to produce them and produce them in an efficient way. First things first. Let's suppose that you're designing or manufacturing or thinking about building a protocol that generates synthetic assets. There are a couple of things to think through.
00:33:18.384 - 00:34:17.190, Speaker A: First of all, it's very, very important that you identify the economic or financial risk that you want these specific assets to track. Remember, the reason why people trade financial assets is because they're trying to lay off risk. If you want to design a DeFi protocol, you have to be very, very specific about the risks that you're going to allow people to track. Second, once you've identified those risks, you have to figure out a robust way to measure how those risks change so that you can calculate payoffs. And it's got to be a way in which everyone agrees and can observe how the prices are changing or how the value is changing. Typically this is done through an oracle. The third thing that can get quite complicated is to think through all the payouts are going to happen.
00:34:17.190 - 00:35:23.720, Speaker A: If you're talking about synthetic securities, then nobody actually owns the underlying. How are you going to design a system so that you have enough value on chain that will ensure payouts? Finally, if you want people to participate in your system and if you want them to find value in it, it's going to be important to figure out a way or allow people to trade these securities efficiently. So being able to build a market that people can use and use cheaply is an important part of any protocol. So let's dive in and look at a couple of examples. The first one is synthetics. So synthetics is a protocol that generates derivatives that are called synths. And a strong part of this protocol is the way it's designed makes each of these different synths very liquid, so easy to trade.
00:35:23.720 - 00:36:40.880, Speaker A: And these synths track assets or positions, even trading strategies. And typically they use chainlink oracles as a broad overview about how the system works. The system is based on a collateral asset called SNX that you can trade on most of the existing crypto exchanges, be they centralized or decentralized. And in order to mint or get one of these derivative securities, you take your SNX, you deposit it to the protocol and you get essentially purchasing power from the protocol. Collateralization ratios are pretty high, but once you deposit your SNX, you essentially get a US dollar value of trading power of purchasing power. Once you have that US dollar purchasing power, you can use it to buy pretty much anything. And all of them are described as being S something where something is the asset that you're tracking.
00:36:40.880 - 00:37:25.164, Speaker A: If you want to leave the protocol, the way you do it is to repay your debt and get the SNX in return, which you can then cash out, maybe for Fiat, if you want to go off chain, there's a huge array of different synths that are offered. So some are fiat so you can track US dollars. Euro Korean yuan. Some are commodities. You can track gold, silver, and all different contracts of that nature. You can actually track cryptocurrencies. So these are derivative securities that track the underlying crypto.
00:37:25.164 - 00:38:08.216, Speaker A: Even though you don't own the crypto. You can also get synths that track trading strategies. So in traditional finance, if you think a value of an asset is going to fall, what you do is you go out and you borrow that asset. So for example, you borrow a stock, you sell it, take the money and wait for the price to drop. And once it's dropped far enough, you buy it and then return it. So this is known as a short position or shorting, and they're synths that basically have payoff structures that are the same as a short position. So an inverse synth.
00:38:08.216 - 00:38:56.264, Speaker A: So for example, IBTC goes up in value when Bitcoin goes down in value. And there are also synths that track traditional indexes. So these are very, very similar to ETFs, except they're traded on chain. So drilling down a little bit more on how you get one of these derivative assets. Well, first of all, you deposit your collateral and you deposit it into the contract. You get value denominated in US dollars. And once you have that, then you can use it to buy any security or buy any derivative that tracks an underlying.
00:38:56.264 - 00:39:59.996, Speaker A: So for example, if you want to track Tesla, you get an S Tesla and the price at which you get it. So how much your dollars, how many shares that it'll buy is determined by a price oracle that brings information off chain, and presumably you're getting that at the midpoint of the bid and the ask, you can sit on these shares or trade them, which is we'll talk about that in a second. If you actually want to cash out, what do you do? Well, you return the shares and the value in the shares and you get your collateral. So you repay your debt and you get the collateral. So what about trading? Well, because you don't actually own a share of Tesla or a share of anything. What you just have is you have a representation that's backed by debt that you've already deposited to the protocol. Well, if you want to get a different representation.
00:39:59.996 - 00:40:46.828, Speaker A: So instead of Tesla, if you want to get bitcoin, well, essentially you just switch out the representation. That's backed by your collateral from Tesla to Bitcoin. So in this example, you're buying BTC with USD. You deposited the collateral, you've got the USD. How do you do it? Well, there's a small fee, but you burn your SUSD that disappears. And SBTC is issued at the rate determined by an oracle. And the protocol keeps track of how much USD has been issued and how much BTC has been issued.
00:40:46.828 - 00:41:28.984, Speaker A: And it just essentially makes an internal ledger accounting that somebody has switched from USD to BTC. What that means is you don't need to find a counterparty. You're basically trading against the existing pool. You don't actually have to find somebody who is willing to transact with you. You just burn your USD and mint the BTC. So in that way, the synthetix protocol provides infinite liquidity. There is no sense in which there is a price impact of trade or any inefficiency associated with trading.
00:41:28.984 - 00:42:49.048, Speaker A: And also there is no change. And this is going to be important if you switch from one asset to another at the time in which you do it, there's no debt change because the dollar value that was issued is exactly equal to the dollar value of the new stock. So you can trade these assets and you can track underlying assets. What happens if the assets that you're tracking dramatically diverge in dollar value? So let's suppose that you have a synth and it's tracking something in real life that quadruples in value. Where is that extra value going to come from? Well, it turns out that that extra value comes from the other people who are participating in the protocol. So let's run through a couple of examples and show how synthetix generates value by essentially a form of value sharing or risk sharing would be the other way of thinking about it. And I'm going to think about two people, Alice and Bob, both of whom have $50,000.
00:42:49.048 - 00:43:35.208, Speaker A: At the start of this exercise, they have a different portfolio. Alice has SBTC, so she's got straight synth bitcoin, and her value is going to go up with bitcoin, and she has 50% of the pool. So the debt that has been issued against the collateral, she owes 50% of it. Bob has 50% of the collateral as well, but he's got a different thing in his portfolio. He's got this IBTC. So what happens? Well, let's suppose that bitcoin increases by 50%. So Alice wants to get some of that value.
00:43:35.208 - 00:44:47.036, Speaker A: Where does it come from? Well, she has 50,000 worth of SBTC in her portfolio, and bitcoin is increased by 50%. That means her synth BTC is worth $75,000. Bob, who had essentially a short position in bitcoin, now has a position in terms of his bitcoin that's worth 25,000. So they both started out with 50% of the pool, and after bitcoin has increased, the total value outstanding is still 100,000. Why? Because Alice's portfolio were 75,000. Bob has a portfolio of 25,000 debt pool is worth still 100,000 and how does the value get shared between the two of them? Well, their debt pool is worth 100,000 and each of them has 50% of it. So Alice ends up with a net position of 25,000 and Bob has a net position.
00:44:47.036 - 00:45:51.970, Speaker A: Of -25,000, so bob and Alice are essentially acting as counterparties against each other. Obviously there are many more people in the pool but this is the principle about how the risk and the value is shared. Let's run through another example, but in this case let's think about SUSD and BTC. So once again, Alice has $50,000 and she is buying SBTC and she has 50% of the debt pool. Bob has $50,000 worth of SUSD so he's tracking fiat currency and he has 50% of the pool. Now bitcoin increases by 50%. So Alice's position in terms of Bitcoin is 75,000 and Bob's remains at 50,000 because he's just in fiat, it doesn't change in dollar value.
00:45:51.970 - 00:47:02.200, Speaker A: Now, the total amount that the pool of the debt pool is 125,000, which is the sum of Alice's amount and Bob's amount. Each of them has 50% of the pool, which is how they started. So Alice's net position is twelve point five K. And Bob's net position is -12.5K. So Bob basically retains 50% of the pool, even though he was in the completely risk free asset US dollars. And Alice's gain is mitigated somewhat by the fact that Bob actually had a super safe strategy. So what's going on here? If you're constructing derivative securities and you're putting them on chain and nobody actually owns the underlying, you've got to generate the value from somewhere.
00:47:02.200 - 00:48:43.396, Speaker A: And in the protocol the payoffs are effectively transfers, complicated transfers, but transfers between the participants. And so the payoffs to positions are not the payoffs to the positions that you would get in real life, but they're relative to what others are trading. So you could think about the return to trading in these securities as having two parts, a fundamental part and a relative part and if there are enough people in the protocol, the relative return is going to sort of get to the market return. But be aware that there is this slightly different version of what return means and it comes about because the value is generated from the people who are within the protocol. Now, other protocols have taken a different approach to generating derivatives and I'm going to focus now on Mira protocol and this has a different structure and let's look at it. So Mirror is different than synthetics because instead of combining some of the characteristics, it actually has lots of different participants. Any individual obviously can play more than one role, but they're different participants in the system, they're Minters.
00:48:43.396 - 00:49:41.020, Speaker A: What do minters do? They basically generate these mirror assets, again as collateralized debt positions stakers. These guys generate or provide liquidity and sometimes governance tokens. They're traders. These guys buy and sell the assets and they're liquidity providers who basically facilitate the trade in these assets. So how does it work? Well, the same way as synthetics. There's a collateral asset. And in mirror you can use any M assets as collateral assets or you can use USD as stablecoin.
00:49:41.020 - 00:50:36.590, Speaker A: You deposit these and then you mint a new asset. Once that asset is floating around. There's an automated market maker that allows trade and liquidity providers. Basically get some mirror tokens. If you want to leave the system, you burn your asset and the collateral is returned. If you've minted assets and the asset increases in value, you have to deposit more collateral. So what's going on? How does this differ from the previous protocol? Well, in Mirror, the minters are bearing the risk of price changes.
00:50:36.590 - 00:51:36.364, Speaker A: And you can think of them as essentially being people who are risk neutral and willing to provide insurance against market moves. To the M asset traders, they are the ones who are bearing the risk of price changes. In this protocol, trading and risk bearing are separate. So those are two examples of protocols that allow traders to mint synthetic assets that track underlying in real life assets. They have a different way of guaranteeing payoffs and they have a different way of allocating risk across the different participants. Now let's think about more complicated assets or assets that are levered. I'll see you in the next section.
00:51:36.364 - 00:52:23.020, Speaker A: Hello again and welcome back to DeFi. In this segment, we're going to discuss traditional finance and think a little bit about leverage, why it's attractive, how people do it. In one of the earlier segments we discussed the power of leverage. It has the ability to magnify both risk but also return. So a natural question is, well, how do people actually get levered positions? For institutional borrowers like hedge funds and banks, borrowing is typically done through repurchase agreements. These are sometimes also called repo. And effectively, these are over collateralized loans.
00:52:23.020 - 00:53:16.640, Speaker A: The repo market is massive. It's about 12 trillion u s dollars. And on the one side you have money market funds, asset managers who are sitting on cash, and on the other side you have borrowers like banks or hedge funds. A repurchase agreement is exactly what it sounds like. There are two parties. So this is an example of a bilateral repo and one of the parties gives cash to the other one, and the person who is receiving the cash hands over collateral, plus a promise to repurchase that collateral at a fixed price. The fixed price determines the rate of interest on what is effectively a collateralized loan.
00:53:16.640 - 00:54:33.476, Speaker A: It's useful to note that these repurchase agreements can be viewed either as a way of borrowing cash or as a way of borrowing securities. So for more complicated strategies, like shorting, for example, some institutional traders will want to actually get the physical securities or have ownership of the securities, in which case they'll enter into one of these repo agreements. Another form of repo is what is known as the Triparty repo system. In this, there is a Custodian bank that is at the center of all possible repurchases. The benefit of this system is that the Custodial bank in this diagram represented by the green guy, essentially they can make efficient use of collateral and they can net positions. This is designed as a way to make collateral use more efficient. Obviously, if you have one or a few banks that are at the center of something like the Tripodi repo system, this introduces systemic risk.
00:54:33.476 - 00:55:25.752, Speaker A: Typically, those banks are not utilities, but they also have other lines of business. And one of the worries for regulators is that those other lines of business could spill over into the Triparty repo system and essentially seize up this ability to borrow and lend. I said at the beginning that repos could be used to lever. How exactly does that work? Well, think of somebody who has a security in hand that's worth $100. They can enter into a repurchase agreement. So get some cash, borrow cash from somebody. And because repos are over collateralized, the amount of cash that they can borrow is the face value of the security, or the value of the security minus H One.
00:55:25.752 - 00:55:53.792, Speaker A: I'm calling this. This is a haircut. So it's a small reduction in how much they can borrow. Once they enter into a repurchase agreement, they have money on hand that they can use to buy other securities. They go ahead and do that, they end up with another security. They can then repurchase that security for another haircut. I'm calling this H Two that generates more cash for them.
00:55:53.792 - 00:56:59.290, Speaker A: They can use that cash to buy another security, and so forth. This constitutes leverage because the party entering into these repo agreements essentially has economic exposure to each of the securities that they have purchased. The other thing to notice is that repos are over collateralized. So this was the haircut that reduced the amount that you could actually borrow. Pretty clearly, if haircuts are zero, you could repeat this step an infinite number of times and basically get infinite leverage. So there's really no restriction except for market forces on the amount of leverage that institutional traders can obtain. In addition to borrowing directly in order to trade, many financial instruments have leverage built into them.
00:56:59.290 - 00:57:53.930, Speaker A: For example, options contracts. Typically, it is cheaper to buy an options contract than it is to buy the underlying. Also, options contracts give you exposure to multiple shares of the underlying. So options are an easy way for people to effectively get leverage, that is, increase their exposure by putting down a smaller amount of money. Similarly, futures contracts that we've recently discussed, the initial and maintenance margins that you have to put down in order to trade futures are substantially less than the dollar value of the future purchase price. So futures are a way to obtain leveraged. Exposure to the underlying security.
00:57:53.930 - 00:59:04.450, Speaker A: Finally, brokers and other intermediaries offer what is known as margin loans. These are offered to individuals that allow them to borrow to invest in financial securities. The amount that you can borrow as an individual is restricted. And after the Great Depression, the Federal Reserve essentially put in something called Reg T that restricts the amount that borrowers can lend to investors in order to buy securities. The argument at the time was that people were borrowing and investing, and this led to a speculative bubble. And Reg T is designed to dampen down that excess speculation and excess participation in the market. What's interesting from an economic point of view is that Reg T doesn't restrict the other debt that consumers have.
00:59:04.450 - 00:59:54.480, Speaker A: For example, you could run up a massive amount of debt on your credit card. You can have a massive mortgage on your house. All those forms of debt which are, after all, part of your overall financial portfolio, do not count into the Reg T restrictions. After that brief overview of borrowing in financial markets and ways to obtain leverage, let's look at how that translates into the DeFi world. See you in a bit. Hello everyone, and welcome back to DeFi. In this segment, we're going to discuss some of the protocols that offer what are essentially leveraged and leveraged derivative contracts.
00:59:54.480 - 01:00:41.880, Speaker A: The first protocol that I want to focus on is something called dYdX. I should point out that this is not accessible to US. Based persons, but it is an interesting protocol to think about. The protocol offers partially decentralized exchange and financial services, so it's not yet a completely DeFi entity. It also was a bit of an innovator in the sense that it was one of the earliest suppliers of flash loans that we've heard about in an earlier segment. Of interest to us. And trading derivatives is the fact that dYdX offers decentralized leverage trading through margin accounts.
01:00:41.880 - 01:01:55.540, Speaker A: So this would be similar to an individual investor who borrows to trade and also offers something called perpetuals. These look a lot like the futures contracts that we discussed earlier in the lecture. First, let's think about margin trading on dYdX, and I'm going to think about a simple example where somebody wants to trade a particular token, and let's call that token B. How do they do it? Essentially what they do is they send information for what they want to do to the dYdX smart contract. The smart contract does two things. First, it sells the token that the individual wants to trade, and to do so, it sends it to Ox, operates as a open limit order market, an open electronic limit order market. The proceeds of that sale are then put into a vault or an account that dYdX holds and controls.
01:01:55.540 - 01:02:54.120, Speaker A: In addition, the smart contract puts margin amounts into that vault. So dYdX is actually sitting on the entire net equity of the individual's account. In this way, dYdX is essentially holding completely collateralized positions for anyone that it provides these trading services to. The structure of this protocol is actually very similar to the structures of the protocols that you would see in traditional finance, where agents put down some margin and the broker essentially holds the entire position. A slightly different type of contract is known as a perpetual. And what perpetuals are, are perpetual assets. And they're synthetic assets that track commonly traded DeFi pairs.
01:02:54.120 - 01:03:41.130, Speaker A: And in order to trade a perpetual, traders have to put down some initial margin fraction. And we'll go through an example of that. And then also there's a maintenance margin. The maintenance margin triggers liquidation if the trader doesn't have enough net equity in their account, the leverage available on these things. So the amount that $1 can expand to, if you will, is quite high. So on bitcoin stablecoin pairs, leverage is up to 25 times, ethereum 25 times, and others ten times. So these are leveraged products.
01:03:41.130 - 01:04:40.540, Speaker A: It's also interesting to note that the structure of the perpetuals are very specific in that each perpetual has its own tick size, minimum order size, and so forth. The protocol is designed to maximize liquidity. So how exactly do perpetuals work? Typically, USDC is the collateral asset. So somebody who is interested in trading perpetual will deposit the collateral asset that they need in order to enter into these contracts. Once they do that, then they are equipped to trade. And trade occurs off chain and essentially there's a matching engine. You can think of this as an open electronic limit order book.
01:04:40.540 - 01:06:09.880, Speaker A: So this is very different from the DEXes that we talked about earlier. There's noncustodial on chain settlement for these assets. And once you own a perpetual, what happens? Well, perpetuals are trying to track the underlying, and there's obviously a concern if the perpetual doesn't track the underlying. There's a system in place that basically transfers funding payments between the people who are long the perpetual and the people who are short the perpetual or have sold it. These funding payments are incurred every hour and the size of the payments are determined by the oracle price of the asset that's being tracked and some funding rate that basically reflects the volatility of the underlying. And the funding payments are designed to ensure that the price of the perpetual tracks the underlying. If the price of the perpetual is too high, the people who are long who own the perpetual have to transfer money to the people who have sold the perpetual.
01:06:09.880 - 01:07:31.548, Speaker A: The idea is that these funding payments will incentivize people to enter the market and to sell, and supply and demand will equilibrate the prices so that the price of the perpetual tracks the underlying. Now it is quite possible that somebody has a position in a perpetual and the underlying or the asset that it's tracking could deviate pretty dramatically from the price of their position. What happens? Liquidation. To think through, the implications of liquidation let's consider somebody who has a short position in one of these perpetuals. Further, let's assume that the initial margin is 10% and a maintenance margin is 7.5%. So what happens? In order to initiate a position, you have to deposit the collateral asset, USDC. So let's suppose that our trader has deposited 1000 USDC and what they want to do is they want to short one perpetual in some underlying hypothetical asset XYZ.
01:07:31.548 - 01:08:10.364, Speaker A: And let's suppose that this is trading at $2,000. According to the Oracle, if they do that trade, then their account is going to have a couple of things in it. One, it's going to have 1000 USDC deposit. That's the collateral. It is going to also have $2,000 in the account. And this is the amount that came in because they sold the underlying asset. In addition, they owe one of this XYZ, which appears as minus one in their accounts for this person.
01:08:10.364 - 01:09:09.900, Speaker A: Their initial margin is their net equity divided by the assets that they owe. And in this case, it's the $3,000 they have in their account, the $2,000 that they owe for the asset divided by the asset, which is $2,000 worth. This is a 50% margin. What happens if the price of XYZ increases? This is a short position, so that's bad for the person who has sold the asset. And let's suppose that the index price hits 2795 USDC. What happens? Well, as the price of the asset increases, the margin decreases. In particular, the agent's net equity is the amount of money they have in the account $3,000 minus how much they owe in assets.
01:09:09.900 - 01:10:04.560, Speaker A: In this case 2795 divided by their total value of the asset 2795 which gives them a margin of 7.3%. This is below the maintenance margin of 7.5%. This triggers automatic liquidation automatically. A liquidator seizes the net equity and closes the position. What happens to the money that was seized by the liquidator? Well, there are fees that go to the liquidator, but the residual after these fees goes into a general insurance fund. The general insurance fund is part of contract loss backstops. Remember, perpetuals track another asset.
01:10:04.560 - 01:11:45.040, Speaker A: Perpetuals are not backed by the asset, they're backed by collateral. So the exchange has to have a mechanism to ensure that there's always enough value in order to recompense people who want to cash in their perpetuals. The insurance fund takes the loss on underwater accounts. So if liquidation doesn't happen fast enough, if the net equity blasts below zero, the insurance fund will take that loss and make everyone whole. Finally, if there is extreme volatility and the insurance fund is all paid out, any losses incurred are absorbed by the accounts that are still on dYdX and are profitable and are leveraged. That was an example of a protocol that allows leveraged trading on derivatives that track an underlying. Once again, because nobody on chain actually holds the underlying for these protocols, there has to be a way for the protocol to guarantee that people who have taken these investments are in fact made whole in the case of extreme price movements or volatility.
01:11:45.040 - 01:12:43.040, Speaker A: Now let's think a little bit about active portfolio management. So people who are trading not specific instruments, but who are putting portfolios together, we'll think a little bit about how these work in TradFi and some of the experiments that are happening in DeFi. Hello everyone, and welcome back. Let's think a little bit about active portfolio management that is in TradFi. What happens if you hire somebody to organize your finances and your portfolio for you? There are lots of different organizational forms that are around hiring people to invest for you. Most commonly we think about hedge funds, but there are other sorts of vehicles like commodity trading advisors, so who only invest in futures. You can think about private equity and also venture capital.
01:12:43.040 - 01:13:46.390, Speaker A: The benefit to having somebody invest for you is presumably the person that you hire or you give your money to has access to markets or investments or leverage that you as an investor don't have. You're paying them to give you access to things that you otherwise couldn't get. The other possibility is that they have specialized knowledge or information. The idea that hedge funds are sophisticated investors, have better ways of analyzing data, have better ways of placing trades, these are all things that people are willing to pay for. The costs of having somebody invest for you is that typically the portfolio is opaque. If somebody has a very good trading strategy, they don't necessarily want to share it, and so they keep it secret. Frequently that means that the people who are actually investing in some of these vehicles don't actually know what's happening with their dollars.
01:13:46.390 - 01:14:47.240, Speaker A: The other possibility is that the portfolio is in fact very risky. One of the ways to generate very high returns is through leverage, which is extremely attractive if in particular, you have limited liability. So there's the worry that your investment portfolio or assets that you care a lot about are in fact invested in very, very risky venues. Finally, the thing that worries people, or that is a matter of concern, is that frequently hiring somebody to invest for you is in fact very expensive. You're partially paying for access, if they have it, to markets that you couldn't otherwise get to. But it's very difficult to hire an investment manager and to get them just to compete on quality because this is not something that you observe. So typically the fees are relatively high for sophisticated advice.
01:14:47.240 - 01:15:37.268, Speaker A: So how do we think about hedge funds? What do they do? Basically, a hedge fund is a legal designation. They hold securities and they don't raise money by public offering. Dodd Frank, the act that was passed after the 2008 financial cris, increased disclosure requirements. But hedge funds are traditionally and still are relatively opaque. They're very highly levered often, and they only sell typically to what are known as sophisticated investors. In reality there is a means test for whether or not you're sophisticated. So it basically means if you're quite rich and they're also usually tax optimized.
01:15:37.268 - 01:16:34.984, Speaker A: This means being incorporated in a venue or an area where taxes are low. There are many different types of strategies that are consistent with hedge fund strategies. So in particular it's worthwhile noticing that they are not in fact hedged. They're frequently exposed to a lot of risk and it can run the gamut from fixed income arbitrage, so just statistical arbitrage, to futures long, short, event driven, pretty much anything where they think that they found a signal that anticipates which way the market is going. These are things that will be traded on. What about private equity? Private equity is structured in a very particular way based on the deal flow that comes to them. So typically there are general partners that manage the whole business and there are also limited partners.
01:16:34.984 - 01:17:48.130, Speaker A: Limited partners commit capital. So basically they say look, I'm good for so many dollars and the general partners go around and try and find investment opportunities and the limited partners are only asked to commit their capital when those opportunities are found. Usually the way private equity firms are structured is that each of the funds, and they're usually divided into funds, has a very fixed horizon. And what that means is that the funds will wrap up after a specific interval of time. Usually private equity focuses on very illiquid investments like buying companies or buying things that are not necessarily fungible assets that we think about in the DeFi space. What about returns to hedge fund investors? Well, the first thing to notice about returns or to take from returns is the cost of hiring or getting those hedge fund returns. And in particular the cost structure is usually what is known as two and 20.
01:17:48.130 - 01:18:43.510, Speaker A: So at any point in time there is a level of assets or capital under management. So that's what these skyscrapers represent. The hedge fund manager will typically take 2% of that capital just as a fee. In addition, the increment from each year or time period, which is basically the step up of the skyscraper, 20% of those gains go to the hedge fund managers. So two and 20 is standard in the industry. And so this represents pretty lucrative business for hedge funds and quite expensive for investors. What are the risks of hiring a manager for you if you delegate your capital to somebody else? There are a number of things that can go wrong.
01:18:43.510 - 01:19:35.632, Speaker A: First, and most obviously because you don't actually have control of your own assets, there's the worry that what a manager says he is doing and what he does are two very different things. This fits under the general category of Ponzi schemes. If you remember somebody like Bernie Madoff, who for many years was generating abnormally high returns but was actually running a Ponzi scheme. The people who invested in bernie lost all their money, and it isn't recoverable. It was never there. So this is a risk when you turn over your capital to someone else, somebody else takes custody of your assets. The other thing to worry about is whether or not the measurement of what I call alpha might be incorrect.
01:19:35.632 - 01:20:30.496, Speaker A: Alpha is a standard measurement in the industry, and it basically tells you how much return you're getting above what the appropriate benchmark is. If you don't know the actual risk that the fund is taking on, then you might misrepresent how much money the guy is actually making for you. It could be the case that the reason why the returns are so high over a short interval is in fact because so much risk is being taken on. And this is probably something that you might not be aware of or want. The other thing that's of a worry is if you hand over your capital to somebody else, you might not be able to get it back when you want it. This fits under the general rubric of what is known as liquidity risk. So in particular, many hedge funds and other vehicles, investment vehicles of this nature, have restrictions on when you can withdraw your capital.
01:20:30.496 - 01:21:28.168, Speaker A: They aren't very liquid. In particular, they're lockups or gates. So gates fit into the general category of withdrawal fees, and lockups are restrictions on when and how much you can withdraw. The logic behind lockups and gates is that if an investment is made in an illiquid asset, if there is a run on that investment vehicle, and everyone tries to withdraw their funds, there would be some sort of fire sale, and the fund couldn't get an appropriate price for the asset that it is managing. This is why they have lockups in place. We saw in particular around 2008, when a lot of people were trying to withdraw their money, they actually couldn't do it just because lockups and gates were triggered. Finally, there's this worry that what looks like diversification might not be.
01:21:28.168 - 01:22:28.408, Speaker A: So strategies can be correlated in a way that you might not understand. This fits under the general category of if you hand your assets over to somebody, you're not quite sure what they're doing with them, and so you might not be getting the return and the return profile that you actually want. One thing that I would like to highlight is we've talked a lot about margins and leverage and essentially borrowing to invest. Sometimes it can be a little bit tricky to calculate what the leverage or risk of a particular fund or a portfolio is. And there are two ways that people think about leverage. One is the dollar value that you're long, so how much you've bought divided by the total investment capital. And the idea is, well, if you buy more than your investment capital, then essentially you must have borrowed.
01:22:28.408 - 01:23:13.370, Speaker A: And so this gives you a. Measure of leverage. The other way of measuring leverage is to look at the total market long plus total market short divided by investment capital. So looking at how much you've bought minus how much you've sold over investment capital. So let's think this through. So suppose fund A has $100 long position and no shorts, and Fund B has $100 long position and $100 shorts. So A is long 100 and B is long.
01:23:13.370 - 01:24:05.070, Speaker A: Minus short basically has a net exposure to the market of zero. If each fund has the same initial $10 investment, you would look at fund A under the first definition and say that it's ten times levered. You would look at fund B and say that it's zero leverage. But which is riskier? Well, it depends. It depends on what the assets that B is short in. B is exposed to market movements, in particular through the short part of its portfolio. And it could in fact be the riskier fund, even though by standard definitions of leverage, A seems to have a more levered position.
01:24:05.070 - 01:25:19.700, Speaker A: So this basically illustrates that it's important to understand the strategy that each fund is following in trying to decide whether or not you're taking on a lot of risk or not taking on a lot of risk. Another thing that's worth thinking about if you hire somebody to manage a portfolio for you is trying to figure out whether or not the manager is worth it. Is the manager adding value? And there are a couple of things to think through when you're trying to make this decision. First of all, you have to correctly identify the risk of the portfolio. And this, of course, as we've discussed, might be difficult if the strategy is secret. This is really important because trying to decide whether or not a manager has added value is always done relative to the next best portfolio that the manager that you could have actually received. So you always want to know whether or not the manager is better than your next best alternative.
01:25:19.700 - 01:26:14.560, Speaker A: And if you can't correctly assess the risk and the strategy of the portfolio, it's very, very difficult to make that designation. Finally, if you're trying to figure out whether or not a manager has added value, it's really important to adjust for fees and possible lockup risk. Lockup risk basically drives is a form of illiquidity and it should be accounted for when you're trying to decide whether or not a manager has added value. In spite of these difficulties and costs associated with active portfolio management, this is an extremely large and vibrant area of traditional finance. So far we haven't seen vehicles that look like hedge funds or traditional active portfolio management in DeFi.
01:26:14.720 - 01:27:01.460, Speaker B: Hi, I'm Dong Sung, professor from UC Berkeley. In this segment we will talk about on chain portfolio management. So first let's talk about traditional ETF. ETF, also known as an exchange treaty fund, is a type of security that tracks an index sector, commodity or other assets. And ETF can also be purchased or sold on a stock exchange just like a regular stock. Here's an example of a wellknown ETF Spy which tracks the SMP 500 index. There are a number of advantages why a user investor wants to buy and hold an ETF.
01:27:01.460 - 01:27:55.720, Speaker B: First, it's very convenient for diversification. An ETF usually tracks an index that contains many different stocks and hence provides an easy way of diversification for the investor. And also there are many different types of ETFs, different choices that provide essentially different investment, thesis and trading strategies. For example, different ETFs may target different sectors and so on. And also ETFs can have very low managing fees and they have certain tax advantage as well. For example, it's only taxed when the ETF is sold while the user is holding the ETF. There is no taxable gains while holding the ETFs.
01:27:55.720 - 01:28:57.364, Speaker B: So now, let's look at in more detail about the ETF operations. So first, as I already mentioned, an ETF share can be bought or sold on an exchange just like a regular stock. And hence through this trading it establishes the price per share for a given ETF fund. And also at the same time, keep in mind that ETF share also represents the underlying asset. And hence there is another metric that we often use for ETF which is called NAV net Asset Value. A NAV net Asset value is essentially an accounting mechanism that determines the overall value of the assets or stocks in an ETF. For example, the SMP 500 index provides different weights for the different stocks in the index.
01:28:57.364 - 01:30:20.310, Speaker B: And using this weighted average, it determines the overall value of the assets in the ETF. So now, when we look at this two metric, the price per share versus the NAV for the ETF fund, then naturally there could be differences between the two. So for example, if the ETF price is higher than snaf, we say that there's a premium for this ETF. Oftentimes this indicates that there is a higher demand for this particular ETF fund than the supply. And similarly, when the ETF price is lower than Snap, we say that there is a discount for this ETF fund. So how can we the goal of the ETF is that we want to have an ETF fund that tracks well the underlying index, which means that ideally we would like to have a mechanism such that it can make the ETF price tracks closely to Snap. So now let's look at this mechanism in more detail.
01:30:20.310 - 01:32:17.592, Speaker B: In particular, the goal is that the supply of the ETF shares ideally should be regulated so that it can help narrow the gap between the price for the ETF share versus SNAV. And in particular, this mechanism is known as the creation and redemption of the ETF shares. And this mechanism involves a particular type of party called Authorized Participants APS, which are usually large specialized investors and traditionally, these authorized parties are large banks such as bank of America, GP Morgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and so on. So now let's look at the particular mechanism how these APS can work through this creation redemption mechanism of ETF shares to help narrow the gap between the ETF price and it's NAV. So first let's look at the setting where currently for a ETF Fund its price on the market is greater than Hnav. What this means is that there is higher demand for this ETF Fund on the market than its supply. So then in this case, what the AP will do is that the AP will then buy a basket of stocks in the ETF index from the market and then it sells this basket of stocks to the ETF Fund.
01:32:17.592 - 01:33:57.284, Speaker B: The ETF Fund, once receiving this basket of stocks, will then create the corresponding shares of the ETF Fund of the equal value and give that to the AP. So now armed with these newly created shares of the ETF Fund, the AP can then sell these newly created ETF shares at the market price on the exchange market and hence receive arbitrage profit. So essentially, what the AP is doing here is when the ETF fund price is higher than Snap, means there is more demand, it will then buy the corresponding underlying basket of stocks and sell that to the ETF fund, which creates new ETF shares. And the AP can then sell the ETF shares on the market to generate more supply and to meet the increased demand and hence bring down the price for this ETF fund. Similarly, on the other hand, if on the exchange market the price of this ETF Fund is lower than SNAV, that means that there is lower demand than supply for the ETF shares on the market. So in this case, the AP can then buy the ETF share as a market price on the exchange markets. Once it gets these ETF shares, it will then sell the ETF shares to the ETF funds.
01:33:57.284 - 01:36:05.680, Speaker B: In this case, and the ETF funds once receive these ETF shares it will then send the corresponding shares of the underlying stocks in the index of the equal value to the AP then. Now the AP, with these stocks from the underlying index it can then sell the stocks and then receive arbitrage profit again. So through this mechanism, when there is less demand of the ETF shares on the market, the AP will then essentially buy these ETF shares to generate higher demand. And then it sells these ETF shares back to ETF funds, which will give the AP the corresponding shares of the stocks in the underlying index, which the AP can then sell on the exchange market to get the arbitrage profit. So then through this mechanism, the AP generates more demand for the ETF shares and hence increase the price for the ETF Fund to bring closer to its Nas. So this is a mechanism how an ETF operates how an ETF fund maintains the peg of its price to the underlying index but however, there are a number of issues in the traditional ETF for this operation so wise we can see it's very inefficient in the sense that its design contains an intermediary the authorized participant. So it's designed to work with an intermediary that by design will take arbitrage profit and hence produces efficiency for investors and users.
01:36:05.680 - 01:38:00.100, Speaker B: And also this is a closed system for example only certain regulatory entities can create new ETF funds. So if someone has a brain idea for a new index or a new strat investment strategy, unless this entity is our person, is a regulated entities, it will not be able to create a new fund for this new strategy. And also in this case the investors and users need to trust third parties such as brokerage firms and so on for custodial of the user's assets. So now let's take a look at how by utilizing blockchain and smart contracts we can solve many of these issues and by enabling onchain portfolio management. So in this case by utilizing blockchain and smart contract instead of having centralized fund sponsor in the traditional ETF setting instead we can have a smart contract to play this role. So essentially a smart contract can represent a new index fund and it can handle essentially the share creation and redemption for this index fund and in this case we call the share for this index fund token index token. Through this mechanism essentially we can remove the intermediary AP entirely instead of only the AP can in the traditional ETF setting only the AP can interact with the fund sponsor to create or redeem the ETF shares.
01:38:00.100 - 01:39:50.260, Speaker B: Anyone in this case can interact directly with the smart contracts for the creation and redemption of these index tokens and also unlike the traditional ETF setting where only certain regulated entities can create a new fund, here anyone can create a new smart contract for a new index fund. So if someone has a brilliant idea for a new strategy, this person can simply create a new smart contract representing that new strategy. And also unlike in the traditional ETF where users and investors have to trust third party for custody of their assets, in this case the smart contract for this index fund can actually directly hold the collateral assets and hence without relying on the trust of any third party for users assets. And in order to enable this onchain portfolio management this also shows as a great example of the composable nature of DeFi applications. So in particular in this case the smart contract in order to enable the on chain portfolio management it will utilize price Oracles and on chain exchanges, decks and so on to enable these capabilities. So now let's look at a concrete example of an on chain portfolio management called the Set Protocol. So in Set protocol again anybody can create a new smart contract.
01:39:50.260 - 01:40:57.696, Speaker B: And in this case, this new smart contract represents what's called a set. And this set smart contract essentially combines assets into new tokens that are essentially 100% collateralized ERC 20 tokens. So for example, a set can simply be a portfolio of tokens or a trading strategy and the price and returns are calculated with Oracles and users are charged management fees and so on. So as I mentioned, anyone can create a new set. So essentially here a set can be viewed as a fund. And in order to create a new set or a new fund, the set manager which creates the new set will need to choose the set of tokens as collateral to be included in the set and also determine their allocations. And this allocation over time can change.
01:40:57.696 - 01:42:38.092, Speaker B: The set manager can essentially then deploy the smart contract for the set to the blockchain. And once deployed, the set can essentially issue collateralized ESA 20 tokens for this particular set particular fund. And there are many different examples of such sets of funds. Some best known examples include the DeFi pulse index DPI which tracks the DeFi pulse index for DeFi protocols and the metaverse index which tracks the various protocols in metaverse. And as I mentioned earlier, the advantage of such an approach is that we can completely remove the intermediary AP. So now for a user, if a user wants to buy into a new set or new fund, the user can then directly interact with the set contract that represents this new fund and the user can then send the collateral as specified in the allocation table of the set contract. And once the set contract receives these collaterals, it will then issue the corresponding set token representing these fully backed collaterals to the user.
01:42:38.092 - 01:44:07.304, Speaker B: And similarly, when the user doesn't want to hold this set token anymore, it could directly send the set token to the set contract and the set contract will then send back to the user the corresponding collateral as again specified in the allocation table. So that's the creation and redemption of the set tokens, the user can also buy and sell the set tokens directly as well. And there are two different ways that the user can do this. One is through interacting with the set contract directly. So, for example, in this case, instead of providing the needed collateral, the user can send, for example, in ETH directly to the set contract and the set contract. Then on the back end, once receiving the ETH, by utilizing APIs, it could create a series of Dex orders to essentially swap the ETH into the needed collateral on the decentralized exchange. And once it receives the collateral, it will then issue the corresponding set tokens to the user.
01:44:07.304 - 01:45:15.836, Speaker B: So in this case, of course, one potential issue is because the set contract in this case need to do a number of dex orders to get the collateral and hence the gas fee could be high. So another way is that the user can buy and sell the set tokens directly on the Dex. For example, for the DPI token it has high liquidity on uniswap and the user can essentially directly buy and sell the DPI Token on uniswap. So in this case, user only needs to pay very low gas fees. But of course this will only work if there's plenty of liquidity on decks for this particular set token. Usually these onchain portfolio management protocols applications also offer various tools to make it easy for set managers to manage its set of funds. And also in this case, the set manager gets rewarded with fees called streaming fees.
01:45:15.836 - 01:46:35.784, Speaker B: Oftentimes these streaming fees paid out to the set managers over time based on the entire market cap of the set and incentivize the managers to increase the value of their sets over time for their users. And there are different metrics that one can measure for performance analysis for a particular set or fund. For example, AUM assets under management, the performance return for the users max drawdown, which is the largest decline in history, streaming fees and holder size and so on. And there are many other examples for DeFi asset management protocols as well. So to summarize, by utilizing blockchain smart contracts on chain portfolio management has a number of advantages over traditional ETF. They can be much more efficient because there's no intermediary AP taking arbitrage profit and this enables an open ecosystem where anyone can create a new index trading strategy fund. But of course here one needs to be careful that a fund manager could front run its user investor.
01:46:35.784 - 01:47:50.160, Speaker B: So for example, if a fund manager creates a new index where some of the underlying assets has low liquidity, the fund manager could first buy these assets at low price, a lower price and then create this new index. And as users buy into the fund essentially will generate more demand for these assets and hence the fund manager may be able to then sell these assets at a higher price. So this is an example how the fund manager could actually front run as users. But this is not unique to the DeFi asset management. In traditional fund management there can also be similar issues. And another important advantage for on chain portfolio management is its trust. This nature where the assets are custodied on chain and hence users do not need to trust any third party for the custody of their assets.
01:47:50.160 - 01:47:51.150, Speaker B: Thank you.
