00:00:00.250 - 00:00:50.194, Speaker A: Before we talk about DeFi, first let's talk about what is finance? Finance is a broad term. Anything that involves the creation, management and investment of money and financial assets is essentially part of finance. And there are many different types of financial assets and financial instruments. For example, bank deposits, stocks, bonds, loans, derivative and so on. A financial asset essentially is a nonphysical asset whose value is derived from a contractual claim. And there are many different types of financial services that we use on a daily basis, for example, banking, lending, borrowing, insurance funds and so on. And a financial market is a marketplace for trading financial assets.
00:00:50.194 - 00:01:38.138, Speaker A: And first, let's look at how traditionally finance is done. Traditionally, we have centralized financial institutions that provide these financial services to us. There are different types of financial institutions depending on the type of financial services that they provide, such as banks, securities companies, fund management companies and so on. And for more details you can see title 33 of the United States Code. There are a number of characteristics for these financial institutions. First, typically the financial institutions hold custodies of customers, funds and assets. For example, my money in my bank account.
00:01:38.138 - 00:02:33.194, Speaker A: Essentially my bank holds custody for them. And the bank has the power to freeze someone's accounts if there's illicit activities, for example. And also these financial institutions, they serve as intermediaries for transactions. For example, if I want to transfer money from my bank account to Dan's bank account, if we use the same bank, then the bank will decrease the balance of my account and increase Dan's account and essentially serve as the intermediary for the transaction. And if Dan uses a different bank, then my bank will communicate with Dan's bank and perform the transaction as intermediaries. These financial institutions has a lot of power. For example, they can censor the transactions.
00:02:33.194 - 00:03:23.242, Speaker A: For example, if the money transfer is a type of money laundering, then the bank may censor the transaction. And also these financial institutions take fees for providing the financial service. And these financial institutions typically are highly regulated. They need to adhere to strict onboarding and continuous compliance rules. And there are different types of rules and regulations. For example, KYC know your customer AML anti money laundering and CFT combat the financing of terrorism. As you can see here, as a consequence of how these financial services are provided, the customers usually have no privacy to the service providers.
00:03:23.242 - 00:05:05.550, Speaker A: So for example, my bank knows my real identity and also knows the full account transaction information from my account. But however, to the customers the financial services are very opaque and the information and records are kept in siloed databases and applications. And as a consequence of how financial institutions operate, again as holding custodies of customers funds and serve as intermediaries for transactions, they essentially need to be fully trusted to operate correctly and securely. So we place a lot of trust on these financial institutions on November 1, 2008, the famous and anonymous Satoshi Nakamoto released his Bitcoin white paper and this ushered the world into a new era for public blockchains. Public blockchains also called distributed ledgers. They are a new type of technology that enables mutually distracted nodes to come together and collectively maintain an immutable ledger that's open to anyone and that maintains immutable records and transactions. With the birth of Bitcoin, it provided for the first time the capability for users to provide self custody of money, in particular digital currency.
00:05:05.550 - 00:06:48.960, Speaker A: In 2014, Ethereum has been proposed as a next generation blockchain platform, in particular, a smart contract platform with Turing complete smart contract language. And with Ethereum, it allows different types of applications to run on top of the smart contract platform and has provided the capabilities for the first time for open programmable money and financial assets. And this essentially enabled a new way of doing financial services called decentralized finance. So what is decentralized finance? Essentially, this is a new type of financial infrastructure as an open permissionless and highly interoperable protocol stack built on top of the public smart contract platform. And to determine whether a financial application is decentralized as part of DeFi, we can go through a three step determination process, and in particular, looking at three different aspects of the degree of decentralization for the financial application. So first we look at custody and settlement, whether users have full control of their financial assets, in this case, whether they take custody of their financial assets. If not, then that's clearly a DeFi application.
00:06:48.960 - 00:07:34.250, Speaker A: And if yes, we go to the next step looking at the transaction execution. Can someone single handedly censor a transaction execution? If yes, then this means that the application uses DeFi settlement, but it has a CFI intermediary. And then the next step we look at is can someone single handedly censor the protocol execution or change the protocol? And if yes, that means this is essentially governed DeFi. And if no, this means this is fully decentralized finance application DeFi.
