00:00:00.410 - 00:01:24.310, Speaker A: So how is DeFi done? What is the DeFi stack? So DeFi is built on top of a decentralized smart contract platform and within the DeFi ecosystem there are different roles. So first users use the DeFi application and services and the DeFi service is often implemented as a smart contract and in particular for a DeFi application there are a number of layers. So first at the bottom is the settlement layer. For example transactions are committed on the blockchain which keeps an immutable log of the transaction. On top of the blockchain there's the XL layer which implements the different financial assets. There are different types of financial assets, one is the native protocol asset for example on Ethereum is ETH. There are also other types of financial assets that are implemented as smart contracts.
00:01:24.310 - 00:02:41.498, Speaker A: For example the ERC 20 standard specifies a type of financial asset called fungible tokens. This for example a smart contract implementing ERC 20 can maintain the balance of different accounts for this financial asset. Another example is the ERC 721 which specifies standards for nonfungible tokens NFTs. On top of the asset layer is the protocol layer where different types of financial services are implemented. This includes for example decentralized exchanges, decentralized lending onchain asset management and derivatives and so on. These protocols are implemented as smart contracts and gets executed on the smart contract platform. And on top of this layer is the application layer which is user facing that users can use to interact with the underlying protocol layer.
00:02:41.498 - 00:04:37.490, Speaker A: And on top of the application layer is the aggregation layer which can aggregate different applications into one user facing application. For example as a wallet that user uses that can help user to utilize different types of financial DeFi applications and protocols. In addition to the users and DeFi protocols, the DeFi applications and also the blockchain also need to interact with the outside world. So for example a blockchain is essentially a distributed database with atomic settlements. It may need to interact with another blockchain which may have other types of financial assets on this other blockchain and this is usually done using a bridge connecting the two different blockchains. And also the different applications on top of the blockchain may need information from outside world that's off chain, for example it may need pricing information from centralized exchanges or even for example many information about the weather and so on. Oracle essentially helps provide such information that brings information outside of the blockchain onto the blockchain.
00:04:37.490 - 00:06:44.220, Speaker A: And also there's another type of entity that we call Keeper essentially is a type of bots that will send trigger events to the blockchain. So for example certain DeFi applications on the blockchain as you will learn in the later part of the class, for example there may be collateral in DeFi application that may need to get liquidated during when certain events happens, for example when token price drops and so on. Such liquidation can be performed by outside entities that we call keeper here that actually send such requests or transactions to the DeFi applications on the blockchain, which essentially helps the DeFi application to operate. And of course, in this case, the DeFi application is designed with the right incentives so that it will incentivize external entities such as keepers to send such transactions and triggers to the DeFi application to make sure that the application properly runs. And in this case we can see that we have the DeFi world and the CFI world essentially can run side to side in parallel and there can be connections between the two. For example, as we already discussed, Oracle can help bring information in CFI into the DeFi world. And on the other hand, on DeFi, certain assets may be reserves of packed assets and such reserves may be kept in the CFI world and hence the CFI NDFI world has a lot of connections between them.
