00:00:00.410 - 00:00:55.870, Speaker A: Welcome back. In this lecture we'll be looking at AMM liquidity mining. Note that liquidity mining can be applied to any type of DeFi protocol, but it's quite prevalent on AMMS. So what is liquidity mining and where does this term mining comes from? So liquidity, as we established earlier, is basically monetary value or monetary on, right? So this is basically a financial value. Mining you're quite familiar by now with is the process of creating something, for example, extending the blockchain with blocks. In this particular context it's referred to as generating financial revenue. So as such, liquidity mining can be seen as being equal to an incentive that's created for participants to participate in a particular DeFi protocol.
00:00:55.870 - 00:02:21.190, Speaker A: So there are two types of rewards in DeFi protocols and they are mainly trading fees. So if you're a liquidity provider or also called LP, and you provide assets into a pool, right? So there's a pool of assets, X and Y, and you provide some assets in there. You remember the example of Alice and then there's Bob, who's trading here and who will then provide a small fee to the liquidity pool. This is an incentive, right? So here these are the trading fees that are being paid by traders to the liquidity providers. And the way that this works, these trading fees, is that this value, this fee here is directly added into the pool, right? So it's being paid either X or Y that's in this pool. So as such, the liquidity providers, they have an LP coin which represents the share of their allocation in this pool. And because this pool is growing through trading fees, the percentage, the share of the pool remains the same, relatively speaking, right? But the absolute value of the pool obviously grows and therefore the LP coins grow in value through the addition of trading fees.
00:02:21.190 - 00:03:17.302, Speaker A: So an example in Curve is that the LPs, they get 0.3% of the trading fees from the users. So in essence, if you're participating as an LP, as a liquidity provider in a pool, you're gaining interest based on the user behavior. So the more users trade, the more financial value you will receive. The second type of reward is the so called liquidity mining rewards. So these are rewards that any protocol, DeFi protocol can manually specify. So they can, for example, say if you provide a certain amount of liquidity to a pool, then the protocol so this is actually in the DeFi protocol, instructors or developers or so they will basically say, okay, here, there's Alice.
00:03:17.302 - 00:04:12.526, Speaker A: She provided that much liquidity, we will give her as a reward, we will give her some token C. Right? So this is a liquidity mining reward. And this incentive exists in order to incentivize liquidity providers to deposit more and more assets into a pool, hence attracting more liquidity, hence attracting more traders because the slippage becomes lower, because the trading volume grows and volume attracts volume in the exchange businesses. So these are the two prevalent types of rewards that DeFi protocols are currently exerting. They may be further down the road. It would be amazing if you build a new DeFi protocol with maybe a different reward structure, a new type of reward. So try to get creative here and in general.
00:04:12.526 - 00:05:17.540, Speaker A: So here I have a small summary of what liquidity mining is, right? It's really incentive to provide liquidity to a pool. So liquidity providers should be incentivized. The reward is proportional. That's very important. It's proportional in terms of amounts of liquidity that you provide and also in terms of time, right? So if this is a chart with a time and the overall US. Dollar that you provide in liquidity and the liquidity changes over time that you provide, so then the rewards will basically be proportional to the individual amounts that you had at any point in time and always in comparison to the other liquidity providers that are providing liquidity. What's great about liquidity pools in general is that you can remove and add your assets at any point in time, but this also holds for liquidity mining benefits.
00:05:17.540 - 00:06:14.398, Speaker A: So most of the time liquidity mining benefits are set for fixed amount of time. So, for example, you can think of Bitcoin as actually one of the earliest, maybe liquidity mining proposals where, well, you get incentivized for your hash rate, not for your monetary amount, but there's a fixed release schedule at how many tokens or how many coins are being distributed over time. And in some protocols it might be removed anytime. So be aware that the incentive structures changes significantly once there's less liquidity mining rewards. So what's very interesting is that there are retrospective airdrops that are possible. So I guess Uniswap is a famous example. Uniswap did not have a token in the early days of its protocol.
00:06:14.398 - 00:07:36.046, Speaker A: Then at some point in time, uniswap introduced a token and rewarded the previous liquidity providers as well as the liquidity takers. So those that actually trade given the liquidity provided by liquidity providers. So both liquidity providers and liquidity takers got incentivized to participate in this pool retrospectively. So that's the funny fact because this basically implies if you have a blockchain address that performed some interaction with some DeFi protocols, then the address history in itself is a valuable element. So keep that in mind. Instead of selling a wallet, maybe just transfer some coins to another wallet, but keep the wallet if that's necessary. Or as well, if you're, for example, running a business and your employees are managing your private keys and they send the funds later back to some company owned account, keep in mind that the address history of a wallet is valuable and this wallet might receive airdrops later on.
00:07:36.046 - 00:08:18.170, Speaker A: So it's very important to keep here a clean tab of what is owned by whom, as history matters. To give you a few examples, I plotted here screenshots of curve and alpha Homora. So let's go into these a bit more in detail. So you can see here in Curve, the first example is the tree crypto pool which has three assets. Right? There's the USDT, the wrapped bitcoin and the wrapped ether. So basically this pool has three assets. And this is actually one of the few pools in Curve that that has non correlated or non packed assets.
00:08:18.170 - 00:08:59.194, Speaker A: There's a base APY. So APY stands for annual percentage yield API of 3.73%. Right? So this is at this very point in time, if we keep this state for a year and if you deposit some of your coins you will get this interest rate. And then so this is the base APY based on the trading fees. This is calculated on the expected trading fees that happened in a past time frame. And in addition you get a reward API APY. So this can be between two and 5%.
00:08:59.194 - 00:10:03.822, Speaker A: And this is being paid out in Curve. So the base APY is paid out in LP tokens of the respective pool while the reward APY is paid out in Curve. Right? So these are exactly these two type of rewards that we discussed in the earlier slide. Now, why does the reward here change from two to five? Well, this basically it's due to the Curve model because Curve incentivizes its users to lock Curve token in their platform. The more Curve you lock over a particular time frame and depending on the pool states, you might get between two and 5% APY. Here the trade volume is basically the amounts of US dollar of daily trade volume that's going through this pool. So you can see some of these pools are quite higher with 120,000,000, while the base API is relatively small.
00:10:03.822 - 00:10:50.090, Speaker A: So you might ask why that's the case. So this basically depends also on the size of the pool. So the free pool is in particular relatively large. I'm not aware of the exact numbers there at this particular stage, but the base API doesn't necessarily have to correlate to the volume. So if the pool is very small. So it basically depends on the volume on the pool size and also on the on the fee settings that are set for the default pool. So an additional interesting element that you can see here is that for the SUSD market there's an incentive mechanism paid in SNX.
00:10:50.090 - 00:11:27.110, Speaker A: So there's no range because SNX will not be locked in this system here. So it's just a fixed liquidity mining reward. So the overall API APY that you get is 0.5 plus whatever you get in between this range plus these 1.78. So this is your overall APY that you get for this particular case. Now some of these pools have a significantly higher APY. So here you can see the TBTC pool goes up to 34% paid out in Curve tokens.
00:11:27.110 - 00:12:02.850, Speaker A: So you might want to be careful. So ideally the market is balancing out the importance or the danger, the risks of a pool. So I haven't seen yet any study being performed on the efficiency of these liquidity mining allocations. Based on the risk profile of the particular pool. I think that would be quite excellent future work. So feel free to propose this also in the MOOC, maybe as a project or something. That's really an interesting future avenue.
00:12:02.850 - 00:12:55.300, Speaker A: And then we have on the right side, we have Alpha Homora. Alpha Homora is actually a leverage platform, so it's quite different from curve. It's operating very differently. And here you have an interesting you have several, actually, APIs that you can get. So you get some yield farming APY, you get trading fees, you get token release as well. And you have to pay because you're taking leverage in this particular platform, so you have to pay a borrow APY. So it's basically the sum of all these three sums then up to your particular APY that you may get if you extend the instantaneous APY over a year.
00:12:55.300 - 00:13:04.630, Speaker A: So I hope this helps you to get some insight into yield farming or liquidity mining protocols.
00:13:06.010 - 00:13:11.458, Speaker B: Thank you very much for your attention. As before, feel free to try it out in practice.
00:13:11.634 - 00:13:13.174, Speaker A: Just be aware that if you set.
00:13:13.212 - 00:13:25.290, Speaker B: A leverage multiplier on these liquidity mining platforms that might be too high, you might get liquid data very easily. We'll discuss this in detail in the lending and borrowing lecture.
