00:00:03.620 - 00:01:03.184, Speaker A: There are different types of DeFi services that have already been built. Essentially any service that you can think of in CFI, its counterpart in DeFi exists. For example, there are DeFi services for exchanges and trading, lending, insurance, asset management and so on. So now let's look at a few examples of these DeFi building blocks and services. The first we are going to look at is asset tokenization, which is the core of DeFi how DeFi assets are created. Tokenization is essentially the process of adding new assets to a blockchain. And in blockchain token is the key where token is the blockchain representation of the asset.
00:01:03.184 - 00:02:34.440, Speaker A: And this token representation makes assets more accessible, easy to transfer and programmable. And there are different types of tokens, for example governance tokens where the token holders of the governance token can vote and to decide the future development and import decisions on the protocol. And there can be security tokens which for example represent tokenized physical assets such as tokenized real estate. And another type of token assets is nonfungible tokens called NFTs. Many of you may have heard about the recent craze on NFTs, so NFTs, these are nonfungible tokens that can represent different types of assets such as music, art and so on. In fall 2017, crypto kitties created were created as a game, which is the first explosion of NFTs where these crypto kitties are traded for high prices. And more recently in March this year, artist people everyday NFT was sold for over $69 million.
00:02:34.440 - 00:03:51.980, Speaker A: So NFT has become a new way for arts and for representing art ownership and for trading of art. Another important type of tokens, especially for DeFi services is called stablecoin. So as you may notice that a lot of the tokens and the treatable tokens, their price can be very volatile. But for a lot of the DeFi applications it needs a type of asset with a stable price and hence motivates the creation of a type of token called stablecoin. So these stablecoins essentially are tokens whose price is pegged to certain other types of assets such as fiat and precious metal and so on. And there are different ways for creating stablecoins. For example, stablecoin can be created using off chain collateral such as off chain fiat or precious metal.
00:03:51.980 - 00:04:52.564, Speaker A: It can also be created using onchain collateral, essentially using collateral of onchain crypto assets. Or they can be non collateral and purely created using algorithmic methods. And this is a real invention in DeFi that does not exist in the CFI world. And in the later part of the class we are going to study in more detail the different types of stablecoins and study their stability or instability and what are good ways for creating stablecoins. Another example of DeFi building blocks and services is decentralized exchanges. So exchanges is a marketplace that allows users to trade different financial assets. And traditionally this has been done with centralized exchange like any other centralized financial services.
00:04:52.564 - 00:06:19.056, Speaker A: A centralized exchange holds custody of users assets and there has been many attacks on centralized crypto exchanges. The most famous one is the attack on Mount Gox in 2014 where over 800,000 bitcoins were stolen and this was valued over 450,000,000 at the time and today it would be valued over $30 billion. And in year 2019 alone over twelve centralized exchanges have been attacked with over 300 million worth of crypto stolen. And also there can be rock centralized exchanges which simply takes users money away and then disappears. So with these centralized exchanges also there is a lot of nontransparency that users do not know how decentralized exchanges operate. In contrast, decentralized exchanges provides a number of advantages. One is noncustodial users take custody of their assets and two, these decentralized exchanges provide full transparency on how the transactions and trades have happened.
00:06:19.056 - 00:08:08.450, Speaker A: Centralized exchanges often determines the trade using an order book where sellers and buyers put up their orders that get matched on the centralized exchange and then get settled. Whereas in decentralized exchange there has been a number of innovations that allows different types of order matching to facilitate the trade. For example, there is standard order book methods but also there is a new type of method called constant function market maker which does not need an auto book. It's also called EMM automated market maker which we will learn more in later part of the class. And also there are other methods such as reserve aggregator and so on. The biggest decentralized exchange so far is Uniswap and over time we have seen that the trading volume on decentralized exchange has grown drastically over time. And in fall 2020 it was the first time when uniswap's trading volume exceeded the centralized exchange coinbase trading volume as we can.
00:08:08.450 - 00:10:15.740, Speaker A: This is a great example that even though decentralized exchange such as uniswap is built with a much smaller team, but however it can be very powerful and with the trading volume exceeds centralized exchange such as Coinbase which is now a publicly listed company with billions of dollars of market cap. The third example of DeFi building block and service that we will see here is decentralized lending. Lending is an important function in finance where people who have money lends money to people who need money and an important part of lending is to make sure that the loaned money eventually gets returned and when the loan money fails to be returned. This is called a default in centralized finance CFI. It tries to reduce the rate of default because processing default is very expensive and in case of even when it's fully collateralized and when it's under collateralized, of course the default rate is even more expensive. And hence for lending in DeFi it relies on evaluating the credits for the borrower. In DeFi, the lending is largely done in different ways as collateralized loans in particular with over collateralization and also because in DeFi oftentimes entities are pseudonymous and there's no real identity and there's no real credit.
00:10:15.740 - 00:11:34.980, Speaker A: And hence the lending in DeFi is often not based on credit. And there are different types of collateralized loans including collateralized debt positions. So essentially borrowers put up collaterals and use the collateral to create new tokens. For example in MakerDAO's case, another example is collateralized debt markets where borrowers put up collaterals and then borrow funds from lenders as other types of crypto assets. And a popular type of collateral debt markets uses pool funds such as in compound and ali. And there's new DeFi services that's exploring the lending in underclateralization case as well. Another really fascinating invention in DeFi is called flash loans.
00:11:34.980 - 00:13:53.004, Speaker A: So Blockchain, unlike the CFI case, has a new capability that ensures atomicity in transactions. In particular, what this means is that the actions within a transaction are executed entirely in sequence or fail collectively. So with this type of atomic transaction capability, blockchains can enable very interesting new capabilities such as flash loans. So in the flash loans case, a lending service could provide loans without any collateral but within one transaction under the condition that the provided loan are paid back by the end of the transaction plus interest on the lent amounts. Because of the atomicity for transactions, this flash loan can be done in a very secure way because if the borrower at the end of the transactions cannot return the loan plus the interest, then the transaction will fail and the state will revert back just as if the borrower has never borrowed the loan. And the amazing part for this is that this means that without any resource, without any collaterals, anyone can borrow with this flash loan that actually could be very high amount can be millions or even billions of dollars without any upfront costs and this does not exist in CIFI at all. So here is an example flowchart of the flash loan the borrower within one transaction the borrower first take out the flash loan from a loan service and then it uses the borrowed money to go wild.
00:13:53.004 - 00:15:18.620, Speaker A: For example it could use the borrowed money for arbitrage and so on and then at the end repay the loan with interest. So here is a concrete example where the arbitrager borrows a flash loan and then use this loan amount on the exchange to exchange. For example, it borrows this much USDC and then exchanges this USDC to Dai. Given the current price of USDC and Dai on this market, and then on another market, it exchanges the Dai into the USDC. Given that there is a difference between the price on the two markets and essentially just performed arbitrage and this arbitrage generated a profit so that at the end of the transaction the arbitrage can return the original flash loan and then keep the remaining as the profit. So these are just a few examples for DeFi building blocks and services and there are many other examples as well. For example, decentralized derivatives.
00:15:18.620 - 00:16:28.736, Speaker A: Derivatives are essentially financial assets whose value is derived from certain underlying assets. And there are different types of derivatives, for example asset based derivatives such as Synthetics and Mirror that creates derivatives based on for example, stocks. And there can be event based derivatives such as Auger or Prediction. These are essentially prediction markets that creates assets based on external events. Another type of DeFi building block and service is on chain asset management. So this essentially provides asset management to help users to manage different DeFi assets. However, the interesting thing for these asset management is that it's done on chain as smart contracts different from traditional asset management and hence these are noncustodial and they can do lots of different things.
00:16:28.736 - 00:17:03.670, Speaker A: They can perform semiautomatic rebalancing of portfolio or even perform for example, trend trading. And there are a number of examples of these on chain asset management such as Yearn and SAP Protocol. And another interesting example is decentralized insurance done on chain as well. And in the rest of the semester we are going to take deeper dives for these different types of DeFi building blocks and services.
