00:00:00.410 - 00:01:31.060, Speaker A: DeFi provides great innovation and many opportunities, but at the same time there are also many risks in DeFi that we need to be aware. So first let's talk about DeFi security. Given that DeFi runs on a number of layers, essentially there are security issues on all layers, for example, including network layer attacks, consensus layer attacks and smart contracts can have bugs and vulnerabilities. And when we compose DeFi protocols, there can be composability attacks. And as DeFi gets information and communicates from the outside world, there can be breach attacks, oracle attacks, and given that DeFi is governed in a decentralized fashion, there can be governance attacks as well. And DeFi security is a huge risk in DeFi so far in year 2021 DeFi attacks. When we talk about DeFi security, essentially there are two different types of security issues that we need to consider.
00:01:31.060 - 00:03:03.602, Speaker A: One we call technical structured security or technical security. So these are essentially secure issues risen from the underlying technical vulnerabilities and in the technical structure of the blockchain systems. And often attackers can take the profits in a risk free manner by exploiting these technical vulnerabilities. And another type of DeFi security issue is what we call economic incentive security or economic security. And in these type of security issues attackers exploit the incentive structure of the protocol to realize unintended profits at the expense of the protocol or as users. In the rest of the semester, in the rest of the class we will study the details of the different types of DeFi secure issues, for example, looking at different types of smart contract vulnerabilities and that can be exploited for attacks as well as the economic security issues. So here is a simple example of a DeFi attack called front running attack.
00:03:03.602 - 00:04:36.910, Speaker A: In this case, an adversary observes a transaction on the blockchain, peer to peer network. And for example, this is a trade, a profitable trade that a user would like to do to make some money. However, given that all the transactions are open in clear text on the peer to peer network, so attackers could see these transactions before they are committed. So in this case, instead of having the user taking the profitable trade, the attacker then decides to create a transaction that actually front runs the user's trade so that the attacker gets to take the profit. And the attacker can do this by paying a higher transaction fee. And given that in a blockchain, for example Ethereum, the miners mine transactions based on their paid fees and hence in this case, the miner will execute the attacker's transaction before the user's transaction and hence fran the user's transaction and enable the attacker to be able to take the profit. And similar techniques can also be used for backRunning a transaction in what's called a sandwich attacks.
00:04:36.910 - 00:06:35.458, Speaker A: And in later part of the class you will learn more about different types of such attacks. And these different types of attacks also allows miners to essentially be able to extract more value from the blockchain other than just mining for block rewards. They could perform these different attacks or facilitate attackers to perform different types of attacks and we call this minor extractable value or blockchain extractable value where the miners and attackers can in this case extract values from the different DeFi applications or other blockchain smart contract applications to extract value from the ecosystem. And we'll also study more about these mevs and seeing that these mevs has become a tremendous amount of value ranging in hundreds of millions of dollars. Another type of risks in DeFi that when you consider is systemic risks. On one hand for DeFi, the composability enables great innovation and fast progress in developing new DeFi applications. On the other hand, this type of composability also introduces wide dependencies in DeFi applications.
00:06:35.458 - 00:08:07.982, Speaker A: Thus issues in one DeFi application can quickly cause issues in other DeFi applications as a ripple effect. So, for example, in the recent past there has been significant price declines. Huge jobs on a single day in cryptocurrency and in this case, given crypto, assets are used as collaterals in many different DeFi applications such huge price. Drop can easily cause huge ripple effects, causing liquidations, deleveraging and so on in different DeFi applications to the extent that could destabilize the different DeFi applications and services and causing the price to fall down even further. So in traditional financial markets such as stock markets, it has circuit breakers when the loss becomes too much. In blockchain and DeFi world there is no such circuit breaker so far. So this in particular is important for us to further investigate and explore the different ways to reduce systemic risks.
00:08:07.982 - 00:10:25.230, Speaker A: So in the traditional financial services one phenomenon we have heard about is called bank run when users are concerned about the solvency of a bank and outruns to the bank to try to take their money out and in this case when there's a background in CFI, oftentimes no money may be returned. However, in DeFi there can also be a similar phenomenon as bank run. For example, a pool in DeFi application a liquidity pool in a DeFi application such as Kerber avi may get blacklisted and in this case users will try to take out their liquidity may try to take out their liquidity and in this case, the earlier exits will have better price for later exits. And the protocol is designed in a way to punish the later exits and hence causing a bank run phenomenon in DeFi. So in traditional finance, in traditional finance you may have heard of the term bank run where users are concerned about solvency of a bank and all runs to the bank to demand to take their money out and oftentimes in such cases no money gets returned until things are sorted out. In DeFi there may be a similar banterang phenomena. Another important type of risk that we need to consider is DeFi privacy.
00:10:25.230 - 00:11:18.680, Speaker A: So in permissionless blockchains. Usually users are pseudonymous, not anonymous. For example, the balances of the different accounts, transactions between different accounts and when the transactions are made, and so on. All these are public information. For example, we can see the super wealthy DeFi accounts on chain ourselves. So here is an example of an address on the Ethereum blockchain and we can see that it has over $4 billion. And hence in DeFi it's important to develop different techniques to help enhance privacy in DeFi applications as well.
