00:00:00.730 - 00:01:31.210, Speaker A: So why do we talk about DeFi? Decentralized Finance so first let's look at a comparison of the different characteristics between CFI and DeFi. Centralized Finance versus Decentralized Finance so in traditional centralized finance it's a permission system. The financial systems are typically closed source and built on top of centralized Siloed databases and one needs approval and agreement for a third party to use these financial services and build on top. And these traditional finance custodial assets are usually custody by these financial traditional financial services. And the traditional financial services are built on top of centralized trust and governance where the financial service is responsible for making upgrade decisions and has admin privileges. And also to use these financial services one need to provide real identity, for example for KYC and AML compliance reasons. In contrast, decentralized finance DeFi applications and services are permissionless.
00:01:31.210 - 00:03:25.040, Speaker A: They are typically built as open source systems on top of permissionless blockchains and anyone can use and built on top of these financial services and interoperate with them without needing any third party approval or agreement. And the financial assets are non custodial in DeFi, where they are controlled and custody by individual users. And DeFi applications and services are built on top of decentralized trust and governance and so they don't have any single entity that's responsible for upgrade decisions, are having admin privileges and are also called trustless. And for DeFi applications, users are pseudonymous and often do not provide their real identities. Given its characteristics, DeFi application services provide a number of advantages over traditional finance. One, they can be more efficient by removing the rent seeking intermediaries and DeFi enables open finance and universal accessibility where anyone can use the financial services. DeFi also provides unparalleled transparency and public verifiability anyone can inspect the smart contract code and verify its execution and state of the system and hence verify the execution of the financial services.
00:03:25.040 - 00:05:17.550, Speaker A: DeFi also enables self custody and hence its censorship resistance, where the users custody their own financial assets and their financial assets in this case cannot be frozen or taken away. DeFi also enables automation and programmability as being built using smart contracts on permissionless blockchains. And with its openness, DeFi also enables unprecedented composability and interoperability. Different DeFi protocols and applications are often considered as Lego building blocks that one can stack up together to build new financial applications. And DeFi is a great playground for fast innovation. DeFi applications often are much simpler and faster to develop than the CFI counterparts and also enables new capabilities such as atomic composabilities that can enable new powers and applications that do not exist in the CFI world. Given its advantages, DeFi has been growing rapidly by a metric called TVL Total Value Locked, which measures the total value of financial assets deposited and locked in different DeFi applications.
00:05:17.550 - 00:05:45.970, Speaker A: We have seen a tremendous growth of the usage of DeFi applications where where the TVL has gone over $80 billion and also we see a rapid growth of the total DeFi users over time as well. Where we see over 3 million users have been using DeFi applications.
