00:00:00.490 - 00:00:42.566, Speaker A: It's Monday and it's time for a quick take. And if you remember, we covered EIP 1559 a few weeks back. Well, the proposal has been cleared for takeoff two years to the day since it was first proposed. The EIP will be included in the London hard fork coming in July. Do the gas dance do the gas dance now ERP 1559 involves the use of a transaction pricing mechanism that includes fixed per block network fees that are burned and dynamically expand or contract block sizes to deal with transient congestions. And yes, it is a major shakeup to Ethereum's gas fee market, but don't expect it to suddenly make gas fees much cheaper. The improvements will mostly be felt around user experience, and probably felt most keenly by developers.
00:00:42.566 - 00:01:35.142, Speaker A: Now, traditionally, a user sends a gas fee to a miner for a transaction to be included in a block. That gas fee will now be sent to the network itself as part of a burn mechanism called a base fee, with only an optional tip paid to miners known as the gas premium. Now, the burn fee is algorithmically defined rather than assigned by miners, so it should be fairer to the end user as well. The current gas limit of 10 million is also replaced by two values, a long term average target of 10 million and a hard per block cap, 20 million. Effectively, in most scenarios, users would only decide whether to pay the fee or not, but no longer how much to bid. And this should lead to slightly lower fees, thanks to better fee estimation. For miners, though, this is a big kick in the teeth since mining has been, well, very profitable.
00:01:35.142 - 00:02:20.978, Speaker A: This year, total mining revenue went past $1.4 billion in February, with around 50% of that coming from fees alone. Now, under EIP 1559, a large chunk of that goes away. Now, the burn mechanism will also add deflationary pressure to the ethereum network, which in theory should result in a rise in ETH value. But miners are signaling their unhappiness with more than 60% of hash power opposed to the proposal now. But there is hope for them in the shape of MeV, or minor extracted value, which allows them to take advantage of their position as arbiters in how blocks are packaged to front run profitable trades. Now, MeV is one of the more savage tools used by high level Defi traders who bid up gas prices to secure their place in a block.
00:02:20.978 - 00:02:52.990, Speaker A: And many Ethereum mining pools are currently implementing MeV software to grab a piece of this pie. Now, as Defi scales this new source of revenue, we will as well. Now, there have been talks of a contentious hard fork or a 51% attack, but that seems severe, especially given the whole network is transitioning to proof of stake over the next few years. That's it for today's quick take. Don't forget to get yourself subscribed on YouTube and to keep up with all the latest DFI news, head on over to thedefine IO or just join our Telegram channel. See ya.
