00:00:00.250 - 00:00:00.800, Speaker A: U.
00:00:06.210 - 00:00:27.110, Speaker B: Join us for diffusion Digital at Diffusion Dot events, our two day virtual conference from the 15th to the 16 September, showcasing leading projects from across web3 with firesides and panels featuring leaders like Joe Lubin of Ethereum and others from projects including Set Protocol, the graph dapper Labs Parity r three Goleman etoro.
00:00:30.010 - 00:00:37.110, Speaker C: Today I'm really happy to welcome Stani Kulichov, a co founder of Ave. Welcome to the show.
00:00:37.180 - 00:00:40.330, Speaker A: Thanks for having me and pretty excited to be here.
00:00:40.400 - 00:01:36.314, Speaker C: You've been in the news a lot recently, so there's a lot to talk about. So as a quick description, you would describe Aave as the money market protocol and a leading DeFi project, a decentralized finance project. The website describes it as an open source, non custodial protocol enabling the creation of money markets where users can earn interest on deposits and borrow assets. And effectively, you're offering both stable and variable interest rates for lending, as well as innovating in the kind of unclateralized loan space, or aka flash loans, which is aimed at a slightly more kind of sophisticated user base and primarily developers. So we'll unpack that a little bit later. So the reasons why I wanted to get you on the show, there are lots. But firstly, at the time of talking, you now have around about $1.5
00:01:36.314 - 00:01:56.706, Speaker C: billion worth of different crypto assets state for credit lines, which is a huge achievement. You've just overtaken maker Dow for the title of the most collateral state on Ethereum. So congratulations for that. I don't know how much weight you put into these. Do you take time to enjoy these milestones, or do you pay much attention to them?
00:01:56.808 - 00:02:45.662, Speaker A: Well, the cool thing is that we kind of share the success quite a lot with everyone that's building on top of AAVE. So, I mean, we have a developer friendly protocol, which means that most of the locked value comes from people that are building on top of ave and creating interesting DeFi primitives. And I think it's kind of like, for us, this is a very big milestone in terms of how we see how people trust our protocol the most. But our goal is basically to ensure that we're kind of like a base layer and helping others to build. So we kind of share the success with everyone that has been building on Aave or in general. This is a good thing for DeFi.
00:02:45.806 - 00:03:45.310, Speaker C: Yeah, and I think this is a really interesting thing for listeners to understand is the interplay between yourselves and the rest of the defi ecosystem and how you kind of accelerate one another's success at the same time, this is not an overnight success. So you've at least three years old, as far as I could figure out, and one of the first movers, if not the first mover, long before the Defi hype, which of course we all welcome. But at the same time, it brings new complexity, mo money, mo problems, I guess, as they say. And you came to market before projects like compound. And so it's interesting from a founder perspective to understand that interplay with competition and how you see it. As you said, you kind of deliberately taken a more community driven approach than other competition. You did a token sell back in 2017, previously as Eastland, and the offerings evolved a lot since then, including the token.
00:03:45.310 - 00:04:54.826, Speaker C: So it's going to be interesting to understand that journey again from a founder perspective. As I said, with things like flash loans, you're very developer centric. And so I think it's going to be interesting to understand how you see crossing over from developers potentially into mainstream retail, if that's something you intend to do, or you always look to kind of focus primarily on the developer. But equally, I think it could be said that you're one of the first and few great products in not just d five, but web3. There's a huge amount of attention has clearly gone into the UX, and you've also recently secured an electronic money license here in the UK, which is interesting in and of itself. But I also think similar to Makerdao, whose founder is danish, you're from Helsinki, and so I really want to understand why all of this stuff is happening in this part of the world. What is it about this region? It's non obvious, to me at least, anyway, that two of the leading projects in crypto would be coming from here.
00:04:54.826 - 00:06:12.514, Speaker C: So it's going to be interesting to understand if you think that's just random or there's a pattern and a signal there to understand. And equally similar to rune of maker, no offense intended, but it's non obvious that it would necessarily be you that would be the founder of something like this, both from a professional and an academic background. So again, I think it's really interesting to understand why you and why somebody from the part of the world that you're from. So maybe to just give some context to that from an origins perspective, I always try to kind of summarize as best I can the background of a founder to give that context, and perhaps you can help me build upon it. But as far as I can understand, you did various traineeships at a number of law firms from what I could see Bird and Bird, Carson and Schnelman and some others that I can't pronounce from between 2016 to 2017. And equally, you've been a member of the legal aid committee for the Law Students association in Finland, as I understand it. And that's still something you do?
00:06:12.712 - 00:07:16.582, Speaker A: I haven't, no, I haven't done it since I got vacuumed into the DeFi world. But yeah, I mean, background wise, it's kind of interesting because my background is law. I went to study law, was super interested. For me, law is a bit opinionated, and I wanted to kind of figure out how this kind of opinionated consensus is driven. And before that, I was basically developing different kinds of apps and doing projects and usually financial applications. One of the applications that I was building, and it wasn't a startup, and I was very young, more younger than now. And it was basically about letting, let's say, app developers or anyone who is publishing at Google Play or App Store to advance their earnings for the next day.
00:07:16.582 - 00:08:15.478, Speaker A: So typically when you are, let's say, game developer and you are getting revenues from App Store, you have to wait one month and 15 days or so, and then you get your monthly payouts. And our idea was basically to advance those payouts. And finance has been always a bit of something that has been in my blood. I always liked financial instruments, and when I was very young, I mean, ten years old, 13 years old, I used to watch a lot of the stock markets and trying to understand what's going on and tried all kinds of paper trading. When I was in the junior high, we had a paper trading kind of like a contest, and I won that as well. So I was always somehow eager about finance. And then in law school, I started to research Ethereum.
00:08:15.478 - 00:09:06.470, Speaker A: I got somehow bumped into it when I was just researching other stuff related to enforceability of agreements and somehow end up reading about smart contracts. And I was thinking like, wow, this is fascinating. You basically have a piece of code and it's in a blockchain. And after that, pretty much immutable. And I was thinking kind of like the use cases of the idea that you could actually build pretty interesting things. And then I started to get more involved. I was very active in the Ethereum community and started to basically try out different kinds of use cases that I wanted to build around finance.
00:09:06.470 - 00:10:04.126, Speaker A: And something I saw kind of interesting is that before I started to build, there wasn't defi how Ethereum narrative went. It's basically that there was the Dao and then there was the Dow hack. And then there was this kind of like quiet period. And one of the first DeFi applications on Ethereum was Ether delta. And that's basically a first decentralized exchange, I could say, on Ethereum. And also it didn't have any much traction until actually the token sale boom became popular. And I wanted to kind of think, how could we actually make loans on Ethereum and in a way that the borrower is incentivized to repay back? And we came up with the idea that you actually put a collateral and then you borrow against it.
00:10:04.126 - 00:10:52.706, Speaker A: So the project name was eat lend, short form Ethereum lending. And that was the kind of like the beginning of the collateralized loans, and the whole space evolved later a bit more. And we started 2016 to build, and 2017 we launched, and then the italian community grew quite substantially. And basically that got us further. And it has been like many years now. I mean, we rebranded last year into Ave, and this year, January, we launched the Ave protocol. And I think all those three years that we did, I think they all kind of are a result, what we are today and where we are going for multiple reasons.
00:10:52.706 - 00:11:51.978, Speaker A: Not just kind of like the fact that we get more knowledge on building smart contracts, but also the point that we kind of have the narrative as well, that we kind of understand where the Defi space is going and what has been previously happened. And that's very important to kind of acknowledge. And then the kind of point of why there's so many scandinavian startups, or let's say Ave and maker. We're from Nordics, but sadly, I think if we look at D five community, sadly, there isn't that many people in the Nordics. I think in the D five, Finland, we have 27 members only and probably active too, in some sense. There isn't like that much activity there, but interesting things are happening. But that's the cool part about DeFi, because it democratizes.
00:11:51.978 - 00:12:54.254, Speaker A: If I would create something like eatland back in the days, for me, it will be quite impossible to reach out for capital, for example, from Silicon Valley, from London. I mean, basically you have a person who is in college at the moment building on technology that is basically very novel, building on industry that doesn't exist, and kind of like there is so much risk involved. So basically the token generation was a democratic way actually to raise funds. And that was interesting point. Kind of like now it's a bit different. I mean, now kind of like DeFi has went quite large and decentralized geographically, and it might be easier. I love the fact kind of that the permissionless factor in DeFi is not only about users using permissionlessly, but builders building permissionlessly and using the whole ecosystem for their advantage.
00:12:54.382 - 00:14:09.482, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, I think it's really interesting that obviously most of the successful projects in Defi have evolved out of the Ethereum community. As a consequence, they've kind of got that in their dna. A lot of the philosophy behind how you build community, and clearly you've managed to bring this initial base of the Ethereum community with you on that. Certainly, you know, when people have made comparisons between you guys and say compound, it's often compound is called the vc equivalent because it's got all the Silicon Valley vcs compared to you guys, which are seen as very community centric. And I do think it's interesting, it's almost that given where you are, and I'd argue even were you in London, you still wouldn't have been able to attract the level of venture capital that you would have got were you in Silicon Valley. But actually that has been your blessing in a way, because it has forced you, whether you would have naturally done it or not, to build community, to work with the community, to raise capital from the community. And clearly that has led you to compete from a very strong vantage point.
00:14:09.482 - 00:15:10.942, Speaker C: And that is something I want to get into a little bit later, as well as how as a project you've evolved and then also the lend token itself. So previously it was just to kind of give better rates, but you've kind of added features, and I think that's a really interesting concept. Is there something as a minimal viable token and then you add features into it, such as platform governance? And I know the community can now vote on proposals made by the development team, interest rates, new assets, and of course that is also something that is true in Makerdao, that idea of devolving increasingly to the network or dissolving the organization. So if we kind of jump into that evolution story, I think it might be worth just at the top end giving a high level summary of the product offering that you've got and the unique selling points versus the competition that's out there.
00:15:10.996 - 00:16:21.222, Speaker A: Yeah, continuing what we did from Italy. So we started to see the space evolving, kind of like in the state that we're trying to lock a lot of capital into smart contracts. And that has been mean yardstick of the total lock value in a way to measure basically how much your smart contracts are trusted. It's an interesting metric in that sense, like the trust factor, but it's difficult to measure the same platforms let's say whether it's lending, trading with the same kind of instrument, I mean, yardsticks. And what we try to do with Ave protocol is basically to ironically unlock the capital. So we have most of the locked value in the defi space, but our actual goal has always been to unlock the value. And it's kind of like interesting, because the interesting part about Ave protocol, so as a money market protocol, it basically means for any user that they can deposit cryptographic assets and earn interest on them.
00:16:21.222 - 00:17:18.982, Speaker A: And when they're depositing those assets into Ave, they're getting in return a tokens, which is basically interest bearing token. And the implementation is pretty cool, because those tokens, they increase in balance right where you are storing them. So if you're storing metamask or somewhere else, over time, you will see that balance grow all the time. And the idea here was kind of like we tried to mimic the user experience that you would have, let's say, in a payments account or in a bank account, where if you get paid interest, you see the balance grow. And that has been like very cool feature. And then those tokens are actually value. So when you deposit die, you get Adai, that Adai actually is worth of your deposit and whatever you earn there.
00:17:18.982 - 00:18:17.930, Speaker A: So you could use them in somewhere else as a collateral, for example. And the cool part about this system is that it unlocks a lot of that value that we were talking about. And then we noticed that when you deposit to Ave, you can basically unlock yourself a credit line, so you can borrow against your eids, you can borrow against your stable coins. And fascinating here is that roughly, when you look at the lending pools and lending protocols, roughly 25% 140 is exercised in terms of credit lines. And we notice that rest of the funds are just slipping in the smart contracts. And you can't have a 100% utilization ratio on all the assets because some of them are used as a collateral. But interestingly, we tried to figure out how we could somehow put those funds into work.
00:18:17.930 - 00:19:14.042, Speaker A: And then we introduced a feature from the very beginning called flash loans. And the idea of the flash loans is that you can borrow even all the liquidity that there is in the smart contract. So now there is 1.5 billion worth of value locked in the system. That basically means that you can borrow for one transaction all that value without any kind of collateral. And the functionality here is people ask, okay, so why would you borrow for one transaction what you can do with this one transaction? Well, the interesting part is that how the blockchain settles is that you have always a block that has maximum gas available for consumption, and that block will be filled with transactions. So each ethereum block basically have multiple transactions, and each transaction can have nested transaction.
00:19:14.042 - 00:20:27.350, Speaker A: So you can create a transaction with nested transactions of flash, borrow from Ave, buy an asset in uniswap, sell an asset in Kyber, and take the profit and return the flashborrow amount. So you could do arbitrage, but you could also do many interesting products for end users as a developer. So typical thing is, for example, refinancing. So let's say there is a loan position open, let's say in compound, and let's say you're paying some percentage of borrowing USDC against your ETH, and you already spent that USDC. So with a flash loan, you could take a flash loan from AAvE. And basically in USDC, you can return that USDC, take that eater, put it into maker and print Dai, convert that Dai in Kyber back to USDC, return the loan to Ave. And basically what you did, you created a product for your end users where they can refinance from one protocol to another, and from one currency to another, and from one interest rate to another.
00:20:27.350 - 00:21:20.626, Speaker A: And this is like substantial benefit for the end users. And the latest kind of thing that we added in terms of unlocking value narrative is that when you deposit to Ave and you have the credit line that you can exercise, if you are not exercising that credit line, you can delegate it to someone else that you trust, or to a smart contract, and to earn more interest. And this is very cool use case for the future, because it allows you to take liquidity into, let's say, OTC lending disks, or to traditional finance, or just keep it between smart contracts and basically ensure that the smart contracts that you're delegating, they basically don't have any kind of functionality, that those funds are at stake somehow.
00:21:20.738 - 00:23:11.210, Speaker C: So how do you see the function or the role of AAvE and in the context of defi generally? Because when I try to explain Defi and what's happening in crypto to somebody that's not from the space, often they get kind of very confused. But I try to simplify it as, look, this is kind of a permissionless sandbox for financial technology. And in a way, you could think of it as a place where these innovations are tested out in a relatively contained environment. Because of the technical barrier, to play is so high that even though in theory, anybody could play with this technology, it's unlikely that they would. And so this is a place where innovation can be carried out at a global level, but I think where successful, you'll begin to see it either begin to eat away at the existing financial markets, capital markets, or begin to be co opted by, say, fintech startups who can start to roll out new products and features. So when you think of your users, like who are your users? And the users that you have today, are they going to be the same users as tomorrow? Are you always just focused on helping developers realize financial products? Or would you ever kind of extend into offering products and services directly to consumers? And I guess in that context, perhaps you could explain why you felt the need for this electronic money institutional license from the FCA in UK.
00:23:11.870 - 00:23:59.382, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely. So I think we always had a. We see Aave as a protocol. The AVE protocol has a horizontal approach, in the sense that it's a permissionless protocol, it's decentralized and governed by the avidao that we are basically transforming into, essentially by the token holders. What's interesting is that the protocol will always be decentralized, but then you can build different kinds of businesses around it and access points. So at Ave, we always have been having this kind of like a vertical approach idea. So when we created Ethland back then, most of the approaches in the space was creating something on horizontally.
00:23:59.382 - 00:25:06.938, Speaker A: So people were building protocols on top of protocols, and on top of protocols. It started to be kind of like a bit too hilarious for us, because no one was able to take the actual link all the way to the end consumer. And if you kind of go back in a few years and we will see a lot of kind of projects, and no one is taking actual people were talking about adoption, who is the end user? We see things being built, but always horizontally. And with Eaton, we actually went all the way to the end user and we wanted to give them the best experience. Even though the space was very limited, we didn't have stable coins, the use cases were very limited. But it was very good experimentation. And with the average protocol launch, we actually put a lot of effort on the user experience of our user interface, because currently I think there is like 50 different access points where you can access the protocol itself, including the AvE dashboard.
00:25:06.938 - 00:26:28.238, Speaker A: Ours was of course the first one, and we wanted to make the experience as good as possible, so that it leaves impression for the community and end users. So we definitely believe that to actually kind of have good brand exposure and adoption, we also need to have this kind of like end user reach. And we love to see more basically dashboards created on top of ave and better user experience and tailored user experience, or localized user experience that love to see it. We also want to basically adopt more users into the space. And basically we obtain the electronic money license for our UK integrations entity, which is helping with the AvA integrations globally. And the idea there is that if you allow a gateway where users can convert their local currencies into stable coins and then kind of like leave that entity and go into the decentralized technologies, such as the other protocol, that will help the adoption. So I think currently we see it as a big bottleneck that you have to go many loops before you can actually do a deposit.
00:26:28.238 - 00:26:47.930, Speaker A: And I think that is what we are now focusing as well, that we want to expand the reach. We want everyday people to basically be able to kind of try Defi and get closer to Defi, and that's what we are now trying to achieve with adoption.
00:26:48.010 - 00:27:33.694, Speaker C: Yeah, and I think it's going to be interesting to talk about how you see your ability to as an ecosystem, but then also as an organization to compete with high street lending if you're going to go all the way to kind of mainstream retail adoption. But before we go there, I'd like to understand from a founder perspective the challenges of being a first mover, because you were the first mover in the space. Of course, now there's lots of competition coming. I mentioned compound a little bit earlier. Can you talk through the benefits and the challenges of being a first mover and how you engage with new competition coming into the market?
00:27:33.892 - 00:28:52.674, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely. Being a first mover is kind of like a unique position in the sense that you're coming to the market that you need to create, and you kind of need to benchmark whether there's market fit and product market fit. And interestingly, with Italian, for example, we were quite early in the sense that there was so many, we had a good amount of users, we had good amount of value locked compared to the times that we were. But I think the kind of challenging part is that when the ecosystem isn't mature enough, there's less users in the whole ecosystem. So one of the things I noticed during the Ethland era is that back then there was basically Ethland, there was one decentralized exchange, and over the time the ecosystem started to build, we saw Kyber coming, then we saw Uniswap, and then we saw arbitrage opportunities. So there was some action there. Then we basically saw stablecoins that kind of created an ecosystem where you could already create many different kinds of things and usability and I think the space always has been about incentives.
00:28:52.674 - 00:29:33.602, Speaker A: And I think once people started to understand that they can earn on their stable coins, that changed a lot. That basically sparked the adoption quite well, a bit. And now with the different kinds of incentive model for liquidity providers, it's also basically bringing adoption a bit. So it's kind of like a step by step process, but all roads lead to the incentives. That is what I've seen previously happen, and the ecosystem also needs to exist. So as a first mover, you always have this kind of like issue that you might be too early. And the too early means also kind of like if you're alone in the space.
00:29:33.602 - 00:30:41.638, Speaker A: It's of course difficult to get users, it's difficult to get funding as well, because vcs, they like to invest based on a bit of FOMO. And it's interesting in it because we're talking all the time with different vcs and they're always saying, I wish we were around. We saw you guys in 2017, but I don't know why we didn't notice anything. And you kind of see always when the ecosystem is there, then when things are happening it becomes more interesting because it becomes like a game and that excites quite a lot and you can do different kinds of things, then you see more the potential, but I guess it's all about the network effects. So when there's things around, you could do things, but as a first mover you always have this kind of issue. But in terms of competition, I usually see competition as more of supportive element. In terms of you, everything that is built brings some sort of like a user base into the ecosystem.
00:30:41.638 - 00:31:33.530, Speaker A: That's good, because that means that there's more users that ave as a protocol can basically serve. So if someone builds a product on top of aave or basically competitive product, that's totally fine because they will attract users as well. And they also keep us innovating as well. So I think the developers around our protocol are basically happy to innovate all the time. And if we see others also building innovation, it's easier for us to kind of continue what they build and then let others basically continue what we build. And this constant kind of like an innovation cycle, it's really good for everyone. And of course I've seen many are saying that the space will be about winner takes all.
00:31:33.530 - 00:32:11.506, Speaker A: And we had this mentality last year, for example, and even beginning this year that let's say that there's maker, they're going to be big on this, there's compound they're going to be big on that and uniswap going to be big on that. And this narrative died like a few months ago completely. And this was the narrative that many vcs were doing their investment decisions and writing their blog posts and saying that this is going to happen and this is like the thesis and the playbook and it didn't happen. And actually now we see a lot of cool things. There's balancer, there's a lot of new things coming up. And that's the thing. I mean, the innovation is the driver.
00:32:11.506 - 00:32:24.138, Speaker A: I would say that takes us further. And I really love to see new things. And if someone is working on something that in Defi, I think I and Ave are happy to help.
00:32:24.224 - 00:33:15.100, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, I think that's a really interesting thing about this space and defi in particular, that most people, it's a very difficult thing to get your head around because it's very unusual that almost with every new project that comes to the space, it matures the stack. It allows for more features, more product, or it brings new liquidity in. And in a way, either directly or indirectly, everybody's kind of cooperatition because they're all kind of bringing some value that everybody can gain from and it helps accelerate the space and of course brings, as you say, attention. So I think you mentioned earlier that you have this vertical approach and with this new license that you've got.
00:33:16.990 - 00:33:17.306, Speaker A: How.
00:33:17.328 - 00:33:43.678, Speaker C: Do you see this interplay between DeFi and Fintech, like a classic fintech startup? Is your aspiration almost to move towards being considered a fintech startup rather than this niche defi project? And how do you think it's possible to compete with high street lending and acquire mainstream users?
00:33:43.774 - 00:35:04.366, Speaker A: I see like DeFi growing as a space, more becoming less of a niche, but also I think, kind of like what's interesting, what fintech is doing is they're basically playing with the fiat money in terms of giving different kinds of efficiencies compared to high street banking. And then we see DeFi where the play is about cryptographic assets and so on. And I think at some point I could even say I have this vision that DeFi could actually eat a bit like the fintech and the high street banking. But the way of the development goes, it's slow. Banks are still running like very old systems from the fintech. It's quite easier to operate and adopt new technology because they're built on new technology. But I see somehow that the DeFi space will grow and those decentralized protocols will always exist autonomously but I think what fintech is doing, they probably will notice the value added and somehow utilize it.
00:35:04.366 - 00:36:15.310, Speaker A: I could imagine, for example, a fintech company allowing deposits into the AVA protocol and providing yields for their users. I would also imagine that other depositors could delegate their credit lines to companies like funding Circle, who are then basically getting sourcing affordable liquidity from Defi and then basically further lending to their consumers and businesses. So I think there will be this kind of like interoperability. And the cool part is that you don't need actually to build completely. I mean, you just want this kind of access to this kind of liquidity. So I would think that DeFi will become like a liquidity ocean that everyone would like to plug in and get some liquidity or do different kinds of things, but actual the user interfaces and functionality, they don't need to be Defi. And as long as there is this fiat system, of course that needs to be served.
00:36:15.310 - 00:37:00.546, Speaker A: I think kind of like Defi and Fintech are more and more kind of like taking over what high street offers. Because the high street experience is the worst user experience on the planet and it's getting only worse. And that's very difficult. And high Street's basically plan is to hedge this by having in their portfolios fintech companies that are doing the innovation. In one way. I see it kind of like a somewhat positive thing, because last thing we want is kind of get stuck into the high street banking. But yeah, I think over time fintech will definitely grow.
00:37:00.546 - 00:37:21.398, Speaker A: And also the DeFi, and I would say just the biggest kind of like a deficit is the high street. But in terms of investment banking, they're pretty flexible to find opportunities. So I guess that will be the first looking at something like decentralized finance.
00:37:21.494 - 00:37:59.240, Speaker C: So where do you think the biggest opportunity is? Do you think it is this integration or co opting by incumbents or even fintech? I mean, you could look at fintech to a degree as an incumbent in the context of DeFi in the west. Or do you think there's a bigger opportunity going over the top into emerging markets where there are no banks, there are no high street banks. And this concept of unbanked, these people don't want a bank. They'll probably never have a bank. Where do you see the most opportunity?
00:37:59.610 - 00:38:51.682, Speaker A: I know that there is going to be adoption in the western countries, but what fascinates me actually is the adoption in emerging countries. We're trying to make it very easy. I mean a tokens in essence, let's say if you have Ada USDC it's basically a permissionless global USD nominated savings account. And interesting part is that if you're in a country where there is high inflation or you don't have access to decent saving rates or USD nominated savings rates, this is a wonderful tool for you. And you don't need to actually to deposit, to Aave, to get AUSDC or Adai. You could actually go to a market and buy it from there. So the user experience is quite seamless.
00:38:51.682 - 00:39:31.874, Speaker A: So when you buy Adi, you start to at the same time to earn the interest. And that is what makes it really cool. And the onboarding is so easy. And the missing part is just to connect to this world and find yourself to buy these tokens. But I'm very bullish on emerging countries because once something is adopted, it can scale quite a lot. And I think in Europe we've always been very fiat countries in the sense that we somehow like banking. And that's very interesting for us.
00:39:31.874 - 00:40:14.462, Speaker A: But that's not the same case, for example, in Southeast Asia or China, for example. And we've seen a lot of growth on the usage of the, our protocol in Asia and I think it will just continue. It's very fascinating to see, but I think we try to be very global in terms of how we try people to perceive our brand and so forth. I think we have done very good job in that sense that we try to be presence a bit everywhere to see where might be the place that Defi grows more. But yeah, I think it's a global phenomena, but there's sort of potential in emerging countries.
00:40:14.606 - 00:40:38.986, Speaker C: So what are the constraints to Defi? I mean, one of the obvious ones is gas fees at the moment. But as an organization, as a business, however, you kind of think of yourself, how do you manage the risks and constraints placed upon you by what else is going on that you can't control?
00:40:39.168 - 00:41:54.194, Speaker A: Yeah, I think the biggest constraint maybe, definitely, or now kind of like the challenge is that people need to build securely defi. That basically means that Defi is all about permissionless and trustless interaction. You don't need to trust anyone because you can verify code, but if you want to actually adoption, you can rely people on reading code. It's the same thing that you can't rely people on reading terms and conditions when they're using Twitter, for example, because no one reads terms and conditions. And now we have basically smart contract based ones, kind of. And I think what's important is that the space needs to build securely and it means that basically that there's sufficient audits done and best practices are used when building smart contracts. And this is very important because if there is some sort of like a hack or a deficit event, what happens is that the whole space gets kind of like a hit and it's very difficult to come out of that one part.
00:41:54.194 - 00:42:51.726, Speaker A: The Ave tokenomics is part of that. Our tokenomics are focused on safety. So basically the token holders are making governance decisions, risk based governance decisions, the lending parameters, which assets should be added into the pool. And in return they're taking the risk transfer of the protocol from the depositors because they're staking into a staking facility. And that stake is used to compensate any deficit there is happening in the protocol. And that is kind of like the way to get a bit more towards the mainstream and institutionals, because you always need to have some sort of like an insurance instrument. And more about the fact that when we are building in defi smart contracts, it's a human work and human might make errors even after audits and formal verifications.
00:42:51.726 - 00:43:11.834, Speaker A: You never know. So there always needs to be a lot of focus on security. And I think once we have secure enough space, we get adoption. Of course, then fintech is interested, then high street is interesting, because basically good things happen, inefficiencies are reduced. It's a win for everyone.
00:43:11.952 - 00:43:25.562, Speaker C: So how far away do you think we are from DeFi? Being professional enough to be accepted by regulators and as you know, large institutions?
00:43:25.706 - 00:43:28.350, Speaker A: I think roughly like maybe one year.
00:43:28.500 - 00:43:31.102, Speaker C: Okay, so not that far away.
00:43:31.236 - 00:43:31.822, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:43:31.956 - 00:43:56.994, Speaker C: And when you talk about that risk, obviously there's reputational risk, there might be risk to a particular amount of collateral. How much do you think these kind of unaudited innovations coming through in Defi bring systemic risk? So the ability to potentially cause a market wide crash.
00:43:57.122 - 00:44:48.434, Speaker A: Good question. Because every single line of code brings new risk. And the interesting part about DeFi is the compatibility. So basically you can build things on top of other things and build new financial products, but also it means that you're relying on different products. And it's different than in the banking space, where softwares are closed source and the system are closed and the settlements have some sort of like timelines, but here every transaction is settled after you basically initiate it. So I think the composability, which kind of like brings the value at it, on the other side, it always puts more systemic risk into the space. And it's kind of like double edged sword.
00:44:48.434 - 00:44:54.700, Speaker A: So in one hand you're getting this benefit, in other hand, if you screw up, you screw up the whole system.
00:44:55.710 - 00:45:11.806, Speaker C: Yeah. No, I mean, it's fascinating, to be honest with you, Stanley. Look, I want to respect your time. We've had you on for a good chunk of it. I know you've got lots of things to do. You've just got back from your vacation, like me, which wasn't really a vacation. You're a busy man.
00:45:11.806 - 00:45:32.230, Speaker C: But I think it's great that generally what you're doing for the space, but also specific to the work that you're doing with regulators in the UK. As a Brit, I think that's going to be really important for us to maintain a global leadership in financial services, but also fintech. So thanks for coming on the show.
00:45:32.300 - 00:45:41.034, Speaker A: Yeah, and thanks for having me. I think DeFi is going to the right direction and I can't wait. Also, personally come back to London and meet personally as well.
00:45:41.152 - 00:45:45.610, Speaker C: Yeah, we have to get a pint in sometimes. Thanks very much Danny, thanks for coming on.
00:45:45.680 - 00:45:46.330, Speaker A: Cheers.
00:45:49.470 - 00:46:17.046, Speaker B: If you're an early stage web3 founder, apply to our award winning accelerator program Basecamp at Outliiveventures IO basecamp, we write your first $50,000 check and give you access to 200 mentors, including many of the leading web3 founders, and a network of 1000 of the world's leading investors and exchanges. We've helped over 30 startups from 15 countries from all around the world raise $130,000,000 in growth funding and can help.
00:46:17.068 - 00:46:18.934, Speaker C: You fast track product, market fit and.
00:46:18.972 - 00:46:21.010, Speaker B: Where relevant, the launch of your token economy.
