00:00:00.160 - 00:00:37.272, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the deli Grey refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, the NASA signer, and as the 29 May 2023 right everyone, let's get into it. So I'm not sure how I missed covering this last Friday, but there was a great report that came out from the Raider.net work team here covering solo stakers. So they teased this a few weeks ago, and I remember covering it on the refuel that they had found what percentage of solo stake is were on the network, basically using some kind of parameters that they detail in their blog post. But the headline here is that solo stakers on the Ethereum mainnet represent 6.5%
00:00:37.272 - 00:01:04.838, Speaker A: of the as active stake as of the end of 2022. So the data that they looked at only went to the end of 2022. So it's obviously missing about five months worth of data here, and obviously a big part of data because it's when withdrawals went live. But I'm sure they're going to be doing an updated post on this at some point in the future, maybe a year after withdrawals go live, maybe sometime next year. There'd be a good, good thing to look back on and see how much of the network is now solo stakers. But this is great. I mean, 6.5%
00:01:04.838 - 00:01:38.442, Speaker A: of the network being solo stakers is a huge achievement in my eyes. I know some people might say this seems low, but I don't think so. I think that given that the barrier to entry for solo staking is so high on the capital requirement side, obviously you're needing 32 ETH per validator, even if you are a solo staker. Maybe you only have one validator because that is a huge capital requirement there. And I think they've also included rocket pool mini pools as solo stakers as well. So there is less of a capital requirement there. There was 16 ETH, as I said, this goes to the end of 2022.
00:01:38.442 - 00:02:15.466, Speaker A: So it's not including the 80th mini pool, it's only including 16 ETH. But still, that is a large capital requirement. Even if you just bought your 8th at like between one and two grand, that's $16 to $32,000 that you have to put down to become a mini pool operator when it was 16 ETH. And then you also had to have the RPL bond as well. Now that, given that, the fact that 6.5% of the whole network is still considered a solo stake is amazing to me, I think that's a huge achievement. And I also think that it's a, it's a big achievement, not just because of the capital requirements, but also because of the technical know how that's needed as well.
00:02:15.466 - 00:02:46.596, Speaker A: Because we all know that most of solo staking today is not one click. Like if you're running your own hardware and you're not running like a DAP node or something, it is definitely not an easy process to get spun up as a solo staker. Even rocker pool. I mean, spinning up a mini pool is not that hard. The documentation is pretty good, but it is not for the faint of heart. It is not for total noobs, because there's still command line stuff that you have to do. Even though you get a nice graphical user interface, it's still something that may seem foreign to newer people, to, you know, to, to new people, to that sort of stuff.
00:02:46.596 - 00:03:15.266, Speaker A: So I think, as I said, this is a very, very impressive number. Now, diving into the actual blog post itself, they have how they define solo stakers. Now this was something that I brought up when this blog post was teased. I think it was teased a couple months ago at this point because I really wanted to know how they actually defined a solo stake, because there are various different ways you can define them. So they have four key properties here. The first one is that solo stakers are independent operators and are not part of a major organization. So I think I brought this up when I was talking about this.
00:03:15.266 - 00:03:58.202, Speaker A: This is definitely like pretty much critical. If you're gonna be a solar stake, you can't be part of a major organization, because then you really aren't a solo staker. Even if you're running your own kind of validators and you're not part of any other service, like a centralized exchange or a staking service, you still wouldn't really be considered a solo staker because you're part of an organization that's staking, and maybe you're staking for other people as well, or anything like that. And then they said, you know, as such, a solo staker might routinely lack 24/7 monitoring and SLA's, and might experience more frequent and longer downtime periods seen less frequently among professional operators. Second definition here is solid. Stakers run infrastructure on premises or in a vps, but mostly on premises. And they do, right? I mean, I obviously run all my validators on premises.
00:03:58.202 - 00:04:28.464, Speaker A: I have my own hardware here. A lot of the people that you see talking about running their own validators share pictures of their own little NUC, which is obviously at their home. There are people who do run it on vpss, but those things can get quite expensive given the bandwidth requirements. So a lot of the times it ends up being cheaper just to host it on Prem. So that's what they found here as well. I think that a lot of people were running their solo validators on Prem or at their, at their homes. The third definition here is solo stakers fund all or some, in the case of rocket pool of the stake through their own means.
00:04:28.464 - 00:05:26.040, Speaker A: Obviously this is done because if you're a solo staker, if you're an individual, no one is giving you ETH to stake for them. Maybe you are staking on behalf of some other people, but I think for most people, you acquire the ETH yourself, you buy it yourself, maybe you mined it, maybe, you know, maybe you're a miner turned staker here, maybe you earned it throughout through some other means, and then you stake it on your own. There is no other way that you acquire it here. You know, it's not like you're taking in ETH from random users around the world like solar, like staking protocols do, or staking LSD protocols do, and centralized exchanges and things like that. And the fourth definition is that solar stakers in their majority run fewer than 200 validators each. Now this is obviously just natural because that is a lot of money, right? If you have 200 validators. I mean, to do the math off the top of my head right now, I think that's 6408th, right? That is, I think, what, seven $8 million or something like that? I don't know exactly how much money that is, but that's a crap ton of money.
00:05:26.040 - 00:06:01.624, Speaker A: So obviously most people are not going to have anywhere near that. And it says here that over this level, even if the entity is unknown, they assume some sophistication that's beyond the hobbyist amateur level caveat. There are a few savants out there who managed to run 300 validators from adapt node, but yeah, the majority would sit between the one to ten validator mark, I would believe. And then obviously you get less and less people as more more goes on from there because the capital requirements get so large. And then this blog post is quite detailed. You can check it out, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But they continue and basically talk a lot about these definitions, talk about how they actually came to this conclusion.
00:06:01.624 - 00:06:49.256, Speaker A: They have a really cool visualization here that is a heat map that basically shows the, the stake distribution. So blue is solo validators and then red is centralized validators like Coinbase and staking service providers and things like that. Then you can scroll down here and see their classification or their nice little pretty charts here, the summary results, and all the good stuff there. So I think I've said most of what I wanted to say about the post itself. I highly recommend giving it a read. There is one last thing that I wanted to point out here, which I thought was was pretty cool, and it was one of my main takeaways from the post. They said here early data implies that the number of validating beacon nodes that might map to solo stakers range from 35% to a whopping 75% out of the hole, out of a total approximately 3000 nodes that they've been able to pass in their analysis.
00:06:49.256 - 00:07:43.506, Speaker A: And they said here. We'll be following up with a post that discusses our findings there in the coming weeks. Now the reason why this was probably the biggest takeaway for me other than that headline number of 6.5% solo validators, is that of the 3000 nodes, if even the lower end here, 35% is run by solo stakers, right on premises and basically of the of the entire network, that is extremely healthy for decentralization. That means you have disparate individuals all around the world accounting for a large chunk of the Ethereum network, and that improves decentralization. Because obviously it would be very hard to, if not impossible, probably impossible to shut down all of those nodes, right? To go after all of those individuals. It would be very hard because not only is it distributed across the globe, but also you could, I don't know, worst case scenario, fingerprint them, get their IP address.
00:07:43.506 - 00:08:16.608, Speaker A: If you're a law enforcement, go visit them at their house and say you need to shut down your beacon node. But you have no guarantee that they've done that, because maybe they're going to run, maybe they're running one in the cloud. Remember, they decide to run one in the cloud, or maybe they're behind a VPN and it becomes harder to track and the resources aren't worth it. It just becomes a very cat and mouse game. So I thought that was the main takeaway for me is that like a huge number of the overall Ethereum network nodes are actually run by solo validators here and on Prem, which is really, really cool to see. But anyway, as I said, you can check out the blog post for yourself. It's really great.
00:08:16.608 - 00:08:58.590, Speaker A: Highly recommend giving it a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below and I'll for sure talk about the next post that they'll publish around these numbers that I just spoke about, when they do end up publishing that. All right, so I mentioned last week that the KZG ceremony was very close to hitting 100,000 total contributions. Well, we hit it, which is just absolutely awesome to see that we're at that one hundred thousand dollars dollar, one hundred thousand contributions mark here. It's great to see the Ethereum community coming out in waves for this. I know I mentioned last week that there might be some airdrop farming here, but that's okay because really, I mean, the people doing that or also contributing to the KZG ceremony. So it's actually a net positive in the end.
00:08:58.590 - 00:09:36.114, Speaker A: I think that we've had so many contributions here. And just a quick refresher here for those of you who don't know, this ceremony is required for EIP 4844. So this was obviously critical to get done before 48 44 goes live, hopefully at the end of this year on the network. And it's great to see that we had such a huge turnout for this. And it's going to provide a lot of great entropy 448 44 and give us near certainty, or pretty much certain. I mean, nothing's ever 100%, but we're at like the 99.99% mark that the ceremony was run properly and that the, you know, because it's a one of n trust assumption that it is all good and it's going to function as expected.
00:09:36.114 - 00:10:14.286, Speaker A: But yeah, if you haven't contributed yet, you still have time to do so, you can go visit the site for yourself. I believe the site is linked on, on Carl's profile here, but also you can just go to ceremony dot ethereum.org is where you need to go to, to contribute there. All right. A new chart from Tony, who runs the Mevboost Pix website. So this is a chart that's showing total mev distributed through mev boost as measured in ETH terms. And it is over 200,000 ETH since, I believe the merge, no, since, sorry, since the launch of MeV Boost, which was around the time of the merge, I guess.
00:10:14.286 - 00:10:48.612, Speaker A: And you can see here that it's pretty crazy. I mean, that's a pretty crazy amount of ETH that has basically been distributed to validators, essentially through mev boost, through both toxic and non toxic mev. And someone replied here saying, you know, this is seriously messed up. And then Tony says, I agree that those funds should have never been extracted or paid back to the users who lost them through MEV block, Mev share, etcetera. But hey, it's still better than letting the searchers grab them. And then, then someone says, well, at least searches are doing something. But seriously, I think that Ethereum should have never switched to pause before properly implementing PBS on the protocol level in the first place.
00:10:48.612 - 00:11:29.998, Speaker A: I don't think that that's really correct way of looking at this, because the only reason why it's become so prevalent under pause as opposed to proof of work is that MeV Boost has been live under proof of stake a lot longer than proof of work. I believe before the merge, MeV Boost was live and 30% of the network had already adopted it. So it would have been the same under proof of work, I believe. And obviously, we all want PBS to be implemented. We all want to eliminate as much mev extraction as possible. But it really is a long term game here, guys. And it's better that this ETH, in my mind, it's better that it is going to at least, at least staying in the ecosystem we're going to validate is here.
00:11:29.998 - 00:12:19.438, Speaker A: And obviously with Mev burn, we would be burning it as well, hopefully in the future. Um, then, then going somewhere else. But yeah, it is not something that should be considered generally unnecessarily healthy because a lot of it was extracted from, directly from users via front running, back running, especially sandwich attacks. I mean, the sandwich attacks get really bad when you have a lot of new people that come in that have absolutely no idea how to protect themselves from Mev and kind of indiscriminately aping things with like a $100 on main nets and they're just buying Pepe coins and things like that. And then the sandwiching bots, like Jared from subway, for example, take full advantage of this and make a lot of money from it. But you know, the funny thing is, as bad as it is, if the users themselves aren't actually caring because they're literally just gambling on meme coins. Like, I don't know, I kind of, I struggle to have sympathy for them.
00:12:19.438 - 00:13:14.694, Speaker A: Right? Because if you actually cared about not getting screwed over here, then you would do something to protect yourself. We can't just handhold everyone, right? We can't just expect everyone to, to basically play by the rules that we think they should play by. But the way we're designing the PBS scheme and the MeV burn scheme and things like that is so that users don't have to worry about this so that we can actually protect them without them even knowing they're being protected, which is, I think, a fair way of doing it. But at the same time, like, I just do not have, well, I just can't bring myself to be that sympathetic towards people who really, they don't even care. I mean, if I told, imagine telling someone who's just buying a $100 worth of pepe on Mainnet, hey, you know, you got kind of like, I guess like what's the word for it? I mean, it's not rugged or anything like that, but like, you lost a bit of money here because someone sandwich attacked you. They're not going to care. They're like, what's a sandwich attack? And you're going to have to explain me, Vita, you're going to lose them within like 2 seconds.
00:13:14.694 - 00:13:46.634, Speaker A: They're literally buying a meme coin because they think it's going to pump and they're going to win the lottery and be able to cash out and make money off of it. They don't care for any of this stuff. But again, as much as I say, I don't really have sympathy for them. At the same time, I don't think that they should be getting harmed by this and, and I think we should do what we can to protect them. But also, a lot of the improvements coming to, to Ethereum to address this, like PBS and Mev Burn, are really just being done for the health of the Ethereum network. It's not really about the users first. I think that the users, obviously helping the users out and protecting them from this sort of stuff is important.
00:13:46.634 - 00:14:50.024, Speaker A: But what comes first and foremost is the health of the Ethereum network. Because at the end of the day, if you keep the Ethereum network healthy and you make sure that it's functioning as it's supposed to in a decentralized, sensitive, persistent way, then in the end you are helping every single user of the Ethereum network get benefits out of that anyway. So that's the way I view it. But I mean, you might view it differently, you might disagree with me there, and I'm not saying it's a good thing or a bad thing, I just, personally, if someone doesn't give a shit that they're getting kind of, I guess, erect by a sandwich attack, I mean, there's not much more you can do. You can tell them, you can say, hey, use this, protect yourself, which you should, mind you, I mean you should be using things like cow swap and, and mev resistance RPC's that give the mev back to you instead of the, the searcher and stuff taking it. But, but yeah, that's a kind of like opt in thing that users need to do, whereas putting in PBS, putting in mev burn is, is more of a kind of like forcing function of the network itself. All right, so DaP node has finally announced that they have added support for a rocker pool.
00:14:50.024 - 00:15:17.500, Speaker A: So you can now basically set up a rocker pool, mini pool or rocket pool smart node stack using the adapt node software. Now, for those of you who don't know what Dap node is, it's basically a nice little interface that you can run on any hardware. Basically that allows you to do a few clicks. Ethereum staking running ethereum nodes, running nodes for different networks. And now you can do the same thing with rocket pool. So if you're interested in this, you can check out DaP node, you can check out this tweet. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:15:17.500 - 00:15:38.364, Speaker A: But this goes back to what I was saying before about essentially making staking easier for people across both kind of fronts here. One obviously is the capital requirement front to be a solid staker. Rocketpool is doing amazing work here by lowering that capital requirement. Now it's eight ETH and 2.4 ETH worth of RPL. I believe in the future it will hopefully be even less than that. But the hardware, sorry, not the hardware requirements.
00:15:38.364 - 00:16:24.012, Speaker A: Our requirements are actually pretty cheap right now. But the actual software and being, and the ease of staking, the ease of solo staking, whether that be as a solo validator or as a rocket pool node operator, is still not where we need it to be for to get as many people involved as possible. And you know, I've argued this point before on the refuel, and I basically said that I don't think it's like a huge deal that we don't have total noobs staking on the network. I think that there has to be at least some kind of sophistication for solo stakers. I don't think we should make it as easy as people just being able to push a button and become a solo home operator and then forget about it. Because you can't forget about it. If you're a solo node operator, you actually need to pay attention because maybe something goes wrong with your node and you need to diagnose why.
00:16:24.012 - 00:16:45.972, Speaker A: Or maybe your node goes offline and you don't know why, and you have to diagnose that. You're going to have to keep up with the network upgrades. You're going to have to upgrade your execution and consensus layer clients. You're going to have to update them for general improvements. And if there's bugs found in them and things like that. You're going to have to monitor the health of it to make sure that you're actually attesting to and proposing blocks. If you're running Mev boost, you need to monitor that.
00:16:45.972 - 00:17:21.580, Speaker A: So it's. I don't think we're gonna get to a point ever where it's gonna be a totally like hands off thing and nor should it to be honest, because you are being paid for this work. It's not like you're doing something out of altruism. So there should be some level of sophistication here in saying that it shouldn't be so hard that you have to learn the command line or anything like that. We should be able to provide these nice graphical user interfaces for people that they can just use and they can easily manage their whole operation from without having to learn all these complex stuff about computers that they never would have had to learn before. So that's where I think we should get to. And that's what I think Dap node is doing.
00:17:21.580 - 00:17:53.156, Speaker A: That's what rocket pool is doing by, by making Gui's for the smart note stack. Well that's my nose. That is actually a GUI graphical user interface. So that's all very important. But generally yeah, I don't, I mean, I say we shouldn't dumb it down to the point where people don't even pay attention to it, but I don't think we actually can get it to that point because you're not going to be um, on the correct chain if you don't upgrade your nodes. Like if an upgrades coming say den kun at the end of the year and you haven't upgraded your nodes, you're gonna be on the wrong chain and you're not gonna be a solo staker anymore. You're just gonna have something that is a dead chain.
00:17:53.156 - 00:18:13.486, Speaker A: You're not gonna be attesting the blocks and you're going to basically be in activity leaking out and then eventually gonna kick that of the validator set. So you have to pay attention to that. And same goes for being offline, things like that. Just generally your Internet goes off. Maybe something bugged out with your box. You need to be able to diagnose these things. So there is going to be always some level of sophistication there, but we shouldn't make it harder beyond that.
00:18:13.486 - 00:18:40.314, Speaker A: We should be able to get to that point and then like make it as easy as possible from, from there. But anyway, a little rant done there. Moving on to the next bit of news here from Oval labs. So. Oh, Bo has detailed oval v two. So they've got a post here called looking forward. And they say in our continued effort to build the oval network, we have begun a working group to research, specify, implement and maintain herbal v two, the distributed validator protocol.
00:18:40.314 - 00:19:38.944, Speaker A: So v two seems to be, I guess, like the actual protocol itself. So the way that they're going to be running this, this protocol and decentralizing it and making sure that they can turn it into a thing like a dow and that people can, can adopt it with relative ease and stuff like that. So you can read this post for full details on that. And for those of you who don't know and want a refresher of what Oval is, it's a distributed validated technology provider. Basically what this distributed valid technology does, or DVT does, it enables something that I like to call called squad staking, which basically means that you can have like a group of four friends that all run the validating software on their, on their boxes, but only have to put in eight ETH each instead of the full 32 ETH for that validator. And they can do this as many times as they want. And it's not just for squad staking, it's also for things like redundancy, where essentially you can run DVT across, you know, the entire world and basically have redundancy in case one of your, I guess, instances goes offline, the other ones stay online and you're all well and good.
00:19:38.944 - 00:20:44.984, Speaker A: And it's much better than having like backup boxes where there's a potential of getting slash for double signing and stuff like that. So Obel and DVT tech generally are very, very exciting and it's cool to see them looking forward to their v two, which you can check out the blog post for, which will be linked in the YouTube description below. Alright, a nice visualization that I came across from taken's theorem over the weekend. So they captioned this with what do 10,000 wallets do after they bridge from Ethereum mainnet to optimism? The reason why I think this is really cool is because it basically shows like the birth of a new ecosystem, because a lot of these L2s or most of them are going to get their initial users and a lot of the, I guess like users of their chain bridging in from Ethereum Mainnet. So you can see here that at the beginning there was nothing and then a whole universe explodes. Right as soon as optimism comes online, there's all these deposits that are made through the bridge. And then all these people go off in different directions, they do different things, they interact with different apps, they maybe bridge somewhere else, they maybe go to an exchange, they do all these different things on the optimism network and all the other L2 networks.
00:20:44.984 - 00:21:31.878, Speaker A: And I just thought this was an absolutely amazing way to visualize that and see how ethereum as a network can spawn these L2 networks as basically new galaxies and then implant itself onto them, can basically send people to them to inhabit the worlds that exist. Right? So it's a loose analogy, but I think it's pretty cool when you think about it like that and visualize like this. It definitely does look like space, right? It's black and these little white dots look like planets or like little beings. And then you've got like lazy shooting everywhere, I guess. But yeah, I'll link the visualization in the YouTube description below for you guys to check out if you don't know what I'm talking about because you're listening to the podcast. But I just thought that was very cool and taken. Steering generally has a lot of great visualizations and I've highlighted a bunch of them before on the refuel, but you can go check them out for yourself.
00:21:31.878 - 00:21:46.414, Speaker A: If you want to get more of these sorts of stuff on their Twitter profile. You can just scroll through it and you can see all of this. They've got plenty of this stuff here. It's actually pretty crazy how many of these that they've done so far. I don't know if they have a website or anything. I think they might. I don't know what this is.
00:21:46.414 - 00:22:02.340, Speaker A: Takensthereum dot weebly.com oh yeah, there is a website. So the website's probably easier than the Twitter profile. So you can check out everything here that they've, that they've done all the visualizations. It's very cool. You can get lost in this sorts of stuff and you can. And you can probably have a little bit of a trippy experience going through it all.
00:22:02.340 - 00:22:56.300, Speaker A: So yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, finally, here we have ETH global that's published their ten autonomous worlds finalists. Now, for those of you who don't know what autonomous worlds are, basically it's this, I guess like new ecosystem of projects that are trying in the gaming world that can expand beyond gaming, but that are trying to basically build worlds within the ethereum ecosystem that can operate on their own in an autonomous fashion. So it's basically taking the concept of Daos and applying it to these kind of worlds, whether that be a video game or some kind of a community or some. Or some kind of, I guess like games, communities and other such things in those things. That's kind of like what it's trying to do. Now, this obviously wasn't possible on layer one, ethereum, because it would be too cost prohibitive.
00:22:56.300 - 00:23:23.636, Speaker A: But on L2, there is a lot of stuff happening. I've mentioned some stuff like op craft before. I mentioned some projects on Stocknet before, especially the ones that are set in space that are really cool, where basically you have like a whole universe. There was one, I forgotten the name right now. There was one that was actually on XDai. And then I think they've migrated to Starknet that people played. It was a ZK game as well, that was like an autonomous world essentially, that allowed you to do all this sorts of stuff.
00:23:23.636 - 00:24:12.202, Speaker A: And I think this stuff is very cool. This is the stuff that I am really excited about when it comes to crypto gaming. The stuff that actually pushes the boundaries, innovates on gaming as an ecosystem doesn't just slap NFTs on it and slap crypto monetization on it. It actually incorporates different kind of crypto primitives and different autonomous worlds primitives in order to enhance the game. So for example, there's this game called Realm of Pepe and it says here it's a cooperative adventure rpg with novel resource management mechanics powered by superfluid. You can collect resources, trade and progress through stages to defeat the evil Pepe. So it's taking obviously a tried and true game genre here of rpg's and basically blending in crypto primitives like superfluid and enhancing the game that way, which I think is very, very cool.
00:24:12.202 - 00:24:47.264, Speaker A: So I mean, you can go check out all these projects for yourself in this trade, which will be linked in the YouTube description below. But generally, this is this kind of stuff that I'm paying attention to when it comes to crypto gaming, rather than the games that are just slapping on, you know, NFT mechanics or look more like Ponzi's than games. And honestly, I wouldn't say there's anything wrong with those sorts of things. It's just not things that interest me, because gaming I've had like a love and hate relationship with for 20 years now. I've been playing games for a very long time. And the love and hate relationship comes from. I love indie games still, but most AAA games are really disappointing.
00:24:47.264 - 00:25:10.648, Speaker A: Mobile gaming is absolutely shocking. And the reason why is because it's become such a saturated business now where essentially it's just about making as much money as possible and extracting as much money from the consumer as possible. And it's just. It's become really bland. And a lot of the triple A games that get released, get released, broken buggy, they just don't have much soft in them. That's why I really love indie games. I play a lot of indie games.
00:25:10.648 - 00:25:31.936, Speaker A: They've still got a lot of stolen them. They're not trying to suck all the money out of you. There are very few mobile games that I enjoy. There's one called like Alto's Odyssey and Alto's Adventure, which I believe might have microtransactions in it. I'm not not sure, because I'd never actually used them. I didn't need to, but I thought, I love those. And there are some mobile games that are available on other platforms as well, like dead cells, for example.
00:25:31.936 - 00:26:08.662, Speaker A: It's a roguelite. I love those kinds of games too. But they're all indie games, right? They're not these massive triple A games that are just sucking money out of consumers. And I think I want to see more of that in crypto because crypto can very easily fall just straight into that kind of just suck money out of people because of the ponzi nature of these things and because of the speculative nature of these things. So that's why I like looking at the autonomous world stuff, because it reminds me more of indie gaming and less of Triple A gaming. But I'm sure there's going to be like a massive triple A game that gets released. That's going to be, you know, have crypto primitives in it and have NFT stuff in it and just be a huge speculative thing.
00:26:08.662 - 00:26:37.990, Speaker A: You know, I think with Axie Infinity, it was basically a teaser of what this stuff can look like. But it's not going to be something that generally interests me because I play games to have fun. I don't play games to make money. And I think that a lot of people not make money. I play games to have fun, not, not pay the not to not play them, to both make money or try to make money or spend money to improve my experience through in app purchases or in game item purchases or things like that. I want to play games for the fun of it. I want to play games that have soul.
00:26:37.990 - 00:27:11.840, Speaker A: And I think the autonomous worlds category definitely can, can do a lot of great work there. But anyway, you can check out this thread for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Now, I just wanted to talk a couple of minutes here about not the markets, but about kind of sentiment generally. What I love right now is that the sentiment, I guess, across crypto, Twitter and crypto circles generally has been the same for the last few months. We're all very well aware that we're in, like, a sideways crab market. We're all pretty much waiting for the market to heat up again, but things are still growing, things are still happening.
00:27:11.840 - 00:27:51.634, Speaker A: A lot of things that I'm seeing happen kind of very funny signs of capitulation that remind me of 2019. Like, recently, I'm sure a lot of you saw that the Paradigm VC fund has actually changed from being just a crypto fund or mostly a crypto fund to now doing, like, investments within all of tech, basically. And I think there's nothing wrong with that, but it kind of speaks to the fact that they have so much money that they need to invest. And there's just not that many great crypto projects right now that. That, uh, that are raising because. Or I mean, not even just great crypto projects, just projects in general, because obviously there are more projects to fund during a bull market. Valuations go up, there's more money to be made.
00:27:51.634 - 00:28:15.888, Speaker A: So you're. You're more comfortable investing a lot of money there. But, like, those sorts of things just scream capitulation to me. It just says to me that we're in firmly in the time based capitulation phase that I've talked about before. And it really is the best time to be learning, you know, getting involved as much as you can on the social side of things and potentially stacking and DCA ing crypto. I mean, that's not investment advice. I'm not gonna tell you what to buy and when to buy it or anything like that.
00:28:15.888 - 00:28:42.484, Speaker A: But generally, you like. My rule of thumb investing, and this is a long term thing, is you buy when it's quiet, you buy when it's boring, you sell when it's exciting, right? You sell when it's crazy. You sell when everyone's talking about it. And people make memes about this all the time. They're like, oh, I'm going to sell the next time my Uber driver talks to me about crypto. I don't think those social signals are going to work very much longer. I don't even know if they're going to work the next time we have a bull market because crypto is pretty well known at this point.
00:28:42.484 - 00:29:28.826, Speaker A: I mean, I don't think you'd be able to meet someone in the western world that hasn't, at least in the western world that hasn't least heard of bitcoin before, maybe even heard of ethereum. Obviously, bitcoin is, is a much bigger brand outside of crypto because it just gets mentioned in mainstream media a lot. But, but generally, I don't think those social signals are going to work that much anymore. And especially because I think the general trend is that, post COVID, a lot of the world has become very, I guess, speculative, and there are a lot more people investing now than there ever has been. And not just in crypto, but in a lot of other asset classes. And even things that you might not consider, might not consider asset classes are getting a lot of money flow into them. So, yeah, generally my rule of thumb, no matter on the market conditions, no matter the market, is that you sell when it's absolutely crazy and you buy when it's quiet.
00:29:28.826 - 00:29:48.684, Speaker A: And honestly, I've been doing that for a long time now and it served me quite well. You have to be happy not selling the top and not buying the bottom. You're never going to be able to pick those things. Maybe you do it by, by fluke one time, but generally you're not going to be able to pick those things. And it's better to DCA in either direction, in my opinion. But as I said, that's just not investment advice. That's just general kind of, this is how I play things.
00:29:48.684 - 00:30:03.868, Speaker A: This is what I do. And this is how I kind of view things, you know, across different asset classes, not just crypto. But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:30:03.868 - 00:30:04.324, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
