00:00:00.090 - 00:00:16.302, Speaker A: Cool. So let's get started. Hello, everyone. I'm Alex. I'm part of flashbots researcher at Flashbots. I want to talk about mev, its growth on Ethereum and other chains in 2021. I want to focus in particular on the chains mentioned here.
00:00:16.302 - 00:01:01.784, Speaker A: So, ethereum, BSc, avalanche and polygon. The reason for that is purely because this is the chains was lucky to get data for. There are definitely other chains where mev exists. And so this is not to say that these chains in particular have a lot of mev and others don't, but this is just the chains that we're going to look at for 2021. And let Me put a timer. All right, sweet. So first, before we kind of dive deep into it, and I'm sorry, this has been probably hammered on you a few times, but it's definitely important to think about what's mev, right? In particular, what's relevant to this presentation.
00:01:01.784 - 00:01:43.512, Speaker A: And what I want to address is this debate that has been going on a while back on Twitter on whether ARB is mev. Right? So there were a few posts about it, a few tweets about it, and people kind of debating on both sides whether ARBs are mev or not. This is crucial for the rest of the presentation. That's why I kind of want to talk about that. So really, what's mev, right? Mev is maximal extractable value. This is what the three letters M and EV stands for. So an informal definition, looking for My mouse, an informal definition of that is the one that's stated below.
00:01:43.512 - 00:02:33.080, Speaker A: Mev is a total value that can be extracted from the ordering, censorship or insertion of transactions within a block being created. So this is kind of a little abstract. And so another way of looking at this is that mev is quantifying an incentive. So the incentive we're quantifying is the incentive for someone to influence the ordering, right? So when we're talking about extractable value, we're talking about the value that one can extract from influencing the ordering. And so what mev represents, what this value really is, it represents the incentive that one has from influencing the ordering. So going back to whether Arbitrage trades are mev, well, looking at it from that lens, I believe yes, they are. And I would make that claim for all the networks that were mentioned at the beginning of this presentation.
00:02:33.080 - 00:03:17.528, Speaker A: So, yes, I think they are mev because Arbitrage trades are finite, they're capacity constrained. And so when several people go after the same opportunity, there is value relative to the ordering that actually goes through for these trades. Whoever goes first actually makes the opportunity, assuming that they take it all. And so there is an incentive to influence the ordering. And so what we're trying to quantify with this is simply the incentive, the financial incentive that one would have to influence the order. All right, now that we've fixed this, let's go back to our mev in 2021 on these chains. All right, let's look at some numbers.
00:03:17.528 - 00:03:52.560, Speaker A: By the way, you're welcome to argue this definition. I'm happy to talk about this more, of course. So in 2021, at least $500 million worth of mev was extracted on ethereum, BSE, avalanche and polygon, thanks to the great people who gave resources here below. And I'm going to talk about this more. So first I'm going to address something where we do have a dashboard that we released a while ago called Mev Explorer. And in there, there's a bigger number than this. The reason for that is that there were many misclassifications when we released the dashboard and the code base behind it.
00:03:52.560 - 00:04:27.244, Speaker A: And we've been working very hard. In particular, the team mentioned here, the data team and the team working on mev, Inspect Pi, has been working very hard at correcting those. So this is a much more accurate figure that encompasses correcting a lot of these misclassifications. So to add even more disclaimers to this $500 million number, this is incomplete. So it is very much a lower bound. That's why you have at least in front of it, so liquidations have not been counted in on all these networks. And some time ranges for some of these numbers here on, for example, avalanche and BSc, only partly for the whole year.
00:04:27.244 - 00:05:11.132, Speaker A: So it is really a lower bound. And the methodologies to quantify this are also slightly different. I'm going to talk about that a little more. Finally, it's not homogeneous in the sense where 100 million worth of mev extracted on one chain might represent something different than another chain in terms of who this incentive is for and why. And that's also important. All of that being said, this is still $500 million worth of value that has been extracted from these networks in 2021 and that people have made as real money. So to kind of hammer that point of the lower bound, we talked about extractable value a little bit earlier, right? And this is extracted value.
00:05:11.132 - 00:05:59.564, Speaker A: So this is a good way to kind of see this extracted value is this concentric circle. Extractable value is all the value that could have been extracted. And the maximal extractable value is really this boundary here. That's really what this is. I mean, it's all inside as well, but it's all of this, right? And so where we are when we're talking about that in this presentation is really like this smaller circle, this lower bound of something that is bigger and that doesn't include everything, but it's still a representative amount, and that's why I wanted to bring it here. And so another way to state this term here, at least 500 million worth of mev was extracted is this. So put another way, in 2021, the incentive for someone to reorder censor or insert transactions in blocks produced on Ethereum, BSc, avalanche and polygon was at least $500 million, which is cool to think about.
00:05:59.564 - 00:06:32.160, Speaker A: And we're going to kind of get into why it's cool more. But first, let's get into a split. In particular, we're looking at a split not for the whole year, because again, there's some numbers that we don't have, but we're looking at a split from August 1 to December 1, 2021. So the split that we have here is the following. We have BSc, that about 14%, polygon, that's about 4.5%, avalanche, 7.7%, and Ethereum, still the lion's share, 773.5%
00:06:32.160 - 00:07:30.248, Speaker A: for these five months. Right? But what's really striking here is that there is a non trivial share of this pie chart or donut chart, that is not ethereum. So although mev has traditionally been thought as a concept that is very substantial on Ethereum, this clearly shows that mev extraction is happening in other places as well. That's very interesting and that's what I want to focus a little bit more on. So let's dive into that more and let's dive into why, right? Like, why are these things here? Why have they been growing maybe as well? All right, so there are two main reasons I want to talk about in this presentation. The first one is the growth of decentralized finance, right? And I'm going to use TVL total value locked as a proxy for growth. Don't kill me for it.
00:07:30.248 - 00:08:16.132, Speaker A: I know it's a flawed metric and I know there's a lot of other things we can look at, exchange volumes, et cetera, but it is a convenient one and I still think it's very representative, again, open to arguing this point. So this is the TVL of Ethereum by DFI llama, which stands at about 150,000,000,000. And this is from the great team building mev inspect Pi at Flashbot. The cumulative extracted mev, not only 2021 there's before, but it goes up to about like 400 and something million. And it starts here at around about like 36 million. And so this doesn't tell us much right now, but this is just the TVL of Ethereum and extracted mev there. Now, let's look at polygon.
00:08:16.132 - 00:08:59.744, Speaker A: This is Polygon's TVL. It is in USD. We can look at it in Maddox, but it looks very similar, so it's 5.17 billion. But what I want us to particularly pay attention to is the fact that really the TVL kind of started picking up May onwards, right? So now if you look at the extraction numbers on Polygon in particular, we're looking at the numbers provided by Marlin, not unsurprisingly, we can see that mev extraction kind of started happening between May and June, right? So it's pretty obvious to look at these two things. But it does give us a clue for why there would be more mev extraction activity somewhere else than Ethereum. Right? Because there's TVL and TVL implies financial activity.
00:08:59.744 - 00:09:45.776, Speaker A: Financial activity implies the existence of inefficiencies and opportunities that are capacity constrained sorry, finite, like Arbitrages. So now let's look at another chain that we talked about, right? Avalanche. Avalanche is 1080 9 billion. Again, the number matters a little bit less in this context. It is more about looking at where their TVL picked up. So here we can see mid to late August their TVL picked up. What happened, then they launched their yield farming program which I don't remember the name of, but that was August 18, right? Now let's look at numbers given by the canned people at Parsec in particular, will, thank you Will of Quantifying atomic ARBs on avalanche and we can see it's kind of dead in August.
00:09:45.776 - 00:10:29.164, Speaker A: So the numbers here starts at 1 August 2021. We can see how there isn't much happening and then starting pretty much September or mid August, this is where we are, this is 1 August things really picked up. So this really coincides with the yield farming program that was started on August 18 by avalanche and again it coincides with a large increase in their total value locked. Again, we can see a pattern there where there is more financial activity in other places. Hand in hand with that comes mev extraction activity. So again doing a similar thing, looking at BSc, the TVL here is a little bit more skewed. So I did look at it in BNB directly.
00:10:29.164 - 00:11:09.312, Speaker A: So you can see this in USD. It implies a price rise of BNB which we don't necessarily want to look at. And so here we can see actually the TVL grew before, right? But really most of its growth happened around May onwards, I would say looking at this and so looking now at data from Eigenfi who were very very kind in providing this data and I invite you to check them out. Again, this starts from the 1 June because they did not have data before that. But you can see basically a lot of emulated extractions from there. So this is less representative of the point I'm trying to make, but I think it's still very interesting data. So this is reason number one.
00:11:09.312 - 00:12:10.710, Speaker A: Reason number one is the growth of decentralized finance on other chains inevitably means there exists inefficiencies in these places which then in turn means that there is mev to extract there. Now, the second reason is that the mev game on Ethereum became harder to play and Luke is going to give an awesome presentation after my presentation on this. So I won't go into any numbers because I will leave it to his presentation. But I'm going to give some anecdotal evidence that were provided by Robert. Thank you Robert, for providing those. And so what do I mean by the mev game is harder play, right? What I mean is that being a searcher, being an mev searcher on Ethereum became more competitive. So these are for example, extracts of Tweets where mev searchers are talking about optimizing their code even more by writing an EVM assembly instead of writing in solidity so that they can optimize their gas efficiency more and so that they can win the auction by doing so.
00:12:10.710 - 00:13:52.464, Speaker A: And you can know, again, this is anecdotal evidence luca is going to have much more concrete data, but you can see how these dates kind of match up with the dates that we were looking at as well, right? And so another example of, for example, the mev game becoming more competitive on Ethereum is pushing the limits of mev extraction and having ARBs that are much longer, for example, which implies more sophisticated models and also more compute, that is more like latency sensitive. And another thing again by mev sensei, and again July, around the time that we looked at these other chains, like gaining a lot of TVL and mev extraction happening there more frequently, this is another kind of optimization technique and things there that I believe Luke will talk about. So we have two reasons, right? The first one is really that TVL grew in other places and so obviously the existence of inefficiencies there. But the second thing is that mev extraction on Ethereum became so competitive that a lot of searchers preferred to go to greener pastures, right? And they migrated from Ethereum or Ethereum only to other places where they still have an edge and where they don't need to compete with people that optimize their software a lot. That I think is a very interesting movement of developers and of traders. Right? And so what do I want you to take away from this very short presentation? A few things. The first one is that 2021 is the year mev extraction on Ethereum not only grew, clearly there was a lot of mev extraction and Ethereum is still like 73% of it for the year, at least for the last five months of 2021, but also became competitive.
00:13:52.464 - 00:14:57.752, Speaker A: And that, I think is a very interesting fact to reason about. And because of this fact, right, and combined with the DFI growth on other places, this has led searchers, mev searchers to much greener pastures. So why this is interesting, in my opinion at least, is because we can now compare the activity, the mev activity and the negative externalities that might come from it on these different networks. So instead of purely looking at mev extraction on Ethereum only, we can now look at it on Polygon, on BSc, on Avalanche, and on other chains that weren't mentioned in this presentation, like Solana, like Terra, that have ten or 15 billion TVL as well, and surely have inefficiencies in their systems as well. And so this is what the next presentations are going to be about as well. I don't necessarily want to give away the topics of these presentations, but this is why I think this is interesting. The second thing that I think why it's interesting is I think it makes designing protocols with mev or adversarial behavior assumptions in mind a lot more relevant than it once was.
00:14:57.752 - 00:15:57.790, Speaker A: So a lot of assumptions that a protocol designer would make in the past where it would be more like tail end cases now would happen much more frequently because I think it is more likely to assume the presence of Mev searchers that are economically rational actors trying to influence the ordering on these networks. So this was like a very quick overview of Mev on some chains in 2021. And the message that I really want to communicate is the one that I kind of just described in this takeaway. Right. And the other presentations will kind of continue building on that message. But what's next for 2022? Well, clearly, if you all believe in the message put forward so far, is that MV extraction is probably coming to a chain near you and that this movement and this movement of searchers actually going to other chains is probably not going to stop. And so we should think about the implications of that.
00:15:57.790 - 00:16:24.276, Speaker A: All right, I think I'm says 15 minutes here, within time, kind of. So thank you for listening. I hope they gave you some food for thought. I am happy to talk about any of this more, so please talk about this on the flashballs Discord MV Research Channel. Otherwise, please email me or DM me on Twitter. I also want to shout out to all these people that provided data on short notice. So most of the data here was provided by others.
00:16:24.276 - 00:16:59.470, Speaker A: So Parsec and Will at Parsec eigenfy Marlin Protocol, who took the code at Mevinspecpy and forked it to run it on Polygon and made some changes to it. And the awesome Mevinspectpy team, Luke, who is part of that team, speaking in the next next conversation and next presentation. All right, that's it. Thank you very much. I'll leave it now to Luke. Luke, if you want to share your screen, we should be able to do that. Okay, 1 second.
00:16:59.470 - 00:17:01.240, Speaker A: Let's see it's.
