00:00:13.170 - 00:00:39.978, Speaker A: Good to go. All right. Hi everybody, and thanks for tuning in, especially if you're on the live stream watching this from down in the hacker area or across the pond, as they were saying earlier. So I'm Christine from Scale Labs. Really excited to be at ETH Amsterdam. I'm doing this workshop. The primary goal of the workshop is to, one, explain more in depth what scale is all about and also give you an update about V two from a surprise guest.
00:00:39.978 - 00:01:15.750, Speaker A: And then also do some live coding for those that kind of want to follow along using some tools that you should already be familiar with. And if you're not, don't worry, we'll slow it down and make sure that everyone can catch up. So before launching into that, just want to remind everyone about the prizes. We do have a lot of prizes to win today, so if you are going for the grand prize, it's pretty much having the best use case of scale integrated within your application. That means potentially using some of our additional features file storage, interchange messaging, et cetera, et cetera. We'll definitely get into what that is all about later. We also have two other categories.
00:01:15.750 - 00:01:51.000, Speaker A: If you're developing a Metaverse P, two E or NFT game, all teams that win this will share up to $5,000. And then for partner integrations, if you see any partners walking around that you want to try to integrate onto scale, you can definitely do that. And you'll share up to $2,000 for teams that are hacking on that. And then last but not least, any team that hacks and deploys an application onto the scale network will split $4,000 among yourselves. So, really excited to see what Kiss built today. And if you have your phones ready, definitely go ahead and scan that QR code. It will take you directly to the information you need to get started.
00:01:51.000 - 00:02:29.122, Speaker A: All right, so what is scale? So scale is a layer that sits on top of Ethereum that pretty much allows you to speed up your smart contracts and then also removes the gas costs. Now, what's great about this is it sits really well within Ethereum ecosystem. So all the tools that you love that exist in Ethereum automatically works on the scale network as well. You don't have to program a new language. You don't have to change your tech stack. You can simply just migrate everything over to scale using an infura like endpoint, as you see here. And I'll get into how you can actually do that using some tools here.
00:02:29.122 - 00:02:58.422, Speaker A: Remix. We might go through Truffle if we have time, but definitely explaining Web Three and Ether JS as well. All right, so how does this all work? We have nodes around the world. And what ends up happening is when you decide you want a scale chain, we group together a subset of those nodes. We take 16. And what this means is your scale chain has its own environment. It allows you to process transactions, but it also has file storage, meaning that you can store files directly to the blockchain.
00:02:58.422 - 00:03:33.474, Speaker A: So let's say you wanted to host your website or stream videos. You can upload that to the file system and have it just automatically displayed to you. Because we have an NGNX Labor that sits on top of that. Additionally, we have interchange Messaging, which is a bridge that connects you between ethereum and scale. So that means that all of your assets you've already developed on ethereum, you can migrate them over to scale, or if you haven't yet started, you can start minting on scale directly and migrate them later. Thus by saving even more gas. One of the things that we do is we rotate the nodes ever so frequently.
00:03:33.474 - 00:04:09.620, Speaker A: So this adds a layer of protection because I know what everyone's thinking out there, 16 nodes. That may not be a lot, but when you think about the random rotation over time, you can potentially have 70%, 90%, 100% of the network might have worked for your scale chain at any point in time. And we do this to make sure that nodes can't collude. If you want to learn more about that, definitely come see us at the booth. Our VP of Product, Chadwick, would love to go in detail about that, as well as our BD team. I'm going to call out some few ryan, Connor, Fabio, who else is here? Alex as well. Can definitely give you a rundown on all that's involved there.
00:04:09.620 - 00:04:46.602, Speaker A: All right. But this is the fun thing. We're a multi chain network and it's one of the first of its kind. So I know you probably have been seeing the news and you've been seeing other networks trying to migrate to do the same thing. It's really cool to see that other applications are now seeing the value about this and now trying to integrate that within their applications as well. So definitely check to see how we're doing it here, because one of the things that's really exciting about this week is we are launching something called the Scalverse, which is basically a V two of the scale network. And what that V two allows you to do is add organization around the scale chains.
00:04:46.602 - 00:05:30.026, Speaker A: So we listened to our community and our community submitted proposals, which was amazing, that said that they wanted to band together to create Hubs. So we have Exchange Hubs, which is all your liquidity. We have some amazing exchanges, some amazing partners that are going to be launching there over the next few weeks, as well as Marketplace Hubs as well. We have Marketplaces that said, hey, we want to join the scale network and provide an ecosystem to where any NFT project or any project that has an NFT can list their NFT on the scale network and have it transact in a free environment. How cool is that? And then lastly, because some of the community. They don't necessarily want to manage their own scale chain, they want to use what's existing, kind of like how they leverage Ethereum. And so that's where community chains come into play.
00:05:30.026 - 00:06:16.460, Speaker A: Instead of having to manage your own scale chain, if you just want to deploy your application, we have an environment for you to be able to do that and a Hub like environment as well. But then lastly, there are a lot of applications out there that have said we want our own chain, we want to make sure that our transactions per second isn't deprecated because of another game or another application running and our speed stays the same. And the only way that that is viable is through a multi chain architecture, which is the thing that we started with our vision from the beginning. And so really excited to see this come to life with scale v two. But there's so much more to that. And I think Chadwick should probably come up and explain a little bit more. You ready to come up now? I don't have a slide for him, so you're going to have to listen carefully to all the additional features coming into scale V Two.
00:06:18.190 - 00:07:19.466, Speaker B: Everyone. Chavik here. VP of product. So just to piggyback on Christine's intro, the key thing with the Hubs and with V Two, we've taken the Interchange Messaging Agent, which is the native bridge deployed on scale chains. And for several months that's been operating very well between Ethereum and scale transacting and transferring tokens and arbitrary messages between Ethereum and scale. And now that we've expanded that to basically help promote and drive the scale verse, the sort of Hub and Dapchain communication model by allowing any two scale chains to transact tokens or messages, basically sending tokens and messages between any two scale chains with the same bridge layer that we have using BLS signatures. But the key thing here is, okay, it's a bridge, but it's a bridge that can transfer tokens between any two scale chains in a gas cost free gas environment.
00:07:19.466 - 00:07:58.662, Speaker B: So you don't pay any gas fees transferring tokens between any two scale chains. And the resolution time between any two scale chains is very fast. It's 18 seconds. So we've taken that bridge from Ethereum to scale and applied this between any two scale chains on top of this. We didn't stop there. V Two includes this, but also includes what we call an RNG endpoint. It's very difficult for solidity developers to find a really good source of entropy to drive, like the randomness of maybe NFT properties, lottery design or other deeper functions that you'd want to do in smart contracts.
00:07:58.662 - 00:08:43.270, Speaker B: There are other options out there like VRFs and other options as well. But we decided on scale because of the uniqueness of our architecture and how we use BLS threshold signatures amongst the nodes that comprise your scale chain. We're able to leverage this in a very easy way to allow developers to basically call a pre compiled contract on each scale chain that delivers a random number for every block that's created. It's a really easy way. It doesn't create any external calls that you have to do. It's basically a very simple assembly code that you can copy and paste in a contract and integrate very easily. We also have an Oracle API.
00:08:43.270 - 00:09:19.718, Speaker B: We have the base layer available. Now, we're finishing a few aspects of that, but it'll allow basically any developer to create an RPC call or an RPC call to any external off chain data and then allow the scale chain, the nodes in the scale chain to request that data from off chain and bring that inside, come to an agreement about what that off chain data is, and then present it for available verification and solidity. And then did I forget anything? I think that was it. Yeah, that's it for V two.
00:09:19.884 - 00:09:44.800, Speaker A: Yeah. So, scale chain transfer. Oracles ring. Oh, my wizard of Oz. So, it's pretty exciting, though, I think we're really excited for the scale verse because it's really just showing the power of a multi chain network. And I really want to stress that multi chain network started from the beginning, vision number one. And we're really excited to see know evolve into what it is today.
00:09:44.800 - 00:10:35.622, Speaker A: With that Oracle piece, though, I think we're really excited because we do partner with other Oracles. But I think giving developers the option to have an Oracle that's native to the chain, I think is also unique because when you think about what the scale network is trying to do, it's not just creating another blockchain, it's creating a blockchain with a platform of features. So, file storage, the Oracle RNG, the list just goes on. Machine learning, which was something that we sunset it, but we had before. It's really exciting to see scale Labs Labs scale L2, develop amazing things over and over and over again. All right, so now I think it's really cool to take a step back and see what cool things can you build on scale. And with Fast Finality, no gas fees and high throughput, it feels like the possibilities are endless.
00:10:35.622 - 00:10:58.518, Speaker A: And we didn't build a blockchain that was just for NFTs. We didn't build a blockchain that was just for games. We built a blockchain for every application out there. And that takes time to build. So where we are today means that now the applications can take the features that are there and build these really cool applications. So with Fast Finality, we were able to deploy Oracles. But other Oracles could also create on this modular system as well.
00:10:58.518 - 00:11:44.126, Speaker A: Media paywall authentications. The no gas fees mean that NFT projects can launch their application without having to raise a lot of capital first. They can simply launch their application, prove product, market set, and then move forward from there. And that's a game changer when you think about how things currently operate in Ethereum Ecosystem, being able to just launch your application or your dao without having to figure out how to pay the high gas fees and then high throughput. One of the things that we did at one of the ETH conferences a couple of years ago was we took Unity, we took one of their templates, we put it on scale and saw how it worked. And it worked extremely well, extremely fast. And one of the feedbacks that we always get from game developers is that when they use a scale network, they can develop for their application and not for the blockchain.
00:11:44.126 - 00:12:15.534, Speaker A: And that's a different way of thinking about approaching development. So really cool to see all these different applications that you can develop. Now what are some applications that have developed on us? Well, Ruby Exchange is a really great partner of ours, is going to be launching one of the first exchanges within scale network. And what's cool is that Liquidity hub that I talked about, the organization, they're going to be at the forefront of that, making sure that you can bring Liquidity in and out very seamlessly. They're really good with marketing, as you can see. That's one of their videos. Very flashy, very amazing.
00:12:15.534 - 00:12:50.306, Speaker A: But what I'll do though is actually show you their application. And let me come here. So this is the Ruby application and it's just on the test network for now because they're going to be launching in the next few weeks. But what's really cool is that they're allowing developers to easily bridge over current standardized tokens. USDC, USDT, the list goes on. And if you want to add your custom token, they are a great partner to make sure that you can do that within the scale network. They've also integrated with our Faucet to distribute Sfuel.
00:12:50.306 - 00:13:39.250, Speaker A: And I know I haven't talked about that, but I promise I'll bring you up to speed on that in just a bit. But this Faucet makes sure that anyone that doesn't have permission to process transactions on the scale chain can do so. And I think that was a really cool way of how they integrated that within their application. What are some other applications that have developed? Ivy Cash this is a really great NFT project. You don't have to have a wallet or understand blockchain to be able to get an NFT. And they prove that by allowing anyone to create a QR code, present it on a screen, add a game or anywhere, scan that QR code and simply have an NFT show up in your wallet that's created for you. And so that's a different model than saying, hey, how about you download the application here, understand blockchain, make sure you save your private key and then, oh, make sure you then change to the correct endpoint.
00:13:39.250 - 00:14:09.358, Speaker A: They remove all of the friction for their end users. And so when you think about creating an application with design in mind using an application such as L2, that is scale allows you to do that and achieve that because, again, we have a no gas environment. The last one I'll talk about is going to be Clut Name Services. What's cool about them is that they built an application that allows you to reserve your name. So it could be Christine ETH. It could be my daughter's Ahara ETH. It could be Chadwick ETH.
00:14:09.358 - 00:14:45.310, Speaker A: But essentially, when you reserve that, it then actually resolves to the wallet address. And they have a really great API as well. So they have two sides of their product. One side is know users to actually get their names, reserve them, and be able to attach it to their wallets. The other side is for DAP developers to integrate that within their applications. So they have a fully fledged built out API that allows you to do that, but not just integrate their name service, but ENS and unstoppable domains as well. They're covering their entire suite of domain name servicing, which I think is a really awesome way of using scale as well.
00:14:45.310 - 00:15:09.154, Speaker A: So when you're buying your names on their application within the scale system, it all happens in the background. The user doesn't have to know that they're on scale, they're just simply there. They're buying their name with a credit card, and that is it. So, again, another great use case for Usability. All right, we're finally at the live demo portion. I hope I didn't kill you by slides. Looks like I didn't.
00:15:09.154 - 00:15:25.162, Speaker A: Everyone's still up. Everyone's still looking this way. That is great. Do I have developers in the room or are we here to watch? I know I have developers out there that's watching on a live stream, but I can't talk to you. So developer. Okay, one, two, three. Ish three.
00:15:25.162 - 00:15:45.962, Speaker A: Okay, three. Three in the room. That's good. So in that case, what I'll do is I'll kind of go through a little bit of the coding aspect of scale because I think it's really cool to see how seamless and how easy it is to get up and running. All right, so I'm going to switch back here to my lovely browser. We're going to exit out of this. Goodbye, Ruby.
00:15:45.962 - 00:16:19.434, Speaker A: We still love you. All right, so the documentation portal, and I'm going to back up just a bit because there's a lot of information on here. You can thank again, Chadwick, our VP of product, for organizing all of this and making sure that everything's ready for the scale V two launch. But if I navigate here to develop, there's a plethora of information on how to use again those existing tools that I promised you guys, or just a point to the scale network. If you already know what to do, you just want to go it alone. But let's use something that most developers are familiar with, remix. A lot of developers have used this.
00:16:19.434 - 00:16:59.206, Speaker A: You've come across this in some capacity for just simply deploying a smart contract. Well, what you'll see here is that all of these tools have step by step instructions on how to use that with the scale network. And one of the things that reigns true with most of these is that the deployment or the usage of these is just as simple as changing an endpoint. So if I go to this MetaMask example here, there you go, just changing an endpoint portis. Same thing, simply just changing an endpoint. And I think because of the way the Ethereum space has evolved, all tools that are building within that space makes it so that way you can integrate with other layers outside of Ethereum. And it's shown here.
00:16:59.206 - 00:17:23.950, Speaker A: Now, for remix, it's more or less the same. You can take this example, smart contract, copy it into remix and just run it by deploying on the scale network. So let me show you what that looks like if I click on this link. Actually, let's back up. I'm going to open it into a new browser tab. All right, perfect. We have a simple smart contract called Hello Scale.
00:17:23.950 - 00:18:00.378, Speaker A: Super simple. But one of the things that you'll know is that you could always connect it to MetaMask by switching it to Inject. It web3. And here we're on MetaMask. I'll switch it back to Ethereum network. But because we're at the hackathon, if you go to Oops, let's not open that. If you go to Ethamsterdam scale network, this will give you all the information that you need for getting a scale chain endpoint and accessing a faucet while you're at this endpoint, as while you're at this conference to be able to get it going.
00:18:00.378 - 00:18:47.738, Speaker A: So if I click here, there are two scale chains available, and I'm going to select the first one. Now, I can go the manual way of copying this opening MetaMask and adding it to my list of networks, or I can do it the automatic way, which is click on this button here and it'll automatically add it for me. Now I'll go ahead and switch networks, and what I want to do is jump back just for a second to the documentation, because if you want to understand exactly how we created that button, all of the code for doing that is simply here. You can copy, paste and just have it work. So I'm going to go back here to remix. And now that I'm on the scale chain, as you can see, I don't have any SK. ETH, which has been rebranded to Sfuel, actually.
00:18:47.738 - 00:19:35.318, Speaker A: And S Fuel essentially, is a token that exists on a blockchain just to prevent DDoS attacks. It has no monetary value, which means you can use it as an authentication mechanism. So if I come back here and I'm going to go back and back up a little bit, and what I'll do is, let's see, I'm going to copy this endpoint, paste it here, and then I'll come here and get my wallet. Okay, super simple. Paste that here and then simply click on Get S Fuel. What this basically shows you is just a faucet mechanism for setting up distributing that S fuel. You can just as easily distribute Sfuel the moment you recognize this user when they log into MetaMask.
00:19:35.318 - 00:20:00.094, Speaker A: But now that I have Sfuel, I can go back to remix and simply deploy the Smart Contract onto the scale chain. All right. Just want to make sure everything's connected. As long as this green light is going, we're good to go. And let's go ahead and click Deploy. One of the things you'll notice is just how inexpensive it may seem to deploy this Smart Contract. And that's by design, because, again, it's a gas free environment.
00:20:00.094 - 00:20:50.226, Speaker A: But we still want to make sure that no one can DDoS you. And so over time, if someone is trying to DDoS you, this number will simply increase by a predetermined number until they've run out of S Fuel, and you can decide just not to top them up, which means they're blocked from running transactions on your blockchain. Now, if I confirm this, that'll do what you expect will happen in any of blockchain the. It deploys a smart contract to scale. And from there, I'm able to transact with it just like I would if this were running on Ethereum. And so, just as I promised, very simple to transfer over from Ethereum to scale. Now, one of the other things that we can do is let's check out one of those really cool features that Chadwick mentioned.
00:20:50.226 - 00:21:29.742, Speaker A: I like the idea of checking out the RNG endpoint one, because I think the documentation is really well done, where you can simply copy paste, run. Now I'll copy this, and I'll come over here and I'll paste this here. Let's go ahead and save that good. Looks like it's already compiled. And I'll delete that one, and we will simply redeploy. All right, give that a moment. And this is that random number generator that Chadwick had mentioned.
00:21:29.742 - 00:22:05.580, Speaker A: What's cool is that in scale V two, this is going to come standard on every blockchain. And so one of the things that we kept getting asked about is that with scale being a costless environment, do you guys have a random number generator? And if so, can we use it? Do you have Code Snippets? Well, we took it a step further. We don't just provide you the code Snippet. We provide it standardized with every blockchain. So you can just simply access it. And so every time I click on Get Random, every time there's a new block, a new random number is presented to you. So a really cool way of using one of the new tools that's coming out in scale V two.
00:22:05.580 - 00:22:21.572, Speaker A: All right, so before continuing on, I will pause if anyone has any questions. Straightforward so far. Everyone's following. I see nods. I see nods. Okay, no one's sleep yet. This is great.
00:22:21.572 - 00:23:12.560, Speaker A: I know it's midnight. All right. So again, I think the main thing I want to drive home here is just the simplicity of using the scale network, but also the complexity of the features that we have available. And one of those complexities, I think, is drawn out in interchange messaging. So if you're here building a token and you want to make sure that it can transverse between different chains or different blockchains between ethereum and scale or reverse from scale to ethereum, this is the documentation that you want to land on. Now, there's a lot here. We have support for all of the major token standards ERC 20, ERC 721, ERC 1155, and then any custom smart contract.
00:23:12.560 - 00:23:52.380, Speaker A: Now, that is very unique because a lot of the bridges out there only support ERC 20. But with the support for all of these, what that means is that you can really transfer any asset to scale, even as far back as CryptoKitties, or create any new standard and simply have it work within the scale network with being able to transfer that back and forth. Now, we have some really cool diagrams here that help you just sort of understand what the flow looks like. So you're not going on this alone. I'm a visual person. I hope you are, too. And so having a clear way of understanding how to move a token between the different chains is extremely helpful.
00:23:52.380 - 00:24:45.776, Speaker A: And that Minting first methodology that I mentioned is down here where we give you a simple flow of understanding how to first mint an NFT or any asset on the scale network and then move it to ethereum after the fact, thus by saving you even more gas. So I encourage any blockchain project that's looking to hack at this hackathon to try it out because this would be a really cool way of integrating it within your NFT project, your P two E game, or your Metaverse application. All right, let's go back here. All right, one last thing, since we have everyone's attention. We do have $100 million in USD for Ecosystem Grant program and that's going to be specifically for gaming. So if you're here building a game, definitely come talk to us. That way we can see where you are in your development and to see if we can get you into this grant program.
00:24:45.776 - 00:25:33.664, Speaker A: But looks like we had a question before I concluded. Use the scale chain to scale chain bridge. How would you use it? The skeleton to skeleton bridge? I'm actually going to go back here because I think let me show this one. All right. Great question, by the way. And the question was, for those that are viewing this, how would you use a scale chain to scale Chain bridge? The best way to think about that is let's first explain the layout. Here we have these exchange hubs which are providing liquidity meaning all liquidity is coming into that one chain and other chains that are creating complementary like exchange hubs as well.
00:25:33.664 - 00:26:46.280, Speaker A: We have NFT marketplaces, which means that all NFTs are going to be viewable within one endpoint, one chain, which is great for developers because things are able to be shown in collections, which is very important if you are building NFT project. And those community chains where we have a lot of applications that want to share space because they don't necessarily need 70GB for storage or 200 transactions per second for their medium chain, they just want a small subset of that. But if you're going to be launching on your own chain or one of these hubs, how do you communicate between chains and when does it make sense to do so? Well, as you can imagine, if you are launching your Pte game or your Metaverse game or your music application, you are in your own ecosystem, your own container, which means that you might need to bring liquidity over. Now, you can go this on your own and use interchange messaging bridge, bring it from Ethereum, or you can take advantage of the free transactions per second and scale and simply go over to the Ruby Exchange that exists on Exchange hub. And when you do that, you would use the scale chain to scale chain bridge to be able to make that connection between your chain and that exchange hub. It's going to be extremely fast. Everything processes in 18 seconds or less.
00:26:46.280 - 00:27:32.692, Speaker A: But what that means is that you're able to bring over the pairs that you need for your game, for your NFT, for anything that you're building, whether it's a stablecoin, whether it's Ethereum, whether it's scale. It could be any token that you want to use or any custom token that you want to use. So the normal flow is going to be bringing the liquidity that already exists in the scale ecosystem over to your chain. But there are some edge cases there. And one of those edge cases is if you're creating your own custom token on your own chain and you want that listed on the exchange, you have the same flexibility to use that same scale chain to scale chain transfer to push your token to the exchange. That way is listed for anyone else in the ecosystem to pull down later. So a really cool way of spider webbing this together in a really organized way.
00:27:32.692 - 00:28:31.576, Speaker A: And yeah, the skeleton and skeleton upgrade that's happening this week, actually you'll be able to start playing around with that relatively soon. Can I store my files in another chain and use one for block data? Okay, so the next question is for file storage. Can I store my file storage, my files in another chain and use another blockchain for the data of the application? Is that correct? The answer to that is yes. I think one of the things that the community realized immediately when skeletal. Said that we were going to launch this multi chain architecture is, oh, I can have five chains for my application and then use them from different modules within my application. And that was a really cool way of thinking about it. And so yes, if you wanted to use one chain for launching your token or running your game or running your application, you can do that.
00:28:31.576 - 00:29:16.228, Speaker A: But let's say that you wanted to store all of the files that were going to be accessed for being used within the game, or used on your website, or used for machine learning, or used for any application. You'd be able to have another chain that runs side by side to that. And so what's really great is that it means that you can scale horizontally. You're able to start with one chain. And as you need more space, you can either upgrade from a medium chain to a large chain because we offer different types, or you can say, hey, you know what? I simply just want a new chain altogether so that way I can double my storage all at once and maintain the same transactions per second, because I might not need more. 200 is enough. Especially when you think that 200 for one application versus 200 for 500 applications.
00:29:16.228 - 00:29:36.850, Speaker A: As you might see in some other networks, that's a different conversation. When you are on a dedicated chain and you have all of your services just for you, you can think about using those services, not worrying about the fluctuations that anyone else might. So yeah, you're welcome. Any other questions?
00:29:40.340 - 00:29:47.570, Speaker B: The IMA bridge, are all the chains sharing one IMA bridge over to the main net or do they have their own?
00:29:47.880 - 00:30:40.012, Speaker A: Yeah, so with the IMA bridge, because each scale chain is only environment, they all have their own smart contracts there, right? And so they connect to the smart contracts between ethereum and scale. But yes, the buckets that you would transact with on the scale chain side are all going to be your own. On the ethereum side, it is going to be a shared environment, but that is really well separated, if you will, based off of the chain that you're interacting with. And so, as you can imagine, that design was put into place to make it easier for scale chain to scale chain transfer and also ethereum to scale transfer. But yes, essentially on the scale chain you have your own bucket, your own smart contracts. And what's great is that you don't have to think about deploying these. Everything comes pre deployed, pre compiled.
00:30:40.012 - 00:31:25.006, Speaker A: And so as you can imagine, what that means is an easier way to understand how to connect this on each and every scale chain. If the contract address is going to always be the same on all the scale chains, you don't have to think about keeping a mapping of that, which I think is a great way of approaching creating the entertainment protocol so good job, engineering team who's not here, but here in spirit. And we're really excited. Any other questions? All right, well, with that, I'm going to conclude the session, but if you have any questions, definitely come see us at the booth. We'll be around tonight and tomorrow. Tomorrow there's a special event. I can't tell you what the special event is, but come see Ryan.
00:31:25.006 - 00:31:59.740, Speaker A: He will definitely explain that to you. It's going to be great. But definitely come hang out with us and learn more about how to deploy your application onto scale. And before I go, I will just show this last screen here for those, again, watching this virtually, definitely go ahead and scan that QR code or simply just put this URL in your browser. Again, we have 16,000 in prizes to be won, so definitely hack with us, because at the very least, if you simply deploy, you have the possibility of winning that 4K prize that will be distributed among all teams. So at least give it a try. All right, thank you.
