00:00:03.320 - 00:00:38.429, Speaker A: The promise of the Internet has been that anyone can build a community online. The challenge is one, there's a lot of noise. This is a screenshot of my incoming DMs. You can see it's mostly spammers and scammers. Probably looks similar for a lot of you. Now, there are a ton of awesome people I've met through DMs, but it's very hard to filter. The other challenge is if you're a creator and you want to monetize, the options available to you are both extractive and inauthentic.
00:00:38.429 - 00:01:35.729, Speaker A: On one hand, you can monetize indirectly through ads, but the platforms set very high minimums for clicks and impressions, and that often drives perverse incentives on the type of content that actually generates revenue. Or you do product placements for things that you and your audience probably don't care that much about. So the opportunity we see is to empower online creators to build authentic communities with a global two way payments platform. Now, on the left, you'll see here a tip card. That's a new feature that we just launched and it's very simple. You can connect your X account to code and generate this custom and you can share that tip card across anywhere that you're creating content, whether it's on Twitter, at the end of a thread, at the end of a video, on a live stream, put it in your bio. And already we're seeing creators all around the world both grow their communities and reward their communities.
00:01:35.729 - 00:02:04.005, Speaker A: Now this is a tip card from a guy, SMS or his name is Sean. Now, Sean is awesome. He is the first person in his family to go to college. He works in H Vac full time, but he does content on evenings and weekends. And his goal is to buy his mom a house. And for two years he's been grinding away building this audience, but has yet to make money. Now, he set up his tip card just a couple of weeks ago and he's been sharing that at the end of videos that he's making, put it in his bio.
00:02:04.005 - 00:02:53.735, Speaker A: He does Twitter spaces, gives a shout out there, and already he's earning a few hundred bucks here, a couple hundred bucks there. And beyond the monetization, what's been really powerful is that Sean has now been in a position to go deeper with his true fans and he's been able to start rewarding them. So he's already seen opportunities where people that are helping him, they're giving feedback on content, reposting, jumping up on stage during a Twitter space. He can then distribute some of the tips that he's getting and then it starts to go deeper and compound and build a network around that. And we've seen many other examples like this, but it is more fun to show than tell. So I'm going to do a live demo here and if we could flip over to my laptop. So I've got a tweet lined up here.
00:02:53.735 - 00:03:38.207, Speaker A: I'm going to take a selfie just to make that a little bit more engaging. So I will, I'm going to use that, but then I'm going to flip over to code and I'll grab my tip card here and I can pop that into the tweet and there we go. And let's see if I get. Maybe we'll get some tips. We'll see. So, I mean, it's as simple as that. The cool thing about tip cards is you can, it's portable and you can share this on any content platform and we'll start seeing if we get some tips.
00:03:38.207 - 00:04:28.025, Speaker A: But the cool thing is we've already seen this be hyper engaging for content creators and it's allowed people to go deeper with their communities. And this is still quite simple for now, but there will be more features that we start layering on top of tip cards. So the best way to get access to that, and I've got a download link here, the best way to get access to that would be to set up your own tip card. You'll get first access to any of the new features that we start rolling out on top of this platform. And you can do that by scanning this QR code, download code, set up your tip card and you'll be one of the first to get to experience some of these new layers and the opportunity to build authentic communities online. Thank you.
