00:00:00.240 - 00:00:15.278, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deliquare refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sosino. And today, 9 December 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So some bittersweet personal news today. So it's come to an end. And what is it? Ethub.
00:00:15.278 - 00:00:45.854, Speaker A: So Ethub has been sunsetted here. And Ethub was the educational resource that I co founded with Eric Connor all the way back in late 2018. It was a documentation website for all things got to do with Ethereum. It was a podcast and it was a newsletter. And Eric Connor, my co founder here, put out a little tweet thread today announcing that it was being sunset and why. So basically, just a bit of background here. A third was the thing that kind of got me started with Ethereum more broadly.
00:00:45.854 - 00:01:11.366, Speaker A: So, as I said, it got founded in late 2018. I'd already been in Ethereum since early 2017, but I wasn't that public. I wasn't really doing anything directly in the ecosystem, was more of an observer. I was still working at a non crypto job. And yeah, it's just, it's been a journey, that's for sure. It's definitely helped me a lot within the ecosystem, helped me get involved and build my network up. And, you know, I said here in my tweet, I said, getting a bit emotional over this.
00:01:11.366 - 00:01:40.232, Speaker A: Ethub was the springboard that launched my entire career in Ethereum. And without it, I don't know where I'd be. Ethub quite simply changed my life. Thanks to everyone who supported us, and thank you to Eric for being such a great co founder. So, I mean, I would say Ethan really did change my life because as I said before, ETH, I wasn't that involved with, with the community. But once Ethub launched, it started getting a lot of really great traction. We were documenting things like FuD that was being spread during the bear market for Ethereum and wanting to address that fud.
00:01:40.232 - 00:02:15.760, Speaker A: And then we started providing better documentation around things like how to run a full node, Ethereum's monetary policy and that sort of stuff. And obviously with the newsletter that we were doing, it was a, it was a weekly newsletter called the Ethub weekly newsletter. And I actually started that in early 2018 under a different name called the Block by Block newsletter. And then it became the Ethub newsletter. And then we did a podcast where we interviewed different guests in the ecosystem and we also did a weekly recap of the newsletter on the podcast. And you know, it sounds maybe a little bit funny now saying that, but back then there was basically no Ethereum media content. Bankless came soon after.
00:02:15.760 - 00:02:44.032, Speaker A: But bankless was quite small, right. It didn't start off as being the juggernaut that it is today. So you really just had a few podcasts here and there, but nothing really Ethereum focused, which is why. Which is one of the reasons why Ethub came to be. But as time has gone on, ETH I guess, like got obsoleted, so to speak, by different resources. So ethereum.org was basically upgraded a couple of years ago, I believe I had went, underwent a massive upgrade where there was a bunch of resources added to it.
00:02:44.032 - 00:03:18.152, Speaker A: It had a fresh redesign, and it was basically a lot better than what it was because it was just basically hadn't been updated since like 2015. And then obviously because of that, it was a lot of outdated information on there. But then they updated it and they put a team on it, they being the Ethereum foundation. And it kind of obsoleted the Ethub documentation part of things, to an extent. And then you also had the podcast and newsletter. I mean, there are so many media podcasts and newsletters these days, it kind of became a little bit redundant for us to keep doing it. And we obviously also reached different stages in our life.
00:03:18.152 - 00:03:42.394, Speaker A: Eric had a kid, you know, he's been focused on that. I've been more focused on the Daily Gwei, which launched mid 2020. And yeah, I've just continued with that, basically. But yeah, it was a journey, that's for sure. I think that, as I said, it was that springboard that launched my Ethereum career. I owe everything to Ethub, basically, and it is an emotional time to see it finally sunsetted here. But yeah, I mean, maybe Eric and I will do something new in the future.
00:03:42.394 - 00:04:09.858, Speaker A: Who knows? I do want to still do like a last hurrah podcast with him, a last Ethub podcast with him. Maybe we'll set that up sometime in the future. But for now, Ethub is no more. For me personally, it's just the deli Gwei right now, and obviously all the angel investing and advising I do on the side. And for Eric, I'm looking forward to what he does next in the Ethereum community. I think he's been taking a bit of a break this year, focusing on his family, but, you know, maybe he comes back next year. He's still here.
00:04:09.858 - 00:04:47.218, Speaker A: He's still pretty active on Twitter, actually, from time to time. It's always funny reading his spicy tweets. But, but yeah, just wanted to do a little bit of recap there. And maybe some of you didn't even know that I was a co founder of a thub. Well, that was my first thing before Daily Gwei, but now it's daily. So let's move on to, I think what the biggest news of the last 24 hours in the ethereum ecosystem was is that there was an all core devs call that basically agreed on the scope for Shanghai. So it's going to be staked ETH withdrawals, big EOF implementation, warm coinbase push zero limit and meter init code time based el forking and get payload V two and get load bodies by range.
00:04:47.218 - 00:05:18.430, Speaker A: So basically, I guess really only two of those things on that list. You really need to care about where. But the person who put this tweet out, Christine Kim, actually says in her second tweet, she says other than the first bullet, every other code change could be removed from Shanghai if des devs think it would significantly delay a March 2023 activation date. So I have discussed before how staked eat withdrawals are 100% coming in Shanghai like that is completely locked in. There is pretty much no chance that that's going to be removed. I've said 99% locked in. You can never be, you know, obviously 100% sure.
00:05:18.430 - 00:05:51.504, Speaker A: Then there was that eof stuff that I was talking about, all those different aips that come with that that has been tentatively included. But I think if it, if the core devs don't feel like it's in the place where it can be included by, I think the end of Jan, they said then it won't be included because they are, they are targeting a March April release for Shanghai. Here. Now you will notice that ERP 4844 isn't included. And you know, I did say that there was a low chance of it being included. And also at the, at the same time, I did say that there was a bit of drama around this. So not all core devs are aligned on this.
00:05:51.504 - 00:06:24.340, Speaker A: Some of them think that we should get 48 44 in because, you know, users are clamoring for it. We really need scalability for L2s, really need those cheaper fees. I don't disagree with that. But as I've stated before, I think right now users are not clamoring for 48 44. I haven't seen really anyone mention it because fees are cheap enough on L2 for the people that are in the ecosystem right now. I put a very low chance of a bull market happening next year. And by bull market, I actually mean like 2021 because you can technically say bull market started in 2020, but in earnest where you, and we have a lot of new users coming in, I think.
00:06:24.340 - 00:06:51.220, Speaker A: I don't foresee that happening next year. Maybe it happens late next year, but definitely not early to mid. I'm happy to be wrong on that, of course, but I just don't see it happening. Right. So that gives us more time to deploy 48 44 later in the year. And on top of that as well, if it's not ready on the technical side of things and if the core devs don't think it's ready to go in, then, yeah, simply it's not going to go in. And the ones that push back were obviously the ones that are very heavily invested in seeing 48 44 go live, which is totally fine.
00:06:51.220 - 00:07:35.278, Speaker A: Like, I get that. And they disappoint that it's not going live in Shanghai. But at this point in time, withdrawals are way more important than 48 44. People are clamoring for this and it is definitely something critical that needs to be delivered and we need to stick to our social contract in Ethereum around this where we basically said that withdrawals would be included in the first upgrade after the merge and also timing, we want to get them done ASAP. As I've said before, if 4844 was also included here, they would probably delay the kind of release of Shanghai probably by at least three months. So we would look at, be looking at it maybe a kind of June July release instead of a March April release here, which isn't too bad. But still, that is approaching, you know, almost, I guess like it's 910 months after the merge.
00:07:35.278 - 00:08:09.594, Speaker A: It is quite a long time. So we definitely want to get this out there ASAP here. And I don't have it handy, but Tim Bico did a recap thread on the core dev call as well that you can go check out. But yeah, I mean, great to see that has been agreed upon and great to see that they're sticking with withdrawals being, you know, kind of like enabled in Shanghai without going ahead with 48 44. I think that is the right call, even though it's a tough one, even though it's something that has caused your disappointment for core devs. I do think that for some core devs, I do think that it is the right call there. But, but, yeah, great to see this and I'll keep you guys posted on how all that comes along.
00:08:09.594 - 00:08:37.950, Speaker A: All right, so the protocol guilds one year pilot just passed the halfway mark. So it is six months as of today, and they put together a thread on the last six months. And what's next for the protocol guild? So basically, they've raised $9.7 million, which has been donated so far. The pilot was seeded with 8.8 million from Lido, Uniswap, ens, nouns Dow and Moloch Dow tokens. And you can see the list of tokens break down here.
00:08:37.950 - 00:09:03.968, Speaker A: Average donation of just two and a half thousand. Median $12 from three and a half thousand. Total donations distributions. $5 million has already been distributed to members. And as you guys recall, the members include 128 Ethereum core contributors, and that is up from 90 at the start. On average, each member has received $39,000, which is awesome. $39,000 right, in the first six months.
00:09:03.968 - 00:09:43.708, Speaker A: So if each, if this is like the average, obviously, I've said before that some members earn more than others. But if this is the average, it means that for the year, the average is about 80k, which is, and this is supplemental to the money that a lot of these core contributors are already making from other, other places. But that's like a really nice bonus for these core contributors. And I've said before, this is not the end state of the protocol guild. They're going to keep raising as much money as they can and paying this out to two members and onboarding more members, obviously, over time. But I think that's great for a pilot. In the first six months, giving on average, each member $39,000 is, is amazing to me, and especially for something that it's so new, and there's so many members as well.
00:09:43.708 - 00:10:25.838, Speaker A: So the most. And then they go on to say the most a single member has received is 79,000, with the, while the lowest, if there is 13,000. So, as I said, there is a, a kind of percentage that each member gets here based on their core contributions. So I would guess that the single member would be someone like Tim Bico, for example. Obviously at the, the forefront of everything, one of the, the most active people in the Ethereum core development ecosystem, along with Danny Ryan as well. So if it is him, then, I mean, 100% deserved, right? I mean, he deserves way more than that for the amount of work that he's done, an amount of work that other people like him have done as well. And the lowest, I would assume, is some casual core contributor, but still, they've gotten something for their efforts, which I think is amazing.
00:10:25.838 - 00:10:52.036, Speaker A: So basically, there's a, the thread goes on for a little bit here, which you can read I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But you guys know I'm an absolutely massive fan of the protocol guild. I've donated to it myself and I plan to send all my rock a pool odao rewards to the protocol guild, you know, once, once I start receiving them. So I'm looking forward to that as well because it's. I don't know exactly how much the rewards are. I kind of haven't looked into it too closely, but I know that they're not negligible. Right.
00:10:52.036 - 00:11:23.290, Speaker A: They've obviously paid out in RPL tokens, but I know that they will make a substantial difference to the protocol guild, substantial relative to the other things that I've donated, and I hope to continue doing that going forward. But if you are interested in donating, you literally don't have to ask anyone. There is no process to do it. You just donate to the protocol guild ethereum address, which I believe is stateful ETH because it's made by stateful works. They should have it linked here somewhere. But basically you can just donate to their ethereum address. You literally do not have to do anything else.
00:11:23.290 - 00:11:52.044, Speaker A: There's no process, there's no form, there's nothing like that. I don't think it's a tax write off, though, because it's not an officially registered charity. But that's not tax advice. But that's how it works here. I was talking to my accountant about this and saying, hey, like, I've donated, you know, I should I, should I mark this down? I mean, I don't really care either way, but obviously you want to be as truthful as possible when you file your taxes. And he's like, no, you can't because of it not being officially registered charity and blah blah. But, but yeah, definitely talk to your tax advisor about that as well.
00:11:52.044 - 00:12:15.712, Speaker A: Maybe something that you're interested in. But yeah, check out this protocol guild thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so I've been talking about this a fair bit lately, but I finally put a tweet out on, on Twitter and the reason I avoided putting a tweet out about this before was because I just couldn't be bothered with the drama and the replies. But there doesn't seem to be any drama, which I was really positive. I was really heartened by that. But anyway, what I'm talking about is the OFAC compliant blocks.
00:12:15.712 - 00:12:59.276, Speaker A: Now this is total blocks on the Ethereum network, not just MeV boosted blocks, but I've discussed before how this topped out at 80% and is now trending down, and it's currently at 65%. And this is thanks to things like flashbots open sourcing their relayer and builder infrastructure, more non censoring relays coming online, relays accepting submissions from external builders, and people using flashbots as min bit. And I've talked about all of this on the refill before, so I won't rehash it here, but I think if this trend continues and we can get below 50%, that's going to be an absolutely massive achievement. And obviously, we want to get to as close as possible to 0%. I already think it's a big achievement here, but just think about it. August 8 was the sanctions, right in. So August, September, October, November, December, 4 months, right? Yeah, it's.
00:12:59.276 - 00:13:11.742, Speaker A: It's four months. It's almost. It's a bit. Just over four months today. So four months since the sanctions happened. And the problem obviously got to this, to the point where it was at 80%. We have managed to reverse that trend with all of these things.
00:13:11.742 - 00:13:48.336, Speaker A: And none of this required any protocol level work. And I remember how I said to you guys that there are protocol level things like PBS and others, and other things like potentially the shutter eyes beacon chain, which I don't even believe is a protocol level change, and then other things that are even further beyond that, such as making the base layer private. But I remember saying that we don't actually need any of that. None of that is critical to rectifying this issue. What we needed, and the number two things that I mentioned at the time was more non censoring relayers and flashbots open sourcing this, this extra infrastructure in order to give, to. To provide a level playing field for these other relays. And both of those things have played out.
00:13:48.336 - 00:14:19.332, Speaker A: And we got even better. Things like the flashbots as min bid thing didn't actually exist until recently. Right. And then relays accepting submissions from external builders, that, that's also really positive. And I think that's due to the, the pressure from, from something like this, rather censorship concerns. So if we can get this trend down, uh, and sorry, if we can get this number down as much as possible and just keep reversing that trend, it's going to be extremely, extremely positive for the Ethereum ecosystem. And I think that it's going to send a strong signal that the Ethereum ecosystem can tackle the hardest problems that, that get thrown at it.
00:14:19.332 - 00:15:05.818, Speaker A: Because I do believe that the OFAC sanctions is the hardest problem Ethereum has ever had to face in terms of its social legitimacy, in terms of testing its credible neutrality. And obviously it, you know, the merge was a bigger undertaking for the developers to, to get delivered. But I think in, as I said, in terms of like protecting Ethereum's credible neutrality and its social standing in the space, reversing the trend here is incredibly important. So I'm super excited to see that. But you can always check out these stats for yourself at the Mevwatch dot in fo website. All right, so superfizz shared today that lower ether balance, or Leb mini pools are on the way to rocket pool potentially in February 2023. They're currently under audit, but when they're released, you'll be able to launch a mini pool with eight ETH and support 24 reth.
00:15:05.818 - 00:15:44.494, Speaker A: Check out the Rockapool discord to keep up. This is great. I've talked about this for a while on the refill before. I've said how that like the lower, the lower we can get this minimum requirement for spinning up minipools, the better. Because obviously, you know, if you don't have 16 ETH right now, you can't spin up a mini pool, but maybe you have like ten ETH. Well, with eight ETH, when this change goes in, you can spin up a mini pool and then, well, okay, what if you have ten ETH and they lower it to four ETH? That the lower the requirement to four ETH? Well, you can now spin up too many pools, right? And then you can get a lot of support for our 8th out of this as well. So this works as a way to essentially grow rocker pool better than anything else, I believe.
00:15:44.494 - 00:16:10.434, Speaker A: And getting these mini pools spun up and getting more people to stake with rocker pool rather than staking with a centralized provider. And obviously this isn't the only thing that we need to be doing here. We need to be obviously making it easier for people to spin up mini pools, which a lot of work has gone into already. I've gone on about how when sending out the mini pool myself, the documentation was absolutely perfect. Right. I just, I mean, okay, I shouldn't say perfect, nothing's perfect, but it was really, really great, right. And I really enjoyed following along with it and all that sorts of stuff there.
00:16:10.434 - 00:17:22.244, Speaker A: But yeah, just great to see that this is coming as early as February 2023, lowering the minimum from 16 ETH to eight ETH, and hopefully even lower than that in the future. All right, so Oberlabs put out a tweet thread today where they said, in order to perform aggregation duties as a distributed validator validated clients need to be able to determine together when they should aggregate. We have been working with key consensus layer stakeholders for a non intrusive, non breaking solution to this and they discuss the solution in the thread, but also the blog post here and the thread isn't, isn't kind of long here, but the solution is basically, as I describe here, currently a selection proof generated by a validator with only a subset of the private key results in incorrect determination of whether the validator should produce an aggregation. To rectify this, a validator client needs to be given a combined selection proof signed by threshold by a threshold of the cluster in order to correctly determine its aggregation duties. And basically what Oval is proposing is to add two beacon API endpoints that allow VC's to validate a clients to ask their middleware DV client for a combined selection proof by providing a partial selection proof. This step in the flow is only required when a validator client is running as part of a distributed validator. And you can learn more by reading the blog post.
00:17:22.244 - 00:18:08.584, Speaker A: So you can see the diagram here of how this would work and how this would benefit oval, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to do so. But this is really cool that I guess like they've been able to rectify this, this issue, otherwise this wouldn't work on on Mainnet, right? So great to see them doing this and working with the relevant stakeholders to get this done. But as I said, if you want to learn more about this and how it all works, you can check out the blog post and the tweet thread which I'll link in the YouTube description below. All right, something I just wanted to highlight quickly here is an staking faq that has been put together by the ETH staker and community and iridium shared this on Twitter today. So you can basically go check this out. It is very comprehensive. So if you got a bunch of questions around Ethereum staking and everything that he's involved with that you can go check out this faq which I'll link in the YouTube description below.
00:18:08.584 - 00:18:52.604, Speaker A: But yeah, just wanted to highlight that for you guys because you guys do ask me a lot of questions about a theorem staking and I know generally you have a lot of questions about them. Uh, you know, whenever something new pops up about it, especially so you can go read these faq. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. And last up here on the I guess like staking front we have something that tech who is developing right now, which they're calling sentry beacon nodes. So basically, as it exists right now, there is an attack vector for, I guess, like on validators, because you can actually see ahead of time when a validator is going to produce a block. Right? So this opens up an attack vector, which is a DoS vector. So a Dos attack on a validators beacon node can cause the validator to miss its block proposal, thereby losing the block proposal reward.
00:18:52.604 - 00:19:18.596, Speaker A: You can mitigate this by using sentry nodes, and you can read about what sentry nodes is here in their little, in the documentation here. But this issue I've talked about before on the refuel, basically there are different ways to mitigate it. Obviously you can have DOS protection on your nodes, which isn't cheap. And if it's a massive DOS attack, obviously it gets quite expensive. And even then, it may not even work to stop this from happening. And you only really have one chance, and the attacker only needs to do this until you miss your block proposal. Then they can stop.
00:19:18.596 - 00:19:59.864, Speaker A: Right? And then also there was a ssle, which, man, I'm gonna, I'm gonna mess up the, the, what it stands for here, but I believe it stands for secret single leader election or sing single secret leader election. Well, basically what it does is it makes it so that you can't actually know the block proposals ahead of time, which would obviously remedy this, but it wouldn't prevent you from getting dosed altogether. Right. It would just prevent someone from wanting to dos you because they know you're going to propose a block. Whereas what the sentry beacon nodes do is it allows you to protect you against DOS attacks, but also protect you against DOS attacks due to someone knowing that you're going to be a future block proposal. But I'll link this in the YouTube description. You can go check this out for yourself.
00:19:59.864 - 00:20:57.644, Speaker A: All right, so something I wanted to highlight out of Coinbase today, which is an announcement they made where they said switch to a trusted stable coin, USDC. Now convert USDT to USDC on coinbase with zero fees. And it's funny because it seems like the stable coin wars are really heating up now because binance has been doing this recently with their busd stablecoin, where they were offering, I believe, zero fee trading from both tether and USDC when our Coinbase is hitting back and saying, hey, you know, go convert your tether to USDC with zero fees on their platform. And the way they're doing it is quite funny because they said switch to a trusted stable coin. So I don't think Coinbase has any special insight as to what, you know, the, the, the goings on of tether itself is, but what they're doing here is they're actually playing on the fact that people don't generally trust tether. Right. So they're saying you switch to a trusted stable coin because you can actually trust USDC at least, or at least you can trust that way more than you can trust tether.
00:20:57.644 - 00:21:29.540, Speaker A: Now I'm not one of those tether truthers who thinks that tether is a massive pawn, zero massive game or anything like that, but I mean, they're much less transparent than circle is with USDC. So I personally don't hold tether. I don't really use tether. I much prefer to use dai when possible. And obviously if I have to use a centralized stable coin, I use USDC over, over tether here. I don't use busd. But I think USD is even more legit than tether because it is issued by Paxos, which is a US registered company which has constant audits on them.
00:21:29.540 - 00:21:58.066, Speaker A: And they are obviously regulated in the US as well. So you can try, like to me, you could trust BUSD and USD see more than, than tether, but tether is obviously still very popular. People believe that it's legit, has a huge market cap. It's still the biggest stable coin, I believe. But yeah, this vampire attack, so to speak, on tether. Yeah, I'm going to be interested to see how this goes. Right? Like converting your tether to USDC on Coinbase with zero fees and then obviously with the binance, with finance doing their bUSD conversion.
00:21:58.066 - 00:22:24.510, Speaker A: I'm free conversions. I'm wondering what tether's dominance is going to look like in the next six to twelve months. We're going to have to see if they remain the top dog or if their dominance gets eroded because they have two of the largest exchanges in the world. Basically trying to, I guess, get market share for their own stablecoin. All right, so a quick little blog post here from Tyco today. So there's the third community update has arrived and there's a thread about this as well. But it's a short blog post, you can go give it a read.
00:22:24.510 - 00:22:40.844, Speaker A: It's just a bunch of dot points with links to, to read about other things. But I wanted to highlight this for you guys. Just a refresher. What Tyco is building is a type one zK eVM for Ethereum here. But yeah, you can go check out this update. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, another l.
00:22:40.844 - 00:23:10.244, Speaker A: Two news. Espresso systems announced today that they have launched a cape on the Arbitrum testnet. So what is Cape? Well, Cape is a custom privacy solution and they've launched on top of arbitrary to offer low fees. And this is on the arbitram testnet, not the arbitrary mainnet right now. But by using Cape, a digital digital asset creator can define viewing policies for their assets concerning any of the following data sender and receiver addresses. The amount of an asset sent, received and held. The type of asset being sent, received and held.
00:23:10.244 - 00:24:12.384, Speaker A: So basically, I guess what Cape provides is a way to, sorry. Is a way for asset creators, or I guess like token creators, to configure the amount of privacy that they want on their assets on Ethereum and then also define policies around uh, freezing, you know, freezing policies, uh, offering asset creators like stable coin providers to the ability to retain controls of addresses to address fraud, theft and dispute resolution. So this is basically going back to that regulated uh, token standard that people were talking about uh, a few months ago or maybe a couple months ago now. And I kind of pushed back on it, saying that we shouldn't build it on the existing standards, we should build new standards that people can opt into using. And that's exactly what Cape seems to be like to me, is basically building on top of the existing standards with, with, you know, new standard, sorry, building on top of the existing standards, but also creating their own new ones that people can play around with and configure to their heart's content here. So very cool to see this. You can check out their documentation, which I'll link in the YouTube description below to get more information about this and play around with it on the arbitrum testnet.
00:24:12.384 - 00:24:58.606, Speaker A: Alright, so Ryan Wyatt here from Polygon Studios announced today that the Starbucks and Polygon journey has officially begun. Starbucks odyssey members will use their Starbucks rewards login to access the beta experience. As stamps as are collected, members points total will increase, unlocking access to unique benefits. So I've talked about this before and how Starbucks and Polygon teamed up to do this Starbucks odyssey thing here. The reason I still think it's. The reason I think it's cool is the same reason I thought it was cool when I talked about it a couple of months ago. It's bringing like the outside world into crypto, right? It's creating that bridge and something like this doesn't have to be like super decentralized or anything like that, right? I mean, doesn't have to be decentralized at all to be honest, right? I mean, it's really just a loyalty program that is built on crypto rails.
00:24:58.606 - 00:25:26.504, Speaker A: You know, to issue things like nfts and to play around with the crypto rails to do different things on there. So I think it's a really cool way to bridge the existing world into crypto. And it's in an existing large business as well. Starbucks is not some small cafe, right? Some small corner cafe. They are a massive global brand, especially, obviously, in the US. Starbucks kind of failed here in Melbourne because we have such good coffee that no one wanted to go to sleep. Starbucks, I think there's like one store in the city, one Starbucks that I've seen in the city before.
00:25:26.504 - 00:26:00.620, Speaker A: And it was kind of like not really that busy from time to time. But in the US they love Starbucks, right? Like when I went to the US, there was Starbucks everywhere. So obviously a huge brand and a huge win for Polygon to get this partnership. But yeah, you can read more information about this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so speaking of Coinbase bits, just before they have enabled eligible Coinbase customers to send them receive ETH, Dai and WP BTC on the optimism network. So just more support here for L2s on ethereum from big centralized exchanges.
00:26:00.620 - 00:26:16.344, Speaker A: I don't know what eligible Coinbase customers means. I wonder if they define that here. Is this the blog here? Yeah, so I don't think it's even. Okay, so apparently it hasn't. Hasn't stopped. Oh wait, no, this is funny. They're linking to a blog post here from June of 2022.
00:26:16.344 - 00:26:38.752, Speaker A: So have they updated this blog post about the optimism integration here? No, I'm not sure, but they basically link maybe to the wrong blog post here. But I don't know what eligible Coinbase customers means. Maybe it just means Coinbase customers in the US. I don't know. Maybe you have to have a certain amount of money or trades that on Coinbase. I don't know what the criteria is here. If you do know, be sure to tell me in the YouTube comments or on discord.
00:26:38.752 - 00:27:18.978, Speaker A: But again, just great to see these centralized exchanges supporting the l two s. And I think at this point, I mean, like support the l two s or die, basically. Like it's the l two s are going to be bigger than ethereum l one. They're going to have much more activity on them. So the centralized exchanges really need to integrate them and it seems like they are doing it, which I really love to see all right, so Slingshot announced yesterday that the wait is over. Slingshot Wallet open beta is now live and available to everyone on the Google Play App Store. So if you have an Android device and you don't need to opt in to use a Slingshot wallet anymore, you can go to the Google Play App Store, search Slingshot wallet on there, and enter into the open beta yourself.
00:27:18.978 - 00:27:41.434, Speaker A: So for those of you have used Slingshot wallet already, and I have, I guess, been part of the beta and opted into it. You know how sleek it is? Like, I've been playing around with it. It's very, very sleek. I actually really love it. It's a really cool wallet, and it obviously hooks into the Slingshot exchange for a really good trading experience as well. And I should basically disclaim here that I am an investor in Slingshot. So I'm not just showing them because I'm an investor.
00:27:41.434 - 00:28:12.472, Speaker A: It's genuinely a good product, and I genuinely think you guys should check it out. So definitely do. So if you have an Android device here, you can go on the Google Play store. All right, so to end today's episode and heading into the weekend, a bit of a bullish rant. Haven't done one of these in a little while, but I said, I put a tweet out today where I said if ethereum was still on proof of work, net new issuance of ETH since the merge would have been around 1 million ETH. So we finally hit that 1 million mark there. Instead, net new ETH issuance is just 2600 ethanol, a 99.75%
00:28:12.472 - 00:28:43.044, Speaker A: reduction. This is ultrasound money. And then I continued and said, obviously the price of ETH has done nothing good since the merge, though if we had issued that 1 million ETH to miners, actually more, if you don't count the burn, I think the price of ETH would easily be at new lows. You know, being below dollar 880 here, when demand comes back, I expect ETH to benefit greatly. None of this is new. I've talked about this a lot on the refill before, but I think I just wanted to point out the fact is, is that I did say that the price of ETH has done nothing good since the merge. That's not entirely accurate.
00:28:43.044 - 00:29:11.638, Speaker A: It's done nothing good against USD, obviously, but that's on the upside. On the downside, the reduction in issuance has protected ETH from going much lower than, you know, than it otherwise has. Right. And I truly do believe that there is no way in hell that that 1 million ETH that went to miners, right. Wouldn't of like, wouldn't have been sold. Maybe, maybe some of it wouldn't be sold, but a lot of it would have been sold because miners on the bitcoin side were capitulating. I believe that's a strong reason why bitcoin actually went to new lows and ETH didn't.
00:29:11.638 - 00:29:35.752, Speaker A: Um, but it would be right there with them, if not lower. And the ETH BTC ratio would be much more destroyed. Um, um, if it wasn't for that. And also the ETH price has, since the, the merge against ETH, BTSC has been really steady, right. And it's actually gone up. So I think comparing it to USD on the upside is the wrong comparison because we're in a bear market. Comparing it to USD on the downside and also against other assets like BTC is the right comparison here.
00:29:35.752 - 00:30:07.598, Speaker A: And if you compare it like that, the issue introduction has definitely done its job. And you know, it only takes a little bit of burn to burn these 2600 ETH and then we're back to 100% reduction and then even more when we go net negative. So yeah, just a little mini bullish rant for today, but on that I'm going to end there. But also just a reminder that there is an AMA happening tomorrow. As I said, I'm going to just record the episode and put it on YouTube. So expect an AMA recording from me tomorrow on YouTube and also on the, on, on the podcast as well. But don't forget to get your questions in.
00:30:07.598 - 00:30:28.582, Speaker A: You have from when the refuel goes live, you have maybe like twelve to 16 hours depending on when I record it. Go into the Discord channel, go into the AMA series channel in there, ask the question, I'll get it answered for you. But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all next week.
00:30:28.582 - 00:30:28.934, Speaker A: Thanks everyone.
