00:00:01.760 - 00:01:02.470, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Assuming that you guys are getting pretty tired of watching presentations, I'm going to try to keep this lighthearted and fun. So my talk is going to be about what's happening with bitcoin. Really? And is anything happening with bitcoin for real? And is bitcoin going modular, and why would it be going modular? And what's the deal with Opcat? Is it even happening? So, quick intro about me I am Eric Wahl. I am the a co founder of Taproot Wizards. We are accused of running the largest spam attack on bitcoin in its history. And this is going to be an apolitical and unopinionated talk.
00:01:02.470 - 00:01:41.036, Speaker A: Except it's not, because there are no apolitical and unopinionated talks in bitcoin either. If someone thinks that they're doing that, they're either brainwashed or they're lying to you. Everything is very political in bitcoin. And on that note, if we had opcat, this is what the world would look like. This is a completely unopinionated opinion. Some might say that this looks awesome, this looks fine, but there's too much Mev going on in that image, so we don't want that. And now you're fully caught up to the current discourse in bitcoin.
00:01:41.036 - 00:02:15.824, Speaker A: That's what we're discussing right now. So some recent history about is anything happening on bitcoin? Well, you all know, probably. Ordinals, of course, caused economic demand for the chain in a new way. Some call it spam, others call it innovation. But clearly, there's something that's happening on bitcoin. Like this is the mempool since 2017. You can see this mountain here, that's a lot of people trying to get their transactions into the bitcoin blockchain.
00:02:15.824 - 00:02:44.860, Speaker A: So something. It looks like something's happening on bitcoin. And if you look at this chart, this is the fullness of blocks. And you can see that right here. About 18 months ago, the blocks just got very, very full for some reason. And bitcoin blocks being full causes these kinds of things to happen in the mempool. $25 to make a transaction.
00:02:44.860 - 00:03:28.804, Speaker A: And this led to some pretty interesting results that some bitcoiners weren't aware about, that if you have a lightning channel that's open, it might automatically force close once you reach a current fee level. So you had people lightning channels turning off, and then they were too expensive to turn back on again. And it would cost more money to. If you received a small payment, it would cost more money to settle that on chain than what you got in the payment. So small payments suddenly didn't work on lightning anymore, and it led to a bunch of people. This is from Ben de Carman, who's the developer of Mutiny Wallet, which is a popular lightning wallet, saying, basically, we got to rethink lightning. What is this system actually supposed to.
00:03:28.804 - 00:04:06.870, Speaker A: Who is it supposed to serve? And this is from Shinobi in Bitcoin magazine, saying that lightning is not going to be a protocol that's going to work retail to retail, but it might be a good for something else. And this is not bad news for Lightning. This was how it's always going to be. So they're sort of changing the narrative of what the purpose of lightning was. And you have John Carvalho, also a lightning builder, saying that the design of lightning is kind of a joke after being, like, a large advocate of lightning for many years. So that was one good thing that sort of came out of the spam attack of bitcoin. And we also achieved some other things.
00:04:06.870 - 00:04:52.870, Speaker A: We finally beat Medicare. Sorry, we finally beat Ethereum in a daily transaction phase. And who would win? You got all your 200 roll ups. You got LST, dapps, Mev, and we got a dick butt that we put on our chain. And somehow, you know, we're able to compete with Ethereum in fee revenue. So I don't know what you guys are up to, but you can't do a lot like a dick, but can get you very far, but not to. So to sort of humble that statement a little bit.
00:04:52.870 - 00:05:40.474, Speaker A: So these fee spikes in bitcoin have been kind of irregular and spiky. You see, the yellow part here is the ratio of bitcoin rewards that are comprised of fee revenue versus the regular block subsidy. So, yeah, it has increased, but mostly in, like, these spikes. And, yeah, we're higher now, but in Ethereum, you're around, like, 20% of the blocks are from fee. Like, 20% of the revenue from blocks are from fee revenue in Ethereum. And we're not quite there yet in bitcoin, but we've made some improvements. And so, yeah, man, is something happening on bitcoin? I think we can conclusively answer that question that, yes, there is something that's happening on bitcoin, and now we're going to talk about what's happening in bitcoin.
00:05:40.474 - 00:06:49.044, Speaker A: And this is not going to be news to anyone, but what basically happened this right here is the 28 June where I made an observation that bitcoinda at that time was ten times cheaper than Ethereum call data. So that's interesting for people. So if you want to build a sovereign roll up, okay, you're gonna get ten times cheaper DA on bitcoin. And bitcoin DA is also, it's a premium commodity in the sense that we constrain our blockchain to only grow by 200gb per year, which means that you're going to be able to store a full bitcoin node with a full history on your own computer. And a bunch of other people are also going to do that. So there will be a bunch of default clients storing the entirety of the blockchain, not pruning their history because we constrain it so that it's so small that people can run it with the default non pruning settings. So like two days after I made this observation, the bitcoin blockchain has been completely full ever since.
00:06:49.044 - 00:07:35.538, Speaker A: And we also played around with this. We put a taproot wizard JPeg around here, and then the chain has been full of spam ever since, basically. And we didn't think about it like we're spamming the chain and we thought about it like Ethereum. People are always complaining about you're going to run out of fee revenue for your chain and the housings keep coming and you're not going to be able to have enough fee revenue to have a security budget for bitcoin. So we kind of thought about it like, we're trying to save, like the security problem of the security budget of bitcoin. We're not like trying to attack. I thought this was the big issue with bitcoin, that we don't have enough anyway, people thought it was an attack.
00:07:35.538 - 00:08:02.462, Speaker A: I still think that we're saving bitcoin. So let's talk a little more about what is actually happening on bitcoin. So it hasn't been all like jpegs. Yes, a lot of people created these meta token protocols. Everyone wants fungible tokens that they can trade on bitcoin. And so BRC 20 tokens did play a large role. But the red part here is images.
00:08:02.462 - 00:08:44.150, Speaker A: In May this year, we still had 50% with still images. So it's a mishmash of things that people are using the bitcoin da for. We kind of dropped off like this is here in May where ordinals died again. But that is actually because there's another protocol called runes, which doesn't use inscriptions anymore. But you can see that like almost 50% of the fee revenue in bitcoin is coming from this protocol. It's called runes. And sort of the trend of using bitcoin in more interesting ways is taking different forms, but still there.
00:08:44.150 - 00:09:31.850, Speaker A: And yeah, I think right now, like, in nominal terms, bitcoin produces maybe like a third or a fourth of ethereum revenue. So, like, in nominal terms, we're not producing tons of revenue, but still way up from where we used to be. Let's see. Did my clicker stop working? Okay, so what caused it? Super briefly, so some people think Taproot caused this, but Taproot was like a small incremental change that just made it slightly more easy to pack data into the arbitrary blob space. Sorry, the arbitrary data space of bitcoins. It wasn't really like Taproot changed the game dramatically. It was a small thing that happened with Taproot.
00:09:31.850 - 00:11:01.050, Speaker A: More than that, it was like a social event where DJ's and creatives decided that we can, we can use this common protocol and make things and make nfts and trade them. But even more than that, I think it's people like Udi Wertheimer and Leonidas are just tweeting about this stuff nonstop, making people pay attention to this. But even more than that, it's just the fact that this made bitcoin maximalist, so angry that we're using bitcoin in this way. So that was really the thing that made this very popular, because there's a bunch of people that are bitcoiners, and then there's this small clique of bitcoin maxis that are very angry and they're very opinionated, and you just can't resist putting a dick butt there and making them get very angry. So we're going to go into a small segue. What is bitcoin actually for? What do people actually want to use bitcoin for? You might think it's like stacking SATs, holding, using lightning, or like buying things on the dark web, transferring stable coins, smart contracts, stored JPEG, dickbuts, privacy, human rights, Michael Saylor number go up sim called in reality, it's all of these people want to do all of these things with bitcoin. And here's the little secret.
00:11:01.050 - 00:11:50.028, Speaker A: So we want to be able to do all those things on bitcoin, but we have technical constraints. Like our main priority is to make sure that the chain is decentralized and censorship resistant. So the extent to which we can do all those other things I mentioned are defined by our technical constraints. And the technical constraints informs the social dogma. The social dogma then informs the technical constraints, unfortunately, sometimes. So, like, when you see a group of people in bitcoin and you're like, okay, those guys are the bitcoiners. And you see them, like, eating steak and sunning their balls and complaining about the ETF and Ethereum, it's not that those are like, it's filtered by the things that you can do and you can't do with bitcoin.
00:11:50.028 - 00:12:41.662, Speaker A: So if the only thing that you can do is, like, signing your balls and eating steak on bitcoin, if that's the only thing, those are the bitcoiners that you're going to see. So, yeah, so if you can't do smart contracts on bitcoin, the narrative will be that smart contracts are not good. But if you could do smart contracts on bitcoin, then the narrative would be that ethereum is going to be displaced by bitcoin. So it changes. And just to give some example of that. So Taproot, for example, the latest software upgrade in bitcoin, it was a multi signature improvement and made scripts larger, essentially. But the narrative in the bitcoin space kind of became that we're going to be able to do infinite, complex, smart contracts on bitcoin, and people will say these things like the things that we're going to do with tap, which is going to blow your mind.
00:12:41.662 - 00:13:19.180, Speaker A: So all of a sudden, because it's possible now on bitcoin in a decentralized, censorship, persistent way, now the narrative is that smart contracts are awesome, except that what happened in reality was that there was Taproot didn't do anything. These things at all. And this is the adoption rate of taproot during the first year. And then something happened. Can you guess what happened over here? In early 2023? That's when we started to put dick butts on the chain in the form of taproot transactions. Anyway, so Taproot did blow people's minds, just maybe not in the. In the way that they wanted to anyway.
00:13:19.180 - 00:14:39.586, Speaker A: So alongside this, with increased interest in bitcoin and higher fees and lightning obviously failing, there's been demand for new L2 protocols. In May 2023, something called Ark was announced and Arc, Washington, a way to basically do lightning, but without the annoyance of lightning channels. And if your mental model is that bitcoiners only want to stack sets and they want to use lightning, then why are some people so excited about this new Lightning protocol? I thought lightning was great. I thought that was the thing that you want to use. So it shows that people are not really satisfied with the current state of lightning. And then in October, you had bit VM, and Robin Linus drops this banger of a white paper which basically says, the tagline is compute anything on bitcoin. And I haven't seen since maybe the launch of the Lightning network itself, the amount of interest among bitcoiners, like actual bitcoiners, that really thought that this was great and something that we should do on bitcoin that goes back to what I said, like, the technical constraints informs the social dogma.
00:14:39.586 - 00:15:12.240, Speaker A: So if the technical constraints changes, so does the social dogma. Right? So. And we've had more protocols. Like, this is a bitcoin native roll up thing that the same inventor of Ark has made that's also, like, people like those things. And it's like it's constrained by what you can build that sort of informs what people like on bitcoin. So you shouldn't think that, you know, bitcoiners only want to do this one particular thing that you. That you've seen them do on their podcasts.
00:15:12.240 - 00:15:49.398, Speaker A: Let's see. Yeah, so people sometimes talk about these bitvm arc roll up protocols. We usually talk about like a one out of n honesty assumption that these protocols have in some way. And most people think that that is fine, because when you look at arbitrum, they have whitelisted verifiers, sort of similar. Right. But there is a. There are more problems with these protocols that we're trying to build on bitcoin now without making any changes.
00:15:49.398 - 00:16:28.294, Speaker A: And this is when Opcat comes into the picture. Let's see, I have three minutes left. Let's see if I can finish this. So how Opcat really came to the picture is like, Opcat is a soft fork upgrade to bitcoin. It introduces a new opcode that allows you to concatenate elements on the stack. Sounds very, very, very primitive and simple, but you can do pretty interesting things with just that small, new added functionality to bitcoin. So interestingly enough, like Robin Linus, the inventor of BitVM, mentions that you can use Opcat to make BitVM 100 x more efficient.
00:16:28.294 - 00:17:39.584, Speaker A: And I think that has to do with the ability to do merkle root verification in BitVM. So if we had OpCAT, then maybe these protocols would start to become more practical. And Burak, the inventor of Arc, also saying, like, he's really looking forward to something like Opcat because, you know, you could. Then you could, with Arc, have instant finality and double spend prevention, and you could turn it from interactive protocol to a non interactive protocol. So these L two designers, they're really are seeing the point of using something like Opcat to sort of fix their protocols. But there is a more fundamental issue that's rarely talked about this is, I don't know how to describe what I'm trying to depict here, but so what is very rarely talked about about these protocols like Arc and BitVM is that they require like a liquidity hand crank to make the protocol work at all. So in BiTVM, the bridge operator has to, like, when you make a withdrawal from a bit VM bridge, the bridge operator has to front everyone with the money for the withdrawals that they're withdrawn, and then he can reimburse himself.
00:17:39.584 - 00:18:17.726, Speaker A: So he needs like a bunch of cash on hand and sort of spin this liquidity hand crank to make the system work. The same thing was with Ark. Ark didn't remove the lightning channels. It just said that there's going to be a third party called the operator who's going to make channels for everyone, and he's going to be responsible for maintaining all that liquidity. So you can build a bunch of things on bitcoin today, but you can't really get away from. This has to do with the only thing that you can do when you're trying to build these protocols. You have to use something called pre signed bitcoin transactions.
00:18:17.726 - 00:19:02.526, Speaker A: And those protocols can't really define when you construct them. They have to define where can these funds go. So you can't really enter a contract and be a new user and make a withdrawal to you. So they're fundamentally limited in their design. Luckily, upgrading bitcoin has been on the agenda for quite some time. This is from Roseby, from lightning Labs. Like an unofficial roadmap thing that has been talked about among a bunch of people is that we want to get generic covenants into bitcoin, and generic covenants, the way that you can think about them is that if you have a Utxo in bitcoin, you have the input side.
00:19:02.526 - 00:19:53.308, Speaker A: These are the inputs that you're trying to spend, and then from that you are trying to make new unspent transaction outputs from that. And we know how to on the input side, like satisfy the requirements for those inputs. Like, yeah, we can prove that I own those funds by demonstrating a signature or a pre image of a hash lock. But covenants allow you to restrict what happens on the output side. So we can say this output that comes out of this transaction needs to look in a particular way so that you can move bitcoin Utxo, essentially from one state to another, sort of like a state machine fashion. And you can create these sort of mini computers inside of bitcoin and you can start to create something that actually looks like the traditional withdrawal games that you have in an optimistic roll up or other. L two designs like plasma on bitcoin today.
00:19:53.308 - 00:20:19.252, Speaker A: If you had that covenant, primitive. So if you want to understand what Opcat is, take a picture of this real quick. This is the best website. Just like understand what is opcat? There's also a song by Jonathan Mann. If you haven't listened to this song, I highly recommend that you do. And another interesting thing about Opcat is Opcat is already in the code of bitcoin. It used to be in bitcoin.
00:20:19.252 - 00:20:55.480, Speaker A: It was designed by Satoshi himself. He just deactivated it. Let's see, how long? 14 years ago. So we're nothing trying to come up with some new crazy thing. We're just trying to activate a previously deactivated opcode that already exists in the code base today. So we, our company, we created like, in order to get people to draw, to draw attention to this opcode, we created an NFT collection that sort of evolves with time. As we get closer to Opcat activation, more layers and traits will be concatenated as layers.
00:20:55.480 - 00:21:32.146, Speaker A: On top of these cats sort of pay homage to, like, how Opcat works. And if you're interested in like, the process and the progress of Opcat, there's the link here. I'm gonna show it later how far along we are in the stage of Opcat activation. And if you've ever used memplace, all bitcoiners know about this. Opcat is already activated on Cygnet now. So you can like, make transactions, you can start playing around with it, and it will be visible in this well known block explorer that everyone uses. So people are already using it on sign.
00:21:32.146 - 00:21:59.490, Speaker A: It's already activated there. And why we want to do that is we want to get away from this liquidity, hand cracking thing. That's the thing that we don't want to have. We want to be able to build things where if I have funds in a bridge, I can withdraw those funds to me. I don't want an operator to have to send me funds and then he refunds himself and it creates this sort of liquidity inefficiency. We have a white paper, sorry, a children's book. Yeah.
00:21:59.490 - 00:22:30.656, Speaker A: So we have a children's book. If you go to catsvm.org, comma, you can read about how you take the cat op code and build something that looks more like an optimistic roll up without, like, liquidity hand cranks. And so, so far, it's going really well. Right now, Opcat is like the front runner softwork for bitcoin. And it's not like I don't want to take the credit for, like, our company or our effort. What we basically analyzed was that Opcat has broad support from the bitcoin ecosystem.
00:22:30.656 - 00:23:11.810, Speaker A: This is Blockstream. Blockstream was largely the company that was involved in the previous softworks of bitcoin. They are also fans of Opcat. They only have good things to say about it, how simple it is, and, like, the extra functionality it provides to bitcoin, even in, like, custody situations. So the effort to activate Opcat, I like this. Eight months ago, Opcat was like a fringe proposal, but now it's gaining broad support. And if you were at the most recent bitcoin centric developer conference in Austin, the consensus among the developers there was basically that we want OpcaT.
00:23:11.810 - 00:23:56.416, Speaker A: So we already have a developer consensus that Opcat is going to get activated. Of course, there are more constituents in bitcoin than just the developers, but we're on very good track to actually getting this activated. If you want to follow along to how this is going, there's a website link here beneath that I recommend you to check out. And I'm way over time. So let's see. Yeah. If you are interested, like if you're in Ethereum or in the celestial space or any other space and you want to, you're thinking that maybe I can, you know, use this thing called Opcat and I can maybe create optimistic roll ups or plasmas or other designs.
00:23:56.416 - 00:24:32.290, Speaker A: There's a. The competition in that space right now, it's extremely low, and we're talking about a trillion dollar asset, right? Bitcoin. Building on bitcoin. And you can be like, the competition is so low, even if you're just a mediocre senior architect building roll up plasma type designs, you can be a superstar in the Opcat world in bitcoin right now. So if you're interested in that, this is my handle on both telegram and on Twitter. Hit me up if you're interested in hacking on bitcoin. And I think I'm way over time.
00:24:32.290 - 00:24:33.690, Speaker A: So thank you guys very much.
