00:00:00.200 - 00:00:25.994, Speaker A: Imagine if we had like 50 to 100 million in liquidity. It's very easy for us to begin for exchanges that are coming in to want to tap into that and actually use that to build up the liquidity on their pairs. And so that is something. And then users will be able to just accrue these rewards from these different exchanges. It'll be like a native yield bearing product, collateralized one for one with Ethereum, that you could just redeem out at any time. For ETH.
00:00:28.334 - 00:01:17.090, Speaker B: We'Ve teamed up with the Wormhole foundation, viewers of the wormhole protocol, the leading interoperability platform, empowering cross chain transfers for 200 multi chain teams. Payment unique wormhole NFT does for zero x research listeners today. Pair is an innovative pair trading exchange built on top of Simeo. Users can trade trending narratives with one click from blue chip narratives such as long BTC, short ETH right through the whiff versus bonk the hat stays on. Simio's intent centric architecture enables deep liquidity, source off chain and broad on chain, and combined with pear, has democratized access to complex trading strategies typically reserved for institutional traders. Before we get into today's episode, just a quick disclaimer. The views expressed on this podcast by either myself or any guests are their personal views and do not represent the views of any associated organization.
00:01:17.090 - 00:01:24.602, Speaker B: Nothing in this episode should be construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. All right, let's jump into the episode.
00:01:24.738 - 00:01:54.534, Speaker C: What's up, everyone? Welcome back to another episode of Zero X Research. We have an awesome episode lined up today with Philip, the founder of Elixir, which is a project aiming to democratize access to LP's who wish to provide liquidity to on chain order books. Today is Wednesday, March 20, so I think this episode will be airing next week. But as a reminder, you can use code Zero xresearch ten at app dot blockworksresearch.com for 10% off your annual subscription. Philip, thank you so much for coming on. How are you today?
00:01:54.834 - 00:01:56.934, Speaker A: I'm doing great. Thank you for having me.
00:01:57.314 - 00:02:07.566, Speaker C: Yeah, yeah, of course. We're excited to dive into this one. Can you actually start by explaining to the audience who maybe isn't familiar with elixir, exactly what it is and the problem it's aiming to solve?
00:02:07.750 - 00:03:18.968, Speaker A: For sure? So elixir is a modular dpos network built to power order book liquidity, and so essentially allowing for anyone to supply liquidity to order books. And so to date, if you are a token project or an exchange, you've had to go through four or five large market makers for liquidity on your pairs, right? And so if you're any sort of order book, you struggle from this inherent problem where it is much more difficult to get liquidity versus something like an amm, right? So obviously, you look at some of the biggest amms, and they have a huge amount of liquidity locked. Pancakeswap has, I think, over 2 billion in liquidity. Uniswap has multiple billions of dollars in liquidity as well. But you look at the largest order book based exchanges, and they have fractions of that DyDX at any given point in time, they have only 40 to 50 million in open orders on their books, right? And they're doing, I mean, two to four plus billion dollars a day in trade volume. And that, I mean, obviously depends on the day. And so order books have this, like, inherent problem where it is very difficult to bootstrap liquidity, and there is no way to trustlessly bootstrap that liquidity until elixir.
00:03:18.968 - 00:04:05.724, Speaker A: So when supplying liquidity through one of these native integrations, our protocol will algorithmically build and deploy that liquidity on the order books in a delta neutral fashion, building up the order books, tightening up the bid ask spread and deepen the liquidity on those pairs. We have over 30 exchanges that are building out their own trustless features, like native features in their exchange powered by elixir. And so currently we power roughly, I think we power 60% of the order book liquidity on bluefin. We power 40% of the order book liquidity on Rabbit X. I think roughly 30 or 40% of the order book liquidity on vertex. We're going live with hyper liquid Dydx, apex, a bunch of these other orderly Wu fi, a bunch of these other exchanges in the coming weeks. And so, yeah, that's the super high level for what we're building.
00:04:05.724 - 00:04:26.034, Speaker A: Everything is fully trustless, non custodial. And so, yeah, we have our own dpos protocol, comes to consensus once a second. And, yeah, essentially allowing for anyone to actually supply liquidity directly to these order books and for exchanges to launch their own products to power, like trustless liquidity on their exchange.
00:04:27.654 - 00:04:53.484, Speaker B: Gotcha. That's super interesting. And I think one interesting point of your architecture is that you guys are a blockchain yourself. And I think if you had to ask me to conceive the idea of sort of like this order book liquidity protocol, I might not have gone through the idea of having it on standalone blockchain. So why go off with an independent blockchain secured by a validator set, as opposed to perhaps like a different architecture.
00:04:53.824 - 00:05:37.420, Speaker A: Yeah. So the first thing that's important to note is that you need something that's inherently active, right? So if you look across a lot of the layer ones, they all kind of have the similar. A very similar kind of process, right? You deploy a smart contract on the actual blockchain, then you interact. A user will come in and they'll interact with that, that smart contract on the blockchain. And then there's like a series of transactions that are made, and then that user gets their funds out. But there's no, the actual chain itself is just storing the latest state of that chain. And so this is something that is different, and it is a different use case where the actual order book data that you're getting is changing every second.
00:05:37.420 - 00:06:33.884, Speaker A: And if you're powering 30 plus order book exchanges, each of which have like 100 plus pairs, you're pulling in a ton of order book liquidity. And you need to compute actively updates based on all of this changing data. So it's inherently just, it's not something that can be done well with any sort of smart contract, right? That's not something that a smart contract can ingest that amount of data. You can't build things like a trustless liquidation engine on a smart contract, right? So it's something that you introduce Mev, you need something that is purpose built for this use case. And so that is why we decided we actually looked at all of the available options. Even if you were to build your own cosmosm chain, there are a bunch of issues with that as well, where if we were to build off of that, number one, there's issues around the actual data that we're ingesting. It is just a huge amount of data.
00:06:33.884 - 00:07:21.054, Speaker A: And so we obviously want to be able to take in that data. We have a set of validators that, that come to consensus once a second on a snapshot of that data frame, and then send those off to the exchanges through essentially using this relay infrastructure, which is decentralized NPC infrastructure. And it allows for us to sign orders without ever actually having the keys ourselves to the actual funds. So the full process is non custodial. So this was purpose built for that use case. There's nothing that exists today that is actually able to do that. And then you have to actually have, when you're interacting with these APIs, with these exchanges, they're either in crypto feeds or CCXT.
00:07:21.054 - 00:08:07.496, Speaker A: And if you're trying to do that in a language that is not python, it is extremely difficult. And so we needed to essentially build something that could compile Python and these different algorithms so that you're actually able to do something that is like composable within, across all of the different exchanges. So that's like the super high level. I'm happy to dive more into the details, but our protocol is processing a huge amount of data, coming to consensus once a second. That is not something that traditional blockchains to date are able to do. And then we have our fraud proofs posted to Ethereum mainnet. So there is still, we do still, it's very similar, kind of the arbitrum's consensus mechanism.
00:08:07.496 - 00:08:22.604, Speaker A: So in that kind of regard, where they settle to Ethereum, we do the same. So you can almost think of it as a purpose built L2. But, yeah, that's the super high level on the design decisions there.
00:08:23.664 - 00:09:00.864, Speaker B: Yeah, there's definitely a lot of moving parts that you just mentioned. I just threw the protocol architecture on the screen here and I would love to dive into it a bit more. So, for example, if elixir decided to integrate with, say, vertex, everything set up, you guys are now online. Would you mind walking us through like step by step, what actually happens from say, like viewing the order book of Vertex, how like the order creation is done, how the validators comes consensus and orders, how those orders are posted to like, the back to the pubdex and the entire process, and sort of like the entities or like the different stakeholders involved.
00:09:01.244 - 00:09:46.642, Speaker A: Perfect. So, yeah, I'm happy to. So the first thing that I'll run through, there's the on chain flow, right, for end users, which I'll start there, which doesn't touch as much on this, which is the actual back end, what is happening. And then there's the backend process flow, right? So in the front end, what a user sees in the front end of the exchange, they'll see a, you know, they'll see their buy button, sell button like they can right now, then they'll see a supply button, and then they'll be able to one click supply liquidity to that pair the same way that they could supply liquidity to a uniswap pair and earn a share of these incentives. So they press supply. What actually happens is their funds on the back end go to a smart contract that lives on that chain. So in Vertex's case, it's arbitrum that then custodies the assets.
00:09:46.642 - 00:10:51.740, Speaker A: Our protocol then uses the funds held in that smart contract and issues signatures based on the funds held there. So we don't actually ever have access to those funds, but we're able to trade on behalf of the funds held in that smart contract. Similar to like a vault or something like that. When a user presses withdraw, the funds go back into their actual main account from that smart contract. During that time, they have a composable LP token that they can use, right? So there are people that are building on top of elixir unique use cases such as leverage, for example, on vertex, you can make, I think it's 15% to 20% APR right now on USDT to USDC spot. It's something that they incentivize through their long term liquidity provider incentive program that to date has only been earned by a few firms, but now can be earned by anyone. So now people are like, okay, you know what? If they're a little bit more far out on the risk curve, they could say, look, I'm willing to bet that USDC does not go to $0.50
00:10:51.740 - 00:11:38.032, Speaker A: or $0.80 or whatever that is. They can lever that up and earn 50% or 60% APR, right? So there's things that are built there using these LP tokens, so they have, that they can claim their accrued rewards within the interface when they deposit funds go back to their smart contract. So funds never actually move onto the elixir network. And so that is something that is important to know. So actually, what happens on the back end to get into your, like the meat, the meat of the question that you were asking is that essentially what happens at a very high level, following this chart that is up here, what you do is our protocol pulls the exchanges, all the exchange feeds from these actual exchanges. They then take a snapshot of that.
00:11:38.032 - 00:12:06.564, Speaker A: Our validators all come to consensus based on those orders and the state of the order books. Then essentially we run our algorithm. So we have one algorithm that we use across all of these different pairs. It's essentially the Uniswap v two. X times y is equal to k curve equivalent for order books. So you have a very close, very similar risk return profile to supplying liquidity on a uniswap pool. It's like near identical, and that is by design.
00:12:06.564 - 00:12:43.180, Speaker A: The goal here is to be trustless infrastructure that exchanges can lean on to bootstrap liquidity to their order books, not like some proprietary thing where we're hedging to finance. So everything is prepared per exchange. Our validators come to consensus, they send that off to the relay infrastructure. The relay infrastructure does a check to make sure that 66.67% of the validators have signed on that order. Then if so, it signs the order proposal with the signatures, and then that gets sent off to the exchanges. So that whole process happens once a second.
00:12:43.180 - 00:13:19.798, Speaker A: If there is a, I guess an example, say that. So we currently have roughly 14,000 validators that are participating in consensus. Of those, a top subset will actually participate in consensus at any given time. Say that it's 100. What would happen is if one of those 100 says something different, what would happen is they would immediately get jailed and they would fall out of the validator set. One of the other 14,000 would get subbed in to fill their place. So there's no downtime that's there.
00:13:19.798 - 00:14:14.594, Speaker A: And then there would be an on chain fraud proof that is posted by an auditor node, which is the right side of this diagram, which is a kind of our dispute resolution. What that would do is it would feed the data frame, which you can see that line going across from the data aggregators. It would take that data frame corresponding to that block, it would feed the validator result and put it into the controller, which essentially does an on chain check against provable to see if that result was actually malicious. If so, it slashes that validator. So, yeah, that's the super high level, the actual. Yeah, a lot of these pieces only need one on honest participant, right. So you only need for like an auditor, for example, you could have 10,000, you know, whatever, 10,000 malicious auditors, if you have one that is honest, right.
00:14:14.594 - 00:14:37.866, Speaker A: It will submit a cryptographic proof that will actually slash that validator and reward that auditor. So you could submit fake cryptographic signatures all day long. Right. It doesn't, you know, it's not going to, it's not going to compile correctly. Right. So you just need one honest auditor to actually hold that system together. And then the validators, obviously, there's an assumption of security there as well.
00:14:37.866 - 00:14:55.574, Speaker A: So that's the super high level. Happy to dive in on specific questions, but that's the basic flow of. So that right side of the diagram only comes into account when a validator has acted maliciously within that top set.
00:14:57.214 - 00:15:24.782, Speaker C: Okay. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense, and that's very helpful. There is one question that popped into my mind while you're explaining that, and it came down to the kind of using the uni v two market making algorithm. Why use univ two over a concentrated liquidity type deal? I would assume that may be able to provide tighter spreads on certain order book exchanges. But maybe that's not the case. Can you dive into why using x or Y equals x times k or.
00:15:24.878 - 00:15:50.642, Speaker A: Yeah, that's the right. Yeah, I believe that's right. Yeah. X times y is equal to k. So we don't actually use that curve specifically. That curve was actually created as a equivalent for stoichioff. So essentially similar to how you can think of x times Y is equal to k curves as like the standard for AmM, there is kind of the standard in market making, which is Avelonida and Stoykov.
00:15:50.642 - 00:16:56.676, Speaker A: So back in 2008, there was this research paper that was posted by Marco Avellaneda and Sasha Stoykov. Stasia Stuikov is actually an advisor, but essentially what it does is essentially says it's, I mean, if you were to take like a very, very basic market maker, right, they take a certain fixed price away from mid, right, and then they update their orders, right. They place a buy order below, sell order above, and they update once a second. Obviously, what happens is that you begin picking up huge amounts of inventory in one way when the market starts moving in one way. And so all of this algorithm does, it is essentially it takes into account the market maker's books. So if you take a bid, you take a fill on the buy side, what happens is the buy side, when they replace orders, the sell is a little bit closer to mid, and the buy is a little bit farther down the order book. And so that continues to happen until the books, like the sell is right at the mid price and the bid is all the way down the order book.
00:16:56.676 - 00:17:31.219, Speaker A: And so we use that to actually build up the order books. And so we don't just do it with one order, we do it with like five or six on each side and actually build up that order book. But the goal is for individual retail LP's to be able to supply liquidity to a pair and have the same risk return profile as a uniswap v two lp. So we don't actually use that same algorithm. We use something that is very simple. The way that it works. We do place orders quite close to the bid ask spread to the, sorry, top of book.
00:17:31.219 - 00:18:06.904, Speaker A: So I think we have, for example, on vertex, bTC and ETH, I think we're quoting 15 to 20 bps spread, which is pretty tight. So we're quite competitive. That being said, our goal is not always to be top of book. We have a 1 second consensus time, and because of that we have a 1 second latency. And for every additional second of latency, you have to widen out your spreads accordingly. Because time is information and information is time, the more latency that you add, you have to quote wider. Our goal is never to compete with a winner.
00:18:06.904 - 00:18:27.468, Speaker A: Mute. Or like these other big names that are like running with fractions of a second of, you know, in order, whatever. They're updating fractions of a second. They've studied state of the art algorithms and they're arbing to binance. That's not what we're trying to do. Right. We want to be trustless infrastructure that exchanges and protocols can lean on to bootstrap liquidity to their order books.
00:18:27.468 - 00:18:59.906, Speaker A: Right? And that doesn't exist today. And so that's why we made it as simple as possible. They have, we calculate like rolling windows for like volatility and liquidity on the book. And that is why you can spin up elixir on BTC, perp on DYDX, and it works great. And we're quoting tight and it's totally fine. Or you can spin it up on sand coin to turkish lira on some super long tail pair and it'll still work great, it'll just quote wider. And that is because there are of these rolling buckets.
00:18:59.906 - 00:19:29.428, Speaker A: So anyways, really long winded answer, but we don't actually run. X times Y is equal to k, but the equivalent for that is actually this algorithm that we're running. And our goal is to just make it as similar as possible. So that LP's the last thing that we need is more sophistication, the actual algorithms and things like that. Market making is really complex. People aren't supplying liquidity to elixir for the actual underlying algorithm performance. Sometimes if you put in a dollar, sometimes it's $1.05,
00:19:29.428 - 00:19:42.994, Speaker A: sometimes it's $0.98, right. It fluctuates right around a dollar, similar to like GLP for GMX, but you're earning rewards paid by the exchange for doing so. So, yeah, I'll pause there. Hopefully I answered that question.
00:19:43.654 - 00:20:18.472, Speaker B: Yeah, I know, that was super helpful. I have another follow up question that just seems like a natural one to ask. It seems like the shorter your block times are, the more competitive elixirs market making strategies will be. Right. And that additional 1 second is a pretty hefty amount of latency to add to traditional market making since, you know, like most of these per decks run on like pretty low, like latency. What it does like 100 milliseconds and you know, in chat fire, the high frequency trading arms race, I think they've gotten that down to like seven milliseconds or like something completely ridiculous. Why the Alexa chooses like 1 second block time.
00:20:18.472 - 00:20:25.374, Speaker B: And is it, is there like a strategic going along to reduce those block times to, I don't know, 500 milliseconds, 200 milliseconds?
00:20:25.544 - 00:20:48.570, Speaker A: Yeah. Great question. Because there's actually, you hit the nail on the head, right? Like every, if we could take, there's even like a bigger kind of part of this too. If we could go from 1 second down to 0.5 seconds, right, the spread that we could quote on exchanges would tighten. But what we could do is we could just, you know, we could quote the same that we're quoting right now and have that, that difference. Right.
00:20:48.570 - 00:21:24.680, Speaker A: That spread go to like the protocol token holders or things like that. Right. So there is like a direct benefit to coming to consensus more frequently, and that is 100% the case. That being said, I just, I think it's the big difference between us. And this is actually, I guess, taking a step back. This is why I originally like, saw the vision for elixir. I was talking to all these different leading market makers who like, shall not be named in the crypto space, and they're running stock hummingbird, like Avella Neda, or these other like scripts to build up the order books for, for these different token projects.
00:21:24.680 - 00:21:59.890, Speaker A: And they're not running super sophisticated, a lot of times they're not running super sophisticated algorithms and doing this, updating 50 times a second and arbing across, which is what you see in HFT, in traditional finance. HFT, the actual pmls for these firms comes from their open market performance in crypto. That is not the case in crypto. These guys are getting paid to just build up the order books. So it's a different game. And Elixir is not trying to play the first game, we're not trying to orb, because you even could take it a step further. Right.
00:21:59.890 - 00:22:33.174, Speaker A: Like, even if we were to take, like, even if we were to come up with the most high alpha algorithm that exists and we somehow convinced LP's that that's better than something that they understand, like it would just, I mean, we're fully open source, we're fully decentralized, right? So anything that Alpha wouldn't exist. Right, right. People would, any sort of. So you're almost playing like a lo, you're fighting a losing battle. If you're trying to go the like, hey, we're going to get generate a bunch of alpha and we're going to have everything fully open source. Right. So that doesn't like those two don't work.
00:22:33.174 - 00:23:08.684, Speaker A: And it's like the same thing as like, uniswap v two provisioning, right? Everyone knows the curves. Like, there is no alpha. And being a v two, LP generally kind of like bleeds money unless you're being incentivized, which is why, like, I mean, almost all LP's on uniswap are, right? Like that's why they have like 8 billion in TVL. It's because, like, you can pay out rewards to these parties and make it worth it for them to supply liquidity. And that same thing is happening with these exchanges, right? So that is, I guess, another long winded answer. But we are playing a different game. We do have plans on continually improving the speed in which we come to consensus.
00:23:08.684 - 00:23:37.314, Speaker A: But just like really reiterate again, these exchanges want a trustless way to bootstrap liquidity to their order books. What we found is, as an example, vertex, after integrating us, before they were integrating us, they couldn't add new markets as aggressively. They were like, look, we have to go. We have to go to winter mute. We have to go. These other big names, we have to try to convince them to provide liquidity on M Pepe perp. And they're like, yeah, I don't really know.
00:23:37.314 - 00:24:20.318, Speaker A: I don't know if I really want to do like it's like, and then they can't add the market, right? It. But now they have one market maker that specializes in top of book, and they have elixir, right? Elixir. They just put some incentives in this pool. Users are like, wow, I can earn 500% APR. They'll supply liquidity elixir, builds up the actual order books, and then they have a market maker that specializes in super top of book liquidity provisioning, right? That's RB into binance or whatever that's on top of the books, and it works great, right? Like we both coexist very happily. And so anyways, that's like we're servicing slightly different use cases where what we're disrupting is like basic liquidity provisioning for order books. Basic building up the order books.
00:24:20.318 - 00:24:38.002, Speaker A: Like all of that can be done by a decentralized protocol. And we saw that, like, all these big guys were doing that and just running very basic scripts to do it. And there's no reason that decentralized protocol couldn't do it. And that's why we found such strong product, a market fit with these exchanges, launching their own products to build up their own liquidity on their exchange.
00:24:38.058 - 00:25:20.608, Speaker B: Wormhole is the leading interoperability platform for multi chain bridges and applications. With over 1 billion messages sent and 40 billion in value transferred, Wormhole leads the industry and cross chain message volume and total value transferred. If you're a builder, Wormhole has an extensive suite of tools and infrastructure to securely build multi chain applications. You can use wormhole to power defi NFTs governance and so much more. And Wormhole supports over 30 blockchains and six different runtimes. Chamber unique Wormhole NFT just for zero x research listeners today fill out a forum, prove that you've listened to today's episode of receiver Pro app and you'll get an email over the coming weeks to claim your limited edition. NFT Pair is an innovative pair trading exchange built on top of Simeo.
00:25:20.608 - 00:25:41.582, Speaker B: Users can trade trending narratives with one click from Bluetooth. Narratives such as long BTC short ETH right through the whiff versus bonk, the hat stays on. Simio's intent centric architecture enables deep liquidity source off chain and broad on chain, and combined with pair has democratized access to complex trading strategies typically reserved for institutional traders.
00:25:41.758 - 00:26:06.914, Speaker C: You mentioned too, a little bit ago something that I found interesting in that, like, you were like, it's kind of like GLP for GMX. So like, I know, I think it's drift and hyper liquid have both order books as well as these Amm liquidity baskets. Would you view elixir as kind of like a universal GLP HLP DLP equivalent that can be plugged into any order book to kind of combat the cold start problem for these probe sticks?
00:26:07.334 - 00:26:26.624, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a great analogy. I think. So there is a bit more flexibility, obviously with being a standalone like dpos protocol. So number one, we are fully transparent. That is like, I personally, I mean, yeah, we love the hyper liquid guys. They built something that is great. I personally trade on hyper liquid quite a bit.
00:26:26.624 - 00:27:14.784, Speaker A: Um, they're like, I think the, the issue that you saw with FTX was that the exchange itself was like trading against its end users. Um, because you, like, for example, if you're FTX and you see that a user has a $50 million leverage long that could get liquidated if you drive the price down $3. Like why wouldn't you wick the price and take that 50 million and then just take it yourself, right? Like, and then wick it back? Like there, there is a clear financial benefit to do that. Doing that. And so having the exchange be the market maker is something that is like, obviously, like, I mean, Gary Gensler, like all of these guys have like very much made it explicitly clear. There has to be like a clear delineation. And we are like kind of the solution to that as well, because it's like go and view our GitHub.
00:27:14.784 - 00:27:40.104, Speaker A: You could go and see exactly the liquidity, spin up a validator, you could see exactly how algorithm that you're running. And it's the same thing that is in our GitHub. It's the same. We really want to be fully transparent there. Yeah, exactly. You're right. One of the things that we're launching, actually, with our apothecary is a cross chain liquidity provider token, essentially, that will backstop liquidity across all the top dexs.
00:27:40.104 - 00:28:31.836, Speaker A: Imagine if you could mint one token and you're providing liquidity on DyDX hyper liquid vertex. So that is something that we've actually kicked off. We have roughly 20 million. We launched the apothecary like last week. We have like 20 million that is in this called ELX ETH that is going to actually backstop liquidity across all these users will earn exchange rewards from all of them, and they'll also earn elixir future protocol fees down the road if the DAO were to devote to turn that on. But yeah, but yeah, so there are unique use cases that you can have by having this unique cross chain positioning that we have. And there's a whole host of interesting use cases that are being built out on top because elixir controls the actual funds in all of these smart contracts across all these chains.
00:28:31.836 - 00:28:53.122, Speaker A: So there is nothing stopping someone from leveraging up their lp position using these lp tokens. Or there's like a whole host of things that people are building. There's like a decentralized liquidation engine that people are building. Right. Because there are some exchanges, they're like, look, we're not going to take your money. We see these issues. We can use elixirs, liquidation.
00:28:53.122 - 00:29:18.722, Speaker A: So there's all these different use cases that are, that are being built out. But yeah, you're exactly right. Like providing liquidity. GLP is slightly different because it is. This is the last thing I'll mention is that, like, GLP is slightly different because you're directly the counterparty for the gains of other traders. Right. So the issue with GLP is that it's not all pre pair per exchange.
00:29:18.722 - 00:30:00.146, Speaker A: And so if GMX adds mpepa and I go 100 x long and MPpe rips 50 x, I've now just like drained all of GLP. Right. So that's why GLP will never be used for, like, longer tail pairs. And that's like the big issue too, is there's this existential risk and you're directly the counterparty, whereas elixir does not have that direct risk. We begin quoting wider and wider as volatility ticks up. If the books become skewed past a certain amount, we just won't quote on that side anymore. So it's a strictly, I think, superior solution, but obviously I'm biased.
00:30:00.146 - 00:30:01.354, Speaker A: So, yeah.
00:30:02.534 - 00:30:29.234, Speaker B: One interesting statistic that was kind of surprising to me, to be honest, was the Vada dataset you mentioned, the number of 14,000, and that seems like pretty large in the grand scheme of like, crypto and the validator sets out there. So I guess a few questions there. Like, the first thing is, how have you managed to achieve such a distributed validator set? And the second is like, what does the delegation landscape look like? Is it like 50% of Lexus delegated to the top ten? Or is it a lot more distributed than that?
00:30:29.584 - 00:31:23.104, Speaker A: Yeah. So first off, I think there is like, I mean, there's definitely, we made it as easy as possible to set up a validator. That's like the first thing, right. I think how many validators you have is directly, like, inversely correlated to how difficult you make it to spin up a validator, right? So if for us, we made it as simple as pulling and building a docker, docker image, right? And you just run a docker container in David mode and that's it. So super easy. Like, if we required, oh, you need 48 gigs of ram and you need, like, you need all of this processing power, and you need this crazy connection speed, and you need this server similar to running like a Solana validator, then it's a lot more constrictive. There's not going to be 14,000 people that are willing to pay because it's just a dollars in dollars out expectation for validators.
00:31:23.104 - 00:31:58.350, Speaker A: It's a very much like profit driven endeavor right now. There is no incentive for validators. I do think that maybe some people think there's airdrop potential or something like that, which I won't comment on, but the actual validators themselves are not being incentivized. But it's also very, very easy to spin one up. You can spin it up on your laptop and it would totally be fine. The actual bottleneck for our network is on its connection and throughput. That's the main, running an actual algorithm.
00:31:58.350 - 00:32:36.346, Speaker A: Our algorithm is not like, we're not running some crazy neural network every time we get emitted and whatever, we pull the order book. It's not computationally intensive on the cpu side, so it scales up in a linear time. It's all just basic. If you look at the algorithm, it's pretty standard. So you can support 100 pairs and then supporting 1000 pairs is not like 1000 times harder, it's only ten x harder. They're all very basic computation. The bottleneck for our system is not going to be actual on compute, it's going to be on throughput.
00:32:36.346 - 00:33:23.664, Speaker A: That's something that makes it very easy for people to spin up validators. The second thing on the delegating side, our testnet v two, allows for people to delegate to different validators. We do see a, there is no, I think the first thing that is important to note is that there's no financial risk for these users. So there is really no reason to like, like if you run a validator and you just like submit a bunch of like false transactions or whatever, you get slash you lose. Testnet ELX right on Gorilla. Like, you don't, there's no like actual cost. I do think that like when like these big players begin running their validators, guys like steak, fish or like Coinbase, whatever, these bigger, bigger players, there will be a bigger incentive to delegate to an infrastructure provider that probably has better uptime.
00:33:23.664 - 00:34:36.513, Speaker A: We obviously want to, there's ways to counteract that where you could have differing fees, where parties that everyone knows and trusts, they tend to have higher fee percentages. For example, Ren, if you delegate to Coinbase's validator or whatever, they're probably going to have a 20% fee or whatever on their ELX, right? So if like every, if you were to make $100 or 100 ELX is staking returns, they would take 20, right? But like the, and those bigger guys will have higher fees just naturally because they know they can command it on the market. And then the smaller validators that are a little bit riskier will have zero fees, right? So there will be kind of like a natural, kind of like self serve fixes itself. Whereas if you have a fixed all validators, Max, they can take as a 9% fee, then why wouldn't you delegate to coinbase? It's like you have that, or you could take on the additional risk of going to a small guy, but there's no additional return. So we are working through those things right now, but we don't have hard numbers for specifics on delegating in a real main net environment, which is what we're currently simulating right now.
00:34:38.604 - 00:35:00.596, Speaker C: So you mentioned that you have integrations with Bluefin Vertex as well as Rabbit X, and you have some for Dydx and hyper liquid on the way. How do you prioritize which integrations to go after? And like, where does most of the legwork fall? Is that on the protocol doing the integration themselves, or is there a lot of legwork that you and the team actually help with, or what does that actually look like in practice?
00:35:00.780 - 00:35:49.368, Speaker A: So our long term vision is to have Elixir's fully permissionless infrastructure and anyone can just build out their own connector build in and have our protocol support. That's like the super long term vision for these other exchanges that are currently building out their own products. So Rabbit X has their fAm, Vertex has Vertex fusion. They'll soon have their own native yield bearing lp token as well that we're working with them on, and we'll share more info on that soon. There's all these different things. There's differing levels of support that we can offer. We definitely do handhold some of these exchanges through what integrating with Elixir actually looks like.
00:35:49.368 - 00:36:39.722, Speaker A: For example, if there's a fair amount of we don't have the best documentation for how to integrate with Elixir, that's public right now because it's mostly just us talking with the whatever the teams and saying hey, TyDx or whoever, here's our APIs, here's how you can actually deposit. Here's a smart contract, but we have a version of that smart contract that holds the funds on chain built out in solidity and cosmosm, and we've just been using those. Those are audited by trilobits. But then we have other teams that have built their own smart contracts that are completely external. So Bluefin built out their own smart contract to integrate with elixir. The aftermath guys built out their own smart contract to natively integrate with Elixir. Those are built in.
00:36:39.722 - 00:37:07.004, Speaker A: Move. We have teams, we have team building out the vault smart contracts for their integration with Elixir in Cairo. Those are not. We obviously want those to be audited. We may. That would be like a great idea for like a grant or things like that in the future once our grants program is live. But for right now, yeah, generally we have the version of the smart contract that we can just use.
00:37:07.004 - 00:37:54.434, Speaker A: The team can wire it up to their own deposit withdraw functions and then we essentially would just. Most of the lift is actually building up, wiring up our protocol support to their APIs, but usually it's pretty standard like every exchange wants their APIs to be as close to like Binance and those people as possible to onboard as many market makers as possible. So it ends up being pretty standard across the whole space. So yeah, there's definitely a long story short, there's a fair amount of handholding that we're doing for these native, first few native integrations and we'll likely help out. And we have a native integration team that just, all they do is push these along. But long term we want to make it so that any exchange could just spin up, use elixir to, to, to build up their order books.
00:37:55.654 - 00:38:29.084, Speaker B: I wanted a follow up there and just ask a clarifying question. So theoretically, if Elixir wanted to, could you guys build your own vaults for say, drift zeta without like asking for like these protocols permission? Because that seems like it could potentially be a move. You know, you guys become like the go to like vault creator for all of these perp Dexs. You don't need to ask for the permission and you just have like a vote for like every single one of these perp Dexs. And that kind of ties into sort of like a cross chain, like backstop liquidity token that you were talking about just now.
00:38:29.824 - 00:40:01.406, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I think the main thing is, like, so today we have thought about that, right? Like we have, so right now we have this like community run endorsed like actual aggregator page. And it already has like a bunch of, like, I think it almost has like 100 pools on it, right? And there's, when I think about the future of elixir, it's like, do we really want to have like, like 50,000 pools on this like aggregator page, right, because like hyper liquid has like over like a, that would be like just a loan is another 150, right? Like some of these exchanges that were integrated with, they have plans to have like fully permissionless perp listings, right? So just being in this space, you see that like they want to have like a thousand pairs or 5000 pairs, they want to be like the uniswap for permissionless, like, like perpetual futures, right? So that, that is like, and as we're kind of heading in that direction for like just these dexes, they're all pushing in that same direction. So I think that, I mean, it is possible, you know, really what, what we found is that it's less like, it's. Yeah, like what we found is that these exchanges themselves are building out these own products and kind of offering it. And it's less like faults, right? Like it's, it's more of like oh, we'll have like a one place you could just like with apex for example. So apex is launching their fam and it's going to be like a one place, you just deploy liquidity and it routes liquidity on the back end, right, because they don't want to have like 1000 pools. But yeah, there's really the two ways, right? Like there's the two future.
00:40:01.406 - 00:40:39.872, Speaker A: You could have like you could be like Uniswap which, which has pools everywhere for every exchange or whatever, for every pair on uniswap, right. And you just type it in and you find it or you go the other way. And I think just like with how things have gone, we've already locked in native integrations with most large perpetual dexs. And they're really excited about what elixir is doing because it's needed and it's no cost to them. They build in support and we say, look, you guys are paying out a million dollars a month right now for liquidity on your protocol. Like just like pay a portion of that to like LP's, right. And have it scale up.
00:40:39.872 - 00:41:09.504, Speaker A: And like obviously the LP's want it because it's like 100 plus percent APR, like because it's only two or three big firms that are participating in that same program. So yeah, I do think like while it could potentially be a thing we definitely like, I mean, I don't know why we would probably do that when we could work really closely with the team and make sure that's a good success and like build it into their infrastructure in a way that they're really happy about and make sure on our end that we bring, we put support behind it and really make sure it's a good success.
00:41:10.804 - 00:41:26.264, Speaker B: I have another follow up question there, this one also really theoretical, but I want to ask, would it be possible for elixir to market make on centralized exchanges or is that just not possible given the technical architecture?
00:41:26.444 - 00:42:15.840, Speaker A: It is possible. It was actually the original vision for elixir. But it's obviously tricky because it all comes down to the custody of the funds. Today we have a team that is trying to build this. They're called elliptic, they're just working in the background. But essentially what they're trying to do is essentially because what you could have is anyone can come in, they link their own individual exchange account and to our protocol and then our protocol tracks their liquidity that they have in there and builds up liquidity on the actual order books and then you could actually do token market making for that, right? So say, as a lickster, say we really want more liquidity on our binance or gate or OKX pair. We could put on chain just a certain amount of liquidity and incentivize this pool.
00:42:15.840 - 00:43:04.446, Speaker A: And people will go and they will add liquidity to their binance account and our protocol will use their liquidity in each of these individual siloed users accounts and build up the order books. And that is possible today. The tricky thing, obviously. So the tricky thing is figuring out, obviously, it's almost like a separate team that is going to need to do that, because obviously our hands are full with the actual network. But that is definitely a part like something that we want to support. And it's going to be one of the big areas that we want to support with a grant is like allowing for a team that is built on the elixir network to actually go out and support centralized exchange use cases, because it's a huge issue. That was actually the main vision for elixir.
00:43:04.446 - 00:43:23.104, Speaker A: It's just like these token projects need the same service, but they need it on centralized exchanges. And it's pretty crazy that there is no way to incentivize that, get that liquidity from your community. You have to go through one of the big three or four firms. Yeah, I think that's definitely a big opportunity.
00:43:25.084 - 00:43:53.314, Speaker C: So you mentioned the apothecary a little bit earlier in the conversation. Can you explain exactly what that is? Maybe what the incentive to join is? And I'm assuming I know the answer. And I'm also curious about, you've kind of alluded to some ideas for eventual token utility in the form of a slashable collateral for the validator set, as well as maybe pocketing some of the spreads, because obviously you're not optimizing for the HFT trading. But yeah, just any other further elaboration.
00:43:53.354 - 00:44:35.874, Speaker A: You could give on that would be great, yeah. So the apothecary is essentially a way for us to mark the contributions of end users to our protocol. And so we are distributing 20 million potions over the course of, I think it's five months. And that leads up into our main net launch, which is going to be in August of this year. So users can come in if they have any liquidity supplied on any native integration they have earned potions. And we went through essentially in the back. We went back, anyone who's ever deposited liquidity has earned potions, and you can actively earn them by having liquidity in the protocol.
00:44:35.874 - 00:45:32.254, Speaker A: We also are launching that ElX ETH cross chain liquidity products, essentially, that will allow for us, I mean, imagine if we had like 50 to 100 million in liquidity. It's very easy for us to begin for exchanges that are coming in to want to tap into that and actually use that to build up the liquidity on their pairs. And so that is something. And then users will be able to just accrue these rewards from these different exchanges. It'll be like a native yield bearing product, collateralized one for one with Ethereum, that you could just redeem out at any time for ETH. And so that is kind of, yeah, you'll be able to earn these potions the next, I think, kind of point that you had mentioned was around like, Elx. So, yeah, we have a token that is planned that'll be going live with our mainnet launch in August.
00:45:32.254 - 00:45:59.664, Speaker A: And so that'll be, it's a utility token. It's also going to have governance rights. So obviously the stake can run a validator. It could accrue protocol fees. So to put this into perspective, a very healthy fee that our protocol could decide to charge would be, like I had said earlier, on the spread. And so imagine that instead of our protocol quoting at 0.23%, we quote at 0.28%,
00:45:59.664 - 00:46:48.548, Speaker A: that additional 0.05% could go to our, you know, go to the protocol as a validator security fee. And so just alone, like, if we were to turn on this fee today, just with the amount of, like, I mean, we just. Yeah, with the amount of volume that is, that are like, we power, what, like 30% of the order book liquidity on vertex, we power more than half of the order book liquidity on Bluefin, we power, like, you know, 40% of the order book liquidity on Rabbit X. Each of these guys are doing a billion dollars a day in volume. And so it's like, if we were to take, just like, with very conservative estimates, we would be like one of the top two top three defi protocols by revenue, like overnight. And I mean, if we were to turn on the fee switch today, we'd be, like, significantly profitable.
00:46:48.548 - 00:47:20.684, Speaker A: But at this point, really, obviously, it comes down to the token holders long term. So they will come. So that's the first thing, right? It'll come with governance rights. You'll actually have to stake elixir to secure a validator, or you delegate to a different validator. You'll likely be able to use it to mint some sort of this LP token and earn these protocol fees, depending on what the DAO says. Anyways, there's a bunch of different uses that are there for this token. It's actually very critical in the actual functioning of our system.
00:47:20.684 - 00:47:34.164, Speaker A: So it's used quite a bit. It's not something that is just slapped on. And so yeah, that's what ELX is. And yeah, that'll be launching in probably Q three of this year in August.
00:47:34.744 - 00:47:52.648, Speaker C: That's super exciting, especially the fee revenue aspect. I definitely get excited about that stuff. And perp stacks have demonstrated product market fit that way. They generate a ton of fees. So very excited to see that go live. One quick follow up question. There is the cross chain ethanol LP position.
00:47:52.648 - 00:47:58.334, Speaker C: Is that going to be like an alayer zero of t token or what is the architecture plan for that?
00:47:58.674 - 00:48:30.466, Speaker A: Yeah, we're actually. So it's not yet live. What you're doing now is by when you lock your ETH, you will be minting ELX ETH at Mainnet. So there's actually like kind of no, like, you're not. There's no, like, you're not minting it right now. But that will be launching at Mainnet along with our main net, like actual network mainnet launch. So yeah, we are actually chatting with the layer zero team around, potentially making it like an oft or something along those lines.
00:48:30.466 - 00:49:08.274, Speaker A: There's also some other interesting angles that we've been thinking about. There's like, obviously with like Athena, these other big players, there's like kind of this really interesting use case, right? Because they're day long perps and they long spot and then they short perps, right, to collect static that yield, which is like pretty much like directly up what our protocol is doing. Right. We're trading on these different exchanges anyways. So it's like, there's some like interesting use cases that people have been flagging to us. So yeah, we're keeping our options open now, but we'll definitely post more information as it becomes like available, you know, on our Twitter and everything as it gets finalized.
00:49:09.414 - 00:49:53.108, Speaker B: I have a question, which is a complete changing gears, but I wanted to ask. So dy DXv four has moved to this app chain model. And obviously one thing with their in memory order book is that they need to sort of like measure mev. And sometimes it's hard to tell whether it's like actual mev or anything malicious being done by the validators versus network jitter or just like a latency that a single validator may be experiencing due to, for example, their geographic location. Does elixir have that problem of like, you're not really sure whether a a validator is like actually being malicious or he's just experiencing some like network jitter, or is like everything sort of like deterministic when it comes to consensus.
00:49:53.276 - 00:50:46.528, Speaker A: Yeah, it's fully deterministic, which is like, because there are some really unique, it's a completely different like problem. Obviously, if you're having like validators that are storing these like the state of the order book and things, it's like, oh, like can you, yeah, you get into these weird issues where it's like the validators themselves could try to see and then try to front run things. Or like it's like we, obviously we don't have that issue because we are directly pulling from the web sockets of the exchanges and directing orders through their private market maker API, essentially. So it's like those APIs, there is no mev that is available there. Where we would have faced issues is if we were to try to have takers. So our protocol, to clarify our protocol is never a taker. And that is done by design.
00:50:46.528 - 00:51:29.452, Speaker A: Because imagine that even in the scenario where if the user has say that on a pool we hold some inventory at some point in time, and then someone sees, oh, on chain, someone is trying to withdraw and they know that we're long, they're like, oh, well, a market sell is going to come or something, and then there's an unknown amount of slippage that's associated with that. And then they could try to front run. And so our protocol is never a taker. And so that actually reduces a lot of the MEV considerations there. And so, because nothing is on chain except for these actual fraud proofs. And those fraud proofs are already happening when this validator is jailed, right. They get jailed right off the bat.
00:51:29.452 - 00:52:17.436, Speaker A: So we don't have those issues. But I mean, I do actually really agree with, with DydX's approach and hyper liquids going the same way, right, where they're, I mean, like all, like if you're going to run a successful, like if you're, yeah, if you're going to run a successful perp Dex exchange, you need to have it like likely either. You have to have some sort of off chain infrastructure. And I could talk about it for a really long time. Why? But if it's fully on chain, every order is going to require gas. And so it's almost like an extreme form of that latency problem I was talking about earlier where if every order update you have to pay gas market makers have to quote super wide because it's just, okay, well, we're updating once a second, and every time we're updating, we have to pay this fee. So it's like, ideally we don't update once a second, we update every 5 seconds.
00:52:17.436 - 00:52:45.514, Speaker A: And so what we've seen with a lot of the larger on chain perp Dexs is that market makers don't update, they only update once every five to 10 seconds. And that's just because they don't want to pay the gas. Right. It's, you know, you could you just have that as an ongoing like, variable. It's like an almost ongoing fixed cost just to like operate in the system. And so you can reduce that fixed cost by quoting wider. So it's like, why wouldn't you? So then there's a trade off where it's like, oh, well then, now I'm earning less, like liquidity score.
00:52:45.514 - 00:53:37.064, Speaker A: And so it's, yeah, it's just for market makers, it ends up resulting in pretty wide spreads. And so people have said that like drift is facing this issue. Yeah, and like, we've talked a lot with the drift team, obviously there's like an ongoing gas costs if we're updating once a second and it's like, okay, well, like, should LP's pay this? Like, it's not, I don't know. And it's like we're quoting wider and then, so anyways, I do think Dydx hyper liquid, they have their heads on straight. I think it's, I mean, if they can solve those issues. We've thought a bit about using SGX for validators, if you really want to hide what the orders are, but you could actually introduce entropy later on in the system to actually make it to where you can verify that the validators came to consensus correctly. But you can't actually predict what the orders are going to be on the exchanges, which is what we do.
00:53:37.064 - 00:53:44.814, Speaker A: I have a lot of thoughts on it. I actually think what they're doing is great. They'll work through those issues. That's just an engineering problem to solve.
00:53:45.194 - 00:54:03.014, Speaker B: No, really appreciate your insight into that question. Back to the non nerdy side of things, I guess like a long term sort of question, are you highly convinced that on chain order books will win sort of like the on chain Dex architecture awards, or what do you think about the long term direction of just on chain trading in general?
00:54:04.914 - 00:55:20.654, Speaker A: I think without a doubt anyone who's a trader is going to be trading on it per order book Dex, I think, I mean, or an order book based Dex, and we see it. Right? Like think about Uniswap's direction, right? Like Uniswap started, it was v two. You come in, you provide your liquidity, right? And it's like there's one thing you can do, and you set your feet rate, then it's v three, right? And now you can set custom bands, right? And you can customize more. Like you essentially do like limit orders. And then v four is like full on. I mean, Uniswap's like turning into an order book right before is now you have hooks and you can pull off data streams and you can, like, customize, you can place actual, like, limit orders, right? And so it's what you've seen is that all of these amms, and we talk to Amm, like, leading large amms every day that are moving to order book based models for this reason, is because daily traders are the ones that make exchanges money, right? If you are a trader and you go and you're longing and shorting, like, you're slinging, like garbage coins, like whatever, trying to make money, that is what generates actual revenue for these dapps. And so that is where people are going to continue moving in that direction to try to cater to that user base one off swaps.
00:55:20.654 - 00:55:56.364, Speaker A: I could see that being owned by amms for the time. Because once again, it's like none of these large order book based dexs are creating markets for, like, like these little tiny meme coins that are being created on Solana. They're not going to be listed on an order book based exchange. It's way easier to just see the pool and then get people in. So that will continue for that. But actual traders and actual trading is going to be owned by order book based xs. And we talk to them all every day.
00:55:56.364 - 00:56:40.804, Speaker A: Large leading names that you guys obviously are very well familiar with that are like, yeah, we're moving. We're gonna have an order book based model, and then we're gonna have the amm. And then people are gonna be able to, if they swap through the amm and they get the best execution, great. But if there's a better order on the trading side, we'll route the order across, right? And then that way they get both. And like, why wouldn't you do that, right? So that way you can have your cake and eat it, too. And so, and then they're using elixir as the way that they can actually bootstrap liquidity to the order book markets that they're gonna spin up. So anyways, it's like, really cool talking to these guys, but I am, like, a big proponent of order books because it's definitely the best way you can update orders.
00:56:40.804 - 00:57:20.072, Speaker A: You can do way more, obviously, without paying any sort of gas. And then when things settle, obviously, then you pay gas, and that is way better than these amms, which traditionally, if you supply liquidity to v two amm, you have very low capital efficiency. We have, like, if we have a million dollars in a pool, like, we have a million dollars within, like, half of a basis, whatever, 0.5% of the mid price or whatever, right. I mean, obviously we have a lot of orders, but, like, we turn that over, like, once a day or two x, three x a day. Right? Like, rabbit x, or, like, DyDX, just, like, rounded out, like, vertex has ten to 15. Like, up to.
00:57:20.072 - 00:57:50.214, Speaker A: I mean, they'll have, like, a few, like, mid eight figures of liquidity, but they're doing billions a day in volume, right. And it's like, that's because there's a much higher capital efficiency. So, yeah, I think that's. That's why I'm really bullish on order books. And obviously, like, as regulatory cracks down, like, it just kind of more, creates more of this, like, on chain, like, things like FTX have done, like, wonders for these perp dexs where, like, people don't want to have balances on centralized exchanges. So, yeah, there's a lot of factors, but I'm bullish on them.
00:57:51.394 - 00:58:13.174, Speaker C: All right, last question, because I know we've already had you for almost an hour, but are you at all worried about the liquidation engines of specific Dexs? Because to me, it sounds like, especially once you have kind of, like, a unified basket of ETH providing liquidity across many different applications, like, you might be compounding risk. So I guess. What's the approach there?
00:58:13.354 - 00:59:30.134, Speaker A: No, so that's. Yeah, so I think something that's worth mentioning is that we don't have any leverage ourselves, right? So if, if we're quoting on, let's say some, some whatever, let's say, like, arb perp on vertex, right? And say their liquidation engine, like, you know, they liquidate a bunch of users and we're quoting, like, wide. We just get a fill. We get a great fill, right? So for us, the risk is, like, if an exchange rugs or something like that, if an exchange just takes the money, because for us, we're not running any leverage, so there's no liquidation risk on that side. But obviously, if the exchange itself, the biggest risk for exchanges is, okay, if I have, say, I launch Phillip exchange and it is fully collateralized in Philip Coin. Like, everyone has to deposit, withdraw, and Philip Coin, then it's like, okay, Philip coin goes down 50%, which means everyone on my exchange is getting, like, is getting liquidated, which means the whole exchange is, like, trying to. And then the liquidity itself is also going down because the Philip coin is going down.
00:59:30.134 - 01:00:15.100, Speaker A: So liquidity is going down, users are getting liquidated. Like, the exchange itself is probably not even functional at that point. So that's where this, like, negative feedback loop from. Like, it's really, if you take, if exchanges take a significant amount of their own coin as, like, the main collateral type, that's where, like, you could get some of these issues. It's more pronounced for centralized exchanges, but for us, we don't face any of that risk. And actually, with the decentralized exchanges, none of these really, except, like, I mean, you could, and I've actually, we've done, like, some. Some tests, actually, on this question, specifically on, like, what percentage of an exchange can, like, what percentage of their collateral can an exchange have as, like, their own token? And it's.
01:00:15.100 - 01:00:43.978, Speaker A: Right. Like, anything up to, like, 30% to 50% is, like, usually, like, 50% is really pushing it. But, like, binance used to take BNB as collateral, right? And it was, it was totally fine because they had it limited. Right. And there's things that you could do, right, where binance, when they had it as collateral. If you deposit BNB as collateral, and then you open a leverage long, maybe you could only open five x leverage instead of 50 x or 100 x if you use USDC. So there are, like, a lot of.
01:00:43.978 - 01:00:59.792, Speaker A: It's like a kind of a nuanced question, but for us, we don't run leverage, so there's no issues with risks from liquidation engines. Like, liquidations just give us good fills. And, like, our LP's actually, like, it's a good source of, like, p and l for the. These LP's. So.
01:00:59.928 - 01:01:04.124, Speaker C: Yeah, got some mango. PTSD.
01:01:06.104 - 01:01:07.364, Speaker A: Same, same.
01:01:08.624 - 01:01:17.764, Speaker C: Anyways, Philip, this has been an awesome episode. I learned a ton. Are you able to share any last words with the listeners, where to find you, maybe? Or learn more about elixir and the apothecary.
01:01:18.224 - 01:01:46.362, Speaker A: Yeah, well, feel free to check out our website at elixir xyz, or you can follow us on Twitter. It's just elixir. So, yeah, just feel free to check us out there. Yeah, apothecary is going to be running for another three, four months. It's a limited amount of potions that we're distributing. So yeah, I think if you have extra liquidity, feel free to check us out. But yeah, I think that's pretty much everything on my end.
01:01:46.362 - 01:01:48.854, Speaker A: It's been a great podcast, so thank you for having me on.
01:01:49.234 - 01:02:21.424, Speaker B: Thanks for coming on, Philip. Alright guys, we'll see you next week. We have teamed up with the Wormhole foundation, stewards of the wormhole protocol, the leading interoperability platform, powering cross chain transfers for over 200 plus multi chain dapps. Wormhole isn't just a bridge, it's the leading interoperability platform for multi chain applications. So go and claim your unique wormhole nfts. Just for Zero X research listeners today, hit the link in the description to fill out a form and to prove that you've listened to today's episode and receiver PO app, you get an email over the coming weeks to claim your limited edition NFT.
