00:00:14.010 - 00:00:31.110, Speaker A: Welcome to bankless, where we explore the frontier of Internet money and Internet finance. This is how to get started, how to get better, and how to front run the opportunity. This is Ryan. Sean Adams. I'm here with David Hoffman, and we're here to help you become more bankless. David, how are you doing today?
00:00:31.260 - 00:01:05.666, Speaker B: I'm doing absolutely fantastic, Ryan. We had Haseeb Qureshi on the bankless podcast. I am the son of an urban planner. My dad's an urban planner, and Haseeb reminds me of an urban planner. And so we get Hasib on who wrote this fantastic article about Ethereum two and how the landscape of Ethereum 2.0 will kind of stratify and separate into a downtown Manhattan area, an urban and suburban lands, and then also farmlands. And it was a really great piece that kind of triggered our interest in getting Haseeb on.
00:01:05.666 - 00:01:22.626, Speaker B: We also talked a ton about automated market makers, uniswap, curve balancer, and how these applications, these systems, really are at the heart of crypto and why they are so revolutionary and different and what they really have to offer. Ryan, what was your favorite part about this episode?
00:01:22.738 - 00:02:04.962, Speaker A: You know what? I don't know if I like the first half or the second half better, because they were both awesome. Right? So in the first half, we talked about automated market makers. And if it's never clicked in for you, like what uniswap actually is and why it's powerful and why it's grown to like 30 billion in annualized volume over the past few months, I think this will make it clear. I think you'll get a clearer understanding based on the way Haseeb explains it. Also, a lot of people do not have a vision of what e two looks like. They know abstractly that it's coming, and it's this thing for Ethereum. But Haseeb's analogy, where we talk about the cities and the suburbs and the farms, nails it, at least for me.
00:02:04.962 - 00:02:27.110, Speaker A: I have a very clear vision of what e two with 64 different main chain shards will look like. And that's really exciting. I tend to think probably like you, David. I think in analogy, and I think in kind of imagery and pictures, and this just paints the pictures on both automated market makers and ETH, too. Husseib is just a fantastic communicator.
00:02:27.270 - 00:02:43.870, Speaker B: And then we finished off the conversation with an is ETH money, or is it not money conversation? Which is always a good conversation to have, because getting people's varying perspectives on that answer is always how we come to the true answer. Of whether ETH is going to be money or not or what that even means.
00:02:44.020 - 00:03:10.726, Speaker A: Absolutely. Yeah, it was a good take by Haseeb there, and I actually probably agree with many of the things that he said in the way, in the language he used more than disagree. So it's definitely an interesting conversation. David, before we get into the interview, we should talk about our sponsors. The first sponsor I want to tell you about is Ave. Ave is a defi protocol that you absolutely have to check out. What can you do with it? You can lend, you can borrow banklessly all on Ethereum.
00:03:10.726 - 00:03:38.174, Speaker A: So you could do things like lend Dai to the protocol. It will magically transform that Dai into an interest bearing Dai account. Not just Dai, all sorts of crypto assets on Ethereum. You can also borrow against it. Ave has been climbing up the leaderboard as well, and they've recently released avonomics, which is their token economics upgrade. You can read more about it. We will include a link in the show notes.
00:03:38.174 - 00:04:04.860, Speaker A: So avonomics grants key decision making to Ave token holders. It creates more safety and economic incentives to reward protocol growth. One of the coolest things is it actually introduces a safety module. So there is staked. Ave becomes a collateral of last resort. You can find out about Ave avenomics, start using the protocol@ave.com that's aave.com
00:04:04.860 - 00:04:05.786, Speaker A: for.
00:04:05.808 - 00:04:50.774, Speaker C: Those of you that have been transacting on Ethereum, you've noticed that the gas prices have just been insanely high, 60 guay on a good day and sometimes all the way up to 100 gwe, which is really reducing the amount of activities that is really feasible to be able to do on Ethereum. This is where our newest sponsor, loop ring comes in. Loop Ring is a ZK roll up scaling protocol for Ethereum, for both trading and for payments. ZK rollups. That stands for zero knowledge roll ups. It's basically cryptographic magic. It allows you to combine activity and transactions into one single bit of information, which means that massive amounts of transactions can be bundled into a very small chunk of information, which reduces the gas per transaction.
00:04:50.774 - 00:05:47.318, Speaker C: At loopring IO, you can find a ZK rollups based exchange and also a payment mechanism, all with the same security guarantees of the Ethereum L one blockchain, which is really important. So loop Ring and ZK rollups allows you to scale up transactions, tradings payments into thousands and thousands of transactions per second, but with the same security guarantees of the main Ethereum blockchain, which is just incredible. In September, loop Ring is releasing the loop ring wallet. This will be a mobile smart contract wallet with ZK rollups tucked in natively. I'm really excited for how this is going to impact the adoption of Ethereum. The rest of the world will be able to experience venmo type transactions, but with the same amount of trustlessness and security of the decentralized future ahead of us. So if you're a trader that's being eaten alive by gas fees, visit loopring IO to get onboarded into Ethereum's cheapest and fastest exchange.
00:05:47.318 - 00:06:09.794, Speaker C: All it requires is an Ethereum address and you can trade on a high performance order book completely gas free and transferring ether and ERC 20 tokens on the platform is completely free. If you visit loopring IO, enter the code bankless in order to get the highest vip tier for six months. So check that out. There's a link in the show notes. Visit loopring IO, enter code bankless alright.
00:06:09.832 - 00:06:15.250, Speaker B: Guys, let's go ahead and get right into the interview with Haseeb Qureshi of Dragonfly Capital.
00:06:23.530 - 00:06:48.938, Speaker A: Bankless Nation. We are so excited to have on the podcast Haseeb Qureshi. He is a partner at Dragonfly Capital, formerly worked at Metastable, another crypto fund. He was a dev, formerly at Airbnb. So he's got some technical background. He also has some pro poker playing background. I've heard a ton of intros to Haseeb and he's got a very interesting, eclectic resume.
00:06:48.938 - 00:06:57.702, Speaker A: And the way he got into this space was interesting as well. Haseeb, you are one of my favorite thinkers and investors in this space. Welcome to the Bankless podcaster.
00:06:57.786 - 00:06:59.938, Speaker D: Thank you. And thank you for having me.
00:07:00.104 - 00:07:47.010, Speaker A: You know what? We're not going to do this like we do typical podcast episodes and do kind of intro and everything like that. We're going to get right into the meat here. You had a really fascinating tweet, I think might have been a month ago, six weeks ago, and it went like this. It was. What's the big intellectual miss you've had in crypto within the last year? And then you talked about yours, which was missing decentralized exchanges, in particular, missing automated market makers. I want to get into automated market makers in just a minute and maybe explain that, run through it. But can you talk about why you tweeted that? Why is it important to talk about the intellectual misses that we've had in crypto as investors?
00:07:47.750 - 00:08:59.942, Speaker D: Yeah, I think crypto is such a weird industry in which to be investing because it just evolves so fucking quickly that as an investor you need to be changing your mind every year or two about your fundamental understanding of how this space works. There are so many things that I believed in 2017 that I didn't believe in 2015, and there's so many things I believe today that I didn't believe in 2017. And I'm sure that two years from now, many of my assumptions and mental models are also going to get invalidated. So you have to constantly be willing to change your mind and to listen to what the industry is telling you. And so anybody I know who's thinking very deeply about the space, who's coming up with theses and mental models of how these things work, some of that stuff is going to be wrong. And the worst mistake you can make is not to notice that your mind has changed. That, I think, is the biggest possible error you can make in crypto investing, because it's one thing to be wrong, everybody is going to be wrong about a lot of stuff, but the biggest thing is to not learn from the fact that, hey, you incorrectly predicted how this thing was going to turn out and kind of do a little bit of intellectual post mortem on yourself.
00:08:59.942 - 00:09:42.150, Speaker D: Right? Of like, what did you miss? Why did you get that one wrong? For me, amms were the big miss. For me, I was a big bear on Dexes in 2017, and my whole theory on why Dexes were not going to work was beyond the obvious stuff of just, like, performance and fees and blah, blah, blah. The big thesis that I had about why Dexes weren't going to work was because of the huge amount of adverse selection on dexs. So if, you know, you remember, like Ether Delta and fork Delta back in the day, the assets that were getting traded on these exchanges, most of the trading volume was in really low quality assets. So it was in the really crappy stuff that basically would never get listed on a binance or on a coinbase or whatever.
00:09:42.220 - 00:09:43.862, Speaker A: It was all the lemons, basically.
00:09:43.996 - 00:09:44.582, Speaker D: Exactly.
00:09:44.716 - 00:09:46.082, Speaker B: A long tail of assets.
00:09:46.146 - 00:10:30.822, Speaker D: It was the long tail of obvious securities or kind of shady tokens, know, like spank coin and stuff. Like. Like, that was the kind of thing that was really thriving on ether delta and the other decentralized exchanges, and it seemed very difficult for it to break out of that loop. Right? It's like, okay, great, this exchange is going to get known for listing and trading the stuff that nobody else is willing to trade. That's obviously not a strong place from which to build a really significant market. And so I basically wrote off Dexes. And I remember having a lot of conversations with people back in 2017 who were very excited about Zero X and on chain exchanges and IDEX and all this stuff.
00:10:30.822 - 00:11:00.858, Speaker D: And I basically wrote off the entire category because I thought this is just a fundamental problem that isn't going to go away. If anything is really valuable, it's going to get listed on a centralized exchange and then people are going to trade it there. And liquidity begets liquidity, and liquidity is a network effect. Right. I mean, all these really obvious arguments, and I missed what amms could do to change that equation. And that's been a real educational process for me, is trying to sort of do the five wise excavation on why did amms win in Defi.
00:11:01.034 - 00:11:44.654, Speaker A: All right, so let's dig into that. So I'll confess I missed it, too. I saw Uniswap and I saw it as an interesting project, but at the time I would not have predicted the success and the rapid success that it has seen. But you've written an article about this that kind of explains the rise of automated market makers. And for folks that have listened to bankless podcast for a while, we'll include some other episodes where we explain automated market makers in the show notes and what those are the uniswaps of the world. But I've actually heard people in the bankless community tell me, Haseeb, that they didn't truly understand amms until they read your article. Like you articulated it in a fantastic, simple way.
00:11:44.654 - 00:12:01.380, Speaker A: Maybe you could articulate it for us here. Like, what the heck are amms? We've called them money robots. We've called them constant function market makers. But what are they? Explain it like I'm five.
00:12:01.830 - 00:12:15.170, Speaker D: Explain it like you're five. Okay, well, I don't think five year olds know what market makers are, so that might be a little bit, but I'll explain it like you're a financial newbie, but you know some of the basics.
00:12:15.250 - 00:12:18.070, Speaker A: Good deal. Sorry, five year olds.
00:12:19.130 - 00:13:01.906, Speaker D: Five year olds. Now is your time to drop off, maybe rejoin us in 10 minutes. Perfect. Basically, in amm, when I say in amm, I'm really going to be describing unit swap, because it's the easiest to explain and to understand. So every market maker, their job is to provide liquidity to a market. Basically, they are willing to buy or sell an asset, whatever it is that you want, and they're always willing to put you a price, or usually always willing to put you a price. And the critical question for any market maker is, how do they price those assets? So let's say I've got the example that I give in the article is, let's say that I've got some apples and I've got some bananas, and that's the currency of our weird little fruit terian universe.
00:13:01.906 - 00:14:19.840, Speaker D: And I'm willing to buy apples for bananas, or I'm willing to buy apples or willing to buy bananas for apples. And what I need to decide is what is the exchange rate that I'm going to offer you based on how much you want and what is in my inventory. So there are lots of different ways that you can do this, right? If you're a real market maker, what real market makers do is they look at the big fruit exchanges, and they look at what's the exchange rate, and they try to figure out, if I buy this from you, can I go arbitrage it on a real exchange? What's the liquidity, what's the volatility, all this stuff? They're trying to figure out these hundred different dimensions that go into some big model that decide how they quote a price to an end user. This is what market making is, and it happens every single day on exchanges all over the world in crypto. And outside of crypto, it's the oldest thing in the world. So amms are a way to create a completely, like you said, a robotic, algorithmic market maker that lives entirely on chain, basically, meaning that it has a very simple formula that decides how it buys and how it sells, all on chain, and all of its inventory, meaning all the apples and bananas that it owns so that it can buy and sell to people. All of that also lives on chain, except it's not apples and bananas, ethc or whatever.
00:14:19.840 - 00:14:49.846, Speaker D: How does uniswap actually work? And the answer is probably a lot easier to read and to see a visual metaphor for this rather than try to hear it explained through audio. But just for the sake of completeness. What uniswap uses is it uses a pricing function called the constant product pricing function. And basically it means this. So I have some apples and I have some bananas. When you multiply those two together, the number of apples multiplied by the number of bananas, let's say I have 50 apples and 50 bananas. Or actually, let's make it easy.
00:14:49.846 - 00:15:18.610, Speaker D: Let's make it ten and ten. Let's say I have ten apples and I have ten bananas. Multiply the two together, you get 100. Right? And so the rule in uniswap is that the product of my apples and my bananas, no matter whether I'm buying or changing the amount of apples versus bananas in inventory, the product of those two numbers must always be equal to the same value. So it started with 100. It has to always be 100. So let's say that I then sell five bananas.
00:15:18.610 - 00:15:41.862, Speaker D: So I'm going to have five bananas less, right? If I have five bananas, I need to figure out how many apples I'm going to charge for those bananas. Well, we said the rule is that it needs to still equal 100. So five times x needs to equal 100. Solve for that. The answer is 25 times 20 equals 100. So I need 20 bananas, which means I need to charge. Because I originally had ten banas, I need to charge another ten bananas to sell you five apples.
00:15:41.862 - 00:16:25.570, Speaker D: Okay, that was a mouthful. Probably hard to follow that verbally, but if you read the article, it's easier to understand visually. And so basically what that results in is, most of the time, uniswap, given this very simple pricing curve, if people are buying relatively small amounts, is going to give you a pretty good price. But the more that somebody buys and the more lopsided the market maker's inventory becomes, the worse and worse price it's going to give you. So that's how Uniswap works in a nutshell. And it sort of automatically tries to rebalance itself by basically doing what I just said. If its inventory gets too imbalanced, then it starts quoting more and more ridiculous prices going one way and more and more generous prices going back towards equilibrium.
00:16:25.570 - 00:16:50.030, Speaker D: So it's almost like this rubber band is pulling Uniswap, or pulling this automated market maker back towards the equilibrium of trying to have balanced bananas and apples in the pool, assuming that the real exchange rate of bananas and apples is one to one. So that's uniswap in a Nutshell. There's way more that we can talk about, but honestly, it's not the easiest thing to understand from listening to it from somebody just talking in your ear.
00:16:50.100 - 00:17:07.330, Speaker A: But that provides me a way to buy one apple without the thing I'm trying to avoid, which is a bad price. Market makers would call this slippage, but it does not provide me a way to buy, say, 50. Because if I buy 50, what's going to happen to me?
00:17:07.480 - 00:17:33.130, Speaker D: So if you buy 50. Well, so the example, I amended it. So there are ten apples in inventory, right? So if you want to buy all ten apples, you want to sell out the market maker. One of the properties of Uniswap, of course, is that it must always be willing to quote you a price if you just do the math. Right? So ten times ten is supposed to equal 100. If I want all ten of the apples, then zero times x has to equal 100. So then you have to divide by zero.
00:17:33.130 - 00:18:04.054, Speaker D: You basically get to divide by zero, which means that literally I have to charge you infinite amount of bananas in order to get. In order to. So you cannot buy all of the inventory in Uniswap. That's one of the rules of Uniswap, is that as you start buying up more and more and more and more of its inventory, as the inventory gets arbitrarily small, the price gets arbitrarily high. And so if you want to buy 9.9 apples, Uniswap is going to charge you some fucking absurd price. It's going to charge you, like, 10,000 bananas in order to buy 9.9
00:18:04.054 - 00:18:06.438, Speaker D: apples or something in order to make the math work.
00:18:06.524 - 00:19:12.030, Speaker B: And some people may think this is a flaw, right? Because apples will never really cost infinity dollars. That's not a realistic scenario. However, it is important for this primitive, which is uniswap, to be able to price things in such a wide discrepancy. And it's largely also just a function of needing to be able to count for the different decimal places or supplies of tokens that are on Ethereum, where I can go mint 10 trillion tokens and then supply them for one ether. And it looks like that that market is completely off balance, but that's just because of a function of the decimal place for that particular unit. And so it's actually really important that the automated market maker model can price things out to infinity, because it allows for any token to be able to fit somewhere in that curve. It doesn't really matter where the decimal was placed or where the supply was initially created.
00:19:12.770 - 00:19:38.598, Speaker D: Yes, absolutely. Now, that said, since the invention of Uniswap, there has been an explosion in different kinds of amms that use different kinds of curves. So the uniswap curve is this. X times y equals k. So the two assets multiplied together equals a fixed constant. This is called the constant product pricing curve. But there's a bunch of other ones that people have come up with.
00:19:38.598 - 00:20:19.874, Speaker D: So there's one called curve, which is now this mixture of constant product and constant sum, which is better for stable coins or for mean reverting assets. There's one balancer uses kind of arbitrary kind of constant product, but across arbitrarily many pairs. So not just sort of two assets together. And then there's foundation. And actually foundation uses a variant of uniswap that actually can run out of inventory, because foundation, what it does is it tries to sell limited edition goods. And if you're selling goods, like, let's say I'm selling like, t shirts, right? And I'm, like, signing each of these t shirts or whatever. Well, I actually do want all of the inventory to get drained at some point.
00:20:19.874 - 00:21:04.506, Speaker D: I want to sell out. That's kind of the point if you're selling assets. So if I'm selling apples and bananas, maybe I want to make sure the amm never runs out. But for other amms, actually, maybe it's completely reasonable that the amm should at some point run out of inventory, because when it does, what happens is just, okay, well, all that's left is profits that can be taken. The fees that were generated by the pool can be taken out, and then other people can come in and recapitalize the pool. So there's no issue in principle with an amm running out of inventory. But it just so happens that most of the amms today, balancer, uniswap, and curve, they are designed to never run out of the.
00:21:04.628 - 00:21:57.634, Speaker B: There's a few things about the AMm model that formalizes different market participants. And I see the efficiency of the AMm model comes from this formalization. So in the old world, in the world of order based exchanges or just the order book model, you have market makers and you have traders, and they're kind of just lumped together. They have different behaviors, but they're really the same participant. They're all looking at the same exchange, they're all doing the same thing. In the AMm model, they have been placed into two different buckets. And that's actually where a large amount of efficiency comes, because the market makers can, their job is much more simple, which is to simply supply deposit assets into a contract, where on the order book model, the market makers have to actually do things.
00:21:57.634 - 00:22:35.094, Speaker B: They have to actually engage in activities, right? And that actually requires actions over and over and over again. And the AMm model has just relegated this to a money robot, right, where you just deposit your money and then the algorithm takes care of that for you. And what really is innovative about this is that it turns going from a peer to peer model, which we like the terms peer to peer, but in terms of exchange, that's actually relatively slow. And it goes to a peer to contract model. I'm assuming you're familiar with the term peer to contract.
00:22:35.222 - 00:22:35.814, Speaker D: Yes.
00:22:35.952 - 00:22:43.406, Speaker B: Can you go into the peer to contract model, what that is, and just the implications behind a peer to contract model versus a peer to peer model.
00:22:43.588 - 00:23:47.186, Speaker D: So in a peer to peer model, the idea is that you can sort of imagine like let's say there are sort of 10,000 people who all want to trade, and in order for those 10,000 people to all want to trade, each of them needs to get matched up on the other side. You can imagine left side and right side of your imaginary wallpaper here, 10,000 people on the left side. If you're doing a peer to peer model, you need those 10,000 people to somehow get matched up on the right side, and to get this big web of connections all going together to match them up with people who are taking the opposite side of the trade. And while in principle that makes sense, and that's how most exchanges in the real world work and how most price discovery works, trying to translate that into an on chain environment basically means lots and lots and lots of transactions, lots of gas costs, lots of people having to post orders and take orders and fill orders. There's enormous amount of complexity that has to be foisted on chain. And it wasn't obvious three years ago that that was going to be a big constraint. But in the peer to contract model, it looks a little bit different.
00:23:47.186 - 00:24:59.690, Speaker D: So you have the 10,000 traders on the left side, but on the right side you just have a single contract, and everybody on the left side is just talking to this single contract. You can imagine this big web of like 1000 threads all pointing to one node, and that's Uniswap or curve or balancer. And in this world, one, it's much more transaction and gas efficient. There are many fewer things that need to happen on chain when everybody is just talking to a single contract. And the second thing, of course, is that the liquidity, meaning like the amount of capital that actually needs to get locked up in the orders and put in different places, it's much easier for all that to get aggregated in one place. And the network effect of, hey, here's where all the money is, and therefore here's where all of the liquidity for trading is. It's very easy for that to not get splintered into a bunch of different places, so you don't have to worry about, oh, well, am I going to find this token on ether delta, or on IDEX, or on radar relay, or on this thing or that thing? Instead it's like, look, Uniswap is just like the natural point of convergence for all of the liquidity that wants to coagulate onto ETH, USDC or whatever are the big markets in crypto.
00:24:59.690 - 00:25:49.690, Speaker D: Uniswap has sort of served as this natural shelling point for all of that. And the other thing that I think is also very different about providing liquidity to uniswap versus providing liquidity in a peer to peer model is that of course, providing liquidity in a peer to peer model on an order book. The peers need to themselves be very active in putting up that liquidity. The makers, the people who are actually putting up the orders, they need to be constantly deciding, okay, what exchange am I going to put the order on? When am I going to put it on? It's a very active process to do that. Market makers generally charge money for the obligation to provide liquidity on your platform. And if it's not worth it to them, if it's not profitable for them to do so, then they're going to charge you a lot of money because it's not in their interest to just do it anyway. Whereas with Uniswap it's incredibly easy.
00:25:49.690 - 00:26:11.726, Speaker D: You just click one button, you send a transaction and boom, now you're providing capital to the market, and this sort of one click, set it and forget it experience that Uniswap has created. That has been, I think, a big boon to making the Uniswap market more and more liquid, and thus more and more competitive with other alternatives for trading some of these assets.
00:26:11.838 - 00:26:48.350, Speaker B: So I think we've seen Uniswap just become the shelling point of liquidity, especially over the last month or so, where Uniswap volumes have started to really get competitive with centralized exchange volumes. Right? And so where does the role in a world where the AMM model really just takes over and it kind of positions itself as kind of a center point of ethereum and liquidity on Ethereum, what is left for the world of the order book model? Does the order book model still provide something useful, or is it kind of just inferior in every way?
00:26:48.500 - 00:27:56.790, Speaker D: So I don't think the order book model is dead. I believe, personally that the dominance of Amms has really resulted from the extraordinary constraints of ethereum 1.0. Basically, if you're constrained to highly expensive transactions, not a lot of computation that you can do per unit time, and all the other things that we understand about what makes Ethereum fairly difficult, right, like being a maker on Ethereum, if you're actually posting transactions on chain continually to an order book that is just very expensive, and it doesn't really work well for the model that Ethereum uses. And so, of course, most of the order book exchanges that we see today are using off chain order books that then get only settlement really happens on chain. So DyDX, IDEX, most of the order book exchanges that we see today, they actually host their order books off chain. So there are a couple of things that I think are important to understand about why order books have not been successful on Ethereum and what would make them successful. So the first thing is that right now, order books are too expensive.
00:27:56.790 - 00:29:01.278, Speaker D: And if they're too expensive and you can basically get lower trading fees and better liquidity through amms, then they're going to do that, which is unsurprising in some sense. An Amm is almost like the OTC desk experience basically says like, look, instead of us going on an exchange and having all these complicated moving parts of orders and limit orders and these various different kinds of trading types, which are very difficult to implement, you have to worry about gas costs, you have to worry about settlement time, you have to worry about trusting the coordinator. All that stuff, the coordinator itself, like they might be operating an exchange, or is that illegal? What do they need to do in order to protect themselves? There's all this complexity that goes into running an order book exchange on Ethereum today. And if you're willing to do all that shit, why not just run a centralized exchange and make your life a lot easier, right? So to that end, I think order book exchanges have a much more difficult time competing today. And so uniswap kind of just looks like an OTC desk. It's basically like, hey, come here, tell me what you want. I'll fill it using some set of rules.
00:29:01.278 - 00:29:46.706, Speaker D: And it's unsurprising that the OTC desk experience is simpler and it's easier to implement, and there's less moving parts, and it works better in a very constrained environment. But there are two things I think that will change that. One is that there's going to be, of course, more scaling solutions on top of Ethereum. So talking about layer twos, you talk about interoperability solutions like Polkadot or Cosmos. And then of course there are other layer ones that are, and I'm sure we'll get to talking about this other layer ones that want to sort of build bridges with Ethereum and take on some of the Ethereum overflow traffic. So that's one thing, is that the scalability constraint is going to at some point get ameliorated. But the second thing is that Uniswap works very well for certain assets and works less well for other assets.
00:29:46.706 - 00:30:45.942, Speaker D: So what do I mean by that? So one is that derivatives, which I think are a big thing that uniswap, or that trading demand in crypto is going to increase. For already in centralized exchanges, derivatives account for the vast majority of crypto trading volume relative to spot. Uniswap works reasonably well for spot trading, but it's not particularly well suited for trading derivatives. And a large part of the reason for that is that derivatives, because of the fact that they're often traded with very high leverage, they're extremely sensitive to relatively small changes in the price, and they need fast liquidations. Your ability to get highly leveraged is contingent on your ability to unwind a very highly leveraged position in a time of high volatility. That's what constrains you from being able to offer two x leverage to five x leverage to ten x leverage to 50 x leverage to bitmax 100 x leverage. Nothing on chain today can offer 100 x leverage.
00:30:45.942 - 00:31:47.886, Speaker D: It's just absolutely impossible, because the amount of capital that you need to liquidate would be way, way too much for you to do in a reasonable amount of time on Ethereum today. And that's one of the reasons why that kind of thing would not work through a pure Amm model. Amms just aren't sensitive enough to quick changes in price and volatility. Order books are designed exactly for this, right? The ability to cancel orders, move orders around to totally reshape the shape of liquidity in a market. That's why order books exist the way that they do, right? If you look at an order book and you see the shape of the buys and the shape of the sells, that's a price curve. But it's a price curve that's rapidly changing in real time, responding to real time volatility, that is very important. If volatility is really, really big and leverage is really, really high, but in a world which is very low leverage, such as if you're trading stablecoins, or if you're trading ETh USDC spot market, then trading just through an Amm for spot works totally fine.
00:31:47.886 - 00:32:04.578, Speaker D: So I think these two variables are the biggest things that are going to drive more demand for order books in crypto trading. But it's very clear that that stuff is probably not going to work today on Ethereum 1.0, given how incredibly congested Ethereum 1.0 is.
00:32:04.744 - 00:32:36.910, Speaker B: Yeah, we definitely want to get to the topic of congestion on Ethereum 1.0 and charting and scaling and all that. But to tie off this Amm conversation, the order books in amms are kind of like opposite ends of the spectrum. But is there a room or a potential for these two mechanisms to have some sort of elegant marriage where there is an order book that is based on top of an amm. Is that a reasonable thing or is this more like oil and water?
00:32:36.980 - 00:34:01.030, Speaker D: So it's possible in principle, right? You can imagine an amm that amms, you often see this smooth price curve, right? You can imagine an amm where in the middle of this price curve, somebody decides, hey, you know what? I'm going to set a limit order and I'm willing to buy 5000 USDC at this exact price of e, right? And you can imagine if you sort of juxtapose that onto the curve of the amm, what you'd see is in fact the amm goes up to that point of that limit order, and then suddenly there's a flat line where basically any trading volume is eating into that limit order, and then the curve continues after that limit order is eaten up. Does that make sense? Are you guys seeing the sort of. It's almost like the sickle shaped thing that goes back to being curved at the end of that limit order. You could do that. That totally works and makes sense in principle as being a way to intersperse limit orders with an amm. Now, the question, of course, is like, okay, well, so on the curved part of the trading volume, the liquidity providers to the amm are getting the fees, right? On the flat parts, the people who are providing the limit orders get the fees because they're posting orders basically to an order book exchange. And so you can imagine, like having an order book amm hybrid, that some parts of it are curved, but in between there are these jagged parts that are the limit orders, and anything in between is getting filled by amms.
00:34:01.030 - 00:34:36.454, Speaker D: So this sounds kind of cool, but I personally don't believe that this is a stable equilibrium. And why do I say that? I say that because I think what would end up happening is that the limit orders would all center around. They basically all center around the true price. So let's say the true price of ETh USDC, just for simplicity, let's say it's $100, right? And that's the true price. And so basically a bunch of people would be willing to put limit orders at $100. And so you'd beat this really flat portion of the curve, right, at $100, right. Just this big, long flat line, a bunch of people willing buy and sell and take a 0.3%
00:34:36.454 - 00:35:23.486, Speaker D: fee. But then once all of this liquidity gets eaten up and people want to keep buying past this point, well, then the people with the limit orders are kind of like, wait, hold on. If you're buying past that, something might have moved in the price. Like something weird is going on. Somebody is buying tons and tons and tons of EtH, thinking that somehow it's like super cheap. That must mean that ETH is pumping out in the real world, and that suddenly I was mispricing myself. And so what's going to happen is that when you start eating into the Uniswap curve and you're no longer in limit order land, what's happening is that you're just getting pure impermanent loss, right? Only the trading all around the mid market price is happening through limit orders, and the trading farther up the curve is just like big volatility moves that are basically screwing over the Uniswap lps.
00:35:23.486 - 00:36:30.982, Speaker D: And so I think what would happen is that you end up getting, again, this sort of this tug of war where all the good fees, the good trading, which is around the mid market price, gets eaten up with limit orders, and all the bad trading, which is just like getting run over by bad pricing that is going to be eaten by the Uniswap lps. The Uniswap lps will drop their liquidity because they're now losing money. And basically you devolve into an order book. That's my theory of what happens when you try to combine the two. But of course, that only really works if the limit orders can be withdrawn and placed fast enough for this whole thing to work and make sense, which only really works if the gas fees aren't insane for people to add the liquidity and to pull the liquidity and to do the kind of stuff that people do in limit order land. And so it's kind of like when that's too expensive for it to make sense, people just aren't going to provide limit orders at all, because it's just too expensive for them to manage their limit orders on this exchange. But once they do, and once it starts becoming profitable for them to do that, then you're going to get this very quick move into this other equilibrium, where it's all limit orders and no programmatic curve based liquidity.
00:36:30.982 - 00:36:32.166, Speaker D: That's my theory.
00:36:32.358 - 00:37:01.342, Speaker A: Well, I mean, all these theories need to be tested, of course, but that theory seems to match some of the contours or the constraints, let's call them, of Ethereum and of blockchain, which that appears to be why automated market makers have been so successful. Right back to your point. I think you use the term that Ethereum has the computing power of a decentralized graphing calculator right now. Right. I thought that was a very colorful way to put it, but play to your strengths.
00:37:01.406 - 00:37:01.634, Speaker D: Right.
00:37:01.672 - 00:37:22.822, Speaker A: So what are the strengths of Ethereum? It's global pooled state. It's completely permissionless, low regulatory surface. It's programmable infinitely. What are its weaknesses? There's no price. Oracle, you have no idea on chain what the price of something is. Low throughput is obviously a weakness as well. And that's why you've got something like automated market makers succeeding on Ethereum.
00:37:22.822 - 00:37:49.700, Speaker A: But I want to ask a question. So in traditional finance, is there any kind of analog to this? Like, are automated market makers, do they exist in the traditional finance world at all? And we talk so often about defi and cryptos basically replicating all of traditional finance over time. Right? Maybe much accelerated rate, making it digital, making it programmable. Is there anything like a uniswap in the analog world?
00:37:50.470 - 00:38:28.490, Speaker D: I mean, in a sense there is, in that if you ask, are there programmatic market makers today? Yes, of course there are, like most market makers today who are trading on stock exchanges and filling orders in fractions of seconds. They are almost entirely run by algorithms. Those algorithms are not publicly viewable. They are not easy to manipulate. Or I mean, obviously people try to manipulate these algorithms, but they're not trivial to manipulate. And so in some sense, yes, absolutely. This has precedent, right? Like most market making today is algorithmic.
00:38:28.490 - 00:38:51.750, Speaker D: You can't see the algorithm, and the algorithm moves and updates much faster, and it takes in a lot more inputs. So there's a bunch of machine learning, and there's looking at order books and modeling liquidity and all this stuff that goes in inputs to this algorithmic pricing when you hit some API and actually request a quote. But the difference is really one of degree, not one of kind, I think.
00:38:51.900 - 00:39:25.440, Speaker A: Yeah, that makes sense. All right, so let's talk about uniswap versus other curves, right? So we talked a lot about the specific way uniswap sort of calculates its price curve. Is Uniswap the final answer on automated market makers? Like, will everything network effect pool into Uniswap? Or are there places for other curves? We've called this before, like the automated market maker robot wars, where one curve fights another curve and they're all in this big battle for a bunch of liquidity. Is that how you see it?
00:39:26.130 - 00:41:17.314, Speaker D: I think this is right to some extent, in that it's pretty clear that there's going to be a lot of competition among price curves that are better and better suited for the particular assets that are being traded, right? So in a way, Uniswap, you can sort of imagine uniswap with always using this x times y equals k price curve basically implies like, look, I don't know absolutely anything about how these two assets should be trading relative to each other, right? So it's sort of the no knowledge assumption. So sort of zero prior about how these two things should be trading relative to each other. But if you know something about how these two assets should be trading relative to each other, then in principle, you should always be able to do better than Uniswap, at least to some extent, right? So if you know, for example, that these two assets are less volatile relative to each other than the average pair of assets, then of course you should be able to get a tighter pricing curve than Uniswap and do better, right? And of course, if you know these two assets are especially volatile or they're especially inverse correlated relative to each other, then perhaps you should create an even more aggressive pricing curve that has even more slippage than Uniswap does. Uniswap is sort of like this Goldilocks thing that basically doesn't make any assumption and it's kind of good for everybody, probably, hopefully. But as the universe of amms opens up and more and more people innovate in particular amms that are designed sort of handcrafted for particular markets, then of course you're going to get better pricing. So I think the clearest way to think about it is that what Uniswap really ought to be doing is emulating what real professional market makers do. So there are real professional market makers who market make on binance and on coinbase and on all these exchanges, and they decide how they're going to price things for different orders, right? And very often they're like OTC desks that will get an order from somebody.
00:41:17.314 - 00:42:06.610, Speaker D: They say, hey, I want to buy 5000 e some huge order. And they're going to decide, okay, I'm looking at exchanges, I'm looking at what else is out there, and I'm decide for you. I'm going to tell you, look, here's my quote and then let's execute it, right? So Uniswap, the ideal version of an amm, should really be closer and closer to. If you actually did your homework, right, and you actually asked that OTC desk or all the OTC desks and you averaged, what does their pricing curve look like? If I ask you for one eth or ten eth or 1000 e or 10,000 eth. Right. What is the shape of that curve? The ideal version of Uniswap would have as close of a curve to that real optimal market maker as possible. Now, of course, that's not possible in principle, because that real optimal market maker is taking in a lot of inputs that aren't available on chain.
00:42:06.610 - 00:43:06.358, Speaker D: But insofar as you can closer and closer emulate that real market maker, you are becoming more and more competitive with the sort of final form of what an arbitrarily unconstrained market maker would be able to do. Now, one very obvious thing you can do is just get a sort of more price competitive curve. So, curve, curve fi, it uses this thing called the stable swap curve, which is a mixture of constant product and constant sum. But long story short, what it does is it gives you a very flat part of the curve near one to one, which basically implies that the two assets in the pool probably should be worth about the same, and in a very large band of potential trading volumes or balances of inventory. Really, they should be priced around the same. They should be priced very close to each other, and you don't want to offer a lot of slippage until the trades start getting really big. And that makes sense because you expect, if it's USDC and USDT, those two should probably trade really close in line to each other.
00:43:06.358 - 00:43:49.650, Speaker D: Because you know about those two assets. Yeah, they're supposed to be worth the same. But I think in general, this march of more and more intelligence being baked into the curve, that trend is going to continue. But I think it can go even more broad than just choosing a curve. You can imagine other inputs that you could take into the market to determine not just the two assets that you have in the pool. How much of X and how much of Y do I have? Which is right now, the way that all of these assets are being priced, using amms. But you can imagine using other signals as well to make you determine in real time how you're going to change your price, right? Because that's what real market makers do.
00:43:49.650 - 00:44:54.538, Speaker D: Real market makers that are actually competing in the largest markets in the world, they take in lots of inputs in order to decide what the real price should be, more than just knowing what their inventory is. And so they look at other order books, they look at volatility, they look at all this other stuff, right? So you can imagine another market maker that would start taking in readings of volatility. And if an asset is particularly volatile. Like, let's say we're like in a black Thursday scenario, right? And things are going off like crazy and coins are dropping in price, and suddenly you don't want to be offering anywhere near the level of the generosity of quotes that you were offering before. Now you want to really start blowing out your spreads and really start offering really bad slippage because the market's moving fast and you don't want to be giving away a lot of money right now. In a situation like that, you can imagine an oracle that sort of gives you some reading of volatility and tells you, hey, guys, market situation is getting worse, let's make the curve more aggressive right now. And alternatively, we had a good period of time when volatility was really low before this recent defi bull run.
00:44:54.538 - 00:45:25.902, Speaker D: And in a period of low volatility, you might say, hey, you know what? Normally with USDC EtH, we quote x times y equals k, but it's really low volatility right now. Prices haven't been moving much. Let's just start flattening out the curve a little bit and offer lower slippage, right? And so you can imagine all sorts of different inputs that you could be taking in to determine the way in which you're changing your pricing curve. And I think we're going to see more and more innovations around AmM design that allow more mutations of the way in which you do pricing based on these other external signals.
00:45:26.046 - 00:45:58.458, Speaker A: Let's talk a bit more about some of those next generation maybe. I don't know if the terms used anywhere has he. But, like, smart automated market makers. You tweeted out something about, like, I just caught this recently about a smart amm of the type I think you were describing called dodo, maybe do. And that is an automated market maker whose curve receives updates in real time based on some third party oracle. Right? Or external oracle. I'm not sure whether it's a non chain oracle or an external oracle.
00:45:58.458 - 00:46:02.014, Speaker A: Is this the kind of thing you're talking about? Like, how does something, like, work?
00:46:02.212 - 00:46:16.430, Speaker D: So. Yes, so this is exactly the kind of thing I'm talking about. So Dodo is an AmM that basically, or you could call it an SMM if you want to be cute about it. Dodo is an SMM that, you know what? I like that term. I'm going to start co opting.
00:46:16.590 - 00:46:21.526, Speaker A: We did it. We created a new meme right here, Bankless podcast. That's what we do.
00:46:21.628 - 00:47:07.378, Speaker D: Dodo is an SMM. And the way that Dodo works is. So here's kind of the abstract problem you can imagine that Dodo is trying to solve. So let's say you're uniswap, your mid market price is x. And we talked before about this limit order problem, right? If you're mixing limit orders and regular AmM slippage, what you really want to do at any given time is concentrate more liquidity around the mid market price. Because you know that, look, if the real price of ETH USDC is like $100, then most people are willing to provide quite a bit of liquidity at that price, because I can go hedge it out on binance or whatever, and it's perfectly fine. I don't actually want to offer that much slippage away from the mid market price.
00:47:07.378 - 00:47:43.546, Speaker D: The problem, though, is that it's very difficult for Uniswap to do that. It's very difficult for Uniswap to say, you know what? I'm going to take the mid market price, flatten out the curve over here, and offer a lot of liquidity at this price. And then once you start moving away from this, then I'll start offering more and more slippage. Right? Why is it hard for Uniswap to do that? The reason why is that it's very easy to manipulate Uniswap using a flash loan, or even without a flash loan at any given time. If, let's say, Uniswap had this rule that at the mid market price, you can do a lot of flat trading at the mid market price, just pay the 0.3% fee. But then as you get more and more, then suddenly the slippage starts ballooning.
00:47:43.546 - 00:48:16.362, Speaker D: Right? The problem is that what I could do is I could first move the price to some ridiculous user flash loan, move the price to some ridiculously high number, and then do a bunch of trading at that ridiculously high number. Because now you flatten out the price curve at this ridiculously high number, and Uniswap has no idea what the real price is. Uniswap is just responding to whatever's happening in the pool, right? And so then I would allow a bunch of trading at this stupid, stupid price, and then the flash loan could move everything back. Because Uniswap is symmetric. You'd get all your money back -0.6% fees, 3% of the way up, and 0.3% of the way down.
00:48:16.362 - 00:48:59.206, Speaker D: And then you could just basically make like a bandit away from Uniswap. So that's why Uniswap can't do this. It can't do this. Because Uniswap does not have an oracle that it can rely on to know what the true price is. If it did, then it could consider flattening out the curve around wherever the true price is and concentrating more liquidity there. This is what dodo tries to solve, because you cannot use Uniswap's mid market price as an oracle, or any Amm's mid market price as an oracle. It's actually kind of weird to think about, right? Because at any given time, because of the way these amms work, you should expect them to have the correct price within the margin of the transaction fee, right? Why? Because if it didn't have the correct price, then somebody could go and arbitrage it.
00:48:59.206 - 00:49:48.550, Speaker D: And at any given time, everybody, there are cojillion bots sitting there trying to arbitrage Uniswap and all these amms. And so you can sort of take this as an invariant, basically, that at any given time, any amm should have the correct price, because otherwise it would have already gotten arbitraged. However, you cannot rely on it, because the moment you rely on it, you're going to get fucked, because somebody is going to manipulate the price in a split moment, move the price way out of line, and then fuck you. So it's like this weird quantum thing where it's like the price is always correct except when you're looking. And so you can never use the Amm itself as a price oracle, unless you're using like a T Wap, which is kind know what Uniswap is doing. But even that is kind of inevitable, but to a lesser extent. So what Dodo does is says, look, we can't use our mid market prices in oracle, but we still want to concentrate liquidity around the true price.
00:49:48.550 - 00:50:30.386, Speaker D: And so what we're going to do is we're going to use an external oracle that is not like a Uniswap style oracle. And so what happens? Let's say they're using chain link. Chain link gives an update every 20 minutes and or every 0.5% change in price. And so every 20 minutes and or 0.5% change in price, you can start to flatten out the curve, flatten out liquidity around that point, because that, you know, is not going to get manipulated insofar as you believe that Chainlink is not going to get manipulated. And so that is a reliable way for you to actually do the thing that most market makers do, which is to flatten out liquidity at the real price and to treat the real price as like a place where you want to be especially generous in offering liquidity without giving too much slippage.
00:50:30.386 - 00:50:50.800, Speaker D: So that is the idea behind dodo. And it's an example of what we were talking about before about emulating more and more what real market makers do, right? They give a lot of liquidity around the true price, and then the farther you move away, the more it's like, oh shit, hold on, something is happening in the market. We're getting bowled over. Maybe we should start offering more and more slippage because we don't really know what's happening right now.
00:50:51.570 - 00:51:30.838, Speaker A: Okay, so that's a smart automated market maker, which is fascinating. At the end of your post, you offered this kind of tantalizing, I guess, a SQL option, which was a post called unbundling uniswap. I'm not sure if you wrote that yet, but this is kind of what you were talking about. If I'm going to guess basically that Uniswap is sort of the general purpose, but all of these specialized amms, including smart amms, are going to rise up and take pieces out of the general purpose because they can succeed at something that Uniswap cannot succeed at. Is that what you meant by unbundling uniswap? Was that what the post was going to be about?
00:51:31.004 - 00:51:49.038, Speaker D: That is a part of it, but there's a lot more to that piece. That piece, I hope is going to get published within the next week. So I have a rough draft, and right now it's getting edited, but it's taking me a while because crypto has been insane this month. But in short, yes, but I don't want to give too much away.
00:51:49.204 - 00:52:23.002, Speaker A: Well, fantastic. Hopefully by the time this episode comes out, that post will either be live, which we can include in the show notes, or it will be on its way. But it kind of appears to me that what we're sort of, I guess, maybe contrasting or seeing which of the weights is higher is there's definitely a liquidity network effect that happened with automated market makers. That's undeniable. Right. So part of what Uniswap is doing really well is it's sucking in all of the liquidity. And the more liquidity it has, the lower the slippage, the more liquidity it gets.
00:52:23.002 - 00:52:57.286, Speaker A: Liquidity begets liquidity, as we said so often here. But that doesn't necessarily guarantee it's going to win, because the counterbalast for that is all of these other new automated market makers are going to try to take chunks out of Uniswap. Because Uniswap is basically a fairly called dumb, simple automated market maker. So it's almost this war against liquidity, network effects versus sort of the specialization that can be gained. But people will come to different conclusions on how that will pan out. Right. It's like Amazon.com
00:52:57.286 - 00:53:11.820, Speaker A: did sort of win with the general purpose e commerce retail site over diapers.com and many other sort of specialized niches. Is that kind of the battle in your mind? Are those the two opposing forces here?
00:53:13.070 - 00:53:15.498, Speaker D: Sorry, what are the two opposing forces in your mind?
00:53:15.584 - 00:53:18.890, Speaker A: Network effect versus specialization, I suppose.
00:53:19.630 - 00:54:04.966, Speaker D: Yes, I think that's right. That said, I don't think it's necessarily correct yet that Uniswap has a network effect. I think it's a little bit too early to call that one. And here's what I mean by this, is that Uniswap clearly is successful and it has a great brand, but there's no obvious thing in principle that allows Uniswap to say, look, if you want to create the next liquidity pool, you should obviously do it here. That's what a network effect is. A network effect says the bigger you grow, the more difficult it is to unseat you. Right now, if Uniswap's quote unquote network effect is purely around slippage that it's offering, then I think its network effect is going to be very short lived.
00:54:04.966 - 00:55:10.858, Speaker D: It's really more of a scale effect than a network effect. And I think in that sense, something I described like dodo, which does more work to concentrate more of the liquidity near the mid market price, can very quickly actually offer better slippage than Uniswap can. And so that to me does not feel like a real moat. It's certainly true, however, that Uniswap has become the natural shelling point, so that if you want to get quickly integrated into all the wallets and Coinmarketcap is automatically indexing Uniswap markets and all these different integrations that Uniswap has, that is something that's not a network effect, but it is obviously an advantage that they have in just being integrated into a lot of different applications. To me, I think it's still an open question how this market is going to play out. So I think in the long run you're right that specialization and network effects are the two natural counterbalances. But the thing that we tend to see in normal financial markets is that the exchange venues themselves are the ones that gain network effects.
00:55:10.858 - 00:56:24.280, Speaker D: But individual market makers are ultimately beholden to whoever actually owns the relationship with the customer, right? And so who is the customer? In the sense the customer is the person trading on defi. Does Uniswap own the Defi trader? That's the real question I have. At the end of the day, where is the Defi trader going? Are they going to Uniswap? Are they going to their wallet? Right? Are they just owned by Coinbase wallet? And when Coinbase wallet has know im token or whatever wallet they're using for Ethereum trading, do they have allegiance to Uniswap? Or will they just say eventually there'll be some token like buy token, sell token interface that will route to the best Amm on chain, in which case Uniswap will just be commoditized. To the extent that it offers the best price, it'll get used. And if it doesn't offer the best price, it won't get used. Or will something like one inch or dexag or matcha, will these become the things that actually own the front end of defi? And I think to me that's the really most important question. If you own the customer and the customers ultimately cares about you, and you're the way that they're going to interact with this universe, then it doesn't really matter if anybody can offer better pricing than you because you own them.
00:56:24.280 - 00:56:36.490, Speaker D: But if people are only coming to you when you offer the best price, then you don't have a network effect. You're commoditized. That is the real question that I think is still unresolved in Defi.
00:56:36.910 - 00:56:43.200, Speaker A: That is the question I think we will see playing out in the months and the weeks and the years to come.
00:56:44.690 - 00:57:36.286, Speaker B: Hey guys, going bankless is a journey, and you don't have to do it alone. So here are some fantastic bankless tools from the sponsors that make this show possible. As we all go westward, we need to get our values into the crypto world, but hopefully escape the tyranny of centralized rent seeking institutions. And that's where monolith can help you get your value into the crypto world while skipping over the crypto banks. Monolith coming soon to Monolith is an on ramp directly from your old world bank account into your smart contract wallet on Ethereum. And for those that don't know, Monolith also has a Defi card which uses dai in your smart contract wallet, but on the Visa network. So you can go to your grocery store, swipe your defi card, pay for your groceries like a normal person, and still be part of the crypto bankless crypto economic future that we are all excited about.
00:57:36.286 - 00:57:52.882, Speaker B: So you can get your value from your bank account directly into your crypto Visa card without having to go through any crypto bank intermediary, which is just absolutely fantastic. So in order to get started, go to monolith XYz and get your bankless Visa card.
00:57:52.936 - 00:58:19.674, Speaker A: Today I want to tell you about another bankless tool that I personally use. It's fantastic. This one is for our us listeners. It's called rocket dollar. So if you have an IRA or a problem is it's jailed inside of your brokerage. So your fidelity account, your schwab account, that means you don't have good access to crypto. The only crypto that you can buy is in a trust form.
00:58:19.674 - 00:58:54.470, Speaker A: And it's marked up like five x six x eight x the price, you're getting ripped off. So what you need to do is break your retirement account out of jail, set up something called a self directed IRA or a self directed 401k. We've written articles about this on bank list that we'll include in the show notes. Rocket dollar takes care of all of the pain in getting set up. They help you with the paperwork. You can break your retirement account out of jail and also use the bankless code to get $50 off. So make sure you use that code bankless when you sign up on rocketdollar.com
00:58:54.470 - 00:59:25.038, Speaker A: to get $50 off. You wrote this fantastic article in bankless, exploring how DFI would actually look in ETH 20. So it's called DFI and ETH 20 cities, suburbs and farms. And there's a fascinating analogy that I'm hopeful you can explain. But just to relate this to the automated market maker conversation, right. It may be the case also that location matters a lot. Network effect inside of a specific geographic location.
00:59:25.038 - 00:59:54.250, Speaker A: By geographic, I'm being imprecise. I don't mean like physical boundaries. I mean sort of the chain that the protocol resides on. So uniswap right now has a fairly decent place on the Ethereum main chain, which is kind of like the Manhattan, if you will, of Ethereum and of DFI. That's the center of all activity. And it also has the value proposition of being optimized to have fairly low gas fees. So that gives it some competitive advantage here.
00:59:54.250 - 01:00:17.300, Speaker A: But let's talk about how this all plays out in ETH 20. Because ETH 20, we don't just have one main chain, essentially we have 64 of them. So they multiply. At least that's the vision. So can you talk about your article, cities, suburbs and farms. What's the analogy here? When we get to e 20 and sharding, how is DFI going to pan out?
01:00:17.910 - 01:00:54.198, Speaker D: So the motivation for that piece was I've been having a lot of discussions with people about Ethereum 2.0, especially because Ethereum has been struggling to handle all the condition from DFI. And a lot of people have the natural question when they think about how sharding is going to work. So for those who are not familiar, sharding is basically this idea that instead of having just like one blockchain, you now have 64 blockchains that are sort of all moving together, and they can all talk to each other asynchronously. So they can send each other messages, and the messages take a little bit of a while to arrive, but they can all transfer assets between each other and so on. So that's the vision of how Ethereum 2.0 is going to scale.
01:00:54.198 - 01:01:42.442, Speaker D: And so the natural thing, of course, when you're looking at a complicated system like this, is that you want to ask the question of like, well, how are the applications that we use today going to fit onto this new vision of the sharded blockchain? And if you think about it for very long, you'll notice that so many things in DeFI work because they are composable, meaning that they all live on the same blockchain. And therefore, in a single transaction you can atomically get a flash loan, trade on an exchange, refinance a CDP or vault or whatever. You can do all that stuff atomically in a single transaction because everything lives on the same chain. And if Ethereum 2.0 looks very similar to Ethereum 1.0, then you can imagine that the day that we all begin on Ethereum 2.0, there's going to be one shard that becomes the DFI shard.
01:01:42.442 - 01:01:56.338, Speaker D: And that DFI shard is going to attract all the projects, and then all the projects are going to come onto the shard and they're going to use up all the space and it's going to get congested, and we're going to be right back where we started, where you have like one congested shard and 63 shards where nothing's happening. And what was the point of all that?
01:01:56.424 - 01:01:57.060, Speaker A: Right.
01:01:57.590 - 01:02:35.118, Speaker D: And this is a common argument that I hear people making when they describe the problem with sharding, and I think they are absolutely correct that that is what's going to happen. But I think they're wrong in being concerned as that being what's going to happen. And that was the motivation behind trying to give this metaphor of the cities, the suburbs and the farms. So I'll sort of walk through it very briefly. So you can imagine the day that Ethereum 2.0 launches, there's going to be a lot of people who show up and say, wow, look at this big empty, this big empty blockchain and all these empty shards. I'm going to start setting up shop and start doing stuff, right.
01:02:35.118 - 01:03:09.814, Speaker D: And the first thing that naturally is going to happen is that there are going to be people who, let's say the first thing that happens is that some Dex sets up shop and they say, hey, great, DyDx, we're finally here. We want to start trading on chain. And so we're going to pick the shard, right? And some other token projects. He's like, oh, Duidx is here. Probably some assets are going to show up here, so I'm going to build here, too. And very quickly, you get this coagulation that people are predicting is going to happen. And that's natural because, of course, these different token projects, they're going to want to decide where they live and they're going to want to choose.
01:03:09.814 - 01:03:59.906, Speaker D: If I really value composability over anything else, then I want to choose the chain where I'm most composable with other things. For the same reason that if you're deciding where you want to start a business, well, you can decide to start it in San Francisco, where there's lots of other businesses and lots of talent and this big network effect of all these things. But of course, you have to pay higher rent. It's a lot more expensive to, the taxes are higher. Like the cost of staying here is in San Francisco or in New York City is baked in to the contract that you have to sign in order to stay here and to make your home here. And so the same thing is true in crypto. If you're going to decide to home yourself on a chain that's very congested and very expensive, you'll only do that if you're willing to pay the costs of facing the higher congestion and the higher gas fees.
01:03:59.906 - 01:04:50.870, Speaker D: But you only do that if it's worth it to you because the value that you're going to derive from being in that quote unquote, city, so isn't that terrible? There's going to be this shard, all the DFI stuff will be happening there, and then it's going to price the rest of us out the same way that ethereum 1.0 is pricing out the little man. But I don't think that's correct, because what will happen is that there will be other shards that basically people like you and I, who, we're not whales, we're just average joes, we decide like, hey, you know what? I'm going to take my assets and I'm going to go park them over here on this other chain where I can get reasonable rents. It's not super crazy to do transactions on this chain. And these chains will sort of be the place where kind of ordinary people decide to live. And these will sort of be like suburbs. You'll have some token services, right? Like there will be tether, there's going to be USDC, there's going to be some dai that's tokenized and made available on these things.
01:04:50.870 - 01:05:34.370, Speaker D: There will probably be some market makers, some simple Amm pools, and some simple things that you can use for the random things that you want, like sort of ATM machine style things that you'll see out in the suburbs, right? You'll have a McDonald's, you'll have a Burger King. But you're not going to know these really fancy Bloomingdales type department stores. If you want those, go into Manhattan, right? Go do a cross shard transaction. Go into the really expensive shard. That's where you can buy the crazy exotic stuff. But most people don't need that at any given time. Most people are happy to sort of live their lives out in the suburbs where the transaction costs are cheaper, congestion is lower, and you'll be able to do most of the things that you want to do, right? So there will be a shard purely for Defi that's very expensive.
01:05:34.370 - 01:06:23.414, Speaker D: There might be a shard purely for exchange settlement that's also very expensive, where there's lots of transactions going on, but then there'll be a lot of shards for people like us just living out our lives. Then there will probably be some shards where nothing much at all is happening. And those I liken to being the farm shards, where there's basically almost no important economic value happening on those shards. And in that case, those are the places where today people have talked about, oh, what if we put our data up on ipfs or put our supply chain data or this or that, write it onto ethereum? Well, those will be the places where basically nobody is living. There's no financial economic activity. And so anything that's happening there is really just kind of people using the blockchain as kind of this big dumping ground kind of, like, farmland. You can go build some big warehouses out in the middle of nowhere where you can put your stuff, where you can just build this big farmland and put cows there.
01:06:23.414 - 01:06:50.058, Speaker D: And it's okay. Cows don't have to be super, super valuable for you to use the land as long as nobody else is there. Have at it. And so this vision of this heterogeneity between different shards having different levels of congestion and different economic value is very consistent with the vision of the world we already understand. That's how the world looks. That's how different economies look. There are high value economies where, look, if you're going to Singapore or if you're going to Hong Kong, those are really expensive places.
01:06:50.058 - 01:07:11.202, Speaker D: You don't want to go build a farm in Singapore. It's just a really bad idea. But it's okay for Singapore to be that. It's okay for Singapore to be or Hong Kong to be these financial centers and instead have different locales be used for different things and optimized for different economic equilibria. And that was the core insight of the piece that I tried to convey, that analogy.
01:07:11.346 - 01:07:53.602, Speaker A: It's a brilliant piece, and folks should go read that piece. Certainly we'll include in the show notes. I think for folks who maybe had the question, all of this doesn't happen in a centrally planned way, right? It's organic, it's supply and demand mechanisms. The way a city sort of evolves, it's not necessarily centrally planned. It just kind of evolves in the way that it does. And part of the reason for that is, as you were saying, haseeb, if I'm understanding it correctly, one shard will have a different block space supply and demand dynamic versus another shard. So you might have gas fees in the DFI main chain shard that are like 300 Gwe, for example.
01:07:53.602 - 01:08:07.320, Speaker A: But in the farmland shard, where there's no activity, it's basically like near free to get a transaction in. So all of this economic activity almost organically naturally. Load balances. Is that the case?
01:08:07.850 - 01:08:41.022, Speaker D: That's right and wrong. I mean, when you say load balances, I certainly don't think, which is what many people imagined was going to happen with Ethereum 2.0, that you're going to get uniformity across all the shards. You're not going to get uniformity. You're going to get heterogeneity. But that heterogeneity, like you said, is good. The idea that you want everything to be uniform is the hallmark of central planning, right? It's the idea that, okay, we want to make sure that when somebody builds their next business inside of New York City, well, New York City is too crowded.
01:08:41.022 - 01:09:09.878, Speaker D: We're going to pick up that business and we're going to go and move it over into Jersey City because New York is too crowded. We're going to pick it up and worse yet, move it over into some farmland in Wyoming because New York is too crowded. That would make sense if your goal was to achieve economic uniformity, but that should really not be your goal. That's a terrible idea. It totally misses the point of why cities form in the way that they do. And I think the same thing will be true in blockchains. Blockchains are fundamentally, they're fundamentally economies.
01:09:09.878 - 01:09:19.134, Speaker D: And as economies, you want them to be able to sort of engage in their own organic reasoning about where things should go and why they should go there.
01:09:19.332 - 01:09:43.080, Speaker A: Okay, so it's not load balancing the way a network router might route traffic from one place to another in an evenly distributed way. But this is more, Danny Ryan has used this term, more economic load balancing. That sort of just happens because I'm in New York City and my gas fees are too expensive. So I'm moving out to the suburbs. No, I'm moving to the farmland way outside somewhere in Jersey. Right. That's kind of what happens.
01:09:43.080 - 01:10:02.154, Speaker A: Where does layer two fit in the mix here in this whole set of analogies? So you've got different shards that are cities and suburbs and farms, and then you have layer two out there. Is it interacting with any of these shards? And what's kind of the analogy for that? How do you think about that?
01:10:02.352 - 01:10:39.346, Speaker D: That's a good question. I'm mindful that at the point at which I introduce layer two, I'm starting to really distort the analogy. So I don't want to lean too much on any of this, but the way that I describe layer two, and the piece is that layer two is kind of like a shopping mall. It's this very condensed, very highly efficient place where you can bring together a bunch of stores that kind of work together or sort of have some natural synergy and allow everybody to sort of come to this one place to go shopping in these relatively small number of things. And that works. It's efficient, it's great. It's an awesome way to scale commerce.
01:10:39.346 - 01:11:01.438, Speaker D: And of course, we have shopping malls everywhere in the world. People have realized, yeah, it's a great idea. However, it doesn't. So one thing is that layer twos almost everything that we've seen in the realm of layer two, they have very, very natural scalability limits. So looking at something like. Or it's something like somewhere in the neighborhood of ten to 100 x, probably on the very lower side, maybe like.
01:11:01.444 - 01:11:04.826, Speaker A: Ten to 20 x, and or stands for optimistic roll ups.
01:11:04.858 - 01:11:30.902, Speaker D: Optimistic roll ups. Optimistic roll ups. Your throughput limit is like somewhere in the order of ten to 20 x. ZK roll ups have much higher throughput limits. But the problem with ZK roll ups is that it's much more difficult to do arbitrary computation on ZK roll ups, right? So if I want to port like synthetics over into ZK roll ups, there's a lot of work that it takes in order to rewrite all the contracts in ways that they can be proven in zero knowledge. It's extremely nontrivial. Optimistic roll up is nicer.
01:11:30.902 - 01:12:22.902, Speaker D: It's sort of just like having Ethereum 2.0, where you can just drag and drop contracts into this new model, but the scalability limits are significantly constrained relative to what you could get otherwise. So the answer is that nothing today on layer two is a real magic bullet. I think, for solving the scalability problem, there's going to be more need for heterogeneity. And it's already obviously true today that once we get some layer twos. I had a much more coherent layer two thesis a year and a half ago when I remember backing matter labs, which is one of the very first Zika roll up projects that innovated in a lot of this stuff. But the honest answer is that it's taken way longer than I think anybody thought it was going to, starting with, like, plasma back in, what was it, 2017.
01:12:22.902 - 01:12:54.258, Speaker D: I think the plasma paper came out all the way to today, and having very little, unfortunately, to show for it, given all of the amount of hype that has gone into this stuff. So I think we have ZK roll ups starting to really work. Optimistic roll ups haven't really shown their faces yet, but it's very difficult to generalize these things across all of Defi. And so I do think that it's going to take a transition to a much more scalable underlying substrate for this full blossoming of economic potential to happen.
01:12:54.344 - 01:13:31.786, Speaker B: So, Haseeb, in this cities, farms and suburbs metaphor, which I'm a huge fan of, by the way, because it fits right into the bankless metaphor of being like a nation, right? Being like a nation, right? And so it's a geography full of economic activity, and while these things aren't physically located, you can still get some sort of physical, relational space. Right. Like these things have borders with other things and we can kind of position these applications in relation to other applications. And that's kind of how we get this geography method.
01:13:31.818 - 01:13:34.450, Speaker A: And they all share the same security, same military.
01:13:36.150 - 01:13:37.250, Speaker B: Same military.
01:13:38.070 - 01:13:38.946, Speaker D: I like that.
01:13:39.048 - 01:14:10.422, Speaker B: Yeah. So in this world, where does the liquidity live? So imagine I am a apple farmer in the farms of New York, upstate New York, and I need to get my apples to the market in Manhattan or maybe just outside of Manhattan. Do I have to go and make a cross shard transaction? Do I have to go and make a cross shard Transaction in order to find the liquidity to sell my apples? Or is there going to be liquidity kind of spread out in all of these shards? How do you think that's going to unfold?
01:14:10.566 - 01:14:48.786, Speaker D: I suspect that liquidity will be very tiered across these shards in the sense that it's kind of the same answer as today. Right. That's a good example. Let's say you want to buy 1000 apples and for whatever reason, real world, we're not making Ethereum analogies. Real world, you want to buy a thousand apples. If you're out in the middle of nowhere and you want to get liquidity, like buy these thousand apples at a reasonable price. If you literally just go and you're in some small town in the middle of nowhere and you want to buy all the apples, like, well, the apple shipment comes once a week and the truck only comes in every Sunday morning and they only bring in 200 apples.
01:14:48.786 - 01:15:18.506, Speaker D: And if you want to buy up all the apples that everybody in town owns, it's going to cost you a lot of money because a lot of people don't want to sell you those apples. And so you're basically going to be screwed, right? That's like the farmland. So if you want to get liquidity in a farmland, just not going to be that much, right. And so you might go into the nearest town, and the nearest town, they have a bunch of supermarkets. And you go into all the supermarkets and you buy up all the apples. But you can't really get a good wholesale price because the wholesalers just aren't really there in that small town. But you can buy up more apples and you're going to get a better price than you could buying it in the tiny mill of nowhere town.
01:15:18.506 - 01:16:17.778, Speaker D: And then furthermore, if you go into a bigger city, then now, okay, you can actually go find some apple wholesalers. They're the farmers who come, come in and sell their stuff there and so on and so forth and if you go all the way to the big, big city, then you can find super mega department stores that you can literally just check out a thousand apples on your way out the door. So I suspect the same thing is going to be true in DeFi, is that if you want to sell some eth for USDC and you're on a farmland chart, there might be like some little amm over there, some tiny pool, or even like a small private market maker who's sitting around on that shard. And if you ping him, he's got a little bit of inventory sitting around, and he'll say, yep, I'm willing to mint this trade for this price. And maybe it's not a great price. And so if you want to get a better price, you go into the suburb shard, and maybe you don't want to go all the way into Manhattan into the super expensive Defi shard, because the transaction costs are just going to be really significant. So you go into the suburb shard, you go in there, the cross shard transaction is the same cost, but once you're there, the actual transaction cost is much lower.
01:16:17.778 - 01:16:53.262, Speaker D: And then you trade there on some tiny, there's a little uniswap pool, or there's a moderate sized pool, or there's a bunch of private market makers there who will fill your order. Or if you really have a gigantic order, then, like, shit, you're not going to be able to do that on a Defi shard or, sorry, on a suburb shard, you got to go all the way into DeFi land. If you want to sell, like a million dollars worth of eth, then, okay, fine, go into the Defi shard. That's where all the big boys live. That's where all the wholesalers live, and that's where you're going to be able to do a really massive order. But then, of course, you're much less sensitive to the transaction costs, so I suspect that's the way it's going to look.
01:16:53.396 - 01:17:34.186, Speaker A: Okay, let's continue this analogy. It's just such a fascinating analogy, and it's really painting a vision for what ETH two or sharded blockchain like ETH two could look like. Right? So there is another player in the mix here. We've talked about the shards, we've talked about DFI, we've talked about layer two, and we opened this entire episode with kind of the question, what's the big intellectual miss you've had in crypto? Right? I will confess one intellectual miss. One thing I didn't realize about bitcoin was its scalability potential. The way bitcoin really is scaling right now isn't so much through lightning or layer two. It's scaling through crypto banks.
01:17:34.186 - 01:18:15.660, Speaker A: It's scaling through the binances and coinbases of the world, almost like, if you think of crypto banks as sort of side chains, that's sort of bitcoin's primary scalability strategy. These side chains, the crypto banks, essentially settle on top of bitcoin. They do the big transactions on bitcoin. How does a coinbase, a crypto bank, like a binance, how do they fit into this shard world? Could they just set up shop in multiple places? They could start settling in Manhattan if they. Oh, it's expensive to settle transactions in this particular city, in New York City. So we're going to move to the farmlands and settle transactions there. Have you given any thought to that?
01:18:16.030 - 01:19:06.570, Speaker D: Yeah, so I suspect there will actually be one shard that is also sort of city like Manhattan like Shard that will be specifically for exchange settlement. And specifically because, of course, many, many of the times when funds are moving from exchanges, they're moving to other exchanges. And so there's a natural tendency for exchanges to sort of coagulate and clump together, because they all want to be sending funds to each other, whereas most of the time, if you have funds in Defi, you're touching a lot of other Defi apps. You're sending money from compound to uniswap to this, to that. But it's not very often that you're moving funds from Coinbase to compound and then compound to Coinbase. That's not a very high throughput connection. And so I think I would expect for there to be sort of this Manhattan and the Chicago, where Manhattan is like the Defi shard and Chicago is like the exchange shard.
01:19:06.570 - 01:19:51.014, Speaker D: And for the most part, if exchanges want to send, if you want to get money from an exchange onto shard, a shard, b shard, c shard, d. I mean, I don't know exactly how an exchange might do it, but I can imagine it wouldn't be surprising to me if the exchange were just say, like, look, screw it. Let's just consolidate our liquidity. Let's consolidate our liquidity in the exchange shard. And then let's put a little bit of liquidity in each of the suburb shards so that we can easily. And then, of course, more in the DeFi shard so that if somebody wants to withdraw to that shard, we don't have to do a cross shard transaction every single time. We've got a little bit of sort of working capital to send money here and there at any given time with lower transaction fees when somebody is wanting to buy and sell.
01:19:51.014 - 01:20:13.386, Speaker D: Right? So it's sort of the same thing. It's like the correspondent banking system, where capital is sort of put in the most efficient way in different places to allow people to kind of rebalance capital wherever it's needed from different banks at different times in the same way. I expect that to be how exchanges manage their inventory in a world of sharded universe with heterogeneous shards.
01:20:13.498 - 01:20:52.780, Speaker A: Okay, two other parties we could talk about in this world. The first is assets, right? And maybe we don't spend much time on that, because I think people can envision the way a tokenized bitcoin or tokenized gold or tokenized real estate would look in a sharded Ethereum world. It's simply some sort of token standard in ERC 20 that gets moved from shard to shard. But let's talk about maybe this second kind of player. And these are what I might call the other main chains, right? The quote unquote ETH killers of the world, the polka dots, the cosmos, the nears, if you will. How do they interact with this ETH 20 world?
01:20:53.810 - 01:21:19.270, Speaker D: The first thing I'll say is that I think the Ethereum killer narrative is basically over, in that nobody is going to kill Ethereum. It's sort of like I mentioned, Ethereum is the Manhattan of crypto. And the only real question is, is there going to be a chicago of crypto? And there may well be, but I think the idea that Chicago is going to kill New York is just. I think the ship has sailed.
01:21:20.090 - 01:21:27.320, Speaker A: But what if it's China versus America? Ethereum is the US, and some other chain is a different country.
01:21:28.810 - 01:23:35.540, Speaker D: I think what we're likely to see mean, actually, that analogy is a little bit twisted because, of course, seems like we're kind of entering into cold War relations with China. But what we saw was this globally connected supply chain. I mean, it is the case today that the reason why we're not actually in a cold war with China is because of our enormous economic interests connecting us together. I think it's very clear now that if another chain does rise to prominence and sort of becomes the second city within crypto, it will be purely because it is able to communicate and share resources and financial activity with what's happening in Ethereum. So all of the assets that have been issued on Ethereum, all the tether and the USDC and the dAi and the baal tokens and blah, blah, blah, all this stuff, right? Whoever it is, whether it's near or avalanche or Polkadot or Cosmos or whatever, they need to have some story for how those assets are going to come over if you actually want to have a viable financial system. And today, I think the story for how those chains fit in is that if they can offer a credible alternative to this heterogeneous vision and allow there to be sort of these new cities formed that still connect back to the Manhattan of crypto, there still is a road back to Ethereum that allow assets to get tokenized and pulled across some bridge, whether it be an interoperability bridge like polkadot or Cosmos or, you know, in the case of a layer one, a direct bridge to Ethereum, I think that's going to allow them to siphon off a lot of the economic activity such that again, the mid to low value stuff that doesn't really fit in a 200 GWE environment on Ethereum, which is just not economical for someone like you or me to do like a $20 trade look, that used to be possible, and now it's just not economical anymore. But if you pull it across to this newer city where land is cheap and anybody can start their own thing, and now suddenly entrepreneurship and the ability for small people to start small businesses, that starts to open up again, I think that's going to revitalize a lot of the.
01:23:35.540 - 01:23:38.626, Speaker D: That's the road to starting a second city.
01:23:38.728 - 01:24:16.058, Speaker B: So between sharding, which is very similar to just making a bunch of alternative blockchains that have easier ways to communicate with each other, and then also layer two, which is in a way kind of like making another type of blockchain or a similar blockchain construction, but with much more freedom in its architecture and its parameters, what's the real advantage of spinning up a whole entire own native l one blockchain, like an Ethereum killer, when you have the opportunity to just build an l two on Ethereum that uses very similar construction?
01:24:16.234 - 01:24:46.326, Speaker D: Well, I'd say the first thing is that those l two s right now. So we have ZK roll ups today and we're waiting on optimistic roll ups. So they haven't really arrived yet. The answer is that layer twos on Ethereum today are just, they're very constrained. It's not very easy to build good layer twos on top of Ethereum. And of course, I think everybody knows this at this point, that Ethereum just has a lot of technical baggage. And so to the extent that Ethereum 2.0
01:24:46.326 - 01:25:39.746, Speaker D: is so compelling, because it allows Ethereum to basically foist off any poor design choices that it made and to rebuild itself with a clearer, more lucid vision of what a blockchain should look like today. And I think today the clearest path to getting that is another layer one we already have layer ones other than Ethereum that have sort of more modern design choices that are built on proof of stake. They have finality. These are all things that you really want in a financial system, especially having fast finality. I talked earlier about one of the problems being latency. Latency is addressed much, much more compellingly in a world with proof of stake, where you can actually get finality in a proof of work type setting. But all these things in aggregate, I think, really tell you that it's a battle.
01:25:39.746 - 01:26:05.520, Speaker D: I don't think it's obviously foregone conclusion that one of these is going to win over the other. I think, honestly, the thing that matters most, more than any theoretical argument, more than any kind of technological argument, is just the simple answer is, look, who is going to have the first solution ready, that I can click a button, send my eth here, and then start trading on some other platform? Who's going to have that first? Right now, no one has it.
01:26:06.290 - 01:26:32.054, Speaker A: Jumping on kind of the analogy of sort of an Ethereum being a nation with all of these cities and that sort of thing. We just had Charlie Noyes from paradigm. I'm not sure if you know him, Haseeb. Okay, so we just had Charlie on the podcast. That's episode 26. Include it in the show notes. This is episode 27, and we got in a discussion about basically the requirement for main chains to have a monetary premium.
01:26:32.054 - 01:27:12.470, Speaker A: Their underlying asset must be a money, was sort of Charlie's conclusion, in order to provide sufficient security such that it beats all of the other chains, essentially. So if I could kind of boil it down, maybe I'm putting some words in Charlie's mouth. He says it very eloquently, basically, like, if you're a main chain, you kind of have to be a money. Your reserve asset has to be a money in order to succeed. And if your asset that's backing your chain is not a monetary asset, right. A store of value of some kind doesn't have some sort of monetary premium, then it's basically a side chain for some other chain that does. What's your take on that thesis? That idea?
01:27:12.620 - 01:27:30.242, Speaker D: So I think that's a. I agree in part with that argument, but I also disagree in part with that argument. And I disagree for two reasons. So one is that, and I know that this is very much going against the bankless party line, but I want to say controversial.
01:27:30.326 - 01:27:31.360, Speaker A: Please do.
01:27:31.970 - 01:28:21.338, Speaker D: I don't believe that ETH is money. I think that ETH today is still a speculative asset. And it's very unclear how Ethereum is going to evolve in whether or not there's this classic thesis, I think was first articulated most clearly by John Feffer in describing sort of ETH as being like the oil of Ethereum, right? Like the sort of fundamental commodity that drives Ethereum operation. But it's clear today, I think, that the core properties of money, store of value, medium, exchange and unit of account, they don't really describe anything in crypto today. The only thing that is used as a true store of value of account and asset of exchange is stable coins. And that's okay. I don't think we need to fool ourselves about that.
01:28:21.338 - 01:29:03.206, Speaker D: I think what's going on on Ethereum today is that people are very excited about Ethereum and they sort of see Ethereum almost as almost like the equity of whatever it is that Ethereum is doing. If you invest in east, somehow you capture some of the upside of whatever is going on in Ethereum. And that certainly has worked. And I think the one time that Ethereum has been a true reserve asset for crypto, and truly was the money of crypto, was in 2017, when Ethereum served as the reserve currency for icos. That was the one time, I think, when Ethereum was money or, sorry, that ether was money. And I think since then it has really kind of stopped being the case. I don't know anybody who pays each other with ETH.
01:29:03.206 - 01:29:15.774, Speaker D: I don't know anybody who denominates their costs, services, whatever in ETH. Everybody I know who looks at ETH is constantly looking at the USG price of ETH and modulating what they're doing based on that.
01:29:15.812 - 01:29:19.594, Speaker A: And has he, before we move on here, would you say the same is true of bitcoin?
01:29:19.722 - 01:29:50.006, Speaker D: Yes, absolutely. Same is true of bitcoin. They're both in the same boat. And so to that extent, the question of like, well, the asset of a chain needs to have a monetary premium. I don't think it's true that Ethereum has a monetary premium, because a monetary premium means it has a premium from being money. So in a sense, I think this is kind of the game that crypto investors like to play is they say, like, look, Ethereum is worth. Ether is worth tens of billions of dollars.
01:29:50.006 - 01:30:34.902, Speaker D: Clearly that's not justified by transaction fees alone. Therefore monetary premium, therefore ether is money. And I think that's sort of setting out what you're presuming to prove, presuming what you're setting out to prove in that. Look, ether is clearly trading at a premium to what it should, purely based on the transaction fees that are getting paid out in Ethereum today. What's causing that? Why is that happening? And monetary premium could be one explanation for it, but another one could be that people are speculating, that other people are speculating. People don't really know what Ethereum is going to be worth. Nobody has any idea how to value this thing ten years from now, if it ends up becoming this financial substrate for a bunch of financial activity out in the world, nobody has any fucking idea what this thing is going to be worth or how to value it.
01:30:34.902 - 01:31:33.094, Speaker D: And I think that's to a lesser extent that's true for bitcoin, because I think it's a much clearer model of what bitcoin can be. It can be this gold like, non sovereign sort of value thing. It's very clear now, I think, the role that bitcoin can play and how it can slot into a financial ecosystem. Nobody has any clue where Ethereum is going to fit into the future of finance. For that reason, I'm arguing that it's really not obvious to me that if there is another, first of all, the reason why Ethereum is especially valuable is because it's quote unquote money like. And if you assume that that's not true, and we're not really sure why Ethereum is so valuable today, then if another platform were to arise, let's say smart contract chain x, if smart contract chain x started gaining tons of traction and becoming very successful, then we wouldn't also see a ton of appreciation in its token price. And from everything that we see, it sort of seems like we would like.
01:31:33.094 - 01:32:25.946, Speaker D: My assumption would be if something else started really, really taking off and becoming very successful, that we would also see a bunch of appreciation in that token, as we seem to have seen in EOS and in Tron and in tezos, in a way even maybe disproportionate to how successful they've been because they have almost no real organic activity on any of those chains. Right? So long story short, pulling all these threads together, what I'm trying to say is that I think that argument makes a lot of sense. If you assume that the reason why ether is valuable today is because it's money like, and therefore, there's only going to be one money. Therefore, Eth is going to win, and everything else is going to be sidechain. And I've talked with Charlie about this before, and I think this is basically the thrust of his argument. And I think it's a little bit too elegant to describe the messiness of crypto as it actually is today, which is that we have no idea why this stuff is valuable. We have no idea if there's another smart contract chain that becomes extraordinarily successful, how is it going to get valued? We don't really know.
01:32:25.946 - 01:33:17.820, Speaker D: I think trying to be too sort of philosophical or analytical is going to lead you to make really, really big mistakes. It's like, why is Chainlink worth whatever it is, like, $15 billion, fully diluted? Trying to be too analytical about that is going to lead you to making lots of mistakes. And the same thing is true with a lot of stuff going on today in crypto. And I think that I would make the same argument about layer ones is that we don't really know what makes these layer ones valuable. If the argument is that, well, one thing should be money and everything else should be fuel, and therefore, if there is an avalanche or a near or a polka dot that's successful, then its currency should just be valued as fuel, and that's going to be really cheap and not so valuable, and therefore, it's not going to be able to drive an effect, economic security to secure itself and therefore, blah, blah, blah. I don't know. To me, you're multiplying, like, 20 probabilities together, and there's sort of this.
01:33:17.820 - 01:33:36.420, Speaker D: To me, you're just getting so much noise that's amplifying by taking together all those propositions that I just don't think that we know that. I don't think we know what makes these things valuable. But if I had to guess, and I would guess that you guys would probably put your money the same way, if some of the chain started taking off, it would start pumping, and not because of the transaction fees that are getting paid on the platform.
01:33:38.870 - 01:33:39.490, Speaker B: Hey, guys.
01:33:39.560 - 01:33:47.234, Speaker C: When I asked Haseeb this next question while we were recording, I had some troubles with my microphone. But I'm going to summarize the question here.
01:33:47.352 - 01:33:49.286, Speaker B: Basically, he just gave a critique of.
01:33:49.308 - 01:34:31.458, Speaker C: ETH is money, as with a more strict and rigid definition of the use of money. And I agree that in the sense that we don't use ether to pay for our groceries, that ETH is not money in that sense. But then I tried to reframe the ETH is money statement as more of a commitment to the fact that ether is valuable. It's a planting the flag and putting a foot down saying ether is valuable. And we needed this to happen in the Ethereum community because ether needs to be valuable for the Ethereum blockchain to work. I rerepresented ETH is money as a different definition and asked Haseeb if just ether is value instead of ETH is money resonated with him better?
01:34:31.544 - 01:34:33.060, Speaker B: So let's get into his answer.
01:34:33.750 - 01:35:20.558, Speaker D: Yeah, so that's a really good point. And look, obviously I'm a big ETH bull and I love the Ethereum community. Basically. I could not be more bullish and excited about what you guys are doing in spreading the message of the power and the vibrancy and the ethos of the Ethereum community. And I think ETH is undervalued even today. That said, I think this is, you call this a personal failing of mine, that I think I'm somebody who I'm particularly literal and that makes me very bad at politics. And so I think, you know, the, the ETH is money thing is a very powerful political statement, but it's, it's a powerful political statement in the same way that, you know, defund the police is a very powerful political statement.
01:35:20.558 - 01:36:43.818, Speaker D: But when you ask them like, well, what do you really mean defund the police? Like, well, not exactly. It's sort of more complicated, these like twelve different things and they're kind of like defunding the police, but it's really more subtle than that. And so I personally don't like those kinds of slogans that sort of have this like Mott and Bailey type mechanic to them, but I understand their utility and they are very important. And look, crypto is a fucking war zone and you guys are fighting crusades against the bitcoiners and whatever, tron shillers and whatever. And so I totally understand that you need ammunition and this is one of these pieces of ammunition. But at least for myself as an investor, I just know that for myself it's very difficult for me to walk around saying eth is money and still really understand what I'm saying and really understand, because I need to ask myself the question of like, look, 1015 years from now, or if another platform starts to succeed or another smart contract chain starts to become like this sort of l two that comes into its own, what is that going to be and how does it interact with Eth? And what do I really think drives the value of these things? And where do I think crypto is going if there's another winter and blah, blah, blah, blah? All these questions, I think, are super complex and very, very difficult to probe. And so I like the way that you put it, is that, look, I think it's going to be our enterprise for the next decade, is to really understand what the fuck is ether, what actually is it? And right now, it's like, evolving before our eyes.
01:36:43.818 - 01:37:22.422, Speaker D: It's changing in all these different ways. People are valuing it in different. Eventually there's going to be a textbook written about ether and ethereum and smart contract chains and all this stuff. And what I really want to know, I think what I see my job as an investor is to try to get as fast as possible to whatever that person is going to write in that textbook of like, here's what it was, here's what it actually was, here's how it actually worked. And all those people along those ten years, they just had no clue. They didn't know the germ theory yet. They thought it was like devils and curses and hexes and all this stupid stuff that they were running around, not able to figure out what the real underlying mechanics were that made these things function the way that they do.
01:37:22.422 - 01:37:32.794, Speaker D: That's what I see my job as trying to figure out. And so, look, God bless you guys. Obviously I love you both, but I can't get behind the eth's money thing. And it's probably more my fault than yours.
01:37:32.922 - 01:38:25.102, Speaker A: I actually, for my part, has. He don't really like the way you articulate it is totally fine to me. Right. So where I have more of the problem is when people look at bitcoin through a different lens than evaluating other crypto assets. And not just ether, but other main chain layer one crypto assets, and give a preferential thesis to bitcoin, for example, without looking at all of the ways, also ether or some other asset of some other layer one blockchain accrues value. Because I think the arguments that make sense for bitcoin could also potentially make sense for ether. I know Pfeiffer, excuse me, explores that a little bit in his paper, but I do think it's an unexplored area of at least bitcoin maximalism, but I'm content to leave it there.
01:38:25.102 - 01:39:05.900, Speaker A: Haseeba's a fantastic articulation. Why don't we end with this question? We're kind of zooming out all of the ways we've sort of changed our minds intellectual misses that we've had over the years. I think people who have listened to bankless will understand we're all very much trying to figure this out together. It's like a collective journey, and you have to adjust your thesis midstream. But if you were to lay out some maybe high conviction bets that you'd make, at the risk of having to adjust in the not too distant future, what are some high conviction ideas that you have right now that you think would be important for us to know?
01:39:07.470 - 01:39:56.282, Speaker D: High conviction ideas that I have right now. Let's see here. The first thing, I mean, we touched on this already, but I think that uniswap is going to get unbundled, and there's going to be more and more price competition and more and more complex forms of market making that are going to make their way to layer one. I think that's the first thing. The second big bet that I would make in this space is that as an investor, I spend a lot of my time, of course, in the Ethereum world, and I spend a lot of time kind of in the world of exchanges and other kinds of businesses. And I think what we're seeing across the board, both in DeFi land and in non DeFi land, is increasing financialization of crypto. So we're starting to see options take off not so much in crypto as we're actually lead investors in open.
01:39:56.282 - 01:41:03.242, Speaker D: And options are still very, very tiny in crypto land or in sort of on chain DeFi land. Whereas in, if you look at options volumes on derabit and on paradigm and on some of these other options platforms, they're really starting to grow rapidly. And I think you're seeing things like structured products and all sorts of fancy financial primitives that are finding their way and starting to disseminate more and more through crypto. And eventually, I think what you see almost inevitably between centralized finance, which I like to call CFI and DeFi, is convergence, is that over time, DeFi starts to basically converge with the things that people are buying and selling on CFI. And so one of those things as well that I think is going to be a big growth area in DeFi is already, we talked today about how a lot of the volumes that are growing in DeFi today are in spot markets. So Uniswap is basically almost all spot. So buying and selling the raw assets, buying USDC, selling Ethereum, whatever, but there's not a lot of derivatives right now on chain.
01:41:03.242 - 01:41:58.442, Speaker D: Duidx is really the only platform that's doing it today. But we think there's going to be a lot of growth here. There's a huge cohort of platforms that are coming live very soon that are going to offer basically Bitmex style trading experiences directly on chain that allow people to get more leverage and trade, also arbitrary assets and especially with Bitmex, the recent news of Bitmex enabling KYC for everybody, I think it's also very timely that this stuff is going to start coming live. So the big meta thesis in my mind to look out for is DeFI and CFI converging and offering the same set of products and evolving in the same way. So like getting perpetual swaps onto Ethereum, getting options and other kinds of financial instruments onto Ethereum, getting more complex market making onto Ethereum. All these things will start to look more and more similar to eventually the point at which you can start doing all the same things you wanted to do on a centralized exchange. You can do it all from your Ethereum wallet.
01:41:58.442 - 01:42:01.534, Speaker D: I think that's the future that's coming and that's what I'm excited about.
01:42:01.652 - 01:42:08.182, Speaker A: Very cool. Haseeb, it has been an absolute pleasure to have you in front of the bankless nation. Thank you so much for your time.
01:42:08.316 - 01:42:10.054, Speaker D: Thanks for having me. This is a lot of fun.
01:42:10.172 - 01:42:59.218, Speaker A: I will leave listeners with this. It's a tweet that Haseeb recently made that said, ethereum 10 isn't big enough for what DFI is about to become. I think that is important for the bankless nation to understand whether it takes the form of ethereum, whether it takes the form of ETH 10 or ETH 20, bitcoin, other chains that develop the idea around DFI and the idea behind bankless being self sovereign over your own resources and money is the core thesis of crypto. At least that's what the bankless nation believes. Some action items, guys, there are two articles you absolutely need to read from Haseeb. The first is published on bankless. It is called Defi in ETH 20 cities, suburbs and farms, which gets into that analogy.
01:42:59.218 - 01:43:26.778, Speaker A: We will include it in action list. Also read what explains the rise of automated market makers. Has he wrote that one as well? Gets into his thoughts on automated market makers. Lastly, we are looking for four more five star reviews to get us to 100. So I just looked at the podcast on Apple iTunes. We've got a ton. We've got like 94 and we just need, excuse me, we've got 96 and we just need four more five star reviews.
01:43:26.778 - 01:43:44.350, Speaker A: So get out there if you're excited about the bankless podcast. You're excited about the movement. Get out there, give us a five star review, and get us to 100 risks and disclaimers, everyone. ETH is risky. Bitcoin is risky. DFI is risky. Everything in crypto is pretty risky right now.
01:43:44.350 - 01:43:53.570, Speaker A: You could lose what you put in. But we are headed west. This is the frontier. It's not for everyone. But we're glad you're with us on the bankless journey. Thanks a lot. Bye.
