00:00:03.850 - 00:00:25.800, Speaker A: Cool. Hey, everyone, thanks for joining us today. It's cool to have you here on the call with us. This is a session that's going to be run by Alex from Rarible, and it's going to be on the Rarible Dao and protocol incentives. So I'm going to pass it over to Alex and he'll give a quick intro and kick the session off.
00:00:26.570 - 00:00:58.222, Speaker B: Thank you, Emily. Thank you, guys. Who participating here today? My name is Alex Salnikov. I'm a co founder and head of product at Wearable. Wearable is an NFT marketplace initially targeting all the categories and that wanted to be as democratizing access as possible. And I think we've succeeded in that regard somewhat. And we've been growing for 1.5
00:00:58.222 - 00:01:49.546, Speaker B: years now and grown quite large, literally. We probably are the first marketplace in terms of users actually making on chain transactions and second in terms of volume. Second marketplace on ethereum in terms of volume. So this is the free flowed session, more or less. I wanted to talk about the Dao and the progressive decentralization that Wearable follows. But first I wanted to ask might be if somebody has some questions today before we start, because the hackathon is ongoing and it's all moving great. We have a lot of people hacking building on top of Wearable.
00:01:49.546 - 00:02:51.490, Speaker B: There are some errors and stuff, but yeah, that's the best part of the hackathons. So if somebody has questions beforehand, yeah, please put them in the chat or just ask them with the voice. Okay, that's fine. So half of the year ago in July, wearable was this early marketplace with not a lot of liquidity. We had all the great artists on board, aussinachi, Frenetic, Void, but there wasn't enough. The buy power and the marketplace flywheel wasn't going the way it's supposed to do. We had something like $30,000 in monthly volume, and we've been brainstorming solutions and ideas how to proceed.
00:02:51.490 - 00:04:13.138, Speaker B: And we ultimately decided that there is a spirit inside the community. We've been always tracking the community sentiment, always being on Twitter asking who do verify, who should we support more? Who are the cool artists out there? And this community spirit was driving us forward. And we decided to decentralize the project further and basically follow this exit to community structure proposed by Vitalik at some point. So our first stage was to launch Liquidity Mining program. So we created the Rari Governance Token and started rewarding people for making transactions on the marketplace. So people, everyone who is transacting on the marketplace each week is eligible to have the part of the drop of the weekly drop proportionally to the volume transacted. So we distribute 75,000 prairies, half of that to buyers, half of that to sellers, and we count all the volume in the week and distribute these rewards proportionally to the volume.
00:04:13.138 - 00:05:09.294, Speaker B: So this works pretty great. And we've seen how encouraging that was for a lot of creators and buyers to actually start doing something with NFTs and that was only the first step. So after this half of the year, what we are doing now is we are creating an actual Dow. So the governance process, the very governance token so far works like this. If you want to come up with the proposal to do something or if you have some idea, some implementation in mind, you can reach out to the team and the team will talk about this proposal with you and then put it on snapshot voting. And as soon as it voted on the snapshot voting, then we go to the execution part. So the execution part is the hardest one.
00:05:09.294 - 00:06:19.814, Speaker B: So we had these proposals on our snapshot like okay guys, let's go to layer two. And obviously that's a good proposal to have, that's good that people are voting for it, but the execution part of that is the hardest. So wearable is in this process and decentralizing the actual execution. So we are in urge need and we welcome everyone to participate together in the Dao to create this piece of infrastructure for NFTs that would be shared, that would be trusted, that would be governed as a public good. The good example that we aiming to can be ICANN organization that's handling all the domain names on the internet. Initially that organization was assembled from the big players in the small internet. That was long time ago and it feels like blockchain now.
00:06:19.814 - 00:08:17.286, Speaker B: The whole blockchain space is following some kind of similar path that the whole internet did in its early days. So it's extremely important to create these groups, groups by interests that came together, that have common goals and that work together to achieve these goals the blockchain gave us. So almost all the organizations on the internet right now as this ICNN, they are all nonprofit organizations and the blockchain now gave the whole new level of possibilities for these groups on the internet that want to do something together. We can actually now form DAOs and to make sure that the Dao members would benefit from this common goal. So our big goal for the Dao, our big goal for the NFT community is to unite the community and create this shared single space with a lot of liquidity for the NFT tokens because I think the single best goal, the hardest problem of the NFT market is this ability to buy and sell NFT whenever you want. You bought an NFT and then you want to sell it, you need to make sure that there is enough liquidity and there is a lot of potential buyers, but these buyers need to be connected with the sellers. That's why we came up with verbal protocol that allows the shared single order book, the shared single liquidity source for all the players building on top of the protocol.
00:08:17.286 - 00:09:45.254, Speaker B: Now, sometimes it's hard to build on top of something, but again, as we've seen with Ethereum, the decentralization of the protocol, the decentralization of the foundation level on which we are building on is the real guarantee that it would be governed as a public good with all the interests of parties respected. So this is our dream and goal for the Wearable dow. And we created rare token, and 70% of that token is devoted to be given out to the participants of the protocol. Right now, this is buyers, sellers on the marketplace, but we can extend it further. So it's just really important that we take those 70% of the network and we make sure that the players who contributed to the network should receive their respectful parties. So if you're building on top of Wearable protocol, please reach out to us and let's try to come up with the specific incentives that would make sure you're happy building on top of variable protocol. So, I have several ideas in mind already.
00:09:45.254 - 00:10:37.400, Speaker B: I think we can extend liquidity mining program to something like a developer mining program. So that right now we give out these rewards to people who trade on the marketplace. But there will be several parties now who bring orders to this protocol level, and Wearable would be only one of these parties. So Wearable would continue to give out these rewards to the players, to the participants of the marketplace. But the actual other players who are building on top of Wearable protocol, they can give out only half of that and keep the part of the stake to themselves. So that's our goal to create this incentive for developers to build on top to make sure that you will be this governing party of the protocol. That was initial idea.
00:10:37.400 - 00:11:10.420, Speaker B: Let's bring people in control. Let's bring people who bring value. Let's put those people in control of the system. So, yeah, there is 49% of the network yet unallocated. I can see there is two questions from the hackers in the chat. So, yes, we have a test marketplace on Rinkibuy. That's rinkibuy wearable.com.
00:11:10.420 - 00:12:17.590, Speaker B: Let me just check that it works. Yes, it's Rinkabuy Wearable.com. As soon as you put some items on sale, as soon as you create some items on the Rinkabuy network, they should be indexed by our Rinkabuy Wearable marketplace and shown on the marketplace. You can connect your wallet and try to find all the NFTs that you created on the Rinky Buy network. So this marketplace, I need to remind you that marketplace is running on the previous version of the protocol and will adopt the new version of the protocol soon. But that doesn't mean that but the assets are still shared across all the marketplaces. So if you created an asset on Rinkubai network, it would be indexed by our Rinkubai marketplace, but the actual sale contract would differ.
00:12:17.590 - 00:13:08.662, Speaker B: So that's an important thing to understand. Thank you guys for the questions. I almost felt like, come on, man. Yeah, you're talking about the dow. But we need to hack. So where is the Rinkabyte marketplace? And I'm super happy, guys, that you care about things to actually work. So probably this session today is just for you guys to understand that as soon as this hackathon is done, after you've got your ideas built and presented, you can reach out to the wearable team and we can transfer that relationship into a long term relationship.
00:13:08.662 - 00:14:13.180, Speaker B: With the support from our Dao, we can fund the development, like multi month development with the funds allocated from the Dow. We can allocate some tokens for the volume that you brought to the protocol level. So it's all this idea of building because it's important to build something. It's hard to build something sustainable without putting a lot of your attention to it. And we want to make sure that you would be able to put your attention in it and that we can cover some funds or something else that you need in order to fully concentrate on building. So there is another question that you're reading our docs on sell orders and the API docs seem to be broken since today morning. So let me check that.
00:14:13.180 - 00:15:36.820, Speaker B: There is this sponsor Wearable Discord Channel that we have and our two developers are there and they covered this briefly on how to put an actual order to the API. So it is like several messages above. Let me find this, I'll try to put that into the terminal. I will put that example to our documentation as soon as this session ends. I'm pretty sure that a lot of people were able to mint tokens on drink by network. That's the first large win. And for the actual orders to be for the actual orders to be matched.
00:15:36.820 - 00:16:22.276, Speaker B: We do have several examples. They are not yet in the doc. So yeah, let's please stay. After this session in the Discord channel, I will share some examples of how that work. Again, I feel that there is this important questions about how that actually works and I feel that you are guys concentrated on the hacking. So let's put that thing aside and contact us after the hackathon on these incentives and stuff. So right now let me try to remind you the architecture of how it all works.
00:16:22.276 - 00:17:12.544, Speaker B: So I can try to get into more of the details now. So if you want to sell an item, let me share my screen. If you want to sell an item, you need to assemble a structure of this type. And it consists of this maker. It's the person who wants to put something like make is basically the part of the order that you are willing to give up. And take is something that you want to receive in response. So the maker is the person who is giving up an asset and you need to put an asset inside this make structure.
00:17:12.544 - 00:18:00.240, Speaker B: You need to describe this token and token ID of the assets that you want to give up. And there is these creators and royalties and signatures. That's actually for the lazy minting type. You need to put up the creators and signatures. Then there is the stake asset, the thing that you want to receive in response that was actually updated. This document was updated, so please check it once again. There is this random salt, this random number that you want to generate just to make sure that this is another order, not the same order that wants to sell or buy the same assets.
00:18:00.240 - 00:18:51.476, Speaker B: And there is this data field, an arbitrary field that we design specifically to add more and more functions to the orders. So there is this V, one version of this data field that accepts beneficiaries. Here you can provide multiple beneficiaries that would receive the proceedings of an order after the order gets matched. And here you also can provide origin fees. And by origin you need to provide an address of the front end of the origin that supplied this order. And this origin would receive the parts of the proceedings as well. You need to sign this order.
00:18:51.476 - 00:19:26.408, Speaker B: The actual signing should be done with EIP 7112 712. It's assigning structures inside MetaMask. So this is how you should sign an order. And then you need to put that order into our API. Here's the link to API. It's a put order. It's a put order that provides an order here to our API endpoint.
00:19:26.408 - 00:20:44.400, Speaker B: As I can see it, this particular example should work now. But let me check with the team again and after the session I can I will be in the chat so we can figure it out. Do we have more questions here from the audience? Is that streaming? Maybe we have some questions on the YouTube. No? Yeah, from YouTube. So your worry is that you can bring a lot of sales, but because it's a dow, I would get significantly less return that if I had my own protocol. Yeah, that's part of the problem that protocols tries to solve. So if you have your own protocol, that definitely means that you have 100% proceedings going to you, right, and it's cool, but it's really hard to kick start your own protocol.
00:20:44.400 - 00:21:36.660, Speaker B: You need to have a buyers and sellers and verbal protocol ready have buyers and sellers and long term we have Ethereum Network. Ethereum Network is being fragmented now a little bit. So we have several different layer two solutions like Starquare Manic polygon, we have Xdai, we have this optimism and ZK sync. So people would spread their NFTs across these different solutions. People would fragment not only L two, but another L ones as well. So there will be adoption of blockchains like flow, like polka dot, like near Salana. So NFTs will just lead everywhere.
00:21:36.660 - 00:22:43.992, Speaker B: I can promise you they will be everywhere. They will move across the bridges from one environment to another and there will be a lot of places for the NFTs to be present at. And we really don't want this. A lot of places to be fragmented in terms of liquidity that you know that you have a lot of buyers on the ethereum network but you have a lot of creators on the flow blockchain because it's free to create on it. So that's our goal to assemble teams to work together on the protocol and to be a shared owners of that protocol. That is the answer that mitigates basically your worry. So it's not that you're asked to build on someone else's dow, but it's asked to build on the shared owners owned on the Sharely owned protocol.
00:22:43.992 - 00:23:52.170, Speaker B: So if you bring a lot of sales to the protocol, that means that you would receive a lot of control in the protocol and that would be partially your protocol. Yes. And the idea is to obstruct away a lot of complexity to combine NFTs orders on NFTs from every part of the blockchain world. It feels like an internet of blockchains now. So the NFTs would move from other layer two to ethereum layer one and back and vice versa. And the task of the protocol is to combine all of it to index all the data on the wearable on other side chains, to index all the NFTs to make sure that we can move them across bridges. And the shared ownership of this public infrastructure is our dream goal.
00:23:52.170 - 00:24:43.580, Speaker B: So if you have some ideas, if you're just willing to help let's connect and assemble the team that works together on this protocol. It's not only working on top of the protocol, you can also improve the protocol itself. For example, it's lacking on chain order book. Now, we can develop on chain order book together for this shared ownership and it all can be done with proposals. You can submit a proposal like I want to build this part of the protocol, I want to build starkware support for the protocol and I want 0.5% of the network for that. And the existing community can vote whether that's fine for them or not.
00:24:43.580 - 00:25:50.230, Speaker B: That's the global idea of the shared ownership of the infrastructure. Does wearable provide royalty down? That brings royalty up a chain of resales all the way to the artist wearable? I'm not sure I've got the wearable dow part, the royalty dow part. But wearable provides this interface for the royalties downstreaming directly to the artist. So on the event of asset creation, you can incorporate inside the asset contract, you can incorporate this royalties interface. Basically when exchange is calling the contract the asset contract, the ERC 721 or 1155 contract. Exchange expects to understand how much royalties each ID of these collections. Each item ID of these collections.
00:25:50.230 - 00:26:25.054, Speaker B: What is this royalty setup on our GitHub? There is two royalties interfaces. One of them is a little bit old. It should return two arrays. The first array would be array of addresses and the second array would be array of amounts. How much each address should receive. Respectfully, that's a little bit old interface. There is a Royalty V two interface that you can implement that returns the array of tuples.
00:26:25.054 - 00:27:20.466, Speaker B: And in tuple, the first part would be address, and the second part would be amount of how much this address should receive. The amount is denominated in basis points. Basis point is 100 of the percent. So as soon as you implemented that on an asset level, in the event of the orders being matched inside our matching contract, our matching contract would call the asset contract to understand how much royalties it should pay out. And it will pay out all the royalties that are told the matching contract to be paid out to the artist or artist and manager or artist and manager and their collaborator. So you can provide arbitrary set of royalties there. Okay, we're almost running out of time now.
00:27:20.466 - 00:28:04.950, Speaker B: If you have some more questions, please ask them now. Okay, I think that would be probably it. I want to encourage everyone to build I want to encourage everyone to build on this shared infrastructure. I want you to apply for this shared ownership of that infrastructure at some point if you decide to have a long term relationship with the Wearable Dao. Thank you, everybody who participated today. It's a real pleasure to work with you guys.
00:28:07.400 - 00:28:23.960, Speaker A: Thanks so much. Alex. Yeah, thanks for taking us through all that and for answering everybody's questions. If you have any more questions for Alex, you can reach him in the sponsor Rarible channel. And, yeah, he'll get back to you. Have a nice afternoon.
00:28:24.000 - 00:28:24.264, Speaker B: Noon.
00:28:24.312 - 00:28:24.730, Speaker A: Morning, everybody.
