00:00:08.119 - 00:00:37.175, Speaker A: Hello everyone. I'm Alex, the co founder at dbridge. And in dbridge we like to say something that everyone who has come to breakpoint can already feel in their bones. We are saying Defi does not wait. And let's test something. Who here at Breakpoint sent a telegram message today? Raise your hands. Don't worry, I'm not really Interpol.
00:00:37.175 - 00:02:08.415, Speaker A: Yeah, literally everyone. And now imagine if the message that you sent would take 20 minutes to be delivered to recipients, or if they reply that is sent back would take 20 minutes to hit your inbox. Or if the content of the message delivered would be slightly different from the one that was signed, what would be the opportunity cost? Like, even for this conference, all the people you did not meet, all the connections you did not make, all the parties you missed. What am I getting at here? What I'm getting at that Internet makes magic happen by connecting people in real time. And that's why in D Bridge, we believe that Defi should be connected in real time too. And we are solving this by building Defi's Internet of Liquidity, the trustless layer that connects information and liquidity in real time for users and builders on Solana and beyond. And the first step of doing this was launching a zero TVL intent based model for bridging at the beginning of the last year, enabling virtually instant transfers of information and value with guaranteed rates.
00:02:08.415 - 00:03:15.205, Speaker A: And at that time, lots of people told us that this model will never work, that liquidity pools with synchronous execution is the only solution for bridging, that waiting for 15 minutes till the transfer is settled while losing on slippage is an acceptable status quo. But Solana, you guys were the first to understand this vision and to believe that Defi could do better. We started to build on Solana back in summer 2021 after receiving a small grant from Solana Foundation. And we launched mainnet on Solana in the middle of the last year. And it's with huge joy. I'm proud to say that DeBridge has become Solana's favorite bridge. We help more than 117,000 users to bridge more than $2 billion of liquidity between Solana and other blockchain ecosystems.
00:03:15.205 - 00:04:54.405, Speaker A: We are working with partners who share our vision on Defi, Jupiter, Birdie, Soulflare, Wallets, Zeta Markets and many other incredibly hard working teams and stupidly smart guys who work 247 to make DeFi better. Solana has already become the chain with the best user experience. And together with our partners and community, our goal is to make it extremely easy to do anything in defi through Solana and here is what's coming next. We'll help to make Solana become a global standard for payments and stablecoin transfers and connect Solana to Tron Ton and many other blockchain ecosystems opening up access to more than $60 billion of stablecoin. Liquid native Bitcoin is coming to Solana through dbridge the most secure cross chain infrastructure today. Imagine you'll be able to trade any liquid on chain asset to native Bitcoin instantly with settlement happening on Solana thanks to its fast finality cashless bridging same chain intents and social fire apps will be among other things that will be powered by D Bridge. But before that now it's time to you to take control over dbridge.
00:04:54.405 - 00:05:20.575, Speaker A: It's time for DBR and today we'd like to answer the question that we were asked most during the last month when talking DBR goes live on October 17th 8aM UTC time with Jupiter LFG launch happening 48 hours prior to that. Thank you and let's go.
