00:00:00.080 - 00:00:41.374, Speaker A: Now, thanks. Thanks a lot for introduction and for giving this opportunity. I know this will be a relatively more technical talk, but I'm grateful to Rebecca for the nice introduction that she has done with nice visualizations as well. So when she arrived at the cake where with the most important parts, and then she was pointing out at the air pollution site, I'm looking at the water resource management side. Okay. So that's going to be my focus today. So why? Well, I mean, I don't think I have to convince you about the importance of the issue.
00:00:41.374 - 00:01:29.850, Speaker A: We know that agricultural sector accounts for about 70% of use of fresh water resources. And out of the 70%, 86% is due to irrigation. So sustainable irrigation has a dramatic impact on water availability and, well, the other cycle at large. And clearly this cause groundwater depletion. And it's mainly food and energy shortages, as well as soil organization and seawater. Seawater in coastal basis. Okay.
00:01:29.850 - 00:02:28.574, Speaker A: Yet when we think about irrigation protocols that are applied, well, they're based on heuristic approaches that determine the right timing and amount of irrigation. And, I mean, that's quite natural, right? Because it's not something very. It's not something new. We've been using irrigation for thousands of years. Thousands of years. So we have a very large bulk of expert knowledge of both agricultural and technological issues about this issue. Yet very seldomly, we apply proper understanding of the dynamics taking place there to optimize the irrigation file.
00:02:28.574 - 00:03:31.334, Speaker A: Okay. And I mean, this is even more important if we think about more controlled frameworks where we might grow and harvest produce. So, for example, I was recently reading a tomato grown in the Netherlands with very advanced and highly controlled setting, needs 3% of the water of a tomato grown in the US on average. Okay. So it's not just about having, you know, it's not just about being a rich country or poor countries, more about, we have a certain amount of information and knowledge. We want to apply this or we want to keep doing things as we've been doing for thousands of years. So this is also in line with what.
00:03:31.334 - 00:04:37.232, Speaker A: So we have the tools. Are we willing to transfer these tools and make use of them? Okay, so, yeah, this is basically, here are our interests in this program. So the idea is to reduce the water resource for irrigation. And this also avoids aquifer overexploitation as well as reduce the risk of soil salinization in costar as. Okay. Now, for doing that, we'll use a highly technical mathematical model that I introduced here. So, it's a model that we use to describe the water vertical infiltration, percolation, diffusion, and storing to unsaturated zones.
00:04:37.232 - 00:05:51.810, Speaker A: These are vector diffusion equation known as Richard's equation. It has been somehow validated over the last three, four decades, say, is a nonlinear partial differential equation that describes the evolution of the well, either the pressure head h, or the water content theta, that is also called the mosquito in terms of ideological parameters. Okay, so here we have the dysfunction. K is the hydraulic conductivity function c, which appears here. The coefficient of the time, time derivative of the pressure head is the specific moisture capacity. And since we want to address this issue in the context of irrigation, we should also model the root water uptake, which in this case, if the function r, that depends, of course, on the crop or plants that we're dealing with. And clearly, I mean this.
00:05:51.810 - 00:07:18.266, Speaker A: So this describes the crop that we are using, k describes the soil, we are proximal. And, well, as I said, we can consider this Richard equation either in explicit form when we consider the dynamics on age, or in implicit form when we consider dynamic on theta on the water context. So, as I said, this equation has been validated by several studies analyzing the percolation of water in soil. So, this is usually the profile of the water's content with respect to the pressure head h. So, clearly, this is a non linear relation between these two quantities that, I mean, based on this kind of behavior, we try to determine which kind of hydraulic functions might be more meaningful. Okay, in this direction. Well, many different models have been proposed, starting from some time leading words that I mentioned here.
00:07:18.266 - 00:08:22.018, Speaker A: So, these are the possible hydraulic functions we can consider. Okay, so there is a garden model that takes into account an exponential relation between pressure heads and water contents. And that's the hydraulic function that results from this relation. Then we have other models known as the other Kampf model and the Wangen model. So, in this case, the relation between moisture and pressure head is given by a rational function, basically with different parameters. So all these other parameters are somehow determined by soil under consideration. Okay? So we will not focus on the value of the parameters, just to understand the kind of consecutive relationships we can consider between these functions.
00:08:22.018 - 00:09:23.092, Speaker A: Okay, this quantity, okay, so I said we want to use this dynamical system and study, study an optimization framework for this. Okay. So we want to consider the regional equation. For simplicity, I will focus on a one dimensional domain, okay? So from zero to that is going to be the depth of the soil under consideration. And clearly, in this system, our control enters as the irrigation module, which is the top boundary condition. Okay, so here I've written the equation in an implicit form. So, with respect to the dynamic theta and the amount of irrigation we provide is our control input.
00:09:23.092 - 00:10:54.514, Speaker A: Okay, the bottom model condition dysfunction g, describes the interaction with the environment below the part of the area of the soil we are interested in, which is usually where the roots of the crop are. And then we have some initial moisture. So initial condition that describes the initial water content in the soil. Okay, now for the root water uptake that here enters as the source term. Here we use a rather simplified model introduced by pedestrian, where basically has this affine profile, okay, so the result that, where the root water is maximized, okay, so there are some, there is a specific interval of pressures where the, where the roots will have the highest watertake and well, and then there is a linear behavior, the slope depends on the able transpiration of the soil. So related to other physical quantities of the model. And.
00:10:54.514 - 00:12:00.100, Speaker A: Well, as I said, we are interested in the optimization constraint of the diameter system provided by the Richard equation. So, we need to introduce a utility function, an objective function that describes what we want to either maximize or minimize. In this case, well, we have a twofold objective. On one hand, we want to optimize the root water uptake, right? So this can be a proxy for optimizing the yield of the field, for example. So we want the root water uptake to be as close as possible to the mass value that can be achieved. And this is one objective. And then the second one where we want to achieve this, while minimizing the irrigation cost, the cost of irrigation effort, if you want, okay, and well, in these two, uh, objective.
00:12:00.100 - 00:13:10.884, Speaker A: So if you, if you just want to optimize the irrigation cost, just set the irrigation to zero. But that will not improve our water uptake. And if you want to get the pressure such that the root watertight is maximized, this will have a irrigation cost, okay, then we have a parameter lambda that can somehow tune which of the two objectives we want to prioritize. Okay, clearly we need to, we can only choose control actions that are admissible. And in this case, admissible controls needs to satisfy some physical parameters. So for example, the control that is this time dependent function, right, that we want to determine must be such that we never reach saturation. Okay, so here we are describing a quasi unsaturated model, okay? So we assume we are in a condition that we never reach saturation in our water content.
00:13:10.884 - 00:14:16.878, Speaker A: Now, although this is a, these are quadratic functions, right? So this seems that a really trivial optimization problem, because each with quadratic function, basically we have a parabola, right. So we always have one unique mean, right? But actually this is not the case in our problem, because although the, although the functional j is quadratic, the nonlinearity of the equation, okay, so here we have the state h or theta is the same, the satisfy dynamics. So this means that optimization problem is non convex. Okay, so you shall imagine a situation where if you look at the landscape of this cost function, you might have several local meaning, okay, and so, well, we have got a mean that occurs in the option control problem. Now we want to understand how we can use control methodologies to describe and characterize these local minimums.
00:14:16.966 - 00:14:18.534, Speaker B: We've got about three minutes left.
00:14:18.614 - 00:15:14.496, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah. Okay, so this leads to introduce when the adjoining state, that is a classical method in control theory. And thanks to this adjoin state, we can characterize the optimality systems. So here, these are all equations that we have seen already. So this is the direct problem equation, this is the adjoint equation in black. And thanks to the adjoint state p, we can characterize the option control, that is this function associated with the flux of the adjunct state at the top boundary condition. Okay, so this is, as I said, a very powerful control framework where we can get a characterization of the optimal control and then use this in applications.
00:15:14.496 - 00:15:42.540, Speaker A: So that's what I want to show you in a couple of examples. The first one is as slowly described by the other count model. Okay, so these are again the hydraulic functions. And this is the pedestrian model for the root model. Take that I already. And we have some. So we'll use the parameters of a sandy soil.
00:15:42.540 - 00:16:40.186, Speaker A: So we got a past diffusion 35. We will see this simulation for when the transfer 3 hours and it will depth of 70 cm. We have some, some initial and boundary conditions at the bottom. And then at the top, the condition is our optimal controls that you want to determine. And this is the profile of the option order contents obtained through the optimal control, that is determined here by the optimization algorithm. Okay, so as you can see what we are seeing here, the gap is enough that the bottom condition does not feel reaction of the irrigation. So it's always the same.
00:16:40.186 - 00:17:11.310, Speaker A: And then we can see here, as the profile of the outmoder content reaches a certain state, that is where the root water update is maximized. Okay, and we can see this also in, in a second example where we use instead van gunwale model, that is convenient to describe long fine sands. These parameters are taken from a soil in Berlin.
00:17:11.502 - 00:17:13.270, Speaker B: If you could just maybe wrap up.
00:17:13.342 - 00:17:59.268, Speaker A: Yeah, so I'll just show the last simulations associated with this soil source. In this case, we can determine control. Okay. That has a certain behavior and leads the water content to even almost a steady state profile. Okay. Now, so this is what we have done, and what we plan on doing is to consider the same model, but to add also the presence of nutrients. So, to describe dynamics of nutrients, in this case, of course, the model needs to be enlarged with some equation for the dynamics of the nutrients.
00:17:59.268 - 00:18:17.544, Speaker A: But we believe that's something that needs to be done in order to determine how we can minimize stabilizer consumption as well as other resources. Okay? So that's all, and thank you for your time. Thanks a lot.
00:18:20.134 - 00:18:29.014, Speaker B: If you wouldn't mind coming up to the front, we're running a little behind, so we'll maybe take one question for each speaker, and then in.
