00:00:00.250 - 00:00:53.318, Speaker A: One of the best things about being a channel that isn't funded by ads is that we don't really need to worry about views if it's not necessary. And with first look, we get to go digging in the fringes of the Defi universe to see what might be out there to cover the stories that nobody else is. Before we get into all of that, here's a message from our sponsors don't let high gas costs keep you out of Ethereum. A balance has a gas optimized vault architecture makes trading cheaper than anywhere else liquidity providers can optimize is their fee earnings using the dynamic fee system that automatically adjusts to market conditions. You can also use asset managers to lend out idle assets, dramatically increasing your capital efficiency. And because balancer is an open platform for flexible automated markets, you can choose from stable pools or weighted pools, and in the future more designs will be created that they don't even know about yet. Check it out at Balancer Phi defi users, you no longer need to pay expensive and unpredictable interest rates on your ETH loans.
00:00:53.318 - 00:01:33.214, Speaker A: Liquidy, a decentralized borrowing protocol, allows you to borrow against your ETH. Interest free loans are paid out in LUSD, a USD pegged stablecoin, and need to maintain a minimum collateral ratio as low as 110%. To learn more, head over to liquidity.org defiant to get started and get the most out of your borrowing needs today. So my personal favorites of first look this year were actually mistex, the flashbot powered Dex Ichi's branded dollars, and Tokamax's liquidity reactors, which played into the big DFI 20 narrative in the second half of the year. But you lot, you vote with your eyeballs. And those peepers told us in no uncertain terms what it was they found good and profound in DFI.
00:01:33.214 - 00:02:17.478, Speaker A: And here it is at number three was Nexus protocol's anchor vault, which allows users to take a much sturdier position on the borrow side of the anchor money market. Now, we've covered anchor a lot on this channel, but that's mainly because anchor is pretty much completely unique in Defi. Most other protocols have a fork or a lookalike elsewhere, but anchor, but it doesn't. And it's one of the very few projects that is Muggle friendly, hence the coverage. And number two, no surprise here, really. It was Olympus pro an hour look at whether bonds could be used to replace liquidity mining. Now, we covered this before there was even a sniff of DFI 20, and I still think that meme is pointless and unnecessary but viewers certainly thought this was one of the most interesting and view worthy pieces of the year.
00:02:17.478 - 00:02:43.946, Speaker A: And if you want more of an overview on Olympus, Dow and where they're headed next year, then do check out our deep dive on the project from last week. That ALP is actually currently still editing and we just recorded the interview with Jala. But this is the future. So it's last week and coming in at number one was our video on Polywale and the Phantom wallet. What were we thinking there? Phantom is a wallet on Solana. And it's interesting. And it's interesting because it makes metamask look a little clunky.
00:02:43.946 - 00:03:15.114, Speaker A: But polywale, well, suffice it to say, that was the last video I made on farming on this channel. It isn't really on our radar anymore. Foz looks well, they always take the longest to put together because we're deliberately looking for things that no one else is covering and for stuff that we're actually going to be challenged by. Sometimes I have to give up altogether. A good example of this is primitive. The replicating market maker from Alex Evans, Guillermo Angaris, Taran Chitra and experience. And honestly, my tiny brain just couldn't get there.
00:03:15.114 - 00:03:34.460, Speaker A: I actually had a chance to interview Turin Chitra about two years ago and yeah, galaxy Brain. And I was really excited to check this out. I just didn't understand it. Sorry. Anyway, rest assured we are going to keep searching for the most interesting protocols out there because there are really some incredible things being built if you know where to look.
