00:00:00.410 - 00:00:00.960, Speaker A: Cool.
00:00:01.330 - 00:00:04.160, Speaker B: I think we're on basically other sides of the.
00:00:05.570 - 00:00:12.686, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, I'm in Amsterdam. Most of the attendees, where are they generally based?
00:00:12.868 - 00:00:37.320, Speaker B: Basically other sides of the. All right, cool. We are live on YouTube now as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce David T from Ave. He's going to be go over 101 for devs for the Ave platform, and I'm going to stop my video and let David take over. It's all you.
00:00:37.930 - 00:00:57.150, Speaker A: All right, thank you so much, everyone. That's right. It might be my pleasure and it's good to be here. And thanks, everyone, for attending this webinar or workshop. So I'm just looking at the answers. So I'll answer that question, how to access the recording. I think the recording will be on YouTube.
00:00:57.150 - 00:01:01.498, Speaker A: Patrick will probably send a message about that later on. Yep.
00:01:01.514 - 00:01:05.520, Speaker B: Yeah, it's all going to be on YouTube afterwards. We're streaming live on YouTube right now as.
00:01:08.130 - 00:01:47.498, Speaker A: This. This will be try and make it an interactive workshop. So yeah, feel free to post your questions in the zoom q a and I'll answer them as we go along. If I'll answer it soon, I'll just say that and then we'll leave that question for later. So this workshop is mainly for developers to give a general introduction over Aave. And I think I went over some of this stuff in the little video that we did yesterday for the opening ceremony, announcing the prizes, but I'll go through the same similar things anyway, for those that don't know. So yeah, my name is David, I'm a developer.
00:01:47.498 - 00:02:43.714, Speaker A: You can find me on Twitter, telegram and all that under the name Davy T. So for those that don't know, Aave is a money market lending protocol. So what that means is that on one side we have the depositors, and they can deposit certain assets into the AAVE protocol, which is a smart contract, and then immediately they start earning interest based on various parameters. And then on the other side, we have borrowers. So borrowers can easily borrow certain assets from the Ave protocol, from that same pool of funds, and then they can repay it back whenever they want, and they can choose whether they have a stable or variable interest rate. And I'll go through each of these things in more detail, but this is just a general overview. So another special thing about Ave protocol is we have our main markets, but then also we have multiple markets as well.
00:02:43.714 - 00:03:39.362, Speaker A: So one of the second markets that we released was a Uniswap market. So what this enabled was it enabled lps of Uniswap. So people that had provided liquidity to Uniswap, and they had these LP tokens, they were able to use those LP tokens as collateral to borrow more assets like stablecoins in the Uniswap market. So that's quite a powerful thing that can happen as well. So the main protocol features, as I've already mentioned, some of them, but the main ones are the earning or depositing side. So when you deposit and you receive these a tokens, and I'll go through each point here, actually in this presentation, but these are the main protocol features. We have currently more than 20 different assets for depositors to deposit or lenders to borrow, and also we have the multi markets, like I mentioned.
00:03:39.362 - 00:04:06.730, Speaker A: So Uniswap, the Uniswap market has the LP tokens and other assets as well. And we'll be releasing more markets very soon. We announced that we would release a set market, set protocol market, and there's many more markets in the works as. Keep the questions coming. That's good. I'll just go back. So we do have a testnet.
00:04:06.730 - 00:04:59.670, Speaker A: Well, we have it on Robston and Coven, and at the end of the presentation I'll have some links, but if you're curious, you can go to developers, and then that's all our developer documentation, which will have links to the Robston and Coven testnet addresses. Okay, so for earning, let me just tick off these questions. Yes, I'll go through the stable variable interest rate stuff a bit later. Jason, why don't you. Patrick. Okay, yes. Keep your questions coming, and I go through this and I'll revisit the questions every now and again so I don't get too interrupted.
00:04:59.670 - 00:05:40.666, Speaker A: Okay, so for the earning part. So if I was explaining to a five year old, I say that we let others borrow your money when you're not using it. If I was explaining to a 15 year old, I'd say that you can deposit your money and you earn immediate interest on that amount and you can withdraw it at any time. If I was explaining to a D five person, what actually happens is that we tokenize your deposit, we give you a tokens in return. So it's one to one. If you deposit 100 die, you'll get 100 a die in return. And the account holding those eight tokens accrue interest based on protocol parameters and demand, and they accrue interest immediately, which is quite special.
00:05:40.666 - 00:06:42.670, Speaker A: So as a developer, if you're wanting to deposit ERC 20 tokens or one of the supported assets into the Ave protocol, this is an example of a solidity contract. As I mentioned on our documentation, it's very detailed and we also have web three like JS Javascript examples as well. But the main part that you as developers care about is probably the last line here which says lending pool deposit. And it's so super simple. So essentially once you set up some of the parameters, you just say hey, lending pool, I want to deposit this asset which is dai this amount, and you put a referral code. So we also have a referral program which I can go through a bit later, but that's maybe later on when you reach main net and you have some more users. But with the referral program you're able to essentially make some origination fees from people that use your service and deposit or borrow from AAvE.
00:06:42.670 - 00:07:27.670, Speaker A: I mentioned that the a tokens, once you deposit your own interest immediately that interest doesn't have to go to the person that deposited. They can also redirect that interest. So for example, some people created use cases where they donate an interest stream to charity or to their favorite influencer on Twitter or something like that. So there's many different use cases you can do there as well with redirecting interest. The next aspect is borrowing. So for borrowing, if I was explaining it to a five year old, I'd say that you can borrow money whenever you need it. For a 15 year old, I'd say that you borrow money depending on how much you have deposited in the system, and you can pay it back anytime, which is quite different from traditional banking.
00:07:27.670 - 00:08:31.406, Speaker A: And if I was explaining it to a d five person, I'd say that you can use your a tokens as collateral to borrow supported assets that we have in our markets at either a stable or variable interest rate. So just quickly on that, we had a question around stable rate, is there a time limit on stable borrow? For those that don't know, the variable interest rate fluctuates and changes based on certain parameters in a system. So that could be utilization how much in demand that asset currently is. All these parameters are transparent, you can find them in our code and we have some medium blog posts about this as well. For the stable rate, it's less volatile than the variable rate and you can essentially lock in a stable rate. So the question about is there a time limit on stable borrowing? Technically there isn't. You can have a stable borrow for a very long time, as long as you want.
00:08:31.406 - 00:09:22.000, Speaker A: However, there's a certain situation where if your stable borrow rate is too far different from the current rate you may get. What do we call it your stable rate may get readjusted to the new environment, but we have this on our blog as well. We explain this, and that should be a very rare circumstance. So I think in most cases, probably 95% of cases or 99% of cases, you'll be able to essentially lock in your stable rate and have that open indefinitely. Let me just go through these other questions as well. If you deposit any asset ave, do you earn interest on that deposit? Yes, I already answered that question from Shane. You do earn interest on your deposit straight away.
00:09:22.000 - 00:10:10.720, Speaker A: There are liquidations, which I can go through a bit later as well. Seb, maybe you're asking too many general questions, but we can go through them later on. Okay, I think that's good for now. So as a developer, if you're borrowing, so what you do is firstly you deposit tokens into the Ave protocol, and then that means you have some sort of collateral in the system, and then now you can borrow tokens using that collateral. So as before, the important line is the one at the bottom, lending pool. Borrow. So you're calling our lending pool, you're saying borrow, I want to borrow this asset, in this case, die for a certain amount.
00:10:10.720 - 00:10:51.002, Speaker A: You can choose whether you want a variable or stable interest rate, and then also you can include your referral code as well. From a solidity or web three js perspective, it's rather simple to implement these things. And then, as I mentioned as well, switching between variable interest rate and the stable rate is also very simple. You just call the swap borrow rate mode on the lending pool for whatever asset that you want to swap into that you want to swap the interest rate for, and it will swap. So it just takes one method call. Super easy. So the next feature we have is flash loans as well.
00:10:51.002 - 00:11:49.322, Speaker A: So flash loans can be a bit hard to understand initially, but I'll try and explain and have a few examples so you can hopefully all understand it. So if I was explaining to a five year old, I say that it's free money you have to pay back nearly immediately. If I was explaining to a 15 year old, I'd say that anyone can borrow as much as they want, as long as they pay it back within a certain time frame. And because we get a lot of questions from Wall street or banker types, if I was explaining to a banker, I'd say that it's an unsecured fixed term loan for about 15 seconds. That's a block time in Ethereum with a very low fixed interest rate of currently 0.9% on the amount that you flash loaned that the bank, the bank in this case is, let's say the Ave protocol or the Ethereum virtual machine, it can always collect at expiry, so there's no risk for the bank in this circumstance. And on a more technical sense, for the defi crowd, it's an uncollateralized loan, so you don't need to provide any collateral.
00:11:49.322 - 00:13:06.978, Speaker A: Anyone can call the flash loan supplied by our lending pool, where the amount borrowed, plus a small fee needs to be repaid by the end of the transaction. And why someone would do this is because when they call the flash loan, they're also able to execute basically any code that they want to execute during that transaction. And then as long as they repay back the flash loan at the end of the transaction, everything is good. If they don't manage to repay back the loan for whatever reason, then the transaction just reverts and it's like nothing ever happened. So it's quite magical in that sense. And there's no real world analogy to this, it's something very specific to defi and the blockchain space. So going through an actual example of a flash loan, if we start where the start icon is, so if a borrower, let's say a borrower, which would have to be a smart contract, calls the flash loan function in the avoid protocol and know I want to flash loan this amount of Dai, the average protocol would send that dai to the borrower or to the smart contract, and then the borrower or the smart contract would be able to do whatever they want with that Dai.
00:13:06.978 - 00:13:40.770, Speaker A: So in this case, they have the DAI. This is an example. They use that Dai to pay back a debt. In a CDP, let's say makerdao vault, they pay back that debt, which liquidate, then they end up liquidating their vault. So now they have ETH, the eth collateral, and then with that eth collateral, they can sell that on a decentralized exchange to ETH. So then they end up paying back the initial DAI debt. Then if there's any profit or any money left over, they can send that to someone else or send that to themselves or do whatever they want with it.
00:13:40.770 - 00:14:35.330, Speaker A: From the perspective of the Ave protocol, all we care about, or all the protocol cares about is that has the fee being paid and has the initial flash loan being repaid. So if you're planning to implement or play with flash loans, it's a bit more involved than the previous functions with depositing and borrowing. So you have to create your own smart contract, and your smart contract would have a function, say like a flash loan function, and it would call the flash loan function also on our lending pool. And it would say flash loan to this contract or to this address, a certain asset. So it could be Dai or MKR or whatever asset you want, a certain amount. This can be any amount as long as there's available liquidity. So you can flash loan a million dollars, $10 million, however much you want.
00:14:35.330 - 00:15:47.478, Speaker A: And you can also provide some data, some bytes data here, so that will be passed back to your contract later on. Once you've done this, our lending pool will do some sanity checks, making sure that the asset exists and the amount, there's enough of that amount in the lending pool if the sanity checks pass, and then we call back, our lending pool calls back to your contract and it calls the execute operation function. So this is essentially how our lending pool passes control back to your smart contract, and it provides the relevant parameters, and then it's up to your smart contract in this section here to do whatever it needs to do. So some people, like the previous example, they'll close the CDP, pay back the debt, and then sell something on the decentralized exchange. If you're doing arbitrage opportunities, you'd do your arbitrage here, and then before the end of transaction, this last line at the bottom, you would essentially repay back the debt. So transfer those funds plus the fee back to the lending pool. The example that I had before over here, this was actually collateral swap.
00:15:47.478 - 00:16:51.230, Speaker A: So a side project I had that actually did exactly this using flash loans. So here you can see that the collateral contract gets the flash loan from the RV lending port, receives 1700 die. It ends up paying back the debt of the Makerdao vault. It receives that underlying collateral, it ends up selling some of that collateral to USDC, and it swaps it into a different makerdao vault. So that's something you can do with flash loans interacting between different protocols, which is quite powerful. Another example of using flash loans, this is someone that did a small arbitrage on a decentralized exchange, where they basically buy something cheap and sell it for higher on a different decentralized exchange. Here, they didn't make much profit, but because the opportunity was 33 day and they made about $0.03,
00:16:51.230 - 00:17:34.686, Speaker A: which is pretty good free money for them, essentially. And you can see here, they repaid back the loan here, and then they receive the profit back to their contract. Okay, before I go into Avenger fan, let's just go through some of these questions that haven't been answered. So Shane's top question, if you deposit any asset on Ave, do you earn interest on that deposit, and what are the risks? So if you deposit any asset on, so, as I mentioned, you do earn interest straight away. And what are the risks? The risks are standard sort of risks, protocol risks, and things like that. We have been audited three, four times. We have more than $1.5
00:17:34.686 - 00:18:11.062, Speaker A: billion of total valued locked in the protocol. So it's pretty battle tested. I'd say among the top d five projects, we're one of the top projects. We haven't had any compromises yet as well, so I think we're pretty safe. But of course, like any of these crazy defi products, there's always maybe a small risk that you need to take into account. Is there any liquidations? Yes, so there are liquidations, and you can create liquidator bots as well. We have that documentation on our developer docs.
00:18:11.062 - 00:19:36.900, Speaker A: I won't go through it in this presentation, but essentially every user position has what we call a health factor, and if that health factor goes below one, then anyone can liquidate that position, and they liquidate it by repaying back your debt. Then they receive a discounted amount of your collateral, and that incentivizes liquidators to keep the system healthy and things like that. But there's more details on our developer docs. What do you think is the safer swallow to use? So, seb, I'll skip over some of your questions because they're just way too general, not really good for this workshop. Could you publish a PDF version of the slides afterwards? Yeah, Adam, I'll give a link to the slides or PDF or whatever to Patrick, and Patrick will distribute the slides, probably through whatever means necessary. Andrew asks a tokens means a lot. So a tokens are, as I mentioned, when you deposit assets into the AavE protocol, you will receive a tokenized version of your deposit, which we call aave tokens, so they represent how much you deposited into the system.
00:19:36.900 - 00:20:38.920, Speaker A: Anonymous attendee asked, if the market size supply is equal to the total borrowed, can a supplier with a sizable deposit still withdraw from that assets? Markets? Not sure I understand the question. Anonymous attendee. Essentially, the protocol at the moment, we have around $1.5 billion within the protocol. So if all of those funds are being loaned out, and then of course that means there's no liquidity there for the depositors to withdraw their funds. Right? But the benefit for the depositors at that stage, if there's no liquidity, is they have a massive interest rate, so they're earning a ton of interest. And we see that on some assets at the moment, where you could earn upwards of 30, 50, 60% APY on your deposits, which is pretty crazy.
00:20:38.920 - 00:21:33.830, Speaker A: So there's that. Cool. Okay, a question from divan jot. Is there no time limit then? Will the cloud be used by other models? Yeah. So when you deposit funds into an ave protocol, you deposit and you earn interest, and those funds are added to a pool, a lending pool. And on the other side, borrowers will borrow those funds and use it for whatever reason, for whatever they need to use it for. As I've explained already, lenders be able to unlock their tokens, and as I also mentioned, so lenders or the people that deposit, they will be able to withdraw their funds whenever they want as long as there's liquidity in there, keeping in mind that there's billions or more than a billion dollars of funds already in the protocol.
00:21:33.830 - 00:22:17.286, Speaker A: So there's plenty of liquidity there. Shane's question, is there a risk when you deposit and do not take a. So these questions are like general Defi questions, and I think I've already answered them. But you can do that. You can deposit and just earn interest without taking a loan. You don't have to take a loan if you don't want to. Brahma asks, in case of flash loans, since one does not need collateral, what compels one to pay back the loan? As I mentioned, Brahma, the EVM, and the way the EVM works is that it enforces that the loan is paid back.
00:22:17.286 - 00:23:14.442, Speaker A: And if it's not paid back, then the transaction reverts and it's like nothing happened. Horatio asks what is needed to list a tokens in AAvE. How do you choose them? So this is more a question for our risk and compliance team. But we have a risk and compliance team, and soon it will be part of the governance process, where we have a governance forum as well, where you can, let's say, propose, make proposals, and then the proposals to the risk team and the risk and compliance team will look at it, whether it's appropriate to list those assets. How is the borrow rate decided for new pools? So the borrow rate is essentially decided through various parameters in the protocol. So that includes utilization rate and things like that. For the base rate, you can look on our docs, ave.com
00:23:14.442 - 00:23:39.634, Speaker A: risk. So our risk team has also created really detailed documentation of the whole risk process and how they evaluate assets. And in those, you'll see some of the parameters as well. So those parameters also influence the borrow rates. What is the difference between compound and AAVE? So that's a good question. Hopefully. I've already covered some of that stuff.
00:23:39.634 - 00:24:06.982, Speaker A: But the main difference between AAVE and various other lending protocols is that, like I mentioned, we have a tokens. They're one to one pegged with the underlying asset. We have flash loans. I didn't manage to go through credit delegation, but we have that as well. We're a very different type of protocol for many reasons, but I can. Let me go into more detail on that later. But yeah, it's not really relevant for this workshop.
00:24:06.982 - 00:24:55.670, Speaker A: Do you see uniswap as your replacement? No, we don't see uniswap as our replacement. It's a very different business and we're not a decentralized exchange. Okay, so moving on for the developers that are attending and watching. So what I mean by Avenger FaM is. So I went over the main protocol features, and then now I'll go over some of examples of what other people have built that are also very cool and to sort of give you an idea of what can be built. So an example, a good example is defisaver.com. So what they allow is they use flash loans underneath their protocol, but they allow you to move your positions very quickly with a click of a button in one transaction between different lending protocols.
00:24:55.670 - 00:25:39.762, Speaker A: So this helps users receive the best interest rate or things like that, or it just makes things a lot easier for the user. And we really support that because sometimes the interest rate is more favorable than are they, sometimes it's not. And we really love things that help the end user essentially become, have safer loans. Another example is Furocomba app. So I mentioned flash loans are very much for developers because they need to make a smart contract. Furocombo created an app, a website where you can essentially create your own flash loans without writing any code, and you essentially connect these lego blocks together. And then what they do is quite magical.
00:25:39.762 - 00:26:39.930, Speaker A: But this is pretty cool because it allows non technical people to take those arbitrage opportunities or experiment with flash loans without actually having to code. This is a really cool project, something that has aave within it, but they have many other protocols included in the app as well. Another one part of the RFM is yearn finance. So yearn finance essentially are a yield aggregator, and some of those funds that are deposited come into AAVE. So the point here is that yearn finance is a separate business. They're very successful now and they're doing awesome stuff, and they just use AAve as essentially to deposit funds and earn interest. And we love that because we love when people build on top of us and they can build their own entire business and own community that's totally separate from Aave.
00:26:39.930 - 00:27:28.490, Speaker A: And then another one that isn't necessarily in the defi space that's coming soon is Aave Gotchi. So there's a whole separate team as well. And they're creating something sort of like cryptokitties, like an NFT that you can play with and go on quests, like a game essentially, but they're proven to beware. And underlying these NFTs are a tokens. So you have this NFT where it's interest bearing and the longer you have the NFT and you go on quests and things like that, it's earning interest at the same time. So that's a really cool use case that we never thought of that utilizes some underlying Ave protocol features, but they can create their own business and their own product out of. So as I mentioned, there's a lot of resources.
00:27:28.490 - 00:28:23.690, Speaker A: So the first thing for this chainlink hackathon I'd recommend to go on our hack docs. So that will detail some of our expectations and what we would like to see from hackers and from teams building in the space. We've been part of a lot of hackathons and we love to see great products built. You can also join our discord or ping me or one of the team members on the Chainlink discord because we're there as well. We have our developer docs, our medium, which has quite a few articles as well. If you're interested in learning more about the interest rate stable rates, there's a good article there. Then of course Twitter and things like that, the Avenomics and Ave V two, not really relevant for this specific call, but since this hackathon goes for nearly a month, it may become relevant depending on what gets deployed.
00:28:23.690 - 00:29:21.600, Speaker A: But it would be interesting to see some things that are implementing or play around with the Ave nomics, which is partly our governance token. I mean, we'll have a migration from lend token to Ave and then you can use both lend and Ave to vote in certain governance mechanisms. So we're going towards a path of decentralization. So I'd love to see some stuff there then ave v two as well. You can read that blog post about the details, but it'll be also fascinating if people come up with some ideas around what to build there. Having said that, ave V two is there's no code or interfaces or things like that out in public yet. So yeah, probably best to start building on b one first, actually, before the finish off the presentation and we answer more questions.
00:29:21.600 - 00:30:03.210, Speaker A: In case you don't know, the prizes for this hackathon is that we have two prizes of 2500 a USDC. That means it's the a tokens, it's interest bearing. So it's a bit more than 2500 now, and we're looking for the best integration of Ave and chain link. And Ave is already deeply integrated with chain link. We use them as a price oracle for all our assets. So we're expecting or hoping that we see some other things that use Chainlink. So for example, in another hackathon, someone built something that used Chainlink's VRF and also chainlink alarm clock and mashed up into some product that also utilized Aave.
00:30:03.210 - 00:30:45.142, Speaker A: So we would love to see just interesting things around that area. You don't have to use exclusively aave and exclusively chainlink. You can do chainlink and aave and five other protocols if you want. We just love to see cool stuff and hopefully you can join and become part of the Aave fam. All right, let's go through these last questions and then keep posting your questions as well because I'll go through them and then I'm basically nearly finished with my content. So Bramas asked, does Ave issue a statement for money gain or loss for tax purpose filing purposes? No, we don't. We're a decentralized protocol and everything's on the blockchain.
00:30:45.142 - 00:31:19.654, Speaker A: So yeah, you have to maybe talk to your own accountant around that sort of stuff. Shane asks, I see. At the moment there's no API on lend. Why would that mean? Because I'm not part of the risk team. But I think that was partly due to the upcoming migration from lend to aave token. So we didn't want lend token to be locked in as collateral, but that should be happening very soon. Anonymous attendee asked if you see regulations coming for you.
00:31:19.654 - 00:32:08.440, Speaker A: No, not specifically. As I mentioned, Ave is a decentralized protocol. We do have Aave Limited, which we recently announced has a banking license in the UK or an EMI license. So Aave Limited is a regulated institution or a regulated company with the license. So we will have some regulated things as Aave Limited, which is a separate company from the protocol later on. Is it possible to create a retail bank on top of AavE? Well, yeah, I just mentioned Aave Limited, so we haven't announced any details of what Aave Limited will exactly do, but it does have a banking license, so that sort of stuff is possible. All right.
00:32:08.440 - 00:32:44.800, Speaker A: If there's no more questions that people have, I'd love to hear some developer questions as well. If people have developer specific questions, that'll be there. Grant asks, is there community assets for us to use? What do you mean by community assets, Grant? Can you elaborate on that a bit? Images? Yes. I mean, if you go to marketing stuff, yes. So there's definitely Aave marketing stuff. If you go to the aave.com website.
00:32:44.800 - 00:33:10.940, Speaker A: Let me just see here. So go ave.com, then you click the menu, then you go to branding. So our designer put all the branding, there's a media kit and everything here with a tokens kit. So that's all the branding marketing stuff there that you can download and use as you need. Okay. Brahma also asked, is it easy to withdraw money from AAve after I deposited the money? Yes, it is easy.
00:33:10.940 - 00:33:40.558, Speaker A: You can either use our front end, the app aave.com, or since this is a developer workshop, you can easily write code to withdraw that money here. There is an attempt to bring mortgages on Ave. Would you speak on that? Good question, Shane. Yes. So it's more than an attempt. So we've announced that we're working with real tea, who have already tokenized real estate on the blockchain.
00:33:40.558 - 00:34:47.270, Speaker A: And I mentioned that we have multiple markets that are their main market and the uniswap market. And we will eventually have something around realt, which will most likely be sort of a private realty market just because realty, they deal with KYC and things like that. So only KYC people will be able to interact with that market. But essentially what will happen is those people will be able to use their realty tokenized real estate and use that as collateral to take out loans and interact within a DeFi space as well. Brendan asks, I'm considering forking AavE for an insurance protocol in this hackathon. Is that a use case that your team has considered? So firstly, I don't know if we would support a fork of AAVE. If you're talking fork, sort of like sushi swap type fork, I don't know if we'd turn a blind eye to that or not really like it, but if we haven't really looked into insurance from our perspective, RV protocol is we're like a base d five layer.
00:34:47.270 - 00:35:28.360, Speaker A: We just provide really cool lending and borrowing experiences and make that easier. Especially in v two, we'll make it easier to swap between debt positions and things like that and everything else on top like insurance products, options, protocols, all that stuff goes on top. So that's for other people to build. So there's already teams building options products that are based on top of AAVE. It's similar to yearn finance, right? They've built sort of their product in a way on top of AAVE and compound and these other products as well. I'd encourage you to build whatever you want to build with forking. That's a bit of a sensitive topic around these times.
00:35:28.360 - 00:36:04.014, Speaker A: I don't think you should fork, especially if you're building insurance protocol, because I imagine you need a lot of funds for that insurance liquidity. Horatio asks, can we use credit delegation? Is it available? Good question. It is available and we do have documentation. I didn't go through it in this presentation. I forgot to. But if you can see my screen in the docs, I'm not sure if you can. There is a credit delegation section.
00:36:04.014 - 00:36:42.410, Speaker A: If you go to docs rv.com developers, then you click on the protocol and then you click on credit delegation. There's a credit delegation section. This section was written with the example, the Mainnet example that we had or the main net credit delegation that happened with diversify in that they use an open law smart contract. But you don't have to use an open law smart contract. You can use whatever, you don't need the contract if you don't want. As an example, yuan finance have their link or I think one of their vault products uses credit delegation.
00:36:42.410 - 00:37:04.770, Speaker A: So yeah, it's live on Mainnet. You can use that. The documentation should be all here. It should be enough for you to get started at least. Ratio. That's a good question. Mork asked, how do we encode data for chain transaction to other contracts? This is sent in the data field to example the flash loan.
00:37:04.770 - 00:37:44.858, Speaker A: So when you encode data there's standard encoding in solidity or on the EVM that's used. So both all these web three libraries and solidity has a specific ABI encode function and that's how you would encode it. And then on the other end you'd need to decode it into whatever parameters you need. So you don't need any extra tools for it. It's just part of the anonymous entendi asked, does Ave utilize the graph and if so, is there an official subgraph? Yes and yes. So we love the graph. It's really useful.
00:37:44.858 - 00:38:33.826, Speaker A: And once again on the documentation. So docs ave.com developers, there is a analyzing graphQl data section in and in this analyzing graphQl data section you can find all the details you need, including our subgraphs, which are on Mainnet, Robston and Coven, and also examples of how to use a subgraph. So yeah, some people prefer using graph. Okay, looking through some more questions, Brendan says, so I shouldn't fork, but I might be able to use the AAvE protocol API. So the AVE protocol is a decentralized, permissionless protocol, et cetera, et cetera. So you can build whatever you want on top of it.
00:38:33.826 - 00:39:20.302, Speaker A: You don't have to ask our permission to build anything you want. The bigger problem for something like an insurance protocol is getting users to trust what you've built. But yeah, you can build essentially whatever you want on top of AAvE. Horatio, another question asks if we use DcO from Chainlink or similar to caterpillars from external. I'm not sure what Deco from Chainlink is. I don't know if Patrick knows, or maybe Horatio, if you explain that again, but yeah, I'm not quite sure what that. Yeah, maybe post your question again if you explain what the eco is.
00:39:20.302 - 00:39:58.074, Speaker A: Mork asks, still don't understand the dart encoding answer. Different onward contracts will have different params, et cetera. How does Ave know how to forward these? No. So for the flash loan function specifically, let's go back to this presentation here. So here on the last line, you're passing in flash loan data. So that's data that you've already encoded. So here I do empty data, but you could call AbI encode, and you can encode some addresses or encode some numbers or encode whatever text strings that you want.
00:39:58.074 - 00:40:45.322, Speaker A: And then this data is packed into like, bytes, and then that bytes is just passed into the flash loan function. And then when our lending pool calls back to your contract, it will pass that bytes data as the params here. So it's up to you to unpack those params or decode them. That's only in this flash loan example. So of course there's no automatic passing along of encoded data. The function has to specifically have a parameter that accepts bytes data and passes that along. Jeevan Jot asks, is avonomics is like Aragon Dao? No, not quite.
00:40:45.322 - 00:41:09.826, Speaker A: So avonomics is what we call. It's essentially our new tokenomics. It's about the new ave token and how we move towards decentralization of the protocol. So that's essentially what it is. So very different from the DAO. And there'll be proposals, and people can vote on proposals and decide what happens with the protocol. So that's what it is.
00:41:09.826 - 00:42:18.970, Speaker A: I'll leave these resources here so you can visit them if you want. Cryptoscience asks, how would you suggest creating trust in an insurance product as an on ramp? I'm not sure on that one. It's not really my area of expertise of creating trust in an insurance product in these days. In the defi space, it's about not necessarily creating everything from scratch. So for protocols like Aave, where we have more than a billion dollars of value locked, it's trusted by a lot of people to deposit that much money into the protocol. And using protocols like AavE, which are trusted in the DeFi space, I think that will help you build more trust, whereas if you build something from scratch, you can have a hard time getting trust because those aren't battle tested. Grant asks using Deco for validation would still count as integration with AAVE if AAVE is included.
00:42:18.970 - 00:43:39.026, Speaker A: I still have no idea what Deco is, but if it's using a chain link feature and it interacts with AAvE in some novel way, then yeah, that could count as an integration. Check out the hack docs that is on the screen right now. Docsave.com hack, and read through those docs, because I detail sort of some of the things that we'd like to see. So what wouldn't be included is that if you did chain link and then you had something where someone could deposit funds into AAVE, but those things are totally separate, because depositing into AAVE is really just one line of code. It's not really what we'd expect from a one month hackathon project. Okay, TJV asks, is there a functionality called the redeem function of an a token and have it withdraw as much as possible whilst maintaining a health factor of minus one? Or is that something that needs to be calculated manually? So the short answer is, there's not a function that does that, but you could easily write a function that does that.
00:43:39.026 - 00:44:45.080, Speaker A: You'd have to calculate it yourself, because the health factor is calculated dynamically. There is a function, I forgot what it's called, but it's like is redeemable or something like that, where you can call it and it will return whether you can withdraw that amount. But yeah, any sort of those sort of calculations, withdrawing the exact amount to keep your half life, to keep your health factor above one, would have to be done on your end. Keeping in mind that you don't want to have it just above one, you probably want to have it like at least 1.523 health factor. That's probably a lot safer. Call back Juven Jot asks can you please refer some examples to smart contract or flash loans that use some stopping indexes? There's some out there actually, if you go to our documentation, we have some tutorials around flash loans, but it doesn't go through the dexters in particular.
00:44:45.080 - 00:45:18.260, Speaker A: If you wanted to code that, it shouldn't be that hard. You should be able to use Google and find some examples on GitHub out there. So Horatio DCo is a three part handshake where ZKP provide oracles confidential bank balancers. They use this info via smart contract or open line. Use this and use it as collateral. Interesting idea, Horatio. Thanks for explaining what Deco is.
00:45:18.260 - 00:46:26.418, Speaker A: Trustless authentication grant says for Horatio and grant, this deco stuff sounds interesting. If you're using like ZK proofs, that would be awesome. Because one of the things is with credit delegation, I'd see there'll be an opportunity there because at the moment, with the main net example of diversify doing the first credit delegation that worked because there was an open or contract and essentially the two parties knew each other and they could essentially trust each other. Because the way credit delegation works is that the person that deposits money into the protocol, they delegate their credit line to someone else. So they're trusting someone else can just withdraw however much they're allowed to withdraw. And then it's up to the person that deposited to make sure that that loan gets repaid and they charge whatever interest they want as well. So it would be interesting if there was something around that that helped credit delegation become easier.
00:46:26.418 - 00:47:23.900, Speaker A: Maybe if I could give a ZK proof that I was able to pay back this loan or that I'm a real person, or that I've been KYC'd over here, or that my company or my wallet has at least this amount of money that might be interesting for credit delegation specifically. So yeah, I think that would definitely qualify as an interesting use case as you'll be building out credit delegation, you'll be using the credit delegation vaults and your contracts won't be a simple deposit function, it will be quite involved, which would be cool actually. More I think about that. I'd like to see something like that. That'd be really cool. All right. Anonymous attendee says does lending and interest rate stuff work on rinkby? No, the interest rate stuff doesn't work on rinkby, only on Covan and Robson at the moment.
00:47:23.900 - 00:48:33.950, Speaker A: Ale, are you leveraging ERC 1155 token standard for the NFT spin off? So to be clear, Ave Gotchi is not our product. It's a totally separate team. So it's not ours. It's not a spinoff of ours. I'm not sure on exactly what NFT standard they are they're using, but I assume they're probably using whatever standard is common in the industry. Now, anomalous attendee asks, how are you able to offer high interest rates on lending compared to normal banks? We don't choose what necessarily the interest rates are for the most part determined by utilization and parameters in the protocol. So we set risk parameters and say this is safe risk parameters for certain assets in the protocol, but then the interest rate is really determined by how much people want to borrow that asset and how much of that asset is being deposited.
00:48:33.950 - 00:48:57.030, Speaker A: And yes, decentralized, anyone can deposit and borrow. I think all this activity, this is for Defi in general. I think that's why you see a lot more competitive interest rates in DeFi than banks. Right. Banks have a monopoly. They can charge whatever they want to, you know, in defi space, it's all open, decentralized. There's a lot of, okay.
00:48:57.030 - 00:49:54.230, Speaker A: Prince asks, how does AavE calculate interest rates for off chain calculations, as Aave use chain link oracle, as mentioned. Yeah. So interest rates, you can look through the code, and the code is quite detailed. The interest rates are calculated for the most part on chain. There is a base rate calculation for stable rates only that's calculated off chain and that rarely changes. Yeah, but for the variable interest rates and for variable interest rates, that's calculated based on the utilization and certain parameters in the protocol and then does. All right.
00:49:54.230 - 00:50:11.050, Speaker A: And we've answered 56 questions so far. If there's any other questions, feel free to post otherwise, Patrick, I think we're probably ready to finish up now. What do you think?
00:50:11.500 - 00:50:18.250, Speaker B: Sounds good. I think that you got them all, unless you want to grab that last. Oh, thanks.
00:50:19.820 - 00:50:21.464, Speaker A: Thank you, Prince. Awesome.
00:50:21.582 - 00:50:50.784, Speaker B: All right, thank you so much for jumping on. I think this was really helpful. And it sounds like a lot of engineers asked a lot of really good questions here. And yeah, thank you for demoing this workshop. If you guys have any more questions, David is actually very active in the discord in that ave support channel. This video will be going up on YouTube, so if you want to rewatch it, you can go check it out there. And the hackathon continues on.
00:50:50.784 - 00:50:52.252, Speaker B: So thank you so much, David.
00:50:52.396 - 00:51:09.716, Speaker A: That's right. My pleasure. Good luck, everyone. And yeah, make sure to check out doc us because they're quite elaborate. So just for that last question, we won't do a step by step code workshop but, yeah, there's a lot of code and stuff already out there. And we'll be on the sport channels.
00:51:09.908 - 00:51:12.170, Speaker B: Awesome. All right, thank you, guys.
00:51:12.620 - 00:51:15.220, Speaker A: Thanks. Bye, everyone. Bye.
