00:00:04.650 - 00:00:51.318, Speaker A: When we started building layer zero two and a half years ago, one of our earliest fundamental thesis was that there was no single validation methodology that could encapsulate the needs of all applications. So when you think about security, you really have this line of cost versus security, and every application has sort of like a demand on where they want to live on that curve. So you can think about applications where you're dealing with liquidations of hundreds of millions of dollars NFT projects where you're dealing with sub $0.01 NFTs, right? These have very different needs for where they want to live or how they price security on this line. Now, most systems, all prior systems, really choose this monolithic structure where they select one single point on this line. So in that method, layer zero would choose a single point and they would say, here's a validation library or methodology. Here are the sets of validators.
00:00:51.318 - 00:01:46.862, Speaker A: This is where you land on how security is priced. Here's how much it cost, here's how much security you get. And you can see with that structure why these applications, one of them, would be either wildly overpaying for security or not getting nearly enough security. In most common cases, they're both extremely out of bounds, right? So this structure is extremely fragile and has a hard time scaling to meet the needs of all applications. The way that layer zero thought about this, when we were first building it was we have this appendonly registry of validation libraries where we can never modify or change any existing library, but we can always add new validation libraries as new technologies come out and come to market. You might not know it, but layer Zero now has about eight validation methodologies, and only two to three are really widely used in production. Today, we're extremely excited to announce that polyhedra, the authors behind the renowned ZK bridge paper, have built their zero knowledge light client technology directly on top of layer zero.
00:01:46.862 - 00:02:44.478, Speaker A: It's available, as of now, within layer zero, every application, existing or new, has the ability to, with a simple config change, add zk liteclient technology directly within their security stack. So now you can create this modular security stack where you can have chainlink, you can have polyhedra, zk Lite client, you can have layer zero labs relayer all in one single security stack securing your application. Now, what this proves, and one of the things, again, what gets me so excited is the fact that this is really showcasing the existing structure of why we built layer zero in the way that we did. What this means, is that every application developer building on layer zero will always have access to the newest technology, to the newest validation methodologies directly within the protocol. We don't make the choice. We don't select a single spot on this line for us to live. Every developer gets to choose the point on the line that most accurately defines what their needs are for their application.
00:02:44.478 - 00:02:53.440, Speaker A: And so when you think about existing messaging systems, existing messaging systems are a single point on this line. Layer zero is the line.
