00:00:01.920 - 00:00:31.790, Speaker A: All right. Hello, everyone. This is Yuki. I'm founding research and growth at Sarella. So today we'll be talking about the state of meV. And just to kind of like show the flow, we'll first go through, briefly go through the type of mev that we'll be discussing about today. And then we'll also discuss about the source of meV, which is where.
00:00:31.790 - 00:02:01.260, Speaker A: And then we'll discuss more about the destination of meV, where the mevs are going. So there will be a bunch of data that I will be presenting here today just to give some numbers and hopefully some context for you guys. So, um, 1st, 1st type of math, which is also the biggest type of map that, that we will be showing today, is atomic arbitrage, uh, which, uh, is oftentimes, uh, extractable value that is derived from ordering of transactions and ordering transactions, um, that are maybe perhaps arbitrage in between, uh, different pools that have a price discrepancies. Um, and then also this, this atomic arbitrage is a very broad term. It also includes things like triangular arbitrage, cycle pairs, and many different types of long tail arbitrages. So I kind of just like, you know, concluded as like a one big type and then another one, as you guys already may know, sandwiching, which is oftentimes when you have uninformed users, traders who are putting down a trade, and then this trades get picked up on by other searchers who potentially would frontrun you and then will backrun you to extract values from the trades. And this is also a very major type of MeV that we will see later on.
00:02:01.260 - 00:03:27.200, Speaker A: And then another type that has been also very much prominent, if not one of the bigger mev type is sex arbitrage. This is where, when you have exhaustionist information, like, for example, binance exchanges, and that exchange price changes more frequently than the blockchain prices, let's say, on Ethereum. And that stale prices on Ethereum is often what's causing a lot of people to try to capture this spread between the off chain price and on chain price, and that result in this kind of a 660 overcharge. The last one that I also wanted to touch upon is JIT liquidity based arbitrage strategy. I wouldn't say this is like a specific type of extractable value, but it's more like something that we have observed over the past few months in terms of the kind of strategies that a lot of the big trading shops have been adopting to extract values. This is where the traders, those searchers, arbitragers attempt to front run those user incoming orders by actually providing this JIT liquidity just in time liquidity for the corresponding pools. By doing so, they actually earn some fees in the meantime.
00:03:27.200 - 00:04:15.714, Speaker A: So that would help them increase the cost margin for the later arbitrage that they're going to do. So this is kind of like a combination of JIT plus whatever arbitrage strategy that follow, which it could include things like sex x and sandwiches and whatever other arbitrage options out there. But in general, we have seen a very interesting behavior in terms of JIT plus whatever arbitrage strategies. So let's talk about the source of math. I would love to take a look at this graph and then just think a little bit in terms of what exactly is going on. So this is the. The sort of accumulation of all of the myths that we have analyzed and observed on chain since the merge.
00:04:15.714 - 00:05:05.610, Speaker A: And you can see that there's a USDC deep events that happened that spiked up the merge for that specific period. But I also have colored sort of like different types of map that we have seen. Just kind of give a key takeaway here. Essentially, the atomic arbs here accounts for roughly like 50, 60%, and then you have, sorry, not 50, like 40, 40%. And then you have six options that are closing in around like 35%. And then you have the sandwich that is amounting to about 25%. So this is kind of like a current proportion of how much Mav belongs to what kind of MaV that we have, that we have observed on our math tracing protocol called brontes.
00:05:05.610 - 00:05:54.744, Speaker A: And also I would note that there are some extra maps, like the JIT sextext JIT sandwiches. These are more like complex type of arbitrage strategies that we are still kind of like building more capacity to better categorize this, so that potentially this could be a bit more than the actual number we have, but still some work to be done to accurately deliver that. And then we also have studied the math type by builders since the merge. So I kind of created the heat map where you see the builders and then you see the different types of mefs. Is it too small? It is a bit small. Okay, so basically from the left, it's atomic arb. And then the second column is the sextext.
00:05:54.744 - 00:06:35.220, Speaker A: And then I'll just say the last column is the sandwich. So I will kind of just describe it. And for anyone who is interested, please come to me. I will definitely have to share the data. The key takeaway here is that we have observed that the trading shops like Rsync and beavers have displayed a fair amount of sex arbitrage within the type of map that they have captured historically. Meanwhile, you have Titan, who are not so aggressive on the sextext, and they're mainly focused on a lot of the atomic arbitrage. And then, surprisingly, they also have blocks who are capturing quite a lot of sec sex in its early days.
00:06:35.220 - 00:07:08.790, Speaker A: So where are those math going? This is sort of like a rough profit distributions of the math. The red is proposers, the green is builders, and then the last one is searchers. Searchers include those trading shops. And this is obviously like, mostly it's going to proposers. Right. Um, and then, yeah, surprisingly, builder is not capturing a lot of money. And then for the builders, this is a split between the builder profit on the map, a builder profit from the map, and builder profit from non mev.
00:07:08.790 - 00:07:27.716, Speaker A: Non mev means like priority fees that. That people pays. Right. Um, and this is about half, half, 50 50. That's kind of like the distribution that they have. And this totals around to like, what, 300 million, I believe, to date today, since the merge. So we also kind of studied what's the searcher profit looks like.
00:07:27.716 - 00:08:17.434, Speaker A: And this is also like a rough search of profit since the merge type of data, the total amount amounts to about 693 million for the whole pie. And then the top ones are SAP, Wintourmute, someone I don't know, and Jared from subway. Jared is doing a pretty good job here. I have to say that since there's a huge pie on the other section, there's very good chance that we haven't found the EOA wallets that we don't even know the label for. So there could be a lot of SCP and Jared that is hidden in the blue part as well, which is anonymous. And then we also have picked up from the labeled ones, the ones that we know, like SAP, winter mule, Jared jump trading, Jane street. And then also kind of try to understand what's the profit distribution look like for them.
00:08:17.434 - 00:08:46.920, Speaker A: And this is what it looked like, basically. SAP is making a lot of money. Wintermune and Jared is also doing a fairly good job. And then the rest is maybe not so much. Lastly, I kind of wanted to touch upon this builder profit distribution. So you'll notice that the blocks routers have a lot of profit. And this is likely because Blockstra, in the early days, they have had done a lot of six, six related arbitrage strategies.
00:08:46.920 - 00:09:31.334, Speaker A: Maybe, perhaps not they have done it, but at least a lot of the searchers who are interacting with blockstroute builders were doing it. So that's why there's such a big portion. But others are Beaver build and Titan and Rsync. Now the Rsync profit is a bit lower because this profit should also be added with the searcher profit since they, they kind of do both the searcher builders. So their total profit is supposed to be our sync, like their searching business plus the builder business. Just note. So what are some of the takeaway and how do you think the math will change in the future? So one thing I, I believe will be the case in the future is that the proposal revenue will decrease as the DAP work to internalize a lot of the map.
00:09:31.334 - 00:10:03.098, Speaker A: All this 1.5 nearly $2 billion of MEP. We will internalize all of it, or maybe not all, but like a good chunk of it. And then from all this, you will notice also that credibly neutral builder is actually very scarce and frankly quite valuable. And it also adds to the censorship resistance property of Ethereum transaction supply chain l two MEV will not be the same. We haven't presented here. And there's still more work to be done.
00:10:03.098 - 00:10:39.300, Speaker A: There's more data. There will be a lot more difference dynamics in which the MEV will be extracted because of the lower block times and potentially less six six arbitrage profit as well. And then the last one is that six six percentage will likely increase as more sophisticated traders and market makers will enter the space that may have different edges them winter muse and SCP and so forth. So yeah, hopefully we will change it. And MeV, as we talk, is also changing. Thank you very much.
