00:00:00.330 - 00:00:14.350, Speaker A: I hope this becomes like a turning point for where we'll see more payments, companies, other types of similar use cases open up. Because this is such a powerful proof point for Solana and a validation of how robust the tech is, this should open the flood doors.
00:00:20.610 - 00:00:34.406, Speaker B: What's up, everybody? Welcome to another episode of Lightspeed. Today we have a Solana panel joined by Marius, the founder of Hubble Protocol. We have Tristan, founder of Zeta Markets, and Ben from Meteora and Jupiter. I want to start high level. There's been a number of announcements over.
00:00:34.428 - 00:00:35.238, Speaker C: The last two weeks.
00:00:35.324 - 00:00:56.654, Speaker B: We've had Shopify's integration with Solana Pay. Last week, Rune posted he wanted a new chain to explore the Solana SBM. He noted that it's the best code base that he's seen. And then this morning, we have Visa announcing that they'll be extending their USDC settlement to Solana. So we've had quite a few amazing updates. I just want to get a general vibe check. Tristan, maybe with you.
00:00:56.654 - 00:01:01.600, Speaker B: How are you feeling about everything in these announcements? Is this a long time coming? Yeah. How do you feel?
00:01:02.210 - 00:01:25.778, Speaker C: Definitely feels like that. I mean, having been in the Solana ecosystem for what, two and a half years now, I think this is like the biggest slump we've seen it in probably the last couple of months. And finally having some good news coming around the corner and people coming around to what's being innovated on on this side of the fence. Kind of feels good and feels validating that everyone's been putting in this work over the bear market and it's starting to pay off and people are definitely starting to pay attention.
00:01:25.874 - 00:02:16.530, Speaker A: I think one of the most important parts is people choosing the value and the strength of Solana's tech over sort of the FUD and the narrative. And I think you'll see this in a lot of infra companies, b to B institutional, where the real pain point of needing speed and cheapness is it trumps everything. Right. I hope this becomes like a turning point for where we'll see more payments, maybe other types of similar use cases open up because this is such a powerful proof point for Solana and a validation of how robust the tech is. So, yeah, I mean, this is great. I think we'll open the flood doors.
00:02:16.610 - 00:03:09.586, Speaker D: Yeah. My theory about this is that it finally bridges the gap from fundamentals to perceived value. People that work in these companies, they're not going to be influenced by Twitter FUD and bug holders shilling their thesis. They actually have to make business decisions for which they will be responsible for in the next three years, and their career is built on that. So they have to make pretty good decisions that are long term and they're future proof. So Rune has to think about new chain which will be the backbone of billions of dollars, visa for sure, like how big that is and basically shopify as well. Has to do something that doesn't just live for three months for a Twitter narrative shelf life, but actually has to give something to the user.
00:03:09.586 - 00:04:12.954, Speaker D: Has to be a benefit. So the fact that they all chosen Visa have chosen Visa is a validation of what we all knew what was happening in Solana Tech for the past two to three years. And yeah, we kind of had this period where Serrano was down and there was this bad news and a bit of despair, but we've had so much stability and so many black swans that had to happen. And I think basically for me, it's up only. And the other thing that I think is that Shopify and Visa will open up APIs that nobody else was able to create before. Because if you want devs to build and to create all sorts of payment APIs, payment structure, whatever apps you need APIs from these big companies to basically permission you to access the systems. And this could finally make the vision of Solana was for payments and for speed possible.
00:04:13.152 - 00:04:50.522, Speaker E: So I want to maybe go a bit deeper into Roon's announcements. So Rune, for people who don't know, is the co founder of MakerDAO, which is one of the OGD Five protocols in all crypto, known for their stablecoin dai as well. So he made the announcement of essentially using an SVM fork or a Salana fork for this new chain. I believe it's actually literally called New Chain. And the reactions to it were obviously a little controversial. I think I tweeted that it had like over a million views or something within 24 hours because it's salana, because it always get FUD. You guys are all in the DFI space.
00:04:50.522 - 00:05:30.150, Speaker E: And furthermore, you guys are all founders. And something you've had to battle with a lot in the past year, at least, if not more, is FUD with regard to Solana and Solana DeFi and maybe specifically the TVL being low, right? Which I feel like maybe is a silly argument sometimes, but it also kind of has some merits because it maybe speaks social proof. As DeFi founders in Solana, how did you feel last year and how do you feel now? Has anything really changed? How has your mental model evolved since last year as a DeFi founder on Solana? We can go. Ben marius and then tristan oh, gosh.
00:05:31.210 - 00:06:04.340, Speaker A: This is a really good the. I'm not sure how much the mental model has changed. I think all of us came to Solana for the tech. I think that has been sort of, at least for me, foundational in terms of why I continue to build, why I believe in it, in actually the long term prospects. And I guess maybe some of the things that have changed is that.
00:06:06.070 - 00:06:06.434, Speaker D: I.
00:06:06.472 - 00:07:21.642, Speaker A: Think earlier on there was maybe more of a focus on retail and attracting retail capital. That's still something that's really important to us. But I do think that solana was sort of hurt in that area. Not just the FUD, but all these events like FTX just kills the people who could have made money on Solana that could have then been reinvested into the mean. Like for any founder, you're looking short the next opportunity you can sort of leverage upon, right, in terms of like what you're building. Right? And so I think with the recent announcements, you're seeing that there's probably an easier opportunity right now to capture maybe institutionals or b to b companies rather than going after retail. And that's not to say that you don't go after retail, it's just that maybe the timing isn't right.
00:07:21.642 - 00:08:33.440, Speaker A: Like we're deep in the bear, a lot of people's pockets are hurt NFTs I mean all the chains, right? Everyone's kind of hurt. So it would require a bigger lift to go after those and a bigger investment to go after those guys. In the short term, I think focusing on working with other projects, building up more of the DeFi building blocks to get ready to make it easier for other devs, for other projects to build on to add value to them and kind of build up that infra layer. So when the bull comes and retail is more flush with capital and it's a little bit easier to attract them, you have set up sort of the foundational layers to really capitalize on that. And in the meantime, you're building up those partnerships and those relationships with a lot of important companies or a lot of people even just maybe outside of Salana who are interested in it now. Right? Yeah, I guess it's more like instead of foundational beliefs, it's more like operating model or shifted focus.
00:08:34.450 - 00:09:57.450, Speaker D: Firstly, I think we can all agree that basically when Salana didn't really deserve a DeFi bull market in 2021, there was like maybe three months where you had a chance to build some DeFi primitive and everyone that rushed to copy paste and fork line by line things that were already on ethereum. So even if you did that really fast, it was very shallow. It wasn't based on pure demand, it was just rotations and people chasing narratives. And since then, basically we were all stuck with tech debt and bad primitives and we had to discover the idioms of how to write good Solana smart contracts. So all of that was just a journey and we had to get here to know, okay, what is actually possible in Solana from testing and breaking and getting slowness and issues, we realized, okay, maybe this is not the best way to do this kind of lending pool or whatever and we discovered the toolkit. So I think we are in a more mature spot right now where we can say, okay, this is something that we need and we know how to get it done and we don't have to just look at some solid code base to do it. So this is like the first thing that I think, and I think it was warranted that DeFi bull market was short lived.
00:09:57.450 - 00:10:29.880, Speaker D: So that's part one. I think now we're ready and we have users that have stuck around and give us feedback so we know things that they want. We've spent more time being deeply entrenched into the user needs. So I think we're ready to build. I think everyone's ready to build and ship a lot more things. And basically there's going to be some sort of like exponential growth because it's slow. At first you have two, three libraries, and then you have six libraries, and then you have 20 libraries you can reuse and then everything's really fast and you have the testing framework and you can build.
00:10:29.880 - 00:11:22.280, Speaker D: So you have to have the tools and the know how to build that. And the second part is we all know, right? You need the wealth effect. You need people to their bugs need to moon so they can then start recycling around the ecosystem, looping it, leveraging it, recycling it so that everyone has a chance of competing for something. If we're all competing for some pennies, it's going to be very low motivation and low incentives. But if there's a wealth effect like in Ethereum, then people will start trying to outcompete each other and result in better products, et cetera. So this is how I think about it, and I still think the second part has to happen. There has to be TVL for someone to capture such that they're motivated to build.
00:11:25.210 - 00:11:52.942, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that's very well put and I would echo a lot of Maris's sentiment there. I think 2021 was crazy and anyone could be a founder. It was the cool thing to build on Salana back in that time, just because that's where all the capital was going. You could raise a bunch of money, you could kind of hire people very easily. You could kind of get out to market and get tons of TVL. I remember the saber guys went from zero to a few billion dollars TVL in a few weeks. And that was just mind blowing to me.
00:11:52.942 - 00:12:39.406, Speaker C: And then I guess going into kind of last year, you saw kind of the know, this implosion of FTX and the kind of collateral damage that it had with, you know, people started shying away from Solana. It moved away from the fundamentals of why people cared about Solana, which is like low transaction fees, paralyzation, all these other things. And then people started being like, hey, it's SBF chain, it's the VC chain, all these other things that aren't really aligned with the tech side of things that people started fighting it on. So it was kind of tough as a founder, definitely. I think it was easy to be a founder in 2021 because that was not the contrarian bet. Everyone was like behind Salana, but then it became the contrarian bet. And then I think a lot of the people didn't kind of stick through.
00:12:39.406 - 00:13:40.846, Speaker C: They went with APDoS and Sui and these kind of L one competitors and I think that flushed out some of the less hardcore builders, which in my mind was somewhat of a good thing. And then kind of now we've got a really solid core of DeFi builders and general builders in the ecosystem, including the people on this kind of panel. And so it's great to see people go into full bear market builder mode. That's definitely what we've been doing is we kind of had, I would say, a fairly basic product in our first year of kind of development. Now we've gone back, we've rewritten our full front end, our back end, we've made everything faster, more reliable, less bugs, better UX. And the product is like literally 1020 X better than it was before, but yet it's so much harder to get users than it was back in the day. I remember the first day we launched, we had no product basically or we had like a really garbage hackathon product that barely worked and was held together with silly string and us like hot spotting ourselves on the back end so we didn't get rate limited by the public validators.
00:13:40.846 - 00:14:09.340, Speaker C: And then now we've got a really robust protocol that could probably handle billions of dollars of volume and it's just like a real search for users. So that's kind of the ironic thing. But I'm hoping seeing the 2018 bear market and what happened with the ETH guys, those guys who just kept building, the folks like RuNet Maker, Ave, all these other big protocols, just kind of lived through that bear market and they came out on top in a big way. So I'm really hoping that happens here as well.
00:14:10.910 - 00:14:36.050, Speaker E: I want to just double click on the hackathon comment by Tristan there. There is another hackathon happening on Solana called Hyperdrive. As you can see from Tristan, the code doesn't need to be great. You kind of just need to build a product, get it out there, iterate from there and then you can come on this podcast maybe one day as well. So that is kind of last year. I want to talk about this year. There's maybe a new meme called DFI 2.0.
00:14:36.050 - 00:15:07.440, Speaker E: First I want to get people's takes on what is DFI 2.0? Do you believe in it? Is it a real thing? Is it not? And two, it seems to be like maybe a bit about maybe like a renaissance in Slawn DFI and especially around tokens and washing out the predatory tokenomics from before, maybe looking forward towards better incentives and better kind of distribution mechanisms, et cetera. So can you guys just in the same order again talk about D Five 2.0? And for the people who are listening, why should they care?
00:15:10.130 - 00:15:20.740, Speaker A: Yeah, well, actually do you mind if I just say one thing about what Tristan said before we go into this. I just wanted to build on something.
00:15:21.350 - 00:15:22.100, Speaker D: About.
00:15:24.230 - 00:17:08.180, Speaker A: Maybe it's not touched upon in the bear and that's a lot of chains are very good at trying to snipe other teams. And what's interesting to me, especially in a bear, I think maybe even in particular with Solana, we got hit up by a lot of chains, we still get hit up by a lot of chains and there's a lot of people who really respect Solana depth. The teams are really good and so when things were just in the worst parts of it, right, a lot of chains were putting up enticements opportunity of like, hey, here's a chance to really capture more users or be on the ground floor with something new. And I think it's interesting to me that I think a lot of the teams that I respect chose to stay. There is definitely some notion of who has traction or what and if you do have some bit of traction, it's stickier. But I have a list of, like, oh teams and projects I respect and I think are doing awesome work. And it's really cool to see that everyone has sort of chosen solana, because that's probably the time where you would choose to switch if you're going to I think that speaks to the testament of everything, of just like, you have to really think about what you really believe in and where you want to be and where you want to build in.
00:17:08.180 - 00:17:13.926, Speaker A: I think it's amazing. Anyway, sorry for that little aside, I.
00:17:13.948 - 00:18:52.306, Speaker D: Can follow up on that a bit as well. I think it really points to part of the identity of Solana to be hardcore devs. Like Anatoli started this meme with chewing glass and as we were going through literally learning the patterns of writing sana code, we did feel the glass, we were chewing it and you took pride in it and then you had to be better and improve and you enjoyed the technical challenge and that kept you in, right? That part of as an engineer. And there's like this essay from Paul Graham called Averages where basically says that back in the era teams that were hiring Java devs, it couldn't last so long, but people that were using what was it, lisp or something, they could build faster and have stronger devs and they managed to outcompete and enjoy the. So if you hire someone that is or like if you have builders that are not really passionate about the tech, it will be very easy to very hard to make them stick. Whereas if you really love Rust and you love these things and the challenge is worth your time, then you'll also stick around. So I think that's what it's part of strange culture to be dev hardcore focus a lot on the technicals and for the better or for the worse, but it's definitely part of the identity.
00:18:52.306 - 00:18:54.870, Speaker D: That's just my opinion.
00:18:55.290 - 00:19:36.530, Speaker B: Tristan, a comment on the chewing glass, which has gotten famous in the Solana community. Eugene from Elliptis Lab tweeted out probably a week ago talking about how Solana prides itself and like a shitty developer experience and about chewing glass. And I think you commented on that and know maybe that's not the case anymore because at some point it is true. Like Mary you were talking about, you really get that diehard developer community, but at some point you need to move beyond that. Do you have some scar tissue from chewing glass? Do you think we're past that yet? Like Tristan, do you think we're because you see these announcements happening in Solana and it's really exciting, but you've seen this to some extent in the past and at some point we need to turn this attention into new users in the ecosystem. Just curious, is it also ready for new developers to join?
00:19:37.030 - 00:20:14.942, Speaker C: Yeah, I think it's like night and day comparison to what it was a couple of years ago. It's still not 100% perfect, I will admit, but I think it's so much better than when we started. When we started, as you guys probably remember, there was just like one Paul X blog on just like how to write an esco program. There was no anchor. You had to serialize and deserialize bytes yourself and deal with all the kind of low level stuff on chain. It was quite a lot to get your head around, especially coming from more of like a solidity or traditional programming background. It was like very systems level, which thankfully I'd done a little bit of, but I could imagine for most people it definitely was a lot to get their head around.
00:20:14.942 - 00:20:45.706, Speaker C: And then Rust was like a whole learning curve for me as well. And then, yeah, testing frameworks were pretty bad. Some of the validator and DevNet stuff was super flaky and probably is still pretty flaky to be honest. But yeah, the tooling has got way better for me. At least I do less smart contract programming these days, so less of a problem. But I do a lot of our infra data and APIs and all that kind of stuff and we had no way to index data, there was no agreed upon standard. It was extremely cancer to do.
00:20:45.706 - 00:21:33.500, Speaker C: And so I'm just super thankful that there are companies like Helios and a bunch of others that literally have just simplified my life in terms of I could just tap into an API and just do all this stuff and I don't have to spend a month rolling my own pipeline and doing all the error handling and alerting. It's terrible to kind of work with. And then there's really cool stuff. Like I saw Kevin put out this new library, this bank run one essentially, so you can do really fast testing. Now people are building really cool tools and I've been writing our Python SDK and there's now like full Solana Pi support and it has rust bindings and it's really fast and people are building cool tooling. There's like seahorse slang which is like anchor but in Python. So there's all this kind of cool stuff that's supported now that we definitely didn't have two years ago.
00:21:35.070 - 00:22:05.442, Speaker E: I want to just point out that while Solana is getting better in terms of development tooling, et cetera, EBM has been around for like seven, eight years at this point and Solana has been around basically a third of that time. So I think with time we'll see that gap shrink and I'm hoping it'll actually be salana ahead as well. But I may be a little biased. All right, so back to my question, which is why should people care about DFI 2.0 and what is D Five 2.0, in your own words?
00:22:05.496 - 00:24:06.326, Speaker A: There's two parts that stick to my mind, and this builds a little bit upon what Marius was talking about, which is that a lot of the people building on Solana have really got comfortable with the tech stack. And we're starting to see some new things that are being built that are only possible on Solana, along with, I think, a level of maturity in terms of building more secure, more robust, smart programs. I think that's really cool to see. And then I guess the second major part to it for me is the tokens. Even though it's taking some time to come about, I think the thing is people are exploring and looking for a new token model or even an approach to tokens that is very different than what we all did in 2021 with the low float, high FDB model. And I see the point system leaderboard meta that everyone is adopting that has gotten some amount of success as an intermediary step to kind of explore and experiment with what could be really promising token models. On the meteora side, we're just trying to do one of our learnings was just a simple one, is just to be as transparent as possible with our emissions and our tokenomics.
00:24:06.326 - 00:24:58.922, Speaker A: And in fact, we plan to decentralize the whole protocol. So it's not just transparency, but everyone will have a voice and a say in deciding those things. And that will be a dramatic difference than all the team Led stuff where the team decides on everything which has different trade offs. But I think it's really important to, because so many people were burned, to build confidence, like to allow people who are interested in your protocol and your token and whatnot to have confidence in what's going to happen, right, and what you say is going to happen. And I think the best way to do that is to bring them in and help them become decision makers or participants and so they can feel confident about the future.
00:24:59.056 - 00:25:37.506, Speaker D: I pretty much agree with Ben on the first part, which is Sonat D 5.0 is essentially basically everything. Post FTX, we basically had insane market volatility and crashes and just value being destroyed and then a lot of people were caught off guard. So you had risk management that was extremely stress tested by these sort of things. Liquidity, liquidity pools, everything was just disappearing or losing value or crashing. Liquidators were not showing up. Bitcoin was not even backed by real bitcoin.
00:25:37.506 - 00:26:47.630, Speaker D: So you just had like an insane amount of stress and basically well, that was bad at that time and it was really painful biting. We kind of emerging from that and we have the benefit of a bear market to see when does your protocol get stress tested, what should you build for? What are the scenarios? You're not just drunk on bull market all time highs and ponzinomics and emissions and based on zero fundamentals, just based on cult like mentality. So we basically did a full 180, right? And we just realized, okay, this doesn't clearly doesn't work and it's just completely unsustainable. And we were stress tested and plus we had this issue with regulator and clarity, right? Like US based teams have to think very hard about launching a token. So Solana based 2.0 is basically emerging from all of that and okay, let's build a more secure lending protocol, let's do a more capital efficient liquidity pool. Let's think about a bit more about Oracles risk management.
00:26:47.630 - 00:27:23.160, Speaker D: Let's not straightaway launch a token and do 1000% Apr and let's just do like points and see who actually adds value to the protocol and reward those people. And that sounds a lot more like how centralized exchanges do these rebates, right, and rewarding those that help your liquidity, for example. And it allows you to think more and iterate and things are a bit slow right now, so I think it's good to spend more time designing these things versus when it's in the bull and you basically have just too many things happening and you have to catch up.
00:27:24.090 - 00:27:33.760, Speaker B: Maris, you made a comment that you said solana DeFi is where the next war is going to be waged. Are you talking about between protocols and Solana? Are you talking about people are going to be coming over trying to catch the next hot thing?
00:27:34.130 - 00:28:20.874, Speaker D: No, I was just posting there because who was it? I think Mcbrannon said that basically I fear for our enemies or something like that. And it just brings this word like mentality. And I think it's cool because the other meta is curveworth in ethereum, right? So like the next generation of words, where will they be? And I hope they will be in Solana. That's all. Yeah, I think if there will be margins and if there will be users, there will definitely be vampire attacks and all sorts of things and all sorts of predatory or nozle guerrilla marketing attempts to attract people to your protocol. If everything goes as we hope, I hope it will happen.
00:28:20.992 - 00:29:03.100, Speaker A: As you're talking, I actually think part of the whole D five 2.0 too. I feel like mert was the catalyst for this, but everyone sort of leveled up their social media game and I love to see that, right? Because it's like founders tech folks becoming more engaging in sort of the crypto Twitter a lot more than before, and helping to shape that narrative around solana and DeFi. I don't know why people are talking about it too. So I think it's awesome to see.
00:29:03.470 - 00:29:55.820, Speaker D: I think it's true and it's really important. And actually I was just thinking today, when did I first mert on Twitter? And I think it was around the time of December when we were getting bitten down by some other chain and he was vocal. And then there was someone else, I think someone called Tony or something, and people started being a bit more vocal and it makes everyone else realize that, okay, you've been building on this head down for a year or for two years, and it feels really bad right now. And there's some sort of camaraderie happening there's like people speaking up. It's like you're not alone. We're all sitting here, we're all building, we all believe in solana. So it just makes it a lot more bearable, especially when it was really bad.
00:29:55.820 - 00:30:03.680, Speaker D: It's very good that surandify founders are vocal. I think it helps give you some.
00:30:05.090 - 00:31:15.730, Speaker A: Actually, I'll just add one reason why I think it's really powerful and a good sign of things. To me, it's a cleansing. I don't know if you guys remember this, but in 2021, actually, we also did some of this as mercurial finance, but we relied on the crypto Twitter influencers to do that. So there was like that whole where you bring them into a round so they have some incentives and some stake and then they pump you up and then that whole game, right? And that was just like not a good it's sort of the whole low float, high FDB thing. All that stuff was terrible, right? And instead of having to rely on those people and those mechanisms for us to step up and just do the job of marketing our own protocols, I think is a really important step for all the projects and why I'm more bullish, right? Because we shouldn't perpetuate that behavior.
00:31:19.590 - 00:31:34.194, Speaker B: Everyone, we'll get back to the show in a minute, but I want to let you know that we got our permissionless conference coming up. Start conference with Bankless. That's the biggest and best conference in DFI. It's going to be in Austin, Texas this year. Yep. I know you love it. They Got Tacos barbecue Barton Springs We got it all September 11 through the 13th.
00:31:34.194 - 00:32:03.554, Speaker B: If you've been in crypto for a while, know that the bear market conferences are the best conferences because those are the ones where all the outfits had the people that are still in crypto all really want to be there. It's going to be great for building a network for. Learning a lot. And look, we've got a phenomenal lineup of speakers that include people like Hasu Stani, Christine Moy, and Kyle Simani talking about ZK tech roll ups, account abstraction, mev app chains, and more. Look, I'm damn excited because you're a listener of Lightspeed, you're going to get a special discount. Type in discount code Lightspeed 30 and you'll get 30% off your ticket. That's right.
00:32:03.554 - 00:32:13.480, Speaker B: Just type in Lightspeed 30 when buying a permissionless ticket and get 30% off. Click the link at the bottom of this episode and go get it now because prices are going up every two weeks. All right, back to the show.
00:32:15.450 - 00:33:36.180, Speaker E: So while we're on that topic, actually brings up an interesting thought that I've been thinking about a lot, which is kind of go to market as a DeFi or maybe a crypto native protocol. So there's a lot to unpack here. But I'll just try to briefly articulate kind of my question here, which is that crypto maybe is riddled with these influencers and ponzonomics, which makes it kind of easy to get your first few users fast, but then maybe momentum dies out and then you kind of see the infamous token price curve. But obviously that's kind of a minority of the market, especially the entire market that is crypto users. How do you guys think about go to market when you think about getting users for your protocols? Do you care about the existing set of pool of users on the Solana chain or do you kind of look at all chains because some chains maybe, or some teams go multi chain when they think about this, or do you actually just think know, there's actually so many people outside of crypto that we should bring? Like, I know it's very open ended question. I'm just curious, I guess. How do you think about go to market as a DeFi protocol? Tristan, we'll start with you.
00:33:36.870 - 00:34:13.606, Speaker C: Yeah, it's a pretty hard one. It's kind of the million or multi million dollar question for everyone. It's definitely been the hardest part for like, I would know engineering, building the product, it's very kind of well understood or you can figure it out or optimize whatever you want. Go to marketers, I think very hard. Dealing with users in their requests and trying to grow in a bear market obviously very difficult. We've tried to be strategic and be like, hey, let's not blow our marketing budget in the bear market expecting incredible things and let's focus on tech debt reduction. But at the same time, something that's worked really well for us is just talking to users.
00:34:13.606 - 00:34:33.006, Speaker C: Literally, I don't know why more people in crypto don't do this, but just talking to users, just getting feedback like, oh, this part of our product really sucks or needs to be improved. And so we found kind of that organic growth has worked a bit better. The product is a lot more sticky. And so when we actually do run campaigns. Like we ran this big collaboration with Mad Lads.
00:34:33.038 - 00:34:33.246, Speaker D: Essentially.
00:34:33.278 - 00:35:06.174, Speaker C: It was called Mad Wars. We got people from the kind of NFT community there to come and trade on data. They would be bucketed essentially in different teams based on their NFT traits. And that worked really well. We spiked our users hugely, like four X or something other during that period. And then because our product, we'd improved things, I think there was some stickiness, whereas in the past you can go out there, you can throw exorbitant amounts of money at a PR firm and they'll put you on the news and stuff. But how many of those people are really going to stick? Probably not many.
00:35:06.174 - 00:35:47.242, Speaker C: It's a bit of a waste of money. Yeah, it's pretty tough. I don't think a lot of people have figured it out. I think a lot of people like myself, coming from Web Two, having done a bit of growth stuff, it's like, I don't know, very ad centric and then that just doesn't really fly with crypto and a lot of the policies on Twitter and other platforms where they're just very anti crypto advertising. That's been tough, trying to do more in person stuff. And I think we're trying to stay, kind know, grassroots promoted at, I guess, conferences or solana native stuff, or focus on the people who really care about the tech and are very DeFi focused. I think if you go out to, quote, unquote, Normies, and you're like, hey, you've never really touched crypto before.
00:35:47.242 - 00:36:26.070, Speaker C: Or maybe use Binance Come and self custody your own private keys and start signing stuff with this terrible UX, no one's really going to do that, I think, now, unless there's a really good reason to, like, I don't know, airdrops or something like that. So I'm just really hoping that the infrastructure gets better. Even trying to bring on ETH users is incredibly hard. The bridges have crappy liquidity, they take super long and you don't know where your funds have gone. They've just vanished through wormhole for a couple of minutes. You're just kind of waiting patiently on the other side. Same like the Fiat on ramps, a lot of people are building them, but they still take pretty high fees from Visa.
00:36:26.070 - 00:36:39.866, Speaker C: They're kind of slow, but things are improving and I think in the next year or two we can actually have a stab of going out to Wall Street bets and sign to get people from Robinhood and actually start trading in DeFi, stuff like that.
00:36:39.888 - 00:36:57.570, Speaker B: I'm pretty excited for Ben to tailor this question for you a bit. I know at Jupiter you had an integration with the Coinbase wallet, and I also think that you launched on Solana's Saga phone. So I'm curious, what was your experience with that and how important do you think that is to go to market to integrate with these known wallets and brands?
00:36:59.030 - 00:37:49.460, Speaker A: Good question. I would say both Saga and maybe Coinbase in terms of if you're looking for the Coinbase wallet, not Coinbase. Right. I wouldn't say that was the biggest return. Right. Or like that's the point. I think for Saga in particular, it's not really about users for us, but it was mostly this is somewhat unique for how we operate, but because we're fairly decentralized and flat, actually our first stakeholders on how we make decisions as a team and what we do is actually our team.
00:37:49.460 - 00:38:53.190, Speaker A: And so if our team is really into it, then we kind of start prioritizing that, which is really good, because you can harness the energy of the team and whatnot and there was a lot of energy around really investing in just building a better mobile experience and experimenting in what a future mobile app could be and how good it could be. And so we sort of capitalized on that and used sort of Saga as a forcing function for us to start building something really cool there and less so about users. Same thing with Coinbase was a little different, to be honest. Coinbase is like this massive company. It's like big corporation. It took like a long ass time for them to integrate. This is a very team centric thing where we're not really designed to work with big corporations.
00:38:53.190 - 00:39:51.210, Speaker A: They want legal assurances, they want investments in a lot of other areas. You have to tailor your company to go after those kind of B to B options, b to B as a customer base. And that's sort of not our jam. We did it, it was kind of cool, but it isn't sort of like in our DNA and a natural fit for us and maybe for a lot of crypto teams. It really depends. Stepping back the way I think about do you go after users outside of Solana or within Solana? I think a lot of it depends on and for us, it's sort of like figuring out who is going to be the core of our users, at least at the beginning. Who's your core user base?
00:39:51.280 - 00:39:51.900, Speaker D: Right?
00:39:53.550 - 00:40:59.600, Speaker A: And how do you how do you find them, how do you nurture them in terms of like maybe they're using your product, but they're not yet a part of the community. How can you get them more involved? A lot of it for us is just centered around who is actually contributing, asking questions, getting involved in some form or the other and then giving them pathways to do more if they want to, and then seeing who does more. Which is why I think leaderboards could be a really good is a really good system, or point systems are a really good mechanism for discovering those people. And for us on Meteora and Jupiter, it's still very Solana specific. I think where I've seen it work really well getting users outside of Solana, it's like you have a use case that has nothing to do with step n is one right. Helium is another and people don't even care that it's Solana or they don't even know it's Solana underneath. They're there for some other reason that Solana may be.
00:40:59.600 - 00:41:08.818, Speaker A: And and if that's your use case or your core group, then yeah, you don't even need to focus on Solana. You just bring in those people.
00:41:08.984 - 00:41:21.080, Speaker C: Do you think we need more apps like this that kind of abstract away the complexities of the blockchain and they just feel like a regular application and they kind of do all these swaps in the background. You end up using DeFi but you don't even know you're using it.
00:41:21.690 - 00:42:05.794, Speaker A: Yeah, look, I totally think we need that. I was super excited when I first saw that with know like way back in the day where it's like, holy crap, they had a Jupiter integration. Or people are like farming crops but they're actually doing DeFi underneath. And I was like, oh, this is so massive. Right? But I think you can't go after at least in gaming. Traditional gaming users don't like crypto. So there's like a weird thing there in go to market for them where you really can't just even talk about Solana or crypto.
00:42:05.794 - 00:43:08.700, Speaker A: It's just like here's a really great game and here's why. I don't know if maybe the ceiling on DeFi land and the reason why it ended up in its way, its value prop is sort of like DeFi. You can do DeFi things in a gamified way, but I don't know, I'm split. I think the long term value of Solana is to have these apps that nobody realizes they're on crypto. But then we also should a lot of these people are just not whales and we do need TVL, we do need capital, and we do need to attract folks like high network individuals or institutions or companies that can transact. So maybe we have to go after both in different ways, but I'm not sure.
00:43:11.790 - 00:43:36.500, Speaker D: I think that I disagree a little bit with Ben. I don't think we should be going for Normies. I don't think everyone should be trading. Everyone should be thinking of discounted cash flows and risk management and think about Volatility. I just don't think it's for everyone. But for people that love it, that's the best thing. They just absolutely love the experience.
00:43:36.500 - 00:44:00.246, Speaker D: So just finance in general is not for everyone. Not everyone digs it, but the people who dig it, they absolutely love it. In my opinion. Clifford does it really well, which basically it financializes everything. It hyper financializes things and there is fun to that. It just amplifies the experience. And my opinion is that crypto economy is going to keep growing.
00:44:00.246 - 00:45:03.566, Speaker D: There's going to be more things on chain and those are the people you should be servicing, I think. Sure, there is benefit in abstracting away the crypto complexity for replacing some outdated infrastructure in the real world, but for me that's not really fun. Maybe for visas but for me, I think crypto economy itself is really fun. I think we have new primitives as protocols and primitives as assets that can be exchanged and traded. And I do think that thing is going to keep on growing and there's going to be a lot of people to service there. And I think your first users, your best users are basically the whales because they're willing to put their money where their mouth is. Maybe they got lucky where they work really hard to get to stack their coins, but they really care about it.
00:45:03.566 - 00:45:48.138, Speaker D: And they tell you those people have high customer long term value or however they call it, and lifetime value. So they are really good indicators for you. There is this concept from some VC firm, it's called the White Hot Center, which basically says that you don't really know what your product market fit is, but if you look carefully at what your users do, some of them will do something a lot. And that's where you start bootstrapping your market or iterating your promotion. So we look at the whales that use Hubble and Camino and we see what they do and we think a lot about that. And for us, those are the best indicators of what crypto native people want to do.
00:45:48.224 - 00:46:18.722, Speaker C: Crypto is definitely very well skewed. I remember I did a bit of an exercise going through Token terminal and seeing what's happening on Ethereum DeFi and why are they crushing it. And it was kind of surprising seeing that the active user numbers even on Ethereum DFI for a lot of these purpose platforms was really in the couple of hundreds, couple of thousands at best. And that kind of blew my mind. I was like, oh, I figured there were like 100,000 people using dYdX and GMX and all this kind of stuff and it was like 1000 at best. And yet these protocols are doing billions of dollars of value or volume. Sorry.
00:46:18.722 - 00:46:29.554, Speaker C: So it's really up to this, I guess, top kind of few percentile that are doing a lot of the transaction volumes and that are like the real power users there. Sorry I cut you off, Ben.
00:46:29.602 - 00:47:01.826, Speaker A: Oh, no, no worries. I'm just kind of curious to hear maybe Maris or anyone's thoughts on because I've talked to some major traders and they're always concerned about who are they trading against and they love retail. So I wonder if you're just building for whales and whales are playing against each other, I think they want retail to come in. Should we be building to attract retail along with Wales or it's whales versus Wales? What is anyone's thoughts on?
00:47:01.848 - 00:47:35.050, Speaker D: I don't think so, because your job is not to build tokens. I don't think that's your job. I think your job is to be infrastructure for all of these people that want to create things that people want to trade. So if you want to think about conceptualized tokenomics and all sorts of things. You can go ahead. But from a DeFi builder point of view, I think you just want to facilitate efficient exchange of value and risk. So people want leverage, basically.
00:47:35.050 - 00:48:09.426, Speaker D: Right. What does that mean? It means that I want to buy Sol with your USDC. You have some spare USDC. I want to use your USDC to buy Sol for three months until it goes up and then I pay back. So you as a DeFi builder, you need to facilitate these things and expect that token velocity and everything will just keep growing and volume is going to keep growing. So I think that's kind of your job. If you want to bring people together, say, hey, you guys trade with each other, what are they going to trade on? They can't trade Apple because that's illegal.
00:48:09.426 - 00:48:22.320, Speaker D: So someone else is responsible with value creation. I think we are responsible with something else. And I don't have to solve the world. I don't have to solve world hunger. Right. I'm going to solve one problem at a time and this is the one I'm focusing on.
00:48:24.690 - 00:48:48.790, Speaker C: Yeah. My take is we've talked to, I guess, a lot of market makers given that's kind of our exchange business. And those guys definitely care a lot about this. I've been reading this book, Flash Boys, which kind of talks all about how HFT kind of developed in traditional markets. And those guys love obviously having that uninformed flow. That's how they make their money, essentially being able to kind of trade against those guys. And you see it very much in HFT world.
00:48:48.790 - 00:49:19.134, Speaker C: There's this whole payment for order flow system where people want to be trading against the uninformed traders. So especially in crypto for marginal market maker to integrate with the DeFi exchange, which is a lot of headache if they see that your volume is low and you don't have a lot of natural flow, people just kind of dismiss it. It's not super interesting. Whereas thing like Binance, obviously that's where a ton of people are trading and speculating on shitcoins. Same probably with NFTs. There was probably a lot of money to be made. That's like massive opportunity for them.
00:49:19.134 - 00:50:00.140, Speaker C: And right now I think things are a bit more quiet there and they actually have to be competitive and work hard, which is probably why you've seen some of the bigger firms kind of tend to pull out of DeFi these days because it's like you actually have to kind of work for it. And I think, yeah, we do need to get other people on. Like Is Dev at, I don't know, shadowy supercoder trading company really going to be evangelizing crypto and out there on Twitter kind of doing the work that some of us are doing? Probably not. So we need these people with big audiences coming in, bringing in more people and kind of actually getting real adoption of crypto. It can't just be like Alameda versus jump in the order books and just kind of no one else. That's just kind of a zero sum game and not very fun for anyone.
00:50:01.650 - 00:50:49.510, Speaker E: So actually, while we're on this topic, I just thought of this question. My girlfriend's mom actually watches the show. She knows nothing about crypto and she asked me why she should use DeFi. A few weeks ago she just asked me what should she do, why should she use it? So I'm curious, why should a normal retail user and I guess Mario's kind of just kind of answered this and said, actually it's not for everybody, but why should people use DeFi? What are they getting from Jupiter, Camino, Zeta that they're not going to get from Robinhood or something else? Can you sell them on why they should care about DeFi? Ben, Marius and Tristan?
00:51:02.050 - 00:51:34.346, Speaker D: I think you should use DeFi if you want to be early. Basically that's part number one. Everything is going to be on chain first, before it gets centralized exchanges, before it passes all of these gated platforms. So if you want to be early, you can go into DeFi. If you want competitive rates, non monopolistic rates, you can go to DeFi. That's basically the idea. It's basically the most honest, efficient market.
00:51:34.346 - 00:52:11.830, Speaker D: I think you can think there's not going to be a lot of people taking many cuts in the middle. New tokens launch on DeFi first. It's really for the early adopters at the moment. I think DeFi is going to change a lot in the future. If basically the crypto economy is going to grow and it will serve the same role as the financial system serves right now, which is there's going to be capital allocators which have spare USDC. There's going to be risk seekers that want to borrow the things with it. There's going to be entrepreneurs launching tokens that accrue value for different things.
00:52:11.830 - 00:52:46.050, Speaker D: And basically it's going to be the first ever unified economy where everyone can operate. And DeFi is going to have to serve that economy. It will do the same thing that anything that finance does. It reallocates resources, allows speculators, hedgers, people that fundraise all of that to happen in one unified platform. I think that's where it's going as a native crypto economy. And if you want to be early, if you want to take a part of it, you have to be early. You have to be in DeFi.
00:52:48.150 - 00:53:46.066, Speaker C: Yeah, I think there is this big asymmetric upside, definitely being in DeFi, seeing these new protocols launching with incentives and other things being early to protocols. It's almost like being an investor, I guess, in a traditional tech company, you can just kind of be on your computer testing out protocols and they actually kind of give you essentially pseudo equity for their company and their protocol that they're making. And that's like a great way you saw a lot of people just do incredibly well off the last bull market and kind of DeFi summer. I think generally DeFi is getting a lot better than what it was a couple of years ago in kind of leaps and bounds. So for example, I was just trying to swap some money, I think in my bank account going between currencies essentially, and they were charging me like 80 basis points or something or other on just like a simple currency swap and I was like, holy shit, the fees are so high on this. I'm literally losing hundreds of dollars on this kind of transaction. It was just like not really worth it.
00:53:46.066 - 00:54:21.726, Speaker C: And I'm so used to using products like Jupiter where I'm doing say, a stable swap or not even like a stable swap, and I'm paying only like a few basis points in fees, like it's literally an order of magnitude lower and so I've just become really attuned to that where it's super cheap. And then the fees thing is crazy as well. In traditional I might want to buy a stock or something. Rather I have to go through a broker and then they charge me this massive upfront fee essentially. And then, hey you, come trade on Zeta or something. Rather we charge like ten basis points in fees at west and zero for maker, obviously. It's just so much better.
00:54:21.726 - 00:55:01.340, Speaker C: You also pay nothing in gas fees, it's like what, 1000th of a cent or less? It's just such an improvement. And then centralized exchanges, sure they're good, but I think we all learned our lesson with FTX and kind of what happened there, that self custody is actually sort of important. So I just don't even bother taking that risk anymore. For example, Jupiter, I just pop open the page, I can connect my ledger and I can swap assets, essentially. And it's like, why would I want to jump through the hoops of going back to finance and going through KYC and logging on and doing two FA and going through their super complicated nebulous UI and then potentially they steal my money? At the end of the day, it's just not worth it.
00:55:03.070 - 00:55:26.018, Speaker B: Yeah, I have to agree with that. It's an interesting question. It's sometimes a hard one to answer. I think one thing for me is you need that real valuable use case, but you also need things that are fun and entertaining. And maybe it's a bad analogy, but I think about it with books as well. Like you have books that people get to actually learn a new topic, for example. But then there's a huge industry that's just about community entertainment and having something to do and I think financial literacy in crypto is huge.
00:55:26.018 - 00:55:59.898, Speaker B: I was a finance major, but I actually didn't care about options. Tristan, I know you guys started in the options market until I got into crypto. So I think there's these underrated parts of crypto that are really going to be a big part of it to pivot a bit. I do want to go back to Rune's post for people that don't know MakerDAO, they have a stablecoin die on the ethereum blockchain and they have this endgame that they're building towards in the next three years. Rune thinks that they're going to need to build a new chain. And the main reason he says they need a new chain is that in the case of some financial emergency, something shuts down catastrophic. They need to be able to hard fork.
00:55:59.898 - 00:56:34.698, Speaker B: But he also mentions things like being able to capture all the mev on the chain, being able to control your fees, not having to pay that out. And he basically compared Cosmos and Solana and said those are the two ecosystems that he was looking at, but that Solana had the most compelling code base, but also community, because he knows with that community that you're going to continue to build tools and infrastructure and so forth to build that forward. But he did not say we want to launch on Solana. He said that he wanted to fork Solana's code base, essentially. And one reason to do that is so that Maker could fork itself if it needed to in the future. Tristan, I want to start with you. I've heard you in a conversation, I know you started with options.
00:56:34.698 - 00:57:13.318, Speaker B: Now perps is a big focus for Zeta markets, but you've talked about vertically integrating into other products as well, so say like spot markets, futures lending, et cetera. So you're going through vertical integration. And one of the big points on Salana is you have composability and atomic composability. And so you're able to interact with these other protocols and makers essentially saying by having your own chain, we don't really need to do that. And I'm curious, as a builder on Salana, what keeps you there on the Salana L one and not doing what Rune is basically saying that they should fork the chain. Because if you're going to build out these vertical products, do you really need to be on Solana and have that composability? How do you think about that?
00:57:13.484 - 00:57:42.270, Speaker C: It's a really good question and I think it depends a lot on the product you're building. I'm probably actually not the right person to talk about this because I think with derivatives they're actually not very composable, unfortunately, or at least in the way that we've thought about them. It's quite difficult to do. I think options were quite cool. If you try and do all this auto book stuff and you have leverage in the system, it's very difficult to essentially just tokenize risk and then just ship it off somewhere. That was always difficult for us. We have like a risk engine.
00:57:42.270 - 00:58:29.054, Speaker C: We've kind of got to keep tabs on everything and be able to essentially step in there or have the platform step in and allow people to get liquidated and such, whereas I think it is quite different in other kind of setups so I think Spot is actually quite different in this regard. And I know this is a big driving factor for why the Phoenix guys stuck with Solana is because Spot, you need composability. Say you build on some app chain somewhere, you need them to bridge the native asset over there. It's just going to be such a headache to bring this over to your app chain and build a full Spot exchange. Derivatives are kind of different. Like you've seen dYdX just go to their own Cosmos chain. Essentially all you really need is an oracle or any kind of price feed and you can start listing perps markets on whatever.
00:58:29.054 - 00:59:21.694, Speaker C: So I think those will probably tend to work better on app chains. And it's why you see centralized exchanges just live in their own kind of ecosystem and world and not have to integrate with anyone. I do think there are benefits to composability, like essentially building on chain trading systems, building AMMS on top of these primitives. That's where we want to get to essentially, is initial vision, I guess for CRM back in the day of becoming that one centralized or not centralized, but that one funnel order book for all kind of, say, Solana perps liquidity to go. Rather than build five different order books or have five different protocols, all trying to do Solana perps try and just build them on, know, vertically integrate funnel that all through the same order book, you get deep liquidity, which kind of benefits, I guess, the core protocol as well as every other protocol that builds on it. So I think that's definitely like a big draw card.
00:59:21.812 - 00:59:48.466, Speaker B: Bender marius, I'd love to hear your thoughts because I understand for derivatives it might be a bit different, but one thing I think you get an advantage of building on Solana is the liquidity in the community and is that itself a big enough moat to stay there. And I know, like, in the future, it's in years out, we have no idea what's going to happen. The point I'm trying to get to really is why build on salon itself and not just the code base? If it really is just the performance that you need, what is keeping you as a founder in that community and on the salon?
00:59:48.498 - 00:59:49.320, Speaker D: L one?
00:59:50.170 - 01:00:11.898, Speaker A: Well, I think it's a ton more work to build up a chain. You'd have to build up the validators. You'd have to incentivize them all to sort of have the same level of security and decentralization that Solana already has and you lose out on the composability.
01:00:11.994 - 01:00:12.254, Speaker D: Right?
01:00:12.292 - 01:01:00.298, Speaker A: So what I've seen from other app chains that have done this is that they end up going the way of sort of generalizing themselves. They're like, oh shit, we need NFTs now, we need more DeFi things. And then instead of focusing on the core product and the core value you're delivering, you have to execute a much larger vision. Maybe if you're. Maker Dow and you've reached a certain level of traction and community and success, you can go after a bigger thing and maybe that makes sense. Maybe people will just bridge back and forth because they love you so much. But I don't think it's worth it, especially if you're just starting out unless they're trying to raise VC funding.
01:01:00.298 - 01:01:31.560, Speaker A: But you didn't hear that from me. But I think the things that people should should be working on is like what is my unique value to the world? How can I really bring that out and make that so compelling and powerful like ten X better than anything else out there and attract people based on that?
01:01:35.130 - 01:02:29.078, Speaker D: I think that what Brilliant is doing is very different than what we do. What he needs is basically just this transparent database that's mainly what he wants. I think somehow have treasury vault there or whatever and have it transparent enough and have it have multi sigs and things like that such that the maker treasury or the PSM or whatever they build, it still stays there. But I think an analogy is imagine you want to build a restaurant. You're not going to build the most amazing restaurant in the world in the desert, right? Nobody's going to go there. Whereas if you want to build a restaurant, you want to go New York City downtown, where everyone is right. And then you though come there and someone else comes there and then the customer is hungry, he comes to me and then he has an outfit and he wants to go get a drink.
01:02:29.078 - 01:03:15.020, Speaker D: And then he goes to your bar. I think everything benefits from clustering effect in an economy because it's this kind of environment where basically there's a flywheel and there's clustering whereas we keep the same analogy. What Rune needs to build, he needs to build a factory and then he ships the products downtown, right? So you want to build in Solana because everyone else builds on Solana essentially. And you're not just there to build a product that has three transactions per day and yet it's fast and cheap. So it's a very different use case and that's why you need it. I was not taking a stab at anyone.
01:03:15.390 - 01:03:35.854, Speaker C: I was going to say there's definitely a network effect and obviously it's called Start problem Building. Like an app chain. Like looking into it, I guess you have to run a validator set. You have to, I don't know, get some explorer to build on you. You have to do all the tooling from scratch. It's a massively capital intensive and time intensive operation. So you kind of get that all for free.
01:03:35.854 - 01:04:07.110, Speaker C: Building on L One and then obviously people are already there. They already have their funds there. They trust the chain in terms of economic security, which is super nice. And then I think one big legitimate draw card, I think for app chains is like the state isolation this is a big problem on Salana back in the day. And a reason I think why we had our kind of concerns building on Solana in the early days is we had a bunch of open interests on our platform. Suddenly Solana network just like craps itself. Everything goes down, grinds to a halt.
01:04:07.110 - 01:04:44.934, Speaker C: Our market makers start pinging us on Telegram, they're like, we have all this money on our platform in open orders, what are we going to do about that? How do we cancel it? And there's all this kind of like panic and when things kind of resume, the market's very chaotic and it's not a very good way to run like a financial protocol, but that's just gotten so much better over time, like a lot of people posting on Twitter now. But yeah, Solana just hasn't been down for a second the last six months. So I feel like that's kind of reason to stay is like, we have this proper robust kind of state isolation now and things are actually reliable and you can kind of build on there without things crashing on you.
01:04:45.132 - 01:04:51.014, Speaker B: One more comment on that because I know people listening to this podcast are going to say, okay, well, you don't actually have to bootstrap your validator set.
01:04:51.052 - 01:04:52.294, Speaker C: Because you could use a roll up.
01:04:52.332 - 01:05:14.750, Speaker B: For example, and use ethereum for settlement. And that's something that EVM and Eclipse is doing. And I think that's really interesting. But one last point that Rune made is that the reason that he likes Solana as well is that it's actually live in production and working today. And when you look at something like roll ups, that could be really cool in the future, but right now you have centralized sequencers, you have the upgrade keys and so forth, and you have all these complexities. So I think that's something important to remember on why, for example, they would choose Solana.
01:05:15.970 - 01:06:04.400, Speaker D: I also don't think that bootstrapping a violator set is actually going to be your last problem because we've seen someone has quite a good validator set at the moment, yet a lot of, like, for example, rollbit moved from Solana to ETH with the token because there's just more liquidity there and there's more purchasing power. And I think this is going to be the problem if you launch your own gen, you really are creating your own new economy. And who is going to be there to buy tokens? Who is going to launch on the token when there's no appetite and there are no buyers? I think it's a really hard problem to solve liquidity fragmentation, and that's why I think it just has to cluster and the power law is going to rule when it comes to economies like this.
01:06:04.770 - 01:06:20.120, Speaker C: I have a question maybe for you guys. So I've been listening maybe shamefully to some bankless podcasts and they're very much of the thesis that we're going to have tens of thousands of app chains one day. Do you guys think that's going to happen? What are your guys'thoughts it's not going to happen.
01:06:24.890 - 01:06:26.230, Speaker E: People are going to elaborate.
01:06:27.870 - 01:07:04.100, Speaker D: It really depends if you can have some sort of automation to always keep balances in check and you're okay with like five minute settlement of transactions. Chains syncing with each other if you make that fast enough or if you hold like, you might be able to do it. But that essentially means building a unified chain, which is basically still, at the end of the day, solana. So you have to do so much infrastructure to make it feel seamless. And that infrastructure is going to be impossible to build. It's just too much work.
01:07:04.630 - 01:07:35.666, Speaker C: Yeah. To me, it just feels like Reimplementing TradFi all over again. You have all these kind of banks and independent operators who don't have the same standards or talk to each other. Like money transfers take three days. And then Swift comes out, which tries to standardize it somewhat and get everyone to speak the same language. But it feels like, I don't know, all this is going almost in the reverse direction where you're going to have to bridge between all these app chains unless they figure out this HyperChain or super chain stuff, which I haven't fully gotten my head around. And things can actually kind of compose properly.
01:07:35.666 - 01:07:38.410, Speaker C: Yeah, it seems like the UX is going to be pretty tough.
01:07:38.490 - 01:07:57.460, Speaker B: Just one comment to compare it to podcasting. Since we're all on a podcast right now, I think there definitely could be thousands of podcasts, but I don't think anyone will care. You've probably heard this on a podcast before. It's like 90% of podcasters quit by their 10th episode, and of those left, only 10% make it to 20. If you can pop up a roll up easily, sure, go for it. I just don't think anyone will care.
01:07:58.010 - 01:08:20.734, Speaker E: Yeah, I don't quite get the obsession with chains because we have like three products right now. So probably more focused on products, less focused on chains. But all right, let's get spicy. We're going to do rapid fire. I'm going to ask some quick questions and try to give short answers. And it's going to be Tristan, Marius, and then Ben, in that order every single time.
01:08:20.852 - 01:08:21.520, Speaker D: Cool.
01:08:22.370 - 01:08:27.150, Speaker E: All right. Your favorite crypto app to use? That's not DFI.
01:08:29.330 - 01:08:50.646, Speaker C: That's a really tough one. I actually really enjoyed Step In back in the day. It actually forced me to go and run. And I don't know, even the money wasn't crazy. I would just go run around Marina Bay or something or other, do like a half an hour, 40 minutes run, and I would earn $100. And I was like, this is great. Even when the token kind of crashed, I still somehow psyopsed myself into doing it.
01:08:50.646 - 01:09:07.100, Speaker C: And I'm like, great. I'm getting fit. I'm kind of earning. I feel great. And I finished my run, checked my strava, and I've also made like $50 on top of that. Kind of a killer combo, except my shoes that I bought for $5,000 are worth zero now, but we don't talk about that.
01:09:10.350 - 01:09:18.400, Speaker D: Do wallets count? Yeah, I like software a lot. I think their latest upgrades are really cool.
01:09:21.810 - 01:09:31.650, Speaker A: I'm a big fan of Heist, the NFT game. It's the only NFT collection I'm up on right now. Really good. They do some great game mechanics.
01:09:32.310 - 01:09:50.890, Speaker C: Can I interject one? I love the Tensor guys. Those guys ship like crazy, and the first time I used their product, I was like, god damn. I'm not a front end engineer, but I got to figure out what the hell these guys are doing. It's so silky in terms of experience. So I'm all for people building super fast, super optimized apps like that. It's just incredible.
01:09:53.790 - 01:10:05.710, Speaker E: Yes. Shout out to Tensor and Shameless Shill. Tensor was on the podcast a few episodes ago, so if you're curious, check that out. Okay, the worst take you've seen about Solana DeFi.
01:10:10.770 - 01:10:51.680, Speaker C: That's a good one. There's a lot out there. Yeah, I guess the whole TVL thing, I think it's true in some regards, essentially, that the TVL is low, but I think that's not a reason to write it off. I think people need to actually use apps. And if you're just going to look at the DeFi llama chart and essentially write off the thing and say, hey, it's less than some kind of ghost chain out there, I think that kind of undersells what's happening with it. And people kind of bin it in this, like, oh, this is like the EOS of this cycle, or something like that. I think people have actually got to go there, get in the trenches, use the apps, and then hopefully once enough of this mind share kind of permeates, we'll actually see that number picking up.
01:10:54.850 - 01:11:56.480, Speaker D: I mean, this is not new, but I was speaking to people at the East Conference, and they were saying that Sona is centralized, and if you go into the discussion a few minutes, it becomes awkward because we all know what is the how many Valdecs there are and the situation with Lido. And the really annoying part is that they are stuck with old news, and that just informs their decisions, and they spread it further, and they just reinforce their previous beliefs that are, again, bad informed on ethereum, for example. So it's really strange that even at this time, people think that about Solana and from respectable people, people that actually do respect on DeFi in crypto, they still believe that, and it's because it's just an unverified opinion. Yeah.
01:11:57.490 - 01:12:30.342, Speaker A: In the same way, I think the whole downtime thing, people have just stuck with that. And I feel like it in a lot of the big PR announcements, like maybe a CoinDesk announcements or something where they say they'll reference it, oh, Solana had downtime issues last year. It'll be like somehow that context is still important and relevant. Actually, I'm strangely puzzled why it keeps persisting, to be honest, but I don't know.
01:12:30.496 - 01:12:35.838, Speaker B: To have a balanced diet, what would be the most fair criticism that still exists today?
01:12:36.004 - 01:13:18.860, Speaker D: I think the inflation part, the sustainability of validator fees is the one that I'm most concerned of. About everything is great apart from how are we going to make the validators profitable. Maybe I don't know everything about it, but as far as I know at this moment, they still rely on inflation. And I know it's early and there are discussions to be had and there's time and that question will arise. But I think we have to consider basically how are we going to make the validators profitable and if we keep the fees low. And the obvious take is that we just need a lot of volume, which it might come.
01:13:21.470 - 01:14:14.342, Speaker C: Yeah, I'd say. In my mind, all these unlocks with FTX liquidations, even though I know they're kind of vested over a couple of years, that's definitely worrying in terms of sell pressure on the token and seeing, I think, prior projects, which have great technology, but bad tokenomics or kind of overhangs and kind of not great cap tables that can kind of really scar, you know? I wonder what Solana would have been if we didn't have that association. Like, maybe it wouldn't have got that kind of initial kind of hype that it got, or maybe it'd be in a completely different state to now, but we'll have to see how that pans out. I'm hoping that's fairly smooth. And unfortunately, I think that the token actually does make outsized impact on retail's perspective. I noticed when we get a green candle, when we're kind of trending down, everyone's like, oh yeah, Salana, it's going to zero. See you later, Bozos.
01:14:14.342 - 01:14:27.380, Speaker C: And then we get like a 5% move up and then everyone's like, oh yeah, Salana, it's the best. This chain is going to the moon. It's going to be at $200 next week, trust me. So it's kind of funny how people flip on their head like that.
01:14:29.190 - 01:15:14.050, Speaker A: I actually think the token emission thing could be a good thing because I think it will diversify the stakeholder base more so than it has been. And I actually think in general that diversification is going to be a better foundation. Right. Because there's been criticism about the VC chain and everything. So hopefully that'll end up being a long term positive and something we're also working towards for meteora and building up our stakeholder base. The whole liquidity volume thing is a fair comment that we're all working towards improving.
01:15:16.230 - 01:15:24.754, Speaker E: What is the most exciting thing you're working on right now? And feel free to show your oh, good question.
01:15:24.872 - 01:16:14.274, Speaker C: Something I was working on today, which is really cool, is we just migrated a lot of our backend to Geyser and just using really cutting edge stuff that's available on Solana. I think we've been trying to reduce tech debt and just we actually have the time now, now that our hair is not on fire in like a bull market to refactor and improve things. So it's been really cool, like reading into a lot more trading stuff and trading more on centralized exchanges and then realizing what can actually be done on a blockchain. Having this global state machine that synchronizes around the world. You always think that, hey, blockchains have to be really slow on chain trading, has to be hamstrung. And it's this kind of like painful clunky experience that I'm kind of used to. And then you come and trade on a Dex like Zeta and it's like, hey, you're getting audible updates within 100 milliseconds or something other or a couple of hundred milliseconds and the speed of light is basically that.
01:16:14.274 - 01:16:28.086, Speaker C: So it's just awesome to see. I kind of put side by side by bit in our exchange and playing around and placing orders and it's really fast to update and I'm like, God damn, DFI is actually catching up to CFI in a big way.
01:16:28.188 - 01:16:37.290, Speaker B: Tristan, this is probably a big explanation, but I saw that Tweet today. How do you actually update this in 100 milliseconds when the blocks are 400 milliseconds? What's actually going on there?
01:16:37.440 - 01:17:07.330, Speaker C: Good question. So there's different confirmation levels, I guess. Processed is basically when the validator hears about it straight away. And so Geyser is kind of a sidecar in the validator so before it's kind of ready on the RPC later and basically packed into a block, you can kind of stream data out of it and kind of read these things. So some of these updates may actually not make it into the block at the end of the day. But it's really good for, I think, trading infrastructure where you really care about latency. You want to hear things as soon as they're in the validator.
01:17:07.330 - 01:17:30.140, Speaker C: And then there's even stuff like, I think these GTO kind of shred streams as well that do it even faster than that. So you can get basically stuff in real time. It's just like, what is your network latency? Can I hear about those updates instantly? And I think it will just make for a really interesting kind of on chain HFT, kind of competitive trading environment. So keen to see how that plays out.
01:17:31.010 - 01:17:38.990, Speaker E: Feel free to DM me anybody if you're interested in very high speed, low latency stuff like that. By the way, anyway, go Marius.
01:17:41.170 - 01:18:12.940, Speaker D: We're working on Camino 2.0, which is going to be revealed in about a month's time, just a full product revamp. And the current Camino is just going to be a subset of what Camino 2.0 is going to be. So you'll be able to do way more things, take a lot more market views rather than what you can do now. But that's all I can say at the moment, but it's going to be our biggest release ever. It's going to be nice.
01:18:13.550 - 01:18:20.846, Speaker A: Amazing. I love the new graphs by the way. So your releases are pretty oh, I.
01:18:20.868 - 01:19:37.906, Speaker D: Can talk about that 1 second if you don't mind. My background is in. I used to work at Bloomberg for about eight years and people there were like we were giving data to all sorts of people from simple financial products to derivatives and I met traders and risk managers and all sorts of people and they're really into quantitative analysis and graphs and extremely visual things. And if you ever look at Bloomberg terminals it's just always charts or tables or all sorts of things, right? And I was just thinking about crypto and DeFi and how it's basically built kind of from first principles from ground level by people that are crypto native and they haven't really taken the lessons from the true djents, the people that have been in finance for 50 years and tried all sorts of things 50, 6100 years and so on. So I think there's a lot that we can do to level up to give a really good experience when you do finance things. And graphs are basically one of them. Like just performance attribution risk scenarios.
01:19:37.906 - 01:20:12.270, Speaker D: All of these things are really useful for a lot of people because it turns it more into a skill based game rather than just hoping to get lucky. The more decisions and the more information you have, the more it gives you a power to have an edge over someone else and I just think it just raises the bar for you as a participant if you want to level up with some better traders. So I think it's really important that we can focus on these sort of things as a next UX upgrade.
01:20:15.590 - 01:21:18.120, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm going to support that for a second because I really love what they've been know. I think fundamentally a lot of people look at APY and they're like where is this coming from? Is this like and we still get questions like that what's going on here? Some people are like I don't even believe it, right? Or am I actually making money or am I losing to impermanent loss? And there's all these questions about it and actually in reality APY is not a static thing. It's very fluid and dynamic. It's great to see charts that help people understand what's actually going on and help them become more informed. And one of the things I like about the recent release, the community release too is like you can change your strategy and it will simulate the I think you're back testing the actual historical results, right, based on your strategy. So it's actual real historical performance based on your strategy. So things update in real time.
01:21:18.120 - 01:22:37.310, Speaker A: Honestly, I feel like it's a new level of insight and transparency that you don't see in DeFi. So really cool stuff. We're working on two very big releases that we will be doing in private alpha soon. One is a new sort of constraint liquidity model and then the other one is sort of we think is going to be a next iteration of sort of the Ve 33 or the sort of curve convex kind of war thing that we think is going to be really helpful. The Ve Three three thing will be something we'll experiment with, but we think it will be very helpful in helping tokens build liquidity for themselves, which has kind of like been a problem. If you look at the current tokens launching, like Euro E, for instance, those guys can't do incentives legally, hamstrung a little bit. So a lot of the tokens launching that are really important for Solana DeFi TBTC is another one, Euroe is another one.
01:22:37.310 - 01:23:07.640, Speaker A: Don't have mechanisms yet to grow that liquidity. And so having something like what we're building I think will be really important in the near future. And then the very next thing that I'm personally working on is the Dow formation for Meteora and the token release for that. So there's a lot of moving parts of that, but that's like the big one.
01:23:08.810 - 01:23:18.778, Speaker E: All right, final question for me. You're all founders here, so I'm curious, what is the most valuable lesson you've learned as a founder so far?
01:23:18.944 - 01:24:30.130, Speaker C: There's a lot, I think having conviction. I probably said this on other podcasts, but yeah, I think just really believing in something and sticking with it. I think this has been, like, a really big lesson learned, especially in the bear market, given that it's so easy to switch these days and you see all these people jumping around between different protocols or going to different chains or jumping to AI and stuff, that's kind of cool and all, but I think the people that are ahead of it, like ben, marius and a bunch of other people in the ecosystem, they've really gone. And they've just dedicated a lot of time into building something that is hopefully like a generational product and something that is really going to set itself apart from everyone out there. And I think the big lesson for me was when I started so much of my mental space, I think was occupied about like, oh man, so many derivatives, competitors, this guy's building options, that guy's building options, new perfs exchange, I got to worry about that. And then it turns out two years later, I think probably like 95% or more of them have just blown up rugged, got into some kind of trouble, co founders have fallen out. The protocol is just sunsetted.
01:24:30.130 - 01:24:54.380, Speaker C: So I was just like, wow. Even just sticking with it, building, putting your heads down and just trying to build a really good protocol and filtering out that noise, you just kind of get to the top in Crypto very easily because I think the attention span and the willingness of people to build really good stuff the bar is still pretty low, I would say. Yeah, you just got to stick through if you believe with it.
01:24:57.310 - 01:25:43.318, Speaker D: I don't have any new lessons to share. I mean, there's a lot of great thinkers out there that basically have shared them and I can definitely see them when I go through them. But my personal one that is personal to me is going to conferences. I was really not an amazing networker. So there's that kind of stereotype of Power networker guy that just goes and just talks to everyone and completely different to my experience. I met Tristan and Ben, both of them at conferences. And even if you spend just a little bit time, you end up bonding and it just creates a relationship and you can just chat.
01:25:43.318 - 01:26:07.170, Speaker D: It creates a very long lasting thing because the space is small and we're only here in it together and it helps a lot to speak with someone that goes through the same thing. For me, it's really like try to just talk to people that are in the industry.
01:26:08.790 - 01:26:10.926, Speaker C: Conferences are basically founder therapy.
01:26:10.958 - 01:26:21.414, Speaker B: I feel like this is perfect shilling because we have permissionless. September 11 in Austin, Texas. If you're not signed up, you get 30% off by using lightspeed. 30. So come and hang out with us.
01:26:21.452 - 01:26:57.250, Speaker A: I guess for me, I used to say focus was a big thing challenge for founders, but maybe it's changed now to don't die and don't quit. Because actually one of the few things you can control is how committed you are and whether you're going to quit or die. I think it's a universal truth, right? For podcasts, restaurants, teams, the longer you last, the better chance you have of lasting.
01:26:59.990 - 01:27:00.686, Speaker D: Sweet.
01:27:00.798 - 01:27:17.954, Speaker B: This is a really fun conversation. Super pumped about everything going on salana right now and also Swana D five 2.0. Glad we got rid of the old influencers and now we have Mert. We got to get them a referral code. Referral code soon. But guys, thanks so much for joining listeners. I'm going to put links in the show notes, go check out all the projects.
01:27:17.954 - 01:27:30.800, Speaker B: If you haven't noticed, there's a trend with a lot of companies like Visa, Shopify and others that are looking to Salana right now and you probably should be too. Not financial advice, obviously. It's just go around and have some fun. Anyways, guys, thanks so much for joining and we'll see you next time.
01:27:31.330 - 01:27:32.014, Speaker D: Thanks guys.
01:27:32.052 - 01:27:33.100, Speaker A: Thank you. Thanks.
