00:00:00.410 - 00:01:05.010, Speaker A: Success comes from pinpointing a precise problem taking over the world that comes later. You can visualize that via your roadmap and take strategic, incremental steps to get there. Hello, I'm Casey. My role at Outlier Ventures is program associate and I specialize in helping startups with their product roadmap and Gotomarket strategies through the Outlier Ventures base camp program. My background is in arts and culture, so I'm actually particularly focused on creative innovation in web3. I've been working with early stage startups for a couple of years now and one of the most common issues I see founders struggle with is identifying and clarifying what problem their business will solve. In this atlas class, I'll be giving you the secrets to ensure that you are focusing on the right problems to solve for your web3 startup.
00:01:05.010 - 00:01:59.106, Speaker A: While working with multiple founders, I noticed that they were often focused on an idea that was too big. A lot of founders believe that investors won't be interested in their startup if it isn't a game changer. However, the majority of successful businesses start by improving existing solutions to problems. For example, Apple didn't invent portable music players, Google didn't invent the search engine, and Crypto.com didn't invent trading. At outlier Ventures, we consider any problem worth solving as something that should be painful, frequent and replicable for a large group of people. Investors, of course, love it when you have an ambitious vision or idea.
00:01:59.106 - 00:03:18.070, Speaker A: For example, we want to be the leading crypto exchange in the world, processing more volume than binance or uniswap. But equally success comes from pinpointing a precise problem taking over the world that comes later. You can visualize that via your roadmap and take strategic, incremental steps to get there. Fortunately for web3 startups, there is a way you can evidence to investors that you are solving a real problem via building a community around your ideal users. You have two big questions to ask when building your startup. Firstly, is there a group of people who need your solution? And then secondly, are they willing to pay for it? In web3, startups are built mostly from the bottom up, where you first identify the users you're building your product for, and then create forums where they can input into the product, ensuring it fits their needs and solves their problems. Social and private messaging channels such as Twitter, Telegram and Discord are your best friends for bringing together like minded users and testing your product hypothesis at scale.
00:03:18.070 - 00:04:18.240, Speaker A: Profile your target audience and start targeting ideal users by being really clear on your product and the problem it solves to start attracting them to join your community. Then your task is to learn everything about them. You can run structured physical or digital focus groups where you are able to ask them directly for feedback and ideas. Critically ensure at every step of the way that you are solving real problems, meeting the needs and basic desires of your community. The danger of avoiding community in web3 is that if there are elements of your product that your target customers disagree with, then you may only discover these once you've launched and engaged with the audience. As consumers at Outlier ventures. We have a community team that is very bullish on the idea of focus groups and really testing the hypothesis of what is valuable to your potential community members.
00:04:18.240 - 00:05:21.070, Speaker A: So with every team that comes through the OV program, there is a team encouraging them to really build their user Personas and test their target audience using focus groups. It helps to really make sure that they've got evidence as to why they are targeting a particular community or their consumer base. Spend any time looking at startups in the web3 space and you will understand the importance of the roadmap to outline the team's ultimate ambition. Often they are used as a teaser to show a vision of the future to investors, early users and followers. At Outlier ventures. We spend a lot of time crafting roadmaps with our portfolio teams, ensuring it forms that delicate balance of being valuable to the business strategy from an immediate execution standpoint, but also shows that the team has the ability to think at scale. Here are some of our top tips when it comes to developing your roadmap.
00:05:21.070 - 00:05:59.246, Speaker A: First of all, start small. The first milestones in your roadmap must show executional expertise when it comes to proving that you will solve the immediate challenges and pain points for your users. Don't lose sight of your purpose and the key problems that you're solving. Secondly, set the grand vision. Yes, we know this is the exciting bit world dominance. We are all dreamers in this space and of course we have to set the end destination. This is naturally what will excite investors, but adding in a series of unrealistic goals could also switch investors off.
00:05:59.246 - 00:06:40.286, Speaker A: It needs a delicate balance of pragmatism and vision. Thirdly, be agile. Your roadmap may need to change along the way. This could be based on market timing trends or other problems that need solving that are relevant to your target users and your product. You have your destination programmed and you want to take the most efficient route, but sometimes diversions will crop up that you will need to tackle head on to complete your journey. So you've now got some guidance on finding the problem you will solve with your startup. Once you've been through the rest of the Atlas program, we can't wait to see what you come up with.
00:06:40.286 - 00:06:47.930, Speaker A: Thanks for watching. If you'd like to check out more of our courses and content, go to outliventures IO Atlas.
