00:00:13.770 - 00:00:51.418, Speaker A: Everyone for the next I'm James Beck by the way. So for the next five minutes I'm just going know pose a question shouldn't we be redoing debt? And and one of the ways of rethinking debt and what I've been thinking about over the last couple months is this idea of susus or immigrant lending clubs. So Mr. Patel, with all due respect, that was an amazing talk. I have to say. Over the last year I've learned a lot about finance. I have a background in history, Chinese politics but it's pretty amazing what's been happening in the DFI space.
00:00:51.418 - 00:02:10.242, Speaker A: If you had a bag over your head and you missed out on DevCon you'd realize so much of the excitement is actually understanding what all these products here on the right have been able to show that ease is a trustworthy foundation and that code can be a settlement layer. But this picture here is when I googled Bare Stearns and found some funny cliff art. There are some, I think perhaps interest parallels to what we actually sort of imagine as the crisis in 2007 2008. A lot of synthetic derivatives are over leveraged and had me thinking a lot about debt. So a lot of people probably came to Ethereum thinking about money. And if you haven't read this great book by David Graver, he sort of poses the question what makes the concept of debt so strangely powerful and goes through a history of 5000 years of different societal conflicts and ways in which debt and the breaking of bonds of all the debt that people owe causes war, causes conflict. A couple other interesting things is that even the idea and builds into our language.
00:02:10.242 - 00:03:13.510, Speaker A: So in Greek the word symbol on literally became the word for money. In Chinese it's foo and it was literally a word to describe a debt or a credit to someone else. This symbol on was sort of a piece that you break in half and represent the debt you owe. So yeah, I mean debt is very critical to our idea of money and I bet if we did a poll a lot of us in this room have some sort of debt whether mortgage or student loans or something. So in that I've been thinking about are there ways that people have been lending and creating money systems that don't involve a debt or at least some sort of central actor providing a loan or some version of credit? And it turns out there's a lot. And I'm a white American so this is all new to me. But Su is sort of a West African word and it describes this idea of a rotating savings and credit association.
00:03:13.510 - 00:03:45.274, Speaker A: Turns out it's also a tanda in Latin America. In Chinese it's a hua. And that's been around actually since this guy, since the Tom dynasty which was like 600. And what it is, is pretty simple. It's the idea of savings with the community each person puts a set amount into a pool, and then the pool rotates. And so you can set the parameters, whether it's, in this example, $10 per week. Everyone would receive $200 at some point, some tandas.
00:03:45.274 - 00:04:32.846, Speaker A: In some ways, they set it up where people can choose when they want to receive the collective pool. But so the other thing, though, is that it's simply savings, and it's group savings, so no one actually earns interest on the money set aside. So when I was researching this something I found, people all throughout the United States use Sus daily. People use it to pay for a car. The Hasidic Jews in Borough Park use it to buy real estate. It's just built into the social fabric. They all share their money, and essentially one person gets to drop from the pool, from the collective pool.
00:04:32.846 - 00:05:28.710, Speaker A: In Caribbean communities, it happens in church groups. So you have a group of, like, seven people and one trusted collector, and then eventually they pay it out, whether it's five months, eight months, what have you. And then this quote is that a lot of people who are unbanked, especially in the US. Form these informal lending clubs. So, yeah, in the early 2000s, banks obviously are, like, thinking, okay, how can we profit and scheme on this? So there's actually this project that Barclays is still doing with GCSCA, which they selected an actual individual that they call a Susu collector. And in these Ghanaian markets, people in Rotest solved. They've already been using these Susu schemes, pooling resources, to be able to buy large shipments of produce.
00:05:28.710 - 00:06:14.100, Speaker A: And what they found is that there's actually 75 million pounds being traded and collected. So there's some drawbacks. If there is a central collector, even if it's a small group of people you trust, there's a chance they go off the grid, they take all the money and run. The other idea is that the person who is last in line to get it does not receive any interest. So it's a little less reliable than putting money in a bank account, and that's assuming you have enough money to create a bank account. So the last thing I'm going to raise is along doing this research, there's, like, two projects that came up just sort of as testament to how fast things are moving in the DPAs space, but pulled together. I've been using that.
00:06:14.100 - 00:06:45.900, Speaker A: They're describing themselves as a no loss lottery, and it's kind of fun. And they're earning interest on the side. There's also acropolis. I'm not exactly sure the status of this project, but in their website materials, they describe it as these informal lending clouds. So I guess, yeah, this is sort of a call to continue talking with other people. If you want to discuss Susu's and think about the applications for ethereum with, I guess, trustless Susu collectors. Thank you.
