00:00:04.880 - 00:00:39.420, Speaker A: So my name is Warren Paul Andersen, the co founder of Exocore. It's a brand new omnichain restaking protocol. So we're so new that when people ask us what stage we're in, I say we're pre swag. So we actually just published our white paper yesterday. My co founder, RJ is in the crowd. RJ and I have been operating in the space for a while. I was a little nervous to come here because when someone told me all the RPC providers under one roof, I'm thinking, who's keeping the lights on? But we definitely appreciate this crowd big time.
00:00:39.420 - 00:01:21.004, Speaker A: RJ and I have been in the space for. I've been in space full time, ten years, I think RJ has been in for five, six years. We spent a lot of time at these big companies and networks, running and building a lot of RPC infrastructure. So we empathize, you know, with the pain points. We have our share of war stories that did not come through. It makes me nervous for future slides, but it says RPC down, or should say RPC down. And so I think everyone here has, like some war story where, you know, the RPC network's down, people think the network's down, and that's pretty much the case.
00:01:21.004 - 00:02:12.496, Speaker A: So lots of stories on that. So I'm here today to kind of talk about restaking and how it can help to secure decentralized RPC networks. But before I get into what restaking is, I want to share a little bit about why restaking matters. How many have heard of restaking before? Okay, so unless you've had your head in the sand for all of the bear market, I'm sure you guys have heard about restaking. So I won't get into what it is yet, but I will talk about why it's important. So classically, proof of stake consensus has kind of taken the lion's share, I think, post Chappelle upgrade, it's official that proof of stake is going to be here for a while. It's been very experimental last several years, and now it's kind of, I would say, is production ready? Classically, you have.
00:02:12.496 - 00:02:40.810, Speaker A: I don't really need to communicate this crowd, but you have stakers that are pledging their tokens as crypto economic security to secure the networks of DApps. This is great for the Dapps. You can be adapting and deploy very quickly. There's lots of tools. Solidity is becoming a lot better to work with. And this is just a new paradigm for programming. The ability to write applications that are effectively unstoppable.
00:02:40.810 - 00:03:29.632, Speaker A: That's very powerful. But we also think about what does it look like if web two developers coming into web3, what are they going to, are they just going to go through and start building dapps, what kind of infrastructure they need? But there's some problems with this model. So there's a whole new category, growing category in the restaking space. We call it actively validated services. It's just another acronym to memorize. But actively validated services are effectively, services are offline, they're providing services to DApPs, to other infrastructure providers, classically oracles, bridges, sequencers, you name it. There's basically a whole category kind of growing of that.
00:03:29.632 - 00:04:16.874, Speaker A: We also look at RPC in this category too, and I'll explain a little why. So RPC, obviously, or any abs, they're tasked with effectively trying to bootstrap their decentralized security. So how do you actually inherit decentralized security if you don't have, you know, active validator set, if you don't have a token, et cetera, et cetera? Right. Well, it's actually pretty difficult to do, and I say this with experience, having built multiple l one s before, but the process goes as follows. You design the state of keen token, you recruit the validator set, you attract the stakers, and you hope that you can build some liquidity. And not only build liquidity, but maintain liquidity through the ups and downs of the market. This is not trivial.
00:04:16.874 - 00:04:46.240, Speaker A: This sucks. Trust me, it sucks. There should be a better way of doing this. This is completely unrelated to your product or service. Building a token network and everything is basically introducing a product and having to maintain it at a high cost of maintenance, high cost of bootstrapping. Then when you go live, you have that product. And then if you're, for instance, if you're RPC infrastructure provider, then you also have that service.
00:04:46.240 - 00:05:49.638, Speaker A: So we all know that startups usually can't get one product right, let alone two. So this becomes like extremely difficult. Right? But there's market pressures for going through this process, right? The community, the market, they want to know when are they going to have their incentive kind of come through. And we understand that, we recognize that, and that's okay. So there are cautionary tales in this market where there's a lot of, and I won't share whose market cap this is, but you guys could probably figure it out. You have effectively a token launch TGE where everyone's hyped, the investors are great, the cost of corruption, which is the cost that an attacker or costs to attack the network is high, the network's secure, and all of a sudden this is death spiral that happens, right? And the price of the token collapses, the market cap collapses. All of a sudden the cost of corruption goes really down.
00:05:49.638 - 00:06:26.414, Speaker A: And the problem is you're bleeding users. You can't retain users, you can't recruit new users. Everything is problematic. This is not a good situation to be in. And it can happen by just launching your token network too soon, right? Classically, tokenomics, good tokenomics design, you have some type of user base, you have maybe product market fit people like your stuff, you've reached your thousand people of your community, and there's maybe even a business model in there. You're making money. If you don't have any of these things, you may actually face death.
00:06:26.414 - 00:07:00.464, Speaker A: Because if you go to try to launch your network, this is likely what's going to happen. And I think we all know lots of projects in this category. Now, now, I'm not here trying to preach and convert you all to no coiners. This is not my intention. I think there's lots of room and still lots of room for new tokens, even though we have thousands already. But I'm just saying that there is another path, there is another alternative. And I would equate doing this process with really buying your crypto economic security.
00:07:00.464 - 00:07:24.654, Speaker A: You're basically investing in this future of bolstering a network, and it's going to be decentralized, etcetera, etcetera. And we all hope that that will happen. We hope that you don't go through the death spiral. We hope that number go up. Good job. But there is another alternative to buying crypto economic security. You can simply rent it through restaking.
00:07:24.654 - 00:08:14.392, Speaker A: So finally, what is restaking? So restaking was recently introduced by Shriram Kanan, the founder of Eigen Layer. He's been working on this kind of core problem for a long time, kind of put restaking on his shoulders and created the market. We're really appreciative. We think it's going to be massive. But restaking, kind of taking this existing flow where you have your stakers, it's all about just extending your crypto economic security to this category of ABS's, which includes RPC networks, so that you can provide and you can consume and rent the decentralized crypto economic security instead of having to actually buy it. And this is important because that gives you the ability to focus on your product or service. I mean, think about it like in web two.
00:08:14.392 - 00:08:48.168, Speaker A: You go into aws, you spin up an instance, and you start building. Right, but imagine if you had to buy a data center just to get your app out in the store, get your service done. That used to be the case. Thank God we don't have to do that anymore. We think that we're still in that. This is like the web3 equivalent of having to have your own data center or effectively bootstrap your own TCP IP network. In web one, we're in that phase now, so we want to migrate to a phase where we can rent this and buy maybe later.
00:08:48.168 - 00:09:22.304, Speaker A: Right. So the benefits of restaking for an AV's are that it helps to validate off chain operations. It incentivizes honest behavior, it disincentivizes dishonest behavior. Right. And this is really the crux of crypto economic security. Man, the PPX just totally torched my thing anyway, so this is basically the crux of what crypto economic security is, right, these three things. And now with restaking, you have the ability to rent that from day one.
00:09:22.304 - 00:10:05.792, Speaker A: So what is exo core? So, not too long ago, RJ and I were talking about restaking, and just as a new concept in crypto, we both left our previous roles. We were looking for kind of something we could really focus on long term and restaking. We identified as a new category in crypto. It has all the markings of solving a big problem. It has value accrual to the l one s, which is always good. It creates new economic opportunity. We think this is something that's going to play out long term.
00:10:05.792 - 00:10:41.408, Speaker A: So we were inspired by Eigen layer, obviously, and what they were doing, but we wanted to kind of start from first principles, answering the question, what would an omni chain restaking protocol look like? Truly chain agnostic. And we came up with a solution. It's basically tenement based consensus. We use ZK lite client bridging to do the messaging with various l one s. This allows us to deploy the smart contracts. L1's are very lightweight. Exocore as a protocol takes on a lot of complexity to handle the resetting operations.
00:10:41.408 - 00:11:25.198, Speaker A: You could think of it as like a domain specific restaking protocol, and that gives us a lot of freedom to be able to kind of horizontally scale. So going back to this ugly slide, you know, that's kind of the core of what we're able to do. We're starting to roll out on EVM networks first. We can theoretically support any network with very minimal changes to the core protocol. So it's built with this, that horizontal scaling. So this is just kind of more zooming in what the architecture looks like. Like I said, Exocore network handles a lot of the operations through different modules.
00:11:25.198 - 00:11:57.778, Speaker A: So deposit module, withdrawal module, slashing module, operator modules for registering delegation, AV's module, and finally the reward module. We can, like I said, deploy on different chains. We view chains as kind of like client chains in our interpretation, and then we can communicate with those chains via ZK bridging. Now we kind of lucked out. We are using layer zero with polyhedra. Polyhedra is a pretty new project. I've been working in ZK research and development for a while.
00:11:57.778 - 00:12:23.214, Speaker A: We're very lucky that there's an implementation of ZK that's actually working. It's scalable enough. We use it in a unidirectional way, so it would probably be too costly to do it bidirectional. So we just happen to luck out. So a little bit how it works. So basically, there's different operations in this flow. The restakers, they send a transaction to deposit their addresses.
00:12:23.214 - 00:13:07.614, Speaker A: This gets received by the client chain, contracts the vault stores a deposit, and exo core reads this event through the ZK like client bridge. Then it confirms or rejects the deposit. We send a TSS transaction back to the l one to confirm it. Now, what can be restaked so classically native tokens. Ethereum avax pol BnB chain, you kind of go down the route, liquid staking tokens. So this has become a pretty, pretty popular with Steth, Reth and Savax, et cetera. We haven't seen DeFi LP tokens yet, but we anticipate this will happen.
00:13:07.614 - 00:13:47.592, Speaker A: So just fill in the blank there. So this slide actually is kind of most relevant to this room. So the avss on the system, we kind of break everything down by tasks. These are like the operations that an AV's is, is being held accountable for, right? So classically a task can be executed. The task performer will save that to storage, broadcast the result of the task, verify, test it. This is the result. And then finally, the submission of a reward claim is done via a two thirds BLS aggregate signature.
00:13:47.592 - 00:14:22.322, Speaker A: And that's done through the rewards contract. Very similar flow for slashing. So this kind of same operations. And if you have more detailed questions, the man who really designed this is sitting right there. So classically for reward distribution. And this is also an important part of the module. So as an AV's, you can submit the reward claim to exacore network, that is, exacore can sends that reward distribution back to the actual l one before all this happens.
00:14:22.322 - 00:15:06.228, Speaker A: Permissions granted between the client contracts, and then there's a call to issue the reward tokens, and then those tokens are claimed by the restakers. So this is a pretty straightforward flow. So where do rewards come from? So they can come from third party tokens, obviously, ETH kind of native tokens, USDT, stablecoins, a variety of different tokens. If the ABS has a token in circulation, they can elect to increase the inflation, or just the inflation, pay the rewards with those fees. Obviously, this is contentious. Being part of a community and hearing that inflation is going up is usually not a good thing. Half the community wants it, the other half doesn't.
00:15:06.228 - 00:15:45.520, Speaker A: Fighting bad things happen. And then finally, transaction fees. You can actually use a portion of transaction fees if you do charge transaction fees to pay for the crypto economic security. But what if I told you there was another way? So we came up with a novel mechanism called union staking. So union staking is basically think of, okay, you're an AV's. Those, the rewards, the limited way to pay the fees, maybe you have minimum, minimal resources to be able to allocate. That's okay.
00:15:45.520 - 00:16:30.288, Speaker A: So we came up with a way that you can actually, an AV's can join a union of other avss, effectively pooling their restaked asset to combine it and share the asset. This is. This is kind of a little bit of like a cross between mesh security and shared security. I won't get into the minutia of what the differences are those are, but we've basically taken a little bit of both and applied it to this model. I think this is going to be really powerful because it allows avss to rent the crypto economic security without having to kind of go into their pockets. There's a lot of analogs for this, like in the insurance world, the reinsurance world. So we think that this is.
00:16:30.288 - 00:16:59.048, Speaker A: This could be a powerful, you know, design to allow ABS's to kind of help secure themselves. So, in summary, bootstrapping crypto economic security sucks. Trust me, I know you can actually rent crypto economic security now before you buy. And rental rates are dropping due to union staking. So if you want to check out more. Like I said, we just published our white paper yesterday. We've been working on this for many months.
00:16:59.048 - 00:17:09.204, Speaker A: We've taken a lot of years of operating in this industry to kind of go into the design and looking forward to talking more. Thank you.
