00:00:00.240 - 00:00:27.598, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the deli Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sono, and today's the 3 November 2022. Right everyone, let's get into it. So some fresh proto dank sharding news today from FLCL, who is a core developer at Nethermind, I believe. So you can see here that they were syncing proto Dank sharding or EIP 4844 locally. Next step is Devnet v. Three blobs seem to be very promising.
00:00:27.598 - 00:01:11.128, Speaker A: So yeah, we're already moving through the devnet. As I've mentioned before, it goes devnets, testnets, then the main net, the test nets. There's differences. Sometimes there's like short lived test nets and longer live, sorry, first as short lived test nets, and then we get these things deployed to the longstanding testnets such as girly and Sepolia, and then obviously it goes to main net. Now, I remember I mentioned a few days ago that the race is really on to get 4844 included in the Shanghai update. We're going to know more by the end of this month, I think by the end of November in terms of if it's going to be included or not. I think we will probably know by the end of the month because leaving it much longer than that, it's not really going to leave much room for the relevant testing that needs to happen before it could be included on main net.
00:01:11.128 - 00:01:43.776, Speaker A: But there are a lot of people working on it right now and there are a lot of people who want it to happen in Shanghai. So we'll see. Well, you know, obviously I'll keep tabs in it and keep you guys updated on it. I'm hoping it happens, but at the same time I'm hoping it doesn't get rushed or anything like that. I wouldn't want something getting rushed, rushed into the protocol just for the sake of people being excited about it and then a bug happening. You know what's funny about this as well is that it reminds me of ERp 1559. That was obviously a major change to the Ethereum network, and that took two and a half years from when the IPA was submitted to implementation.
00:01:43.776 - 00:02:22.272, Speaker A: Even if Proto dank sharding only makes it in the update or the upgrade, I should say after Shanghai it would still make it into the network long in a much shorter timeframe than 1559 did. Even though I would say that it's, it's, it's a pretty big upgrade generally as well. It's not something small. So I guess it speaks to the fact that we are shipping things faster in Ethereum, which is, which is really, really cool. But of course Shanghai will include withdrawals and maybe a few other EiPs. That's pretty much definite at this point. And obviously you guys know I'm super excited about withdrawals because I think that's going to lead to a really nice, great reshuffling, as I've called it.
00:02:22.272 - 00:02:49.698, Speaker A: But even if it doesn't, I think that it just closes the loop and finishes off the ethereum proof of stake migration because it's not really complete until we have withdrawals. Because right now, obviously it's still a one way bridge. But yeah, we'll, we'll see if dank shining gets into the Shanghai update. As I said, we'll probably know more by the end of the month. Alright, so a new feature on the ethereum.org website. So they've introduced learning quizzes to the website where you can test your knowledge about Ethereum.
00:02:49.698 - 00:03:25.336, Speaker A: So you can see here, there is a screenshot of the website and asking very basic questions. You know, what is Ethereum? Ethereum's native cryptocurrency is called. And then you've got a list of four answers to choose from here and there's eight popular pages. You can now test your Ethereum knowledge across them and have more fun learning about Ethereum. The quizzes are currently targeted users early in their journey of learning about Ethereum. They provide instant feedback and explanations to fix inaccurate mental models, metal mental models, quickly and efficiently. After your quiz, click share results to show your Twitter friends that you're an expert in training.
00:03:25.336 - 00:04:03.840, Speaker A: So as I said, this is more geared towards the newer people to the ecosystem. I'm not sure how many of you out there are on the newer side of things. Obviously things I talk about on the daily are probably for the more advanced Ethereum. But it doesn't matter. I think, I think even if you're, you consider yourself to be more advanced than your knowledge and not a beginner, you probably will still get some value out of just going through these questions. And, and also I think just going through them reinforces your, your, not your existing knowledge as well. And you can also share on Twitter if you get 100% or something like that on the quizzes and say, hey, I got 100% in all these and then your followers can, can see it and maybe they are new, new to the ecosystem and, and they can go try it out.
00:04:03.840 - 00:05:29.054, Speaker A: And I just overall love this idea because obviously I'm a big fan of just general education within the Ethereum community, especially for newer people, because I mean, realistically, like, there are way more new people yet to come into the ecosystem than there are people who are consider, as I said, like an advanced ethereum, right? For example. So we need to be focusing on them more than they are on the, the ones that are already here and have the knowledge. And, you know, people always will say things to me like, how are we ever going to scale Ethereum to the world if it's so complex to use and everything so, so complicated to understand? I'm like, well, as I've mentioned before, most people aren't going to be interacting with Ethereum the way we interact with Ethereum today, right? I don't expect most people in the world to download metamask and interact directly with the Uniswap interface, for example, right? I expect them to go through third parties. I expect them to use centralized and decentralized third parties that market themselves as end user facing, just like most people don't interact with the Internet, the, the low levels of the Internet, right? The lower layers of the Internet. Just like most people don't run Linux desktop, right? Ubuntu, most people run windows and Mac OS because it's just much easier for them to, to utilize and it's abstracted away everything. But that doesn't mean you can't learn about these things. And if you're interested in them, obviously not everyone will be interested in them.
00:05:29.054 - 00:06:03.064, Speaker A: But if you are, you can definitely check out this new quizzes section on the ethereum.org website. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, and Mev related update again today. So there's a thread here from block native where they said we analyzed all Mev boost blocks since the merge and found that on average only three 8.8% of an MEV boost block block is from private transactions, while the rest is from public mempool transactions. While not all blocks contain private transactions, the average proportion of private transactions per block is growing.
00:06:03.064 - 00:06:38.652, Speaker A: And you can see here this is broken down by relayer between blocks route Eden, flashbots, block native manifold, and the new relay. Or so it's interesting because block native doesn't have any private transactions running through their relay right now, whereas I think relay or is in the lead. Actually, there is a percentage breakdown here. Yeah, so you can see here that both block native and blocks route ethical have no private transactions running through them, whereas blocks route max profit and blocks route regulated have about 2.5%, Eden at 3.7%, flashbots at 4.4%, manifold at 1.5,
00:06:38.652 - 00:06:51.224, Speaker A: and relay all at 5.5% already. So it's this. This relay, or relay that I've been talking about lately. Seems very cypher punk to me. Right? They're an. A non team.
00:06:51.224 - 00:07:14.894, Speaker A: They're non censoring, they're enabling private transactions to run through them. So they seem to be just, like, sticking their finger up at the compliance that other relays are doing within the ecosystem, which I really love, obviously. But it's just interesting to see that they've grown so, so quickly. And on that note as well, they just continue to grow on the. The MEV watch front. So if I bring. I should have this website up.
00:07:14.894 - 00:07:41.410, Speaker A: I've said that before, but if I bring up the website here. There was an update today, actually, to this website where they. I think they fix their stats up here. So you can see that 71% of the network is unfortunately now enforcing this OFAC compliance thing, or aka censoring tornado cash transactions. But if that's on all blocks, if we unclick all blocks, we can see the relayers. You can actually see that flashbots as dominance is going down really, really quickly. So it's.
00:07:41.410 - 00:07:59.770, Speaker A: It's under 75% now, a couple of days ago, or a few days ago, that was like 85%. And non censoring relayers are actually responsible for. For growing here. You can see that blocks route max profit is up to 11.3%. That's a non censoring relay. Ethical blockchain, ethical 3.5% relay or.
00:07:59.770 - 00:08:24.684, Speaker A: And manifold at 0.7%. And then in this chart, you can also see the. The growth as well. Where you can see the. From here, where October 2797% of MeV boost blocks were OFac compliance. And then, since then, it's only been, what, a week since then or so, we are down to 84%. So we have reduced that by 13%, which is awesome.
00:08:24.684 - 00:08:59.150, Speaker A: Like, that's what we want to see. We want to see this red trending down and this green becoming a bigger share of the pie here. And then, obviously, we can include all blocks as well. And you can see now, according to Mevwatch, dot in fo there, I think, 90% or so of the network. Yeah, about 90% of the network is running mev boost in some capacity now. So there's only 12% or, sorry, I should say, like ten to 12%, because this has changed from when I looked at it before, ten to 12% that are not running mev boost at all. That's pretty crazy when you, when you kind of like, when you think about it.
00:08:59.150 - 00:09:37.846, Speaker A: And I think that, I'm not exactly sure how they measure this because I've showed you guys rated.net work before and Coinbase, I mean, most of their blocks are vanilla blocks right now, but I think what they've done is that if there is a public announcement that MevBoost has been enabled on validators, then they've probably added it to this based on the stat, the metrics from Raider.net rec. But I have to, I have to basically confirm that. But yeah, 90, around 90% of the network is currently running mev boost. So because the vast majority of the network is running it, I'm very very glad that the growth has actually been in the non censoring relays. And as I mentioned before, it's all profit driven.
00:09:37.846 - 00:10:20.422, Speaker A: So we can expect these kind of things like Max profit and other things like the relay all and stuff like that to basically, sorry, to essentially continue to grow and continue to get more market share, which I think is obviously very very cool. But yeah, I'll keep you guys updated, obviously over longer timeframes. We'll have to see how this plays out. But yeah, go check out this block native thread as well. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so I highlighted a new resource from superphys the other day where he's got a GitHub repository listing out important dashboards within the ethereum ecosystem. Well, there's also this site that was spun up by someone who joined the daily grade Discord channel.
00:10:20.422 - 00:10:52.734, Speaker A: I think their name is blue shadow in the daily grade Discord channel. They shared this and it's called ETH XYZ and it's basically a visualization of all of the dashboards that superfuse has in his GitHub repo. So just another resource that you guys can use, and you can sort these dashboards as well by General Ethereum, you know, staking Mev related, all that good stuff there. So definitely check that out as well. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, an update out of the rocker pool ecosystem today. So rocker Pool Smart Node V one 7.0
00:10:52.734 - 00:11:25.346, Speaker A: was just released, which is a highly recommended update for all users. This is a large update, including some breaking changes, so please carefully read all the patch notes below before updating. So if you are running any rocket pool infrastructure, you can be sure to upgrade to version 1.7. But as was warned here. Be, be careful and read through the patch notes before updating, which, which you'll obviously find linked in the YouTube description below. But yeah, I mean, rocket pool is another network that has been growing lately, but I think their growth has slowed a little bit. If I go to rated.net
00:11:25.346 - 00:11:59.510, Speaker A: work here, slowed a little bit and it's there at about 2% right now. And I was looking at this before, actually, metrics around growth, it seems lighter, has picked back up again because of the fact that the quote unquote peg was restored, or at least like Steth went back to parity with ETH. So people, I guess, are feeling confident going back into Toledo here. And I believe CBE, which is Coinbase's liquid staking token, is at 0.98 when fair value is 1.013. So that's going back as well. And I think we're seeing more people staking with these services.
00:11:59.510 - 00:12:31.098, Speaker A: But rocket pool is, is that 2%, which is cool. I mean, Rocketpool only hasn't been around for that long in terms of being live on Mainnet, and they've grown relatively quickly, which is, which is awesome to see. And they obviously continue to push out updates with version 1.7 coming out. But I would love to see rocket pool at like, something like, you know, 510 percent, something like that. Yeah. I've mentioned before how I don't think that anyone, I guess, entity should have too much of share over the network, but we need to do better than Lido having 30%, obviously, and we need to do better than Coinbase having 12%.
00:12:31.098 - 00:13:04.720, Speaker A: You know, I'm more concerned about Coinbase than I am about and Kraken and maybe binance to an extent, than I am about Lido because of the fact that you can. You split it out into different entities here, as you can see. Uh, but I'm definitely more concerned about these big centralized exchanges, which we, you know, they're, they're basically one single monolithic entity where Coinbase controls 12% of validators and they can do whatever they want with that. Kraken is 8%. Uh, I'm not really. And they're both us based. I'm not really concerned about, uh, uh, binance as much because they're not us based.
00:13:04.720 - 00:13:39.202, Speaker A: Uh, but yeah, I mean, and like, a lot of lido entities aren't based in the US either. That's, that's, that, that's what I look at. Because when I think about realistic attacks on Ethereum from nation states, I mean, it's best to look at the US right? Like they have already attacked Ethereum with these OFAC sanctions and they've already caused damage to Ethereum, but with these relays engaging in censorship and things like that. Right? So from that perspective, I look at that and I look at which ones are actually domiciled in the US. And the. The risk factor for me goes up massively if that's the case. But not.
00:13:39.202 - 00:13:54.036, Speaker A: Not for solo validators, but. But for these entities like Coinbase and Kraken. I mean, they're completely visible. They're completely regulated. As I've said, some of these centralized exchanges are regulated harder than banks are. And they're an easy target for. For nation states, especially.
00:13:54.036 - 00:14:22.136, Speaker A: Sorry, especially for the US, since they're based in the US, whereas Lido. Yeah, it's a US company as far as I know. It may not be, but I believe they do have people based in the US there. But a lot of their entities, as I've shown before, are not in the US and not registered in the US, which is. Which is obviously are much better than maybe Coinbase or Kraken. But still they have a large percentage of the network. They have over 30% network penetration, which if you were to kind of rank these things, that's.
00:14:22.136 - 00:14:44.342, Speaker A: That's putting them on par, maybe, or almost on par with a coinbase or. Or a kraken. But they do have that saving grace of. Of splitting out the different entities here. But I don't want to get into like, the whole thing here. I've talked about this before. I know people disagree with me on this, but going back to our original point, rocket pool looks much better than anything here because rocket pool is an actual decentralized LSD.
00:14:44.342 - 00:15:06.740, Speaker A: Right. Liquid staking derivative or liquid staking pool, I should say. And you can see here that they have 1590 deposit addresses as part of that 2%. So obviously much, much more decentralized and distributed than. Than Lido and any of the other services on here. But we want to see them grow. So I hope to see them go up to or 5%, 10% or something like that.
00:15:06.740 - 00:15:45.544, Speaker A: And I really want to see lighter below at least 20%. Like, I don't like that. It's just been stubborn at 30%. But as I've said before, like, it's much. It's easier for things to grow, especially when starting from a smaller base than it is for things to go down. Because for things to go down, they actually have to be out competed by the other services because obviously there's no withdrawals right now. And I've mentioned, I know I've mentioned this so many times and I'm beating a dead horse here, but I want to keep reminding people that for it to go down, we have to wait till withdrawals happens because until then it people will exit their position, but they're not actually withdrawing their ETH, they're just exiting their steth position, for example, on the open market.
00:15:45.544 - 00:16:17.348, Speaker A: And that's why you see that the value of Ste fluctuate as well because of that, that dynamic there. But yeah, anyway, living at that one today, as I said, you can go check out version 1.7 of rocketpool. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, some massive news out of Polygon today. So you can see here, Ryan Wyatt, who is the CEO of Polygon Studios, put out a tweet saying, major announcement. Earlier this year, we announced the display partnership with Meta, which is the company behind Facebook and Instagram.
00:16:17.348 - 00:17:04.372, Speaker A: Now, Meta has selected Polygons Pos chain for minting digital collectibles. For the first time ever, creators will be able to mint and sell Polygon powered digital collectibles on Instagram. So I know Meta has come under fire a lot lately for their focus on the metaverse and their stock price is absolutely tanked. But that doesn't take away from the fact that Instagram has 2.5 billion users, I believe. I'm not sure how many of those daily active, weekly active, or monthly active, but there are a lot of people on Instagram, right? And now we have this announcement that Meta has selected polygons PoS chain for minting these digital collectibles or nfts, and allowing people to, to sell them directly on the Instagram app. And you can see an interface here where there's like a collection screen, a self collectible screen.
00:17:04.372 - 00:17:37.068, Speaker A: There's a metamask integration directly in here, which is really, really cool. You could say that you can, you can, you can buy nfts and sell nfts. And also the fee is paid by meta because it's on the Polygon Pos chain. Obviously the fees are a lot cheaper than on aetherium main nets, but very cool to see that it's, that's, they're actually calling it out as paid by meta there. But mean, do I have to say it? Guys like Polygon obviously just continues to kill the business development game. And you guys know I'm an advisor to Polygon. Just another disclosure there for you.
00:17:37.068 - 00:18:10.960, Speaker A: But at this point, it's just very undeniable that they've just killed the business development game. They're killing all the competition when it comes to this sort of stuff. They do a lot of this stuff in the background and you only hear about it when it's actually announced, which is pretty cool. And they do a lot of marketing around this as well. And, you know, regardless of your view on NFTs and Instagram and meta generally, I think that, you know, Polygon is one of the teams, one of the leaders, if not the leader, of bringing new people into the crypto ecosystem, which is a net positive for everyone, I believe. So. Yeah.
00:18:10.960 - 00:18:35.636, Speaker A: You can go check out this announcement yourself. I'm sure you already saw it. There's tweets from polygon and, and the, and the co founders and obviously Ryan here about this. But yeah, if you're an Instagram user, obviously this might be, this also might be something that you're interested in. But yeah, I guess congrats to polygonal landing. This partnership, it's absolutely massive. I think that this isn't, this isn't the only thing that they're going to be announcing.
00:18:35.636 - 00:19:05.188, Speaker A: I have a feeling they got more up their sleeve. And I'm not just. I'm not saying that because I have any insider knowledge or anything like that. I don't actually hear about these things until they're public either, even as an advisor, so. But, you know, based on Polygons track record, I'm sure there's more coming up from here. All right, so succinct, which I have talked about before, which is a new bridging protocol, have announced today that proof based interoperability is here. So they've announced the first demo proof of a consensus bridge at Demo Succinct XYZ.
00:19:05.188 - 00:19:45.130, Speaker A: This demo uses a ZK snark Ethereum proof of stake lite client to power a trust minimized bridge between girly and not gnosis chain. And there's a thread explaining what this is here. Now, I've talked about succinct before. As I mentioned, they're a new type of bridge, trying to use Zkstar snarks and lite clients in order to create a trust, very trust minimized bridge, because as we all know, like bridges, you know, leave a lot to be desired these days within the crypto ecosystem, which is, you know, not something I think controversial to say. But if you want to learn more about this, you can check out this, this thread here. I'm not going to go on another tangent and rant about bridges in general. There hasn't been any major bridge hacks lately.
00:19:45.130 - 00:20:24.864, Speaker A: I believe at least, at least I haven't been made aware of any. But that doesn't mean that there won't be any in the future. And we have to be vigilant about this because as I've mentioned before, these bridges are the massive honey pots, right? They always will be. And I think that the, the better we get, the better and more secure we can make these bridges, the better it will be for the entire ecosystem. Not just for people that are using other chains, but also people that are using L2s as well. Because we know that there are bridges between L2s and side chains and, and I don't know the hybrids like the validiums and stuff like that. So we want to make people's experience, they're both secure, but also user friendly.
00:20:24.864 - 00:21:10.560, Speaker A: And that's what succinct is trying to do here, I think using this, this new, this DK snark technology. But as I said, you can read this BL, this thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, some alpha from pseudo theos today around some ZK stuff that scroll is working on. So you can read their tweet here where they said ZK based l two s have straight have a straightforward path to decentralization by leveraging existing GPU mining infrastructure to create decentralized proving networks. Now I've spoken about this before where basically GPU's could be repurposed from mining in order to be approver on these ZK based L two s. And now Sudo Theos has shared a bit of alpha that scroll has been working on.
00:21:10.560 - 00:22:12.912, Speaker A: And scroll seems to have their own GPU prover. So you can say, as you can see here, the first paragraph reads, in designing our ZKVM, we quickly realized putting the EVM into a ZK proof would result in a large proving overhead due to incompatibility between native fields. To reduce time to finality on layer one resulting from this proving time, we decided to build our roller network, a permissionless and decentralized network of provers who generate proofs for scroll L2 blocks. I've mentioned the roller network before, I think a little while ago now, but this is obviously a, another teaser about it. And they mentioned, you know, there are two technical benefits of scrolls decentralized proven network. They have designed their prover proving infrastructure to be highly parallelizable. This means that scroll is able to massively scale proving compute simply by adding more proving nodes and the community will be incentivized to build sustainable, substantially better hardware solutions and run provers themselves instead of relying only on the scroll team in a centralized way to bootstrap in the initial phase of the network, scroll is building GPU prover solutions internally, which we will open source for public usage.
00:22:12.912 - 00:22:52.492, Speaker A: That's the little bit of alpha there, right? As this matures, we are exploring ASIC and FPGA solutions with several hardware companies. In the long run, we look forward to a vibrant competition in this domain and firmly believe that latency and cost of proof generation will decrease exponentially. And I've been saying that as well. You guys know that I'm an investor in Ngonyama which is building these ZK. Proving ASICs and GPU's are still going to be used, but there are going to be ASiCs, they get used as well, and FPGA's and things like that. But if you've heard people go on about the cost of proving being a bottleneck with ZK, I don't think that's going to be the case for very much longer. These hardware solutions are in the works coupled with software solutions.
00:22:52.492 - 00:23:39.526, Speaker A: There are plenty of teams working on it. There is a huge incentive to get these costs down obviously for this CK technology and I don't think it's going to take as long as people have have said it's going to take. I think it's going to be much quicker than than we anticipate. So very cool to see this. I'll link this in the YouTube description if you want to read through it again, but yeah, I mean it's pseudo theos actually works at scroll now I think I've mentioned him a few times on the refill, but he recently got a job at scroll so I guess congrats to him on that. So yeah, this isn't just some random posting this, this is someone that actually works at scroll. All right, so speaking of roll ups, binge here from the I believe he works at optimism Labs shared a Twitter thread today saying Raas roll ups as a service deploy a roll up however you wish with full customizability.
00:23:39.526 - 00:24:46.598, Speaker A: Want a ZK roll up that uses Eigen data availability or Celestia as a data availability layer? Want Max throughput for your game? As easy as plugging and playing with APIs in web two. And there's a thread here with more information about this, which I'll link, but this goes back to what I've been talking about over I guess the last maybe couple of months around this, around making it easier for people and projects to spin up their own roll up and to be able to just go through a nice little interface in order to select, you know, what chain they want to settle to. So ethereum layer one. Okay, where they want to put the daily rate ability, okay, they'll put it on ethereum layer one, or maybe they'll put it on eigen data availability layer or, you know, polygon avail or celestial or wherever, right. Execution layer. Do you want to use EVM or do you want to use something else? Right. And then, and then, you know, what kind of proofs do you want to use? What governance package you want to use? So basically we have this modulized, modularized, I've said that word wrong, modularized design where people can chop and choose what they want from it, which I think is obviously very, very cool, but it goes beyond the, the chain itself.
00:24:46.598 - 00:25:14.928, Speaker A: It also goes to governance and other things like that, which I don't think many people are thinking about because they think about the technical stuff and they're like, okay, well, how are we going to govern this thing? Well, you can, you can fork the governance from other projects that have been working on this. You don't have to start from scratch. You don't have to create your own thing. You can fork it. So I think this is going to be a major theme going forward, this roll ups as a service. There's obviously stacking network, which I've spoken about before, and there is what Polygon is doing with their SDK. There is the op stack.
00:25:14.928 - 00:25:57.404, Speaker A: I think arbitrum is working on stuff as well, obviously, with the, any trust chains and nitro. So I mean, every, I expect every l two team to come out with something like this because it just makes sense. And I think it's just going to be very cool and it's going to lead to hundreds, if not thousands of roll ups blossoming. Not all of them are going to succeed. Most of them won't. But we're going to have this battle of roll ups, basically, these battle of l two s, which will, which will play out over many, many years and will get a better user experience out of it and just better infrastructure out of it, I believe. All right, a big announcement out of Metamask today that they've partnered up with Hyperplay Gaming, and they've been working together to bring Metamask to every desktop game.
00:25:57.404 - 00:26:58.346, Speaker A: So Hyperplay will be the new web3 native game launcher that aggregates the Epic Games store and the GOG Store to inject Metamask into every game launched through these stores. So you can see here that on the hyperplay. Hyperplay clients that once you install, sorry, on the bottom left here, there is a metamask address, or I guess a metamask wallet connected to this. And you can install any games from the Epic Games Store or the GOG or GOG Gamesco games store and interact with them using Metamask. This is a pretty big partnership, actually, I believe, because look, web, three native games are definitely something that's a lot of people are tackling right now. Obviously, immutable X and Polygon and a bunch of other projects are working on this. And now that Metamask has teamed up with, with Hyperplay gaming here to just inject it right into the launcher, I think it's very, very cool and I think it's going to open up Metamask and get Metamask in front of people that wouldn't, wouldn't have otherwise used it.
00:26:58.346 - 00:27:44.344, Speaker A: So, great little partnership here, and congrats to them on landing it. All right, last up here we have tokenflow Insights, which announced that they have completed their series A round with $12 million committed to accelerate their journey. So what is Tokenflow? Well, basically they're a blockchain data analytics company, and they basically look at different data of different blockchains and aggregate all that altogether and make it easy for people to sift through it. Sort of like what Nansen and Doon analytics do. But. But yeah. The announcement today is that they raised $12 million in that Series A, led by Electric Capital and Delta Blockchain fund, I believe, as new investors and their existing seed investor, UDHC.
00:27:44.344 - 00:28:14.414, Speaker A: And they're also welcomed Candida from electric capital to their board as well. So congrats to them on this raise. They are working on supporting more than just a theorem right now. They're going to be supporting optimism, arbitrary and zksync, polygon and avalanche, and they expanding vertically as they add more higher level data sets with core objects for people to search through. So if that interests you, if you're interested in blockchain data, definitely go check out tokenflow. But congrats to them on this race. But yeah, on that note, that's going to be it for today.
00:28:14.414 - 00:28:23.454, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
