00:00:00.330 - 00:00:48.620, Speaker A: So welcome back to episode two, second half of our top 20 on the biggest DFI projects. I'm here once again with sue and Arthur. If you haven't listened to the first part where we introduce Arthur and talk about all projects, dex category and spot lending and synthetics lending, then go back and listen to that first. Otherwise welcome back. Today we will cover kind of like we call them token bridges. So basically bridging kind of assets between different blockchains or between bank accounts and blockchains basically tokenizing stuff. And then we have a category that's sort of money games, which we get to.
00:00:48.620 - 00:01:08.370, Speaker A: And then basically the three things, three projects in the top training that didn't really fit into any category of their own. So we have yearn and nexus mutual and blueprint. So welcome back, you two. And let's start with the bridges.
00:01:10.870 - 00:02:18.402, Speaker B: So the first bridge I think that we're going to talk about is Ren or their flagship asset is Rent BTC. So Ren was actually initially called Launch ICO, I think in early 2018 as a Republic protocol. Initially you want to do like a dark pool for decentralized trading, but I think after a while they pivoted to instead of doing a trustless asset bridge for other assets, starting for bitcoin. And also they have other assets as well. But I think that bitcoin, the red BTC, is the most successful one right now. And I think that the approach taken by them is just a very useful and pragmatic approach because I think that there's a huge demand to use bitcoin in the DeFi ecosystem or just in the ethereum ecosystem in general. And the other solution when they were launching is repptc, which is like a centralized solution, which I think you guys talked about in the previous podcast.
00:02:18.402 - 00:03:25.898, Speaker B: And so Rapidc is supposedly the more decentralized version of bitcoin on Ethereum. Blockchain is done using what they call a cryptographic method called secure multiparty computation SMPC to solve this, to make it trust so you can verify that there is a real backcoin backing this renBTC using the cryptographic method. So I think this has been fairly successful since the launch. The Rent BTC has probably the second highest synthetic rap BTC on Ethereum blockchain. The first one is getting into the curve pool and gotten quite a decent amount of liquidity. And it's kind of interesting that how Rapid seems like the favorite coin for a lot of the DeFi hackers to get away with. They usually convert their gains to ethereum, then to remptc, and then convert from remptc to the real bitcoin.
00:03:25.898 - 00:04:17.438, Speaker B: And I'm not sure what happened to that afterwards, but seems like quite a number of hacker exploiter of DeFi have used that rock to get their money out from the system. Yeah, and beyond that, I think that the value capture is okay. I think that it's decent, but I think that the number seems like it's because it takes a certain percentage of fee for every conversion. Like if you wrap your bitcoin into a rampdc, you pay like a one basis point and vice versa when you unwrap. So the key challenge is what will happen to the fee if a lot of the rampdc is just not going to go through back and forth. I mean, once they enter the ethereum ecosystem, they're just going to stay there and not going to be converted out anymore. So then the fee capture, value capture on this part will be a little bit big in that sense.
00:04:17.438 - 00:04:53.418, Speaker B: And there was also some controversy about the current stage of decentralization on trustless. I'm not the expert on this, but there are some who say that currently they are not really using the real SMPC yet. It's probably not like peer review or open source. Again, I'm not expert on this, but I heard some about this, but so far it's been doing pretty well. Among other cross chain or bridges project, I think it's definitely doing it's probably the most successful so far if you count out.
00:04:53.584 - 00:05:51.798, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, I agree with the characterization as a WBTC competitor also because I sort of disagree with the characterization of it being just this. So I'm also not an expert on this, but I think that the right way to think about multi party computation is basically just an implementation of multi signature, right? So it's sort of like a consortium where you have different machines in the ren office or wherever they store it, but controlling all or holding all the actual BTC in custody and then issuing ren BTC against that on. Yeah, I mean they can kind of change this at any time. I think they have full control over it. Yeah. So I don't actually see this as trustless, I see it right now as fully custodial, which might be totally fine. Right, so Tether is fully custodial, right, but its value proposition is regulatory arbitrage.
00:05:51.798 - 00:06:49.054, Speaker A: And that's kind of the bracket where I put renBTC into right now and it's kind of proven by all the hackers using it to cash out their BTC. And so far the Rent team has never stopped any of those withdrawals, although they could. And that alone shows that it's custodial. They do want to go, I think in the future into a direction that's a bit more like TBTC. So you have kind of fidelity bonds, right? So for the different nodes that custody the key charts of those bitcoins. So you would then have a protocol that watches the behavior of the custodians and they have to put up a bond and when they misbehave, for example, they deny withdrawal or they withdraw coins that don't have authorization, then their bond would be confiscated. So that's I think a possible direction for Rent to go.
00:06:49.054 - 00:07:25.222, Speaker A: But it has this trade off, right? If you want your custodians to put up additional bonds, then the system will become more expensive to use so I actually think it's necessary for them to start with this custodial way. Because if the system was expensive to use right from the start, then I think it would be way harder to build the necessary network effect and liquidity for this token so that users might eventually be willing to pay this kind of upcharge for additional security. Does any of you know much about Terra?
00:07:25.286 - 00:07:51.490, Speaker B: Yes. So yeah, I'll talk about terra. I actually have a pretty decent understanding of it. So I think Terra was actually also ICO launched in 2018. Actually they raised a fair amount of money. And I think one of the reason is because the co founder, one of them is like a fairly successful entrepreneur in the Korea e commerce market. He launched one of the biggest e commerce startup in Korea called Ticket Monster.
00:07:51.490 - 00:09:09.446, Speaker B: And so I think that gave him a lot of credentials to launch this, to launch a decentralized stable coin protocol built on a Cosmos SDK. So you can think of them as part of the Cosmos ecosystem. And the concept is pretty similar to the first initial design of Haven, actually precursor to synthetics. Basically that what happened is the user of the stablecoin will pay a fee to the Terra token holder to providing this stability services. I think that concept as a whole is very sound, but I think on the detail on it, like, how do you maintain the price stability and the pack? We won't go too deep into this, but there are some small challenges to it. But basically I think that the general concept sound that you're paying the lunar token holder for sort of providing some backstop to the stablecoin, but also providing the stability to that. But in a way you can think of it in a real world circumstances on a payment, when you're using Visa and Mastercard for payment, the merchant are paying like 2% to Visa and Mastercard for helping them to process this transaction.
00:09:09.446 - 00:09:12.540, Speaker B: So the logic I think on that level is very sound.
00:09:13.150 - 00:09:30.146, Speaker A: I mean, in a blockchain, I get why you can't do it in a regulated environment with resign Mastercard. But in a blockchain environment, can't you just wrap the payment token and then transact with that? So the underlying kind of Terracoin or whatever it's called, doesn't move?
00:09:30.248 - 00:10:23.006, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that is definitely a way to get around with it. But again, I think that the crux is like the network effect of the original stable coin is so strong that your rep version will not be able to overcome it. So there's definitely a lot of effort that we need to go to build the network effect and the distribution channel for that original version of the Terra stablecoin, so that even if a person wrap it, you not get accepted anywhere. And the main use case of Terra stablecoin has always been in the Korea commerce team, I think mainly some e commerce. So if you measure it by some metric, they have the largest amount of fee paid to use the protocol because they have a Chai app that in Korea. You can download the app and use it to pay for a lot of e commerce services. I think they have some way to get around it so that the user actually not using the stablecoin, but in a way they are using the stablecoin.
00:10:23.006 - 00:11:06.514, Speaker B: I'm not sure the exact detail. I don't really use it before, but that actually lead to some new fee generation for the Terra validator and staker. So they generate a fair amount of fee and the daily user is pretty impressive. I think that they have more than one and a half million of total registered user. And daily user is like, I think 15,000 ish on site memo. I can't recall the exact number, but it's probably the most successful if you measure it by real world adoption in terms of payment. So the current user through the Chai app are using Terra protocol for the payment services and interacting with the stablecoin in some indirect that and they are trying to get into DeFi right now.
00:11:06.514 - 00:11:54.820, Speaker B: I think that what they realized, that they spent a lot of effort to build the commerce adoption in Korea, and actually they want to expand to Southeast Asia itself. But the real world moved way slower than the crypto world. So I think that they're recognizing that right now and they're actually trying to move into the DeFi space by doing some I think they launched a new thing called the Mirror Protocol. I think they partnered with some of the other Cosmos ecosystem project, and I think that with the launch of the Cosmos IBC, they might be able to interoperate with each other. So I think it's doing fairly well. It's just that their approach is not so crypto native compared to most of probably all the other DeFi protocol that we are talking about right now. So, yeah, I think that it has a good amount of success in the mainstream space.
00:11:55.990 - 00:12:02.900, Speaker A: Something I didn't understand yet. So the Terra Stablecoin, is it backed by dollars in a bank or what is it backed by?
00:12:04.790 - 00:12:19.674, Speaker B: It's actually backed by the Lunar Token. It's a little bit synthetic. Yes. It's backed by the Lunar Token. Again, I'm not expert, but I think that's how it works. And the fee that go to the Lunar Token is what make the Lunar Token see. I see.
00:12:19.712 - 00:12:23.046, Speaker A: Okay. Gotcha anything on Terra, Sue?
00:12:23.078 - 00:13:15.978, Speaker C: Yeah, I don't really consider it DeFi per se. I mean, it's definitely like crypto and then finance, but I'm not sure if it's full DeFi just because of the way that it's not really interrupt with anything that's currently in DeFi. And then also the way that the original Token sale for Terra was done. I think it makes it quite a different project. I mean, it's kind of got this interesting thing right where it's a Korean project, but then it has this very long list of investors that are standard crypto funds. I never quite understood that, but I think maybe that's a product at the time that it was conceived in. But with that said, yeah, it's impressive the adoption that they have.
00:13:15.978 - 00:13:24.480, Speaker C: I'm not sure the business model for the idea of the coin is that proven, but we'll have to see.
00:13:26.690 - 00:13:45.902, Speaker A: Thought chain. I think it's a bridge like ranbtc, but also has some elements of an exchange, like uniswap it both tokenizes, different coins, and I don't really know how it works. And then you can trade these coins on sort of an off chain exchange. Is it not actually off chain because they do have their own blockchain.
00:13:45.966 - 00:14:24.698, Speaker B: Right? Yeah. So, again, I'm not an expert in this. I try my best to explain how it works. I think that how it works is from a user perspective, you have a key grow validator that they're actually putting out more Rune, the native token of Torchain, as the collateral to backstop the interoperability of it, so that you can actually go from native token to the native token directly without using the rep version. So let's say you want to change from bitcoin to litecoin, you can actually use Torchain to do so. It's a little bit like a shapeshift, a decentralized version of Shapeshift, launched by Eric Wu. He's a bitcoiners OGB coiners.
00:14:24.698 - 00:15:08.554, Speaker B: And I think how they achieve this is using the economic guarantee. Like there's always more room backing the collateral being it's because they're using an AMM, but they have their own version of a CLP model of AMM that are providing liquidity for this. But there was always more room backing the AMM asset so that you are not that worried that you be corrupted or be attacked because they have more to lose if something happened. But yeah, you can change from a bitcoin to litecoin or to bitcoin cash directly using Torchain. I think that is the vision. It saves all the wrapping hassle and the value capture is supposedly very strong. All the fee will go to the rune token staker and validator.
00:15:08.554 - 00:15:31.846, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's my understanding of it. And I think that it has a very strong community as well. Quite similar to Synthetics in a way that propel it to a very monstrous game this year, although it's still in the testnet, but it has been fairly successful if you measure it by a price action and performance of the token so far.
00:15:31.948 - 00:15:56.880, Speaker C: Yeah, I think Rune is an interesting project. Definitely seemed a bit hype centric when it first came out, but I think that the Bridging liquidity design that they have is definitely unique and they have a first mover advantage there as well. It just remains to be seen what it'll actually look like in mainnet. So I think it's hard to really speculate about it as a project until you can actually play with it and it works.
00:15:58.610 - 00:16:03.242, Speaker A: Okay, so moving on to the final asset, which is reserve.
00:16:03.306 - 00:17:10.370, Speaker B: I think one thing, the most impressive thing about them is actually they spent a lot of effort at an earlier stage of their protocol to analyze all the different pros and cons of the different stablecoin model. And in the end, they figure out that all of them have some key issue so that they come up their own model. They adopt a gradual decentralized Asia model where initially, I think the stablecoin the ISV is actually backed by actual dollar in the cash, but they plan to gradually decentralize it to make it backed by the reserve right. Token itself. And I think one thing that set themselves apart from other stablecoin or bridge protocol is that actually they actually want to push forward for the adoption in the developing country first. And actually I think they spent a lot of effort in Venezuela to get the user there to adopt stablecoin with a pretty noble mission, I would say, because we all know how situation that Venezuela is in right now and they do need a stable currency. And I think they've been spending quite a fair amount of effort to penetrate Venezuela in terms of getting their stablecoin become like a de facto currency instead of their own.
00:17:10.370 - 00:17:23.206, Speaker B: Venezuela, Bolivia. I'm not sure how successful successful that has been, but they definitely have a very impressive list of backers earlier on. So that's why I know yeah, I'm.
00:17:23.238 - 00:18:05.080, Speaker A: Just going through the documentation right now on the other screen and the protocol is supposed to have three phases. So first the centralized phase where every token is backed by a small number of collateral tokens, each of which is tokenized US dollar. Then a decentralized phase where reserve is backed by changing basket of assets in a decentralized way, but it's more than 100% backed in every phase. Then the independent phase where they want to launch their own unit of account so it's no longer packed to the dollar. Okay, so that's a pretty ambitious goal to build a network effect for that.
00:18:05.530 - 00:18:22.126, Speaker B: Yeah. And their backers are like probably the top investor list in crypto for the interns. When you look at the investor list, like, they have a Peter view, they have Sam Altman, they have a lot of the top Silicon Valley investor in their list.
00:18:22.308 - 00:18:38.402, Speaker A: I guess that they changed their goals or their architecture pretty radically because what I just read is nothing like what I first read about them in 2018 when I looked into them. So it's interesting to see them still stick around here.
00:18:38.456 - 00:18:54.280, Speaker B: Yeah. But I think that they are probably also one of the few DeFi protocol that don't really consider them DeFi. I mean, I have never seen them trying to interact with other DeFi protocol or like trying to work together with any of the DeFi protocol that we have mentioned so far.
00:18:57.130 - 00:19:19.470, Speaker A: So now next is a category that has a bunch of different things. So let's hop, I guess, into yearn. Yearn is sort of a grassroots ecosystem with the main goal to allow users to deposit coins and then invest those coins in a way that the user can just sell and forget. I'd be curious to hear what you think about them.
00:19:19.540 - 00:20:50.906, Speaker B: I think that Yen is definitely I think among all the different DeFi protocol that emerged this summer, you can say that it captured the most amount of attention and also have the most meteoric price action on the way up and also when it comes down, it's also pretty volatile. And I think that it's just that when you put in a DeFi perspective, it's a little bit like I'm saying this not to offend the bitcoiners, but I do think it shared a little bit, kind of like a genesis with how bitcoin was being born. Launch, I mean, yes, Andre Konye is he's not a non, but the whole fair launch method has captured a lot of people's imagination on how a DeFi protocol can launch without a VC involvement, can be a pretty grassroots and community run cow for DeFi protocol and still be fairly successful. And I think that if we were just focusing on this aspect and they've been fairly successful in that and I think the coin distribution right now is also fairly distributed. We actually know a few big WiFi farmer that farm more than 1000 WiFi and they actually sold most of it before it hit 10,000. The distribution is actually, I think, quite distributed right now and I think half of the supply is actually in the central exchange right now. So I think a lot of people have actually sold and bought it on and off again.
00:20:50.906 - 00:21:24.114, Speaker B: So in that sense you can say it's a little bit like a bitcoin of DeFi out of that. It's not money. The founders say it's a worthless governance token, but everyone know that it's not really worthless because people are willing to pay 22,000 for one WiFi. So I think that it's interesting. The first version of the product is really to be a U aggregator because there's so much new like you coming up, like you have RV, we have Compound, we have also a curve as well. So for average user it's very daunting to just interact all them alone. So that you use Ian.
00:21:24.114 - 00:21:52.378, Speaker B: You can just solve all of your issues. They just help you aggregate and find the best you for you. And the founder build this to use it himself. And obviously he doesn't want to. Govern the project and he launched a token to decentralize the governance process. And I think that product has been quite successful for the first one to two months. And after that I think there's a new other they did not move fast enough to catch up with the new Ufarm.
00:21:52.378 - 00:22:54.718, Speaker B: So I think the new some other new U farming vehicle actually takes some of the PVL away. And I think that even right now, I think that they are still trying to figure out a scalable way to run this U aggregation strategy. Because when the U is lower than a certain level, people are just not going to do it anymore because you need to pay a performance fee and management fee for using the year and wow. And I think that right now the key challenges is if you're talking about this U aggregation strategy alone, the key question to ask is is it even possible to get a market neutral strategy that is also scalable at the same time but yet achieve probably like a double digit Apr consistently. I think this is actually quite challenging and difficult and I think that version of the product I think that right now is doing okay. It has like a 400 million of TVL but he has not really been growing for some period of time. But they are trying to go for a more ecosystem play method.
00:22:54.718 - 00:23:52.626, Speaker B: They are collaborating a lot of the other D Five protocol, that one of them we mentioned in the previous podcast which is Sushi swap and also a lot of other smaller ones like Pico and others as well. I can't really recall all the and I think it's shaping out a bit like a kingmaker of DeFi in a sense, especially for the more fair launch, a non grassroots, community driven coin. They can actually when to collaborate with the coin and I think they can bring a lot of value to the table on how are they going to run the Dow and the whole protocol and some synergy they can explore. I think that kind of become like not so pure play anymore. Actually there's more to yield right now and it can become whatever the community wanted to become in a way. So I think it's a pretty special protocol but it's also make it quite hard to value right now. And even among the DeFi coin it's also among the more volatile one and it's kind of like a trader's favorite.
00:23:52.626 - 00:24:03.740, Speaker B: Like the traders really like to trade around because it's very liquid and it also moves that's the state of Yen. It's definitely one of the top DeFi protocol but I think that it's quite hard to define what it is right now.
00:24:04.430 - 00:25:43.034, Speaker C: Yeah, definitely WiFi, I think more so than any other coin of the DeFi summer. Definitely kind of a zero to one moment really where I kind of heard a funny phrase today which was that this coin is so fair that I had to ape in as early as possible. Which is kind of ironic to me in the idea that because it's so fair, it's such a good buy at an early stage and I think that WiFi really created this fair launch. Meme the idea that you can have a D Five protocol which 100% of the coins are going to the users by some predefined metric and then see what happens. And I think there's a canonical not canonical, there's a cardinality effect that is achieved by being the first to do that properly, which is that, like Arthur said, it's like the bitcoin on DFI. It's the bitcoin you have, the 30k cap, which I'm glad they did, because that was contested for a while, but it gave it a very commodity like trading style, where you know that there is never any emissions. So in theory, if all the holders now just believe it's worth a million dollars, it's going to go to a million dollars, right? That'll just happen mathematically, but in practice a lot of them will sell as it goes up.
00:25:43.034 - 00:26:38.460, Speaker C: So it has that commodity fixed supply thing that makes it very good to trade and it has the kind of mythical genesis story which gives it an allure that is harder to replicate even if you have a project that does the same thing but kind of is launched after WiFi. So I think it's got that. But like others said, yield aggregation is a tough game in the longer term because you don't really know what fees will be paid and how those will be received. And also longer term, if you don't have inflation, then it will become harder to incentivize people to join the network because they would have to buy coins to then have a governance vote as opposed to earn them. So you could have some issues with Ossification from that.
00:26:38.910 - 00:26:46.238, Speaker A: I guess you could use your cash flows. It has a lot of cash flows, right? You could use those to buy up supply from the market.
00:26:46.404 - 00:27:59.000, Speaker C: Yeah, you could do that. You could do that. There's a number of ways you can do mean I think Wi Fi holds a central role in DeFi, so people use it as a DeFi ETF as well. So that's why you see the trading volumes are enormous on binance, on coinbase, but it's also very much a bet on Andre as well because Andre being the sort of volatile mythical figure that he is, kind of is the embodiment of Wi Fi himself. So it's definitely a bet on him and continued innovation and composability. So I think when people first analyze WiFi, they looked at it from the pure yield aggregation play perspective and they didn't really understand why it has any value because you could just do the same thing and they kind of didn't understand the cultural context of that project as it was launching. So I think that prestige is actually very bitcoin like in the DFI ecosystem and I think it will likely to retain some of that prestige value over time.
00:27:59.000 - 00:28:07.666, Speaker C: Just a matter of what innovations will they bring to also give cash flow values to the users and to the holders.
00:28:07.778 - 00:29:21.370, Speaker A: I think going through different stages with Yuan in terms of liking or not liking it. I liked it a lot in the very beginning because same as compound, it brought a lot of new innovation to the DeFi space. That when it's one of those projects, if you tell people from outside of DeFi about it, then that's kind of what makes it click for them. The things that you can do, right? This whole kind of superfluid collateral thesis where we touched on this in the last podcast as well, but where yearn was consistent of so many layers of basically tokenized balances that you could earn yields in several different protocols at the same time, all in a kind of set and forget nature. So it's really highly capital efficient and at the same time it's completely trustless and auditable. And I think that really highlights the power of the things that you can do in DeFi and that you can do with composability. But then after kind of this first magic kind of wore off, then I saw that the people working on Urine didn't actually care about the user.
00:29:21.370 - 00:30:23.780, Speaker A: It felt like they cared more about tinkering different stuff, constantly rewriting how the project worked. And that's when you saw that you kind of noticed that there were huge yield farming opportunities in DeFi and they just didn't offer them for their users, even though kind of the market demand was there and it was huge. And projects like Harvest went over like a billion dollars of deposits when Urine was like at 200, even though Urine had the capability to do this in a trustless way. And Harvest was actually for almost until the end was completely custodial. So it was controlled by a single admin key, like a billion dollars. Right. And there was this fun exchange between I think you sue and the founder of Harvest about stealing a billion dollars and they said who needs a billion dollars as the reason why they would have no incentive to steal it.
00:30:23.780 - 00:31:04.414, Speaker A: But yeah, that was actually where I got really mad with them and actually sold my coins when they just refused to adopt new vaults and new strategies. I think they now are at a point where they have started to add new strategies and kind of move a bit faster. But yeah, that's kind of the downside of this super fair launch approach where you just have no people really incentivized to work on it and the governance sort of so decentralized that it becomes really hard to innovate.
00:31:04.462 - 00:31:32.886, Speaker B: Yeah, I need to add one thing though. I think that the core group contributor did indeed form about Yen and they are actually getting paid for working on Yen as well right now. But I think that even for a decentralized fair launch protocol, you kind of still need a person to act as a leader. I'm not sure who is the leader right now. It's probably Bantek or I'm not sure there's still Andre. I don't think he is. I think with our.
00:31:32.886 - 00:31:51.578, Speaker B: Leader figure is when it comes to some difference in opinion, are you going to go for voting every time? I think it's not the best way of resolving some key issue, especially if only the insider know it better than anyone else. So I think that's also probably one of the challenges of a decentralized community run protocol.
00:31:51.754 - 00:32:16.600, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly, exactly. So that's kind of the managerial role that was kind of missing from yarn because I carried kind of what I thought was constructive criticism to the team. And the answer that you got was if you want it, then write it yourself. That's what we tell everyone. And I mean that's not really how you run a business. Right. So they didn't really care what the user wanted.
00:32:16.600 - 00:33:00.582, Speaker A: They had their own idea of what was interesting and fun to work on and that's what they did. But I think they are really turning it around right now. So the criticism that I brought forward, I don't think it's really valid anymore. Just giving my perspective on what really soured this protocol for me for a couple of months. So moving on to Nexus Mutual, it's one of two or maybe one of three big insurance protocols, the other two being cover and then there's one Asian one that I don't know all that much about. So let's talk about how Nexus Mutual works and what it does.
00:33:00.636 - 00:34:06.410, Speaker B: Sure. So I think nexus mutual is very straightforward. It's a mutual which means that it's a member based pool and it's being an insurance pool. Every members contribute capital and have a claim on the capital pool but also providing the coverage for people who want to insure against them and in exchange they share the premium proportionally to how much capital pool they contribute. So it's a fairly ancient concept and just applying it to DeFi and I think it works in a sense that if you want to purchase any insurance for the DeFi protocol or the smart contract insurance nexus which is insuring, yeah, you can go and do it and it works. So I think in that sense you can say it pioneered the approach of providing insurance for smart contract which is definitely a big issue in DeFi and in ethereum as well. And I think it has been quite successful in getting that objective achieved, which is to provide insurance coverage for users who want to interact with different smart contracts.
00:34:06.410 - 00:34:53.078, Speaker B: I think that you can definitely say it's fairly successful and the founder, the team also is fairly legit, have a very credible profile. They work as actuaries and work in the insurance space before. Yeah, definitely very solid insurance protocol. But I do think that recently it's losing probably not the right way to describe it, but I think that the way that the whole pricing model is designed in the bonding curve, there's a lot of second order effect on the price and on the people who contribute the capital to become a nexus mutual member. Because at 100%, MCR stands for, I.
00:34:53.084 - 00:34:54.694, Speaker C: Think, minimum capital ratio.
00:34:54.742 - 00:36:19.618, Speaker B: I think you can't redeem your nexus future token for the capital which is eve anymore. So you will have your capital stuck and the only way you can sell it is you wrap it into a rep nexus future and sell it on exchange. And that is actually a lot of people don't think it will happen, but it did happen and it's still there currently it's still 100%, which means that you can't redeem your nexus future through the bonding curve and as a result rec nexus future check at a rest substantial discount to the actual Nexus Mutual. I think it's around 30% or more, I think 30 plus percent right now, which kind of affect the confidence of some of the members because in a way that they didn't realize that they can actually get trapped inside the capital pool or they need to sell it at 30% to 40% discount on the open market. And I think that actually this issue is not an issue if you're coming in from a user perspective of using the protocol because yes, you still get your insurance coverage and you still get a payout if your claims is the right claims. But from a member perspective, I think that kind of make a lot of people will think twice before providing the capital in the future, especially for banker Holder, because it's actually quite illiquid and it doesn't give them the flexibility to really enter and exit, not even in a short time, but over a more reasonable medium time frame.
00:36:19.794 - 00:36:31.114, Speaker A: Could you describe for someone who may be interested in getting insurance on some DeFi protocol that they are using, how does the claims process work? Who decides if you're getting paid out.
00:36:31.152 - 00:37:06.322, Speaker B: Or not right now? I think for Nexus Mutual it's a bit of a debate and a little bit of a I don't think there's a formal on Chain way. Okay, again, I'm not 100% sure. Probably there are some voting, but it's pretty arbitrary. I think there's no formal kind of like a methodology, but it's a bit more of like, I think voting by the member and also combine some expert opinion from the team as well because they have all have insurance background as well. So it's not a guaranteed payout, but so far they have paid out some claims successfully before.
00:37:06.456 - 00:37:25.050, Speaker A: Do you think there's a way to do this in a completely trustless way? So, I mean, we are operating with smart contracts after all. Right, so isn't there some condition that you can define that is definitely a hack and then kind of people can 100% rely that the insurance payout?
00:37:25.470 - 00:37:57.158, Speaker B: I think that, yes, it can be fairly trustless, but it will not be like 100% trustless because you need to rely on Oracle. And in this situation, Oracle is even harder to define because how are you going to define Oracle for a hack, right? Because it has to go through a human to decide oh, we think that this is an hack so that we agree to pay out the claim. So even on the definition alone, that you can debate for a fair amount of time on that. So I think that you can go fairly trustless, but you will not be like a fully trustless, purely run by code kind of way.
00:37:57.324 - 00:37:59.000, Speaker A: Yeah, that makes sense.
00:38:03.930 - 00:39:11.014, Speaker B: So, loop ring is the first Dex in Ethereum to adopt a ZK Rob. You can say it's quite a big success in that sense that they are the first to adopt a ZK rob L2 solution. And when they do the process of starting the ZK rob, I think that it was get quite a lot of buy in from a lot of people in the community. And because it's the first practical implementation and it works right now because you can use the ZK row of loop ring for both the Dex trading and also for transfer. I think the transfer part is not really the major initial objective, but it's just that because so cheap to transfer on L2 they can't say that, why not? We also advertise this benefit as well because you can transfer from two different accounts in the Zkrop with a very low cost and very quick as well. So I think that's kind of some expansion of the scope and I think they were order book based model because if you're using Secure it's quite cheap, the gas cost and the performance quite good. So you don't really need to use an AMM.
00:39:11.014 - 00:40:07.040, Speaker B: But I think the challenge is order book model is not that good for bootstrapping liquidity for Dex. I think right now they're actually going to offer AMM Dex for loop ring as well instead of pure order book model. So I think in that sense the Zkro the technical implementation is definitely very successful, but I think in terms of running A decks, their volume is not really in the top ten right now and even the user I think is okay, but I wouldn't say you can call it very successful. But one thing unique about Rubring is also one of the very few team where the team is actually based in Asia. A big part of the team, an engineering team, which is I think it shows that there are some DeFi team in Asia as they're technically they are pretty solid but they're just pretty under the radar and pretty low profile in a sense.
00:40:08.290 - 00:40:24.258, Speaker A: What do you see as the challenge for basically those launching a new L2 solution like loop ring? If I look at this, I'm asking myself so what is actually the incentive to deposit any tokens there? Don't you have to kind of chicken egg problem?
00:40:24.344 - 00:41:16.414, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly. I think this is a big issue right now and if we get worse next year, if a lot of the L2 launch and we don't really get a consensus of which one that we are going to use. I think it's going to be a pretty chaotic situation. I think that from what we learned in the D five summer incentive works. I think that actually some of the L2 solutions actually experience usage mining in a way that you give people some incentive to try it out, to use the L2 solution and also to incentivize the other protocol to build on top of you as well so you gain the network effect. And I think it become a bit like a game theory. Which one are you going to adopt right now it's basically the middle and the smaller default protocol are all waiting for the bigger protocol to make a first move before they make a move because if they move and the bigger one move to another one it's quite pointless.
00:41:16.414 - 00:41:36.330, Speaker B: You lose all the composability. So it's a bit like a chicken game right now and I think that the L2 team can probably do something to nudge them again, I think that's just my idea and it's definitely not an easy problem to solve but I do believe that incentive goes a pretty long way to help to tackle this issue.
00:41:36.480 - 00:41:47.966, Speaker A: Yeah, right. Usage mining sounds like a very viable solution to this problem. Right. Given that loop ring already has a token and I assume it earns some.
00:41:47.988 - 00:42:11.800, Speaker B: Kind of fee from oh yes, one thing about ring is the user do get some fee from the trading volume. I think if you become a loop ring staker I think you get a pretty substantial percentage of the fee that going through the loop ring exchange. But it's just because the loop ring exchange doesn't do that much volume, there's not much fee to be distributed right now.
00:42:13.770 - 00:42:46.980, Speaker A: So then we move on to our final category. We were kind of debating before this podcast if this should even be included DeFi Coin, but CoinGecko includes it so we will talk about it and it's very popular right now so it's the kind of ponzi game, money games, empty set dollar, ESD and ampleforth. So Arthur, could you describe how those work and why they are so popular right now?
00:42:48.310 - 00:43:44.834, Speaker B: Yeah, again, I'm probably not the best person to explain this but I try my best. Mdsen dollar is an algorithmic stable coin that use a novel economic incentive to incentivize the price to be stable. Right now the target is to be stable around one dollars over a medium to long term and they bake in a lot of economic incentives to bootstrap the initial network effect so that people are going to participate in bootstrapping the network at the beginning. So the incentive of being early is extremely high if the ESD market cap did end up expanding, which it did. So I think when it gets started, it obviously started from zero and right now it's at around 500 million market cap. And when you think about it, it's actually quite insane because that's actually the maker market cap as well. Okay, it's getting close.
00:43:44.834 - 00:44:31.026, Speaker B: It's 430 right now, but it was like 500 yesterday. So it went from zero to 500 million, I think in two months. And by expanding the supply of the ESD to the user who participate in economic incentive game, which is when the ESD trade below one dollars, there is an incentive to burn the ESD. So you acquire something called a coupon. And what you can do with the coupon is if ESD trade above one dollars in the future, you can use it to redeem for more est. So let's say you burn one est, you can claim that one and a half or 1.3 est in the future if ESD trade above par again when it go below par.
00:44:31.026 - 00:45:52.830, Speaker B: So there's an incentive for the ESD participant to burn their ESD when it's below par to a certain extent so that they can get more ESD when it go above par in. And there is an expiry date to the coupon so that if it doesn't go above one dollars within a certain time period, I think for ESD it's around one week, and then the coupon will expire worthless. So there is a lot of game theory component into est on how do they stabilize the price and bootstrap the initial value and the network effect of it. But another way to describe it is also highly speculative and it's a bit of a game theory game in a way that you have to know what other people is going to do so you can front run them a little bit to do something before they're going to do it. And you also want to be the first one to exit when it trade substantially above one dollars so that you can sell before it trade below one dollars again. So there's a lot of speculative element into it and I can tell a lot of people are very interested into it right now, even people who I don't expect it to be participating in this kind of game. I have some professional traders, professional market maker in the professional trading firm, they have also doing it on their personal account, which is to my surprise.
00:45:52.830 - 00:45:56.462, Speaker B: I think that's who I think probably have more to add on this as well.
00:45:56.596 - 00:47:29.578, Speaker C: Yeah, I think the idea of an algorithmic stablecoin is not bad, right? Because all money is kind of a money game where it's a shared belief and we're definitely in the very early stages of figuring out which ones may or may not work. I think Ampleforth was an early project. I think mid 2019, it had some backers, so there's an investor allocation and then I think it did an IEO on Bitfinex. I think it started at like 150 market cap and then went up slightly and then went down a ton all the way down to ten or 15 mil. And then this year with the usage of the uniswap geyser where people supply ample and wrapped ETH into a pool that kind of stabilized the price and allowed it to start going through an expansion cycle and kind of did a 50 x, I think from the bottom in market cap. So obviously captured everyone's imagination because people before this kind of assumed that this kind of algorithm stablecoin wouldn't really work in practice. And I think that ample four was interesting because it gave people some ideas of what works and what might not work.
00:47:29.578 - 00:49:01.222, Speaker C: I think yam then I'd kind of consider in the same vein where they like the ideas of the rebase, but ironically now I think they're actually considering taking out the rebase. So I think rebase expansion and contraction, it's ultimately a double sided sword. If you think you can create the mechanisms that incentivize people to kind of do the actions and risk capital that ultimately brings stability to the stablecoin, then it's good. And if they can't, then you're probably not happy with the contraction cycles. So I think ESD and DSD should kind of be seen in that light where they're trying to solve some of those problems that they foresaw and kind of saw bear out in the Apple case. But again, even at the 500 mil market cap, it remains to be seen exactly how it will play out with a dow in terms of coupons, right. In terms of how the game theory works, where does it make sense to just buy the coin itself or does it make sense to play the coupon game where you're betting that the TWAP will stay above a dollar? These are all things that this is so new that no one really knows how it'll accrue.
00:49:01.222 - 00:49:21.678, Speaker C: But I think the fundamental idea of an algorithmic stable coin is not a bad one. The key is to get a reasonable distribution of token holders that are not just trying to make a quick buck, but are trying to build something longer term that could be a decentralized money basically.
00:49:21.844 - 00:50:06.442, Speaker A: Yeah, I guess where I kind of disagree is the characterization as it being a stable coin at all. I think that's the misleading part, ampleforth is maybe the easiest to talk about. So if you look at bitcoin in bitcoin, you always have the same number of coins in your wallet unless you spend them. But the price of these coins fluctuates in the open market and ampleforth flips that around where the price of your coins is always a dollar, but the amount of coins in your wallet constantly fluctuates. So that's kind of what the rebasing mechanism does. Right? And I feel it's very hard to argue that this makes your balance more stable. The balance fluctuates just as much based on market demand as it does with a coin like bitcoin.
00:50:06.442 - 00:50:40.698, Speaker A: So I don't think it's a scam or anything. It's just a scam if you sell it as a stable coin. Because people who want to own a stable coin, they want the number of their coins multiplied with the value of those coins to be stable. They want neither one of them to be stable and the other not. Right? You can think of both Ampleforth and ESD as like a base layer money like Bitcoin. But where I kind of disagree is the way that it's being sold as a stable coin. So talked about ampleforts, right? But ESD in ESD, not everyone's balances change all the time.
00:50:40.698 - 00:51:30.778, Speaker A: So they go a step further. They kind of keep the balances of those who don't want to participate in kind of the economic game stable. They can just keep their coins either in their account or in the Dow and then they kind of incentivize some people to reduce their balance by burning their coins in exchange for more coins in the future. Ultimately, if you want to argue that ultimately these coins can have both a stable balance and a stable amount, then I think that's just not going to work without some kind of backing. I think that's the real problem. Not really. Can you make money trading these or can they go to a billion dollars in market cap and then maybe collapse and have a new cycle and so on? I think those things are possible.
00:51:30.778 - 00:51:43.870, Speaker A: But what I don't see is that you will eventually convince someone to hold these as an actual stable coin when there are also other alternatives like USDC, Tether, Dai, SUSD and so on.
00:51:43.940 - 00:52:29.766, Speaker B: I have something to add. I used to be fairly skeptical of the algorithmic stablecoin model because I just think that in practice that's unlikely to work because the problem is when it's below the pack, even if you believe it will go back to the one dollars pack, that it can go way below the pack before it start going there. You can use some economic incentive to incentivize that. But who is going to step in? I mean, nobody wants to step in earlier. Everyone want to be the last person to support the price and then I buy the bottom I don't want to buy when it's going to drop 20%. That's always a question with the Algo stablecoin stabilization method because you can't redeem me that power. But I think one thing changed my view on this is like I've been reading Sapien.
00:52:29.766 - 00:53:21.610, Speaker B: I know it's a very popular book and I've been pretty late to this book, but basically say that a lot of things is like homo sapien imagination. And I do believe that for money there is some aspect to it and I do think that some people might claim it. But I think a lot of the Mt set dollar community do recognize that it's not going to be stable right now. But what they want to achieve is to use the speculative component of ESD to boost the initial network effect to a certain level where it can be more stable. They don't think you'll be stable right now. They think that you'll be stable when it hit like five or $10 billion market cap or even higher. I'm not sure what's the target right now, but I think that there's some possibility that it will happen there, but I don't think it is a very high possibility event Again.
00:53:21.610 - 00:53:57.314, Speaker B: And I also think that one key issue with the Algo Stable coin is it might not be there when you need it the most because what happened is, let's say what happened to March 13 this year when the crypto market dropped like 50% to 70% in a day for most. And I think in that moment, can Algo Stablecoin withstand the test of being stable on that kind of situation? That would be the greatest test to them. If they can't, I think the confidence will be destroyed in one single moment because that is not there to be stable when you need them the most.
00:53:57.452 - 00:54:20.190, Speaker C: I kind of think that the entire question of is it really a stable coin? Is almost irrelevant. I think everyone involved knows that it's a game of betting on is this game fun enough that the whole world will play it? Right?
00:54:20.260 - 00:54:21.840, Speaker A: That's a good way to put it.
00:54:22.530 - 00:55:31.874, Speaker C: It's like laugh and the world laughs with you, right? But cry and you cry alone. So right now they're trying to get more people to laugh with them and I think they do recognize that if they can get more and more people on board, if the game is easier, if the game is easily understood, then they can expand that way and if people own a small percentage of their portfolio in It. I was kind of drawn to the original ample fourth idea, which is that this is a commodity money, which is very arguably less correlated with other crypto assets, right? Because if the whole market nukes 80%, then probably ample for it is going to nuke also. But in normal markets, it generally exhibits lower correlation. It might be like 1.5 and then it might not rebalance or might be like zero point 88. I'm so but the initial problem they had was like liquidity and then later on they solved that with the Geyser.
00:55:31.874 - 00:56:32.300, Speaker C: So I think Algo stablecoins probably in the first chapter. I think the biggest issue I have with them is just genie Coefficients. I think reality is that there's still not that many people involved in some of these. I think the genie coefficients are not great. So that kind of makes it not a distributed enough game. But I Think if you can properly distribute the game and you can then create the right crypto economic incentives, you kind of need that mix of brain power and Distribution, which is Tough, right? Because I think ESD, they probably have the brain power but I don't know if you can achieve the distribution and have those waves of coin distribution profit taking, get it out. Because the way that the Dow locks everyone in, right? It's kind of like a cartel, basically.
00:56:32.300 - 00:58:03.240, Speaker C: You kind of need no defectors but then it makes it almost irrelevant what the market cap is. You can call it 20 billion, but if everyone's locked in the Dow, then no one can. Only 1% of the people can ever crystallize that value. The market cap is almost like a marketing to get you to come in before it's even higher. You kind of say like all D five games can be reduced to FOMO 3D where you know that it's being programmed to go higher each period and so you're kind of having to decide either you don't play at all or you play as early as possible. I think no one's really misled that it's actually a stable coin because if you thought it was stablecoin, you wouldn't buy it anyway because you're trying to five extra money, right? If you buy this stuff and then you play with it, and I think it's more bitcoin like in that sense where you're trying to make a bet that this is something that other people will like as a game because it's so fun, it'll become a money, and then because of that, it'll have better liquidity and then probably be less volatile. But it will always be like a commodity like money, basically.
00:58:04.490 - 00:59:10.534, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's spot on. I think it's exactly right to think of it as a commodity like money. Same as ampleforth, that has different properties from bitcoin, I think where you're also right, I mean equating all money games in DFI to something like FOMO 3D, right? I think many of the projects that we talked about are not games, right? They are actually protocols, like legit protocols where people interact with each other in a sustainable way and the more they interact with each other, the stronger they get. But here these are games that have mechanisms that make the system inherently unstable. And that's kind of the whole point of it, right, that you have these waves of basically FOMO people depositing and you have these extreme incentives not to withdraw your coins. That's kind of the whole point. And ESD actually it started with, I think one epoch was 8 hours unbonding period for your coins in the Dow and then they raised it for 15 period to 15 periods.
00:59:10.534 - 01:00:26.680, Speaker A: So five days. And I think that just shows that they were never interested in making it more stable. Because if you wanted actually to stabilize to get the coin back to one dollars, then the method you would do that would be to bring more supply to the market, right? Actually, so you have the positive rebase, people in the Dow get more supply and then those people can go to uniswap and sell the supply. And that's what pushes the price back down to a dollar, but the way they are taking it is actually the exact opposite direction. They make it even harder to cash out, to actually liquidate any coins. So you have this wave where everyone's balances grow inside the dow, but when they actually want to withdraw, then the price collapses to like 30. Question is always, well will those kind of expansion periods make up for the job or will there be an eventual time where it doesn't recover? And that you're exactly right that this depends entirely on basically how much fun the game is to play and if it can constantly find new money and new market participants to come in.
01:00:26.680 - 01:01:08.638, Speaker A: So yeah, I guess those really don't have much to do with DeFi in the sense that those other protocols have. They do compose with other D Five protocols I guess to a small bit. So kind of something like ESD and Ample. I think they both use the uniswap V two TWAP as their oracle, so that's cool. But apart from that, yeah, I think it's good that we talked about it because the hype for these things is really large right now. But yeah, I wouldn't really count them toward DeFi.
01:01:08.814 - 01:01:22.520, Speaker B: Yeah, I sort of agree in a sense you can say it's DeFi, but it's definitely a lot more speculative component into it right now than being used as the product like goods and services.
01:01:24.890 - 01:01:59.540, Speaker A: So wrapping this up. So we covered all the categories. I'd like to spend a few minutes. Where do you see DFI going in 2021? We kind of covered the categories that are very obvious. Kind of first satisfying the whole speculative demand of the market. You have bridges that the tokens to DFI that exist outside of it. Then you have kind of the DEXes where you can trade them and you have the lending protocols where you can lend them out, get some yield on them, others can borrow them.
01:01:59.540 - 01:02:12.920, Speaker A: And then you have kind of the synthetics where you also can deposit or use your tokens as collateral and then create tokenized debt against it. So what is next?
01:02:13.690 - 01:02:52.830, Speaker B: I think one of the things that is like next I think next year of 2021 more use case will be unlocked in D Five. I think right now we're only scratching the surface. We have built some of the basic base layer primitives like lending and borrowing, spot taxes, some asset management protocol, but there are still a lot of other financial use case that I think there's still a lot of room to grow and proven this potential. I think one of it is insurance. So I think right now only Nexus Future can claim to provide a successful insurance. I think that there will be more insurance protocol to emerge next year. And also derivative.
01:02:52.830 - 01:04:02.470, Speaker B: I think that a lot of the derivative trading use cases is hampered due to the performance issue of ethereum blockchain. And I think that on my count, there's at least eight derivative trading protocol that is launching soon or already launched as well. So I expect this competition to be really heat up next year and we've combined with the launch of L2 solution and hopefully they will also unlock some other use cases like some probably micro payment or even under collateralized borrowing. I think this is something that comes the holy grail of finance that a lot of people hope DeFi can achieve, although it remains to be seen how it can be done. But I think there's actually, I think at least two or three protocol trying to tackle this issue and they are going to launch I think next year as well and I think a few others. I think we're just going to see it continue to grow bearing any regulatory actions. And it's also potential that we see some established fintech application tap into some of the product offering of DeFi to offer to their users.
01:04:02.470 - 01:04:12.160, Speaker B: You can call it CDFI, but probably bridging this to the mainstream audience as well through their fintech offering. I think that is also likely to happen.
01:04:13.410 - 01:05:22.634, Speaker C: Yeah, I'm excited to see DeFi derivatives really take off next year. I think there's a lot of pent up demand to use these, a lot of pent up use cases. I think if you think about existing DeFi with borrowed lending and kind of being able to draw against an asset, you can kind of generalize that to being long that asset as a perp right, or as a future. So I think that being able to do so and then really get the liquidation cost down very low, almost as low as possible, you then allow people to use it properly. So I would like to see transaction costs go as low as possible. I would like to see these kind of usability metrics really do really well next year because I think that then the canvas for DeFi goes a lot bigger. So I think whether it's AMM or more central limit approach, I think once you have that and it's composable, for instance, you can package a stable coin that is like the coin plus it's short perm.
01:05:22.634 - 01:05:43.940, Speaker C: You can package, you can have an options protocol which liquidates into a perp or an aggregation of perps. There's all these things you can do, but step one is to just get the market actually liquid, get the market actually going. So fun to see you.
