00:00:00.560 - 00:00:59.992, Speaker A: Everyone, we just found one based world data. I'm going to build a random products. We all have some products, actually one of them is our first product. There's no problem. Yeah, you should find people say we try to create products that will allow you and most of the time people try to modify their products or stuff like is the first example we have basically for defy this idea by doing a concrete product well. And so first like why is it like what's to bring the solution that we have and introduce client to? By the way, Koran has detailed for Dear now and we have a first stable version coming in a few weeks. So it's also about like ecology.
00:00:59.992 - 00:02:14.746, Speaker A: I need you guys been talking about first I want to start by, you know, this simple question. What's a chain? And people usually forget that one chain one knows that so both are golden. Usually that's fallen to layer one. People act as if it's validators are the only blocks of a chain and they think that's having an active sense of, well, data sets enough chain who sell wrong assumption. And yeah, why, why nest adoption is important? Why should we have more knowledge from blood vendors? Why should I know that not only call centers, but still will they start transaction first was right now all blockchains share pretty much equivalent 180%, especially like the first. And that creates a huge trust to all these validators in that different chain, like different technologies, they depend on each other because we do not have a choice really. We have too little volatility right now.
00:02:14.746 - 00:03:06.930, Speaker A: Probably change on the automotive and we also about change. Second, we need to increase the lives of chains. We talk about censorship, resistance, how resistant our chain censorship, how change. And it's not possible to open up if we have more loads, we have more branch and also we have more target supervisors and issue things resulting in these loading periods, etc. Etc. They will expose them by increasing number of noise and also the bonus. Well, right now, okay, 100 validators will not allow.
00:03:06.930 - 00:03:32.278, Speaker A: If you go to Cosmos worlds, you will see that most of them just float worlds, because validators are typical. So we don't need to be perfect to be one. Plus we have net as many known as validators. So that's also the shoot really hard participating in governance and floater as many of them as interest. And honestly also later, just as they just go and vote the teams, that's like the high percentage. They seem a lot involved. That's also a problem.
00:03:32.278 - 00:04:07.464, Speaker A: Doing more specific, we can talk about some network specific benefits already network by having different blockchains. For instance on lava RPC networks, a lot of RPC providers, all we have Oracle based networks, Disney Oracle nodes. And these do not join the consensus and they need a much higher number. I feel like 100 RPC nodes. You can't say that RPC production is like mixed realized, that's the problem. And finally that specific use case. Not only networks, but this applications, although they need their own loads, you know, think that you actually have your own financial index.
00:04:07.464 - 00:04:37.958, Speaker A: You really want to trust an RPC, you really want to do that. Trust in RPC, trust in all the control included in some transaction. That's really bad. Like all applications, all big applications with some number of users should have their own nodes. But that's not the case, because it's part of no's. Why like what's the problem there? Why not as an option? First of all, there are some things holding the same outcome. Like okay work like an assist shots script, great.
00:04:37.958 - 00:05:23.220, Speaker A: But it's not only installation. Once the installation always manage the node. So instead tight cost of running the node, suddenly the technical knowledge bubbles will find no. So you have put an extra effort out your nodes. Like how many of you have anyone in slow dark holes you are in bullshit and you don't know, you never did before. As this person is hard, then these small operators usually have low uptime when there's an update. When there's a problem, they don't update right away, they have a lot of time and they don't actually they put chain mortar, they extrude.
00:05:23.220 - 00:06:07.772, Speaker A: Last is if you go to truck and these issues, et cetera, it's really hard to break one. Yes, it's not impossible to do this. I would say finally, not only on the low safe side, but also on the Internet site by vps site by default configuration, a server is not safe here, open the right doors and close once. The benefit necessary that you are sure that your role stays secure. That's quite knowledge. That's something that you can learn through YouTube. So that requires an expertise.
00:06:07.772 - 00:06:42.224, Speaker A: So our solution is cloud symbol. We say that okay, let's do everything we do on terminal from a UI. He got the first time looking at him before there were no browsers and searches would by writing our queries in the HTML format. And this wasn't scary, because in that people cannot do that quite often. But once we had this very simple interface of searching, it was done. We did the same. We said that anyone should ever join any network, any time from any device, because in that the node is running in our vps.
00:06:42.224 - 00:08:02.174, Speaker A: If you can connect with a situation then there's no problem, you can manage it, you can see it, you can like monitor it as you wish. In client like you have a lot of different things that we have enabled like let me give you some overview of what's possible. We have our landing page on public so you can check them out and see for yourself. But just to make a quick first of all very client side we don't install working blockchain and occupation. So I mean like client side is there definition of being trustless because there's loss, thus there's no matchups. So it's impossible, really impossible to create user debt. We do not track because we are like goodwill do not track because we cannot track and then 100% privacy it's only between your own and third we enable Monad chain monitoring systems the decentralized vendor instead of giving us centralized notification server we say that notification party was facing a provider inside your vps that's quite like and you can get your notifications right from your server that's like 100% and that enables 100% lines called once your notifications, once you are printing connection make sure that one all stays all the way up.
00:08:02.174 - 00:10:03.618, Speaker A: There is no problem with our moment and finally you have a very easy to understand rest it's all about director, it's all about understandable technology. If you have five methods complicated DNA in a real nice list of course there is some specific designs that you should have but if not you can just use these buttons and these menus to customize your node that we missed. So we also wanted person because everyone can join there is no interest for you duskline enables 100% digitalization because that's what digitalization is it's about being priceless private lying everyone should get between us thus you know that's all we need right now we are a lot of client mission and being very looking at client scientists of scalability long runs as by having people included in these other networks by having their own nodes we believe that we can achieve a whole lot not just you know a simple like first of all once you have these computers that are connecting to a vps you can also integrate blindfolding them we can have livelihood inside your own computer and you can manage client side bridge when I say client side version I mean client parties instantly connect into a node to another and putting information between them they act as a bridge without any synchronization that's pretty much line actually they act as a DNA layer they are as closer as a DA layer because they want to make synchronization. Why it's possible because these clients are already connected to their DP's, they don't need to sync again, forget their knowledge. Second, by doing so and also integrating zero knowledge with this DSIH, we can add private live analysis. You can talk to people burning their nodes inside different vps. They can just put the information coming from their own nodes to a DA layer or to our question storage to share instant analytics.
00:10:03.618 - 00:10:41.756, Speaker A: And by integrating this, which is quite possible because you do this in your own machine, you can also have privacy about this. And that can handle a lot because right now creates this amazing huge amount of data and just don't use it. We do not. And that can be solved by more nodes to client. Like a third idea that's configured, we say device. There is literally no lines of them. If you are models that can actually start sequencing the network without any synchronization, you can add vinyl to its clusters as well.
00:10:41.756 - 00:11:18.358, Speaker A: Does this enable client side sequencing? That's quite a. There's a lot of very little change actually doing this, but I think you should check it out. Centralized server is not the only. If you have zone knowledge, if you have sequence secretary also aggregation networks and create full trustless private networks that will only bright size. The future of Internet is without service. We should not have servers, we should have databases and clients. And that's all we can distribute the computational clients, contact these clients and that was fine.
00:11:18.358 - 00:12:24.812, Speaker A: So thank you guys for listening. Please ask your questions for more knowledge there, like just send an email or you know, get my telegram. We can send you a private link. We believe in smartsecure act. Right now we have all Cosmos change testnet. So basically can bright Cosmos change song. And in the short time we enable all these features I expressed here, actually I don't have line doesn't get to the node, just get to the connection and connect the WPS.
00:12:24.812 - 00:13:24.208, Speaker A: You can also like connect to another. That makes sense. Great. So we have two steps. First of all, there are also some technologies. Thus we all have $100. Or else, let's say you learn, then you can give your strong overview.
00:13:24.208 - 00:13:47.142, Speaker A: We also have content on your telegram, group channel, etcetera. So there's this very specific error, specific mistake people do. We cannot share, etcetera. And in the after solution, let's say you can. Romantic can also. It doesn't stop you from doing anything. It just gives you the like to improve stuff.
00:13:47.142 - 00:14:41.890, Speaker A: Uh, but you have this problem that only you have. You can just open your terminal. I don't know bio six or how it works, I lost the control flow. You can fix it through there in case that's something about. So right now, bridging a sequence over 200 nodes down, can you tell something like to make this process trustless? And usually people mistake trustlessness with this introduction. So they say that if there's no trust in that node, that is considered why that node stop, can stop working. But we show like can just stop working.
00:14:41.890 - 00:15:19.930, Speaker A: The only solution to that is having one bridge logs. But without proper standardization, you can never assume that that bridge, that load of networks of bridges will stay alive. Thus what you can do is getting rid of synchronization. If there is no synchronization, people can become that bridge job instantly. That you can basically recreate libras at any moment that someone goes out of the network. And that's like once possible supervised six clients, old fully inclined site. Like we estimate about cracking position first one, because we only have 1000 different data.
00:15:19.930 - 00:16:26.740, Speaker A: So if you speak for client users, once we have that wing of users all around the world, we can always be sure that there will be at least 500 climb users each line. And that's not my centering. Sounds bad, let me give you some default there, because I forgot to mention, we started private beta and we've been doing marketing till the last month. And then there was this major video using us, because like the product we did nothing before and someone like people watched it and we had like 700 800 users in two chains. People start using client without really not saying that, because that's an issue we need in the ecosystem. Okay, like I'm not blaming the entries that much personally, but that's a community and we have more people that are just eager to have develop knows that's people who want professionals. Right now we are from heading clients mostly in Nigeria, then India, then like the United states and then world.
00:16:26.740 - 00:16:36.530, Speaker A: So you instrument set of people all around the world. And just like true since most of the time using their guesses.
