00:00:00.360 - 00:00:15.758, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Dayglade refuel where I recap the latest news in Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Dan. The new society is the 22 July 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So a big week this week with the ETH. ETF's going live and I'm going to dive into that in a sec.
00:00:15.758 - 00:00:50.322, Speaker A: But I didn't realize this till just before, but Justin Drake put a tweet out saying that ETH is ten years old today. Now, the Ethereum network is not ten years old. The Ethereum network went live on July 30, 2015. But what Justin's talking about here is the ETH ICO, which went live or started, started on July 22, 2014. And it's funny, whenever this date comes up, it reminds me of the fact that I think it was a couple months before that date. I actually sold off the last of the BTC that I had bought in 2013 and was ignore ignoring crypto for a couple of years from then. So I missed the eth ICO because of that.
00:00:50.322 - 00:01:12.926, Speaker A: So it always kind of hurts to be reminded of that. But Justin put together this tweet basically saying, you know, back then ETH was sold on bitcoin at a rate of 2000 ETH per one BTC. So you could buy 2000 ETh for just one BTC. And I think the BTC price was around five or $600 at the time. And it was totally permissionless. No VC's, no vesting, nothing. It was just a normal kind of ICO.
00:01:12.926 - 00:01:42.986, Speaker A: Probably the best ICO, actually. Definitely the best ICO, I think, in history, and the first major one at that as well. And it's kind of crazy because then Justin goes on to say that we've delivered all of these things over the last ten years, so many different things with regards to ETH as an asset. He says that ETH is block space currency. So 4.3 million ETH have been burned to pay for gas since ERP 1559 went live about two years ago now, or three years ago now, actually, if I'm, if I'm remembering correctly here. No, yes, three years ago correctly.
00:01:42.986 - 00:02:10.862, Speaker A: I'm getting, I always get things mixed up. And many more millions in ETH we burned for blobs. And then obviously, God, he talks about staking, about how there's $100 billion of economic security staked on, on Ethereum here. And also he finishes off by saying that the ETH spot ETF start trading in the US tomorrow, which is kind of funny, right? Like ten years on since the ICO. We have the Eth spot etF here. So it doesn't feel like it's been ten years. It feels like it's been a lot longer.
00:02:10.862 - 00:02:43.082, Speaker A: I mean, I haven't been around the whole time. I've been around since 2017, but it feels a lot longer than that. But it, we've achieved a lot in those, in those ten years here. But I think the main reason I wanted to talk about this today as well is just to show you how crazy things have been over the years and how if you zoom out, you, you kind of contextualize it. Because I know that everyone likes to look at the prices of things on the day to day timeframe. And obviously, ETH is a lot bigger of an asset than it has been for most of its life as it exists today. And something billion dollar asset, most of its life existed below that.
00:02:43.082 - 00:03:02.738, Speaker A: But if you translate this into dollar terms from the ICO, I believe it was around $0.30. Eth was around thirty cents at the time of the ICO. And then when it went live a year later, the network went live, and then the token was live for trading. It didn't trade much above that. I think it went up to like a dollar, but then came back down to like $0.60 or something like that. So it was really cheap for quite a while there.
00:03:02.738 - 00:03:50.710, Speaker A: But that $0.30 into $3,500 today, that is one of the greatest investments of all time. And it was only like a ten year investment from then until today. Like, I know ten years may sound like a long time, but in the terms of, I guess like an investment horizon, getting that kind of return over ten years is absolutely insane. Now, of course, I would suspect that there's very few people who have held their eat from the ICO to today. Obviously, people have taken profits along the way, but I do personally know at least a couple of people who they've sold along the way, but they still have a fairly big chunk of their original EtH that they bought at the ICO and they've just high car hardcore die hard eth believers, Ethereum believers, and yeah, that's, that's probably the best investment they're ever going to make. Because these days there's pretty much like no way to get that kind of return unless you're pretty much going into.
00:03:50.710 - 00:04:20.658, Speaker A: Sometimes with meme coins you can get a similar return, but you have to get in it like the very ground floor, like when these things are maybe a couple hundred thousand dollars market cap or something. Like that because these meme coins, none of them have even gotten close to each market cap. Like if you look at the biggest meme coin on Coingecko today, it's probably still dogecoin. Actually it's market cap is 20 billion as opposed to Ethereum, Ethereum's 420 billion. Right. So it hasn't even come close to that. But yeah, Dogecoin has also been obviously a good investment too, if you held from when it first started to today.
00:04:20.658 - 00:05:10.822, Speaker A: But the problem is, is when you are looking at different investments, when you look at like meme coins, like yes, some of them can break out, but most of them go to zero because of the fact that there's no like fundamental base there. It's just pretty much like all speculation. Whereas at least with projects like Ethereum and, and bitcoin and others out there, there are fundamental bases there to hold the value up, to actually give people a reason to invest in these things for the long term rather than just speculate that over them over on the short term here. But anyway, enough about the ethic ICO, it's, it's old news. Moving on to I guess like the, the new news that's going to be happening tomorrow is the ETH ETF's are going to go live for trading finally. I mean, two months after they were approved, many, many, many months after the, the speculation began about the ETF's. I think the, the ETH ETF speculation began pretty much as soon as Blackrock filed for the BTC ETF back in June of last year.
00:05:10.822 - 00:05:42.266, Speaker A: So it's been a year pretty much since we've been speculating on all of this. And obviously the BTC ETF's went live and now the ETH ETF's are going live tomorrow and the next episode of the refuel will be on Wednesday. So by that point there will be some flows to show you guys. And actually there's this website that I tweeted out about which I'll link in the YouTube description below. They'll actually be tracking the flows of the ETF's here. Now the number that I'm most interested in is the net inflows. Now what this number basically represents is the flows minus the grayscale outflows, essentially.
00:05:42.266 - 00:06:18.308, Speaker A: So obviously there are a lot of predictions around how many outflows are going to come from the grayscale ETH product. But as I've said in the, in the past, I actually think that only a small minority of those outflows will be net outflows. As in they're going to exit ETH altogether because there's going to be a lot of those people exiting ethy, but then going into another ETF. And if, in case you missed that, grayscale actually lowered their mini trust ETF fee all the way down to 0.15%, which is the cheapest ETF on the market. Well, initially will be, and they're also waiving the fee for a period of time as well. But they are keeping their eth e fee at 2.5%,
00:06:18.308 - 00:06:51.848, Speaker A: which means that people are going to rotate out. Now, there's probably going to be a fair chunk, I guess, of, like, outflows from ETH. But why I say the net inflows matter or the net flows generally matter is because I suspect a lot of those outflows are just going straight into another ETF because they obviously don't want to pay a 2.5% fee when there's options between 0.15% and 0.25%. Like, you're just not going to stay there if you were paying any sort of attention. And then I put a tweet out basically saying that with this strategy that Grayscale was employing here, they're saying that they're trying to have their cake and eat it, too, because they're keeping the 2.5%
00:06:51.848 - 00:07:32.004, Speaker A: fee on ethy, and they will profit bigly off of the money that stays in ETh, such as the passive investors. Right. And they will capture as much of the ethy outflow as they can into their new mini trust with their crazy low fee of 0.15%. So they are really doing some kind of 5d chess moves here, I think. But obviously, there's going to be a portion of people that feel burned by grains grayscale, because maybe they felt trapped for a while, given that the discount on the ETH product was pretty steep. I think it went up to, like, percent or something like that during the bear market. And if you were to exit ETH at that point, not only were you down on maybe paper gains from the bull market to the bear market on ETH itself, but then you would dent then down massively on the eat product there.
00:07:32.004 - 00:07:50.708, Speaker A: But obviously, if you bought back then and held till today, you. You're. You're doing handsomely. Like, you made so much off not only ETh going up in us dollars, but also making it off eth, because you're basically buying ETH at a 50% discount, essentially. You're buying 50% more ethnic, essentially. Maybe that's not the exact amount. But you get what I'm saying here.
00:07:50.708 - 00:08:41.112, Speaker A: So I really do think that that's what grayscale is going for here. They're having the cake and eat it to strategy, which is, which is quite good. But that's, again, why I say that the net flows is what matters. Now, obviously, outside of the Netflow question, the, the general question is kind of what's the percentage going to be compared to bitcoin? Is it going to be that 15% to 25% that a lot of people are speculating on? Is it going to be higher than that? Is it going to be lower than that? Of. I don't imagine it being lower than that. Like, that would be very surprising to me. But being higher than that wouldn't actually surprise me because people have to remember that not only does ETH have all of this new money that that didn't want to buy ETH before, couldn't buy ETH before coming into it, but there was also going to be a bit of rotation happening from the BTC ETF into the ETH ETF, because I'm sure there's a lot of crypto natives who are like, well, you know, I only bought the BTC ETF because it was the only crypto ETF that I had access to, but I'd rather own ETh.
00:08:41.112 - 00:09:20.098, Speaker A: So I'm going to go buy the Eth ETF now. So they're going to rotate through. Not sure what that's going to look like, what the numbers are going to look like there. It's anyone's guess at this point, but I think the number one thing that everyone has to pay attention to is that Netflow number, because that Netflow number is going to give us the most accurate picture of what the actual kind of outflows of ETH versus inflows into the. The ETF's generally looks like. Yeah, and that's how it's been for the BTC ETF's as well, I believe, if you take out or basically take it all together with the GPTC outflows, but as well as the new inflows, I think there's been, what, $17 billion worth of net inflows into BTC. So we're looking at that number, and I'm sure the for ETh as well.
00:09:20.098 - 00:09:56.024, Speaker A: And I'm sure that the ETF analysts are going to be tweeting this out. I'm definitely going to be tweeting this out, but that's the main questions. And we're finally here, guys. I guess tomorrow like, it's not very far away now where we're going to be seeing these things. But as I've said before, we're still going to want to wait a, you know, at least a few weeks and then a few months to see where it all settles down because GBTC outflows continued for at least a few weeks there. So we're not going to know kind of where it's going to settle for a little bit of time. But as I said in the past, I really don't imagine that there's that much net sell pressure left, given that ETH has been trading at a less than 2% discount now for two months and it's less than 1% for quite a while now and at a premium on some days.
00:09:56.024 - 00:10:28.886, Speaker A: So if anyone really, really wanted to get out of eat the like, net out of it and not going to eat or not going to another ETF product, they've had ample opportunity to do that. I don't imagine there's many people waiting around for that. And I think I did mention the other day that some of the, the net outflows would be in regards to taxes if, even if they were going into another ETF from Ethi. But I got that wrong because I'm not an expert on the way the us retirement accounts works. But it was explained to me in the Daily Way discord channel that there's basically no taxes. When you do that in your retirement account. Like obviously you can buy your ETF's and other accounts, but.
00:10:28.886 - 00:10:54.570, Speaker A: And the retirement account, there's no taxes. So that's pretty bullish as well, I guess. Like that just makes me even more bullish. So pretty cool to see that. But yeah, anyway, you can go check out this dashboard for yourself. It won't start populating until the ETF start trading, which, as I said, is tomorrow on Tuesday. But once it does, you know, this will be the place to watch as well as the, the regular kind of Twitter accounts, the ETF analysts that you are all probably familiar with at this point there.
00:10:54.570 - 00:11:33.858, Speaker A: All right, so moving on to some core dev related updates. So this Ethereum intern Twitter account put together a really great thread that I highly recommend you all go and read about the pectoral hard fork. As you guys know, Petra is the next Ethereum hard fork that is going live, hopefully the beginning of next year or Q one of next year here. And you can see that in this thread from Ethereum intern. They go over everything that's going to or slated to be included in Petra and gives you gives you an explanation of what each of these things are. So if you need a refresher, because I've talked about this a lot on the radio before, but if you need a refresher of what each of the things going in or slated for inclusion are Jeff, definitely go check this thread out. Now.
00:11:33.858 - 00:12:20.432, Speaker A: I do want to caveat this by saying that it seems like the EOF related EIPs have become a little bit of a controversial topic in core dev world. I don't know, like I said before that, or I've said in the past that basically people have been trying to get EOF into the network for quite a while now, but there are objections from various core devs around this. As far as I am aware that it's still going to be included in the Petra hard fork, but don't be surprised if it is removed because of those concerns. There have been some real concerns raised, especially around security and potentially things breaking on the network, which obviously you always want to be aware of. But yeah, that's one thing that I've seen lately on the core dev front that I thought was thought was worth kind of shouting out there. And also in this thread, Ethereum intern talks about peer Das. I spoken about it in the past.
00:12:20.432 - 00:12:57.360, Speaker A: I don't think Peer Das is confirmed for inclusion in Petra yet. I think it's still kind of in discussion right now, but it would obviously be great to see that. But of most of the things that Ethereum intern talks about in this thread are definitely slated for inclusion. You know, the fan favorites like Max, effective balance increase, and also the account abstraction related EIP, not the original 3074, the new. I think it's like 77 something that Vitalik proposed recently. But yeah, anyway, you can go check out this thread for yourself to get a recap of Petra. Still a little while away, and as I said, things are still evolving and changing there, but we're getting closer by the day, so it's always good to stay on top of it there.
00:12:57.360 - 00:13:59.844, Speaker A: All right, so Tony has a new bit of research out today with regards to the anti correlation penalties EIP. So this is AIP 7716. I've talked about this before and about how essentially the ethereum researchers are looking into a way to adjust the correlation penalties in staking to essentially be able to map where people are hosting their validators or where entities are hosting their validators. So as a concrete kind of example here of what this looks like, you can imagine an entity like Coinbase, they're hosting all of their validators, or most of their validators in a single spot, right? They're not spreading them out. They're basically, I guess like centralizing them, for lack of a better word, in a single spot here. And you can actually correlate this on chain, because you can actually see that whenever a bunch of validators miss attestations or something, or miss a block proposal or something at the same time, they're usually part of the same cluster, which means they're usually controlled by the same entity. Now, even if they aren't controlled by the same entity, you could say that some cloud provider goes down for a few hours.
00:13:59.844 - 00:15:30.252, Speaker A: You can actually correlate that with the validators on the Ethereum network missing, missing attestations and block proposals, which then essentially you can up the punishments for them on chain provably, trust trustlessly. So essentially what would happen is that with this anti correlation penalty ip, it would increase the penalties if you were, if you were correlated with other entities, or if you were just putting all of your validators on one instance of a cloud server or like one data center or something like that, or in one location. So the whole point of it, the overall point of it, at least from my understanding, is that it's supposed to incentivize these operators to not all these node operators to not host all of their validators, all their validating infrastructure in the same location, to spread it out both geographically, but also spread it out even in the same kind of region, like in the US, for example. Don't have everything on the west side of the US, have some in the west, some in the east, and then obviously expand that out as you see fit there in order to not suffer from greater penalties for being in the same location here. So a lot of really great research happening around this, and I highly recommend going and read, reading Tony's post there, because it gives much needed context and explanations on a bunch of these things here. But I think this is something that can definitely make it into the network, because it seems relatively uncontroversial to implement something that punishes people more harshly if they're centralizing the network, because that's the whole point. We're trying to make sure that the network is decentralized and as distributed, as distributed as it can possibly be, geographically speaking.
00:15:30.252 - 00:16:09.750, Speaker A: And it's very difficult to do that because you can do it subjectively where you basically, you know, shame these operators and say, hey, you should, you, you know, you shouldn't be hosting everything in this location. You should be splitting it up just like we did with client diversity. It was basically a shaming thing where we're like, hey, why are you running all geth? You know, you should be running half geth, half nevermind, at least, or something like that, right? So it's similar to that. But the nice thing is that we can do this in protocol whenever we want to. We, whenever we can do something in protocol, we should. That's the rule of thumb, I think, when it comes to protocol level stuff. But also we want to make sure that we can do it without introducing any kind of negative externalities to the network here, which I don't think there seems to be any from this.
00:16:09.750 - 00:17:07.022, Speaker A: But obviously there needs to be a lot of research done into this to make sure there isn't any. And that's exactly what Tony has done here. So you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so just a shout out here. So Tim Baiko put out a tweet thread, I think this was a couple of days ago, where he said, my team at the Ethereum foundation, protocol support, is hiring someone for the first time in years to help us across all the things, all of the things, all core devs, the Ethereum protocol fellowship, summer of protocols and more. I wouldn't even, like, I can't even begin to describe like how big of an opportunity this is, honestly, like, I know this is probably going to be something that is going to require a lot of expertise across a lot of different domains here, and it's going to probably be a very demanding role, but I can't think of any other role in the Ethereum ecosystem that would be better to work under or to work with and better set of people to work with than this role.
00:17:07.022 - 00:17:37.938, Speaker A: Honestly, like, I kind of generally know what it's not what it's like to work in core protocol development, but have like a bird's eye level view of how it all works and what you get exposed to. There's so much guys like, it's so much that you'll learn everything there is to learn about Ethereum and still know nothing. Like, that's the, that's the beautiful thing about it, because Ethereum is an evolving target, right? It's a moving target. It's not something that you can actually just learn. And that's it. Hey, you're done. Which is the most amazing thing about this job, about this role, because it'll keep you stimulated, it'll keep you actively engaged.
00:17:37.938 - 00:18:06.614, Speaker A: It's not something that's going to bore you after a few weeks, right? It's not something that's going to be tedious after a few weeks. It's going to keep you very, very engaged here. So if you are interested in a role like that, you can go apply here in the, in the Twitter thread here. Tim links where to apply. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But you'll be working alongside some real heavyweights within the Ethereum core protocol kind of arena here. And as I said, I couldn't think of any other better job, you know, if you wanted to be as close to a theorem as possible.
00:18:06.614 - 00:18:24.670, Speaker A: Honestly, I actually looked at this and I was like, hmm, for a split second, I was like, hmm, maybe I should apply for this. This sounds like something that I could do. But then I'm like, no, I don't think so. Because, like, one, I don't think I'm smart enough to do it. And two, I. The way I work, generally, I'm not great working in a team. And you definitely have to be a team player for this.
00:18:24.670 - 00:18:53.478, Speaker A: Like, that's like, number one, I think, the top of the list, you have to be good in a team to work with this because it is a lot of people, a lot of people work, a lot of basically talking to people, communicating with people, relating to people, organizing people. And that's just not something I'm good at. Like, that's the reason why I haven't started a company or business. It's pretty much the primary reason why daily Gwei is the way it is, where it's just me. I'm just not someone who can work very well in a team. I don't know why it is. It's just the way I am, and I think it's the way I've been for a very long time, to be honest.
00:18:53.478 - 00:19:16.362, Speaker A: But if I was someone who was a team player, I would definitely be applying for this, honestly. Like, I would go back into, I guess, like full time work, because, as you guys know, I work for myself. I do daily Gwei, I do independent stuff. But this is a super tempting role just because of the fact that I know exactly what it entails. I know how exciting of a role it is, but you guys go at it. If you're interested in it, definitely go apply. Obviously, no guarantee you're gonna get the job.
00:19:16.362 - 00:19:49.882, Speaker A: And obviously, it does require a lot of prior knowledge to be good in the role. But I think that if you've been listening to the refuel for a few years now, you've been, you know, you've been very involved with the ethereum ecosystem. I wouldn't sell yourself short, so definitely go check it out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so I've left this episode relatively short on content because there is one topic that I wanted to discuss with you guys because I haven't had a discussion with you guys about this recently and I think that it is important to revisit this topic sometime. So. So, I mean, you probably guess what it is.
00:19:49.882 - 00:20:40.720, Speaker A: It's about the markets here. Now, there's no like unique insights that I'm going to, going to give here. But what I will say is that I think that it's funny how quickly people tend to turn bearish given things like we know that the summer period in the crypto markets at the last ten years, nine times out of the last ten years, the summer period has been bearish. Like, people will come up with all these sorts of convoluted reasons to be bearish. You know, politics or the macro shit or stocks are going to shit the bed or, you know, someone's going to die here or the, you know, the asteroid is going to hit earth, aliens are going to invade. You know, people are going to come up with all these reasons when a lot of the time, if you just employ Occam's razor, which is essentially like the simplest explanation is usually the one that's correct of, well, during the summer period, crypto is shit. Right there is, crypto is sideways, crypto is, is bearish.
00:20:40.720 - 00:21:08.682, Speaker A: And that's exactly what it was. And now that we're getting, I guess, like deeper into, into the summer period in the northern hemisphere where almost in August, which is basically going towards the end of the summer period here, or at least the bulk of the summer period, things start to heat up again, which is funny because summer spur, you know, summers are hot time, but things start to heat up as we go into, into autumn here or fall. I never called it fall for some reason. Everyone calls it fall. We, I always just call it autumn. Anyway. In Australia, it's the opposite way around.
00:21:08.682 - 00:21:42.302, Speaker A: So everything just opposite here. But that's generally the reason I think, that things have been bearish the last couple of months. I don't think it had anything to do with anything else really, like. And I think that, you know, people went on about, oh, well, EtH pumped up the 4k on the ETF approval, but then it went back to like two point nine k and it didn't help hold that pump at all. It's like, okay, well, there are other reasons other than the summer period being generally bearish for crypto. There were a couple of other reasons that I threw out there as well as explanations, but. But if you go back and look, the wider market was generally bearish anyway.
00:21:42.302 - 00:22:14.776, Speaker A: If that approval had happened during maybe like the more bullish period, let's say the November, December, January kind of February period there, if it happened anytime during that, I would suspect that ETH would have probably kept going. But because of the timing was just like really shitty timing. During the summer bearish period, Eth came down, but now it's gone back up. Right. It's at 3500 right now. The all time high is not far away at all. I think, like, given that usually for q three and q four, especially q four very, is very good for ETH, we have, the ETF's going live tomorrow.
00:22:14.776 - 00:22:51.292, Speaker A: I do think that we're going to see some healthy inflows into that. I do think it's going to surprise people with the inflows into, into the ETF's there. But generally, I think the, you know, the market going up, the narrative follows the price, and the narrative is just going to get better and it becomes a self fulfilling thing from there. So the whole point of why I'm basically saying this is because I just see a lot of people tying themselves up into million different knots in the Delaware Discord channel, especially in the prices channel. I see it on crypto Twitter, but I don't listen to crypto Twitter because it's a lot of noise. But in the daily way, discord channel, like there is signal in there, definitely. And I tried to kind of counterbalance everyone tying themselves into knots because I look at it and it's just hilarious because it's.
00:22:51.292 - 00:23:19.542, Speaker A: It's just day to day movements. I went over this the other day when I showed you guys my spreadsheet where I basically worked out that your odds of guessing the, if the EtH price is going to be higher tomorrow than it was today is a coin toss. But as you zoom out more on the weekly, monthly, three, monthly, whatever, timeframes, your odds get better and better. And the reason why this is because over shorter timeframes, investors aren't in control. Their fundamentals aren't at play here. Over shorter timeframes, it's essentially just traders. It's market makers.
00:23:19.542 - 00:23:49.716, Speaker A: It's people playing scalping games. It's not investors moving those short term things. Investors, fundamental investors. It's a long term play here, and that gets reflected over the long term as well. So there's no point focusing on the short term. But that's exactly what people do. They get themselves into a million different knots over the short term price action, which leads people to make bad decisions, which leads people to maybe, you know, sell too soon or buy when it's too high, or wait for a cheaper entry and then never get it, and then buy higher sort of thing.
00:23:49.716 - 00:24:21.432, Speaker A: That's. That's trading, right? Like, that's not investing to me. And I think that if you tie yourselves into those knots too much, it just becomes a habit. And then that's a really bad habit to have when you're trying to invest and trying to make money from investing. At least that's my general view here. I try my hardest to stay away from this, even though I do check the price of eth every day, which I don't know why I do what I just do. Like, it's no point checking it every day, because, as I explained in my spreadsheet, if you just checked it on the first day of every month, you'd be a lot happier, and you'd feel a lot more bullish than checking it on every day or even every week.
00:24:21.432 - 00:24:49.218, Speaker A: It doesn't make much sense to be doing that. Other people do. That's what people argue over. That's what people tie themselves in knots over. And, hey, if you're a trader, or trying to be a trader, then, yeah, you have to be doing that. But I'm talking more about on the investment side of things, on the investor side of things. If you're a long term ETH investor, and if you truly believe that you are a long term ETH investor, and your time on horizon is years, there is literally no point at all for you to check the ETH price, like, on the day to day basis, on the weekly basis, even the monthly basis.
00:24:49.218 - 00:25:07.970, Speaker A: Because if you say to yourself, I'm gonna buy Ethan, yeah. And then I. In, like, two years, I think that the market will get hot again, and in three years, I will. I will sell this ETH for such and such profit. Then what's the point of checking the day to day movements? Because nothing's really gonna change in the day to day movements. You're betting on the longer term here. So it just.
00:25:07.970 - 00:25:30.828, Speaker A: It's a waste of time, a waste of energy, and it's borderline mental illness, honestly. Like, it's not something normal to be doing. It's not something. It's an addiction, essentially. And I think that if people avoided falling into this trap. They'd not only be better investors, but they'd also have a healthier mental model on investing generally and on the ecosystem generally as well. Because, as I said, narrative tends to follow price.
00:25:30.828 - 00:25:41.670, Speaker A: If it's underperforming for a few weeks, suddenly everyone's like, I do shit coin. Ethereum is dead. Ethereum is broken. No one wants to use the l two s. They're all crap. Ethereum can't scale, blah, blah. Then Eth pumps.
00:25:41.670 - 00:25:56.710, Speaker A: And then everyone's like, oh my God, eith is the second coming of Christ. Holy shit. Like, it's amazing. Whatever, blah, blah. You know, I love eth. I'm going Max long on ETH and you see all these portfolio screenshots on Twitter and whatever it is. So, like, that's, as I said, like, that's borderline mental illness, guys.
00:25:56.710 - 00:26:16.146, Speaker A: Like, it's not normal. So anyway, I'm gonna leave it at that. I don't want to ramble too, too much about that, but yeah, that's my general view on things there. But anyway, exciting times. Tomorrow eth launch. I'll be back on Wednesday with the next episode, and I'll be going over the flows and everything that happened on happened tomorrow. But yeah, we're finally here, guys.
00:26:16.146 - 00:26:29.770, Speaker A: I can't wait to see what it's all like. And yeah, I guess until Wednesday. Thanks everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all on Wednesday. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
