00:00:00.360 - 00:00:11.874, Speaker A: It's my great pleasure to introduce our first speaker of the day, Emmanuel Frikan from university Adel, who will continue his mini course on truncated choplet separators. Please.
00:00:12.574 - 00:01:30.150, Speaker B: Thank you very much. So thank you to everybody for coming back for this second lecture. So maybe I will start with some reminders of yesterday just to so that you will have the notation in mind. So I start with an inner function theta, so, which means a function in analytic and bonded on the unidisc and with radial limits of modulus one almost around t, and I denote by k theta the model space associated, which means orthogonal complement of theta h two in h two. Or you can also view it as intersection of h two intersect with theta z bar h two bars here. The bar of course means conjugate. And now for phi in l two we consider the truncated the pix operator tto l five, which is a densely defined operator acting, for instance, on k theta intersect with h infinity, which is a dense set in k theta with the following formula.
00:01:30.150 - 00:03:11.242, Speaker B: So you take a function f in k theta, intersect with h infinity, you multiply by phi, and then you project on k theta. So maybe I can recall it that p theta is orthogonal projection from l two onto k theta. Right? So this is what is called the truncated tuplets operator. And in fact I will denote also by tau theta the set of all bonded truncated tabarator on k theta. And so the aim of this talk of this lecture today is to in fact to answer the following general question, how to recognize tto between the all bonded operator and k theta. So if we think about the analog question for tuplitz operator, I recall use the following well known result of Braun and almost who showed that if you start with a bonded operator t on h two on the only space h two, then t is a turklet operator if and only if it satisfy this following algebraic equation. So if and only if t is equal to s t, where s is the shift operator.
00:03:11.242 - 00:04:19.874, Speaker B: So the multiplication by z, or the topic separator with symbols. So we can ask, of course, if we have such a result for tto. And in fact we have. But the situation is a little bit more complicated, and this is the result of Sarason in his famous 2007 paper where he proved that if you have a bonded operator a on k theta, then a would be a tto or truncated tuplets operator on k theta if and only if you have this relation. So here maybe I can recall that s theta is what we called the model operator. So the truncated topics operator with symbol zone. So in fact, if you look at this formula and this formula, you see that here the shift s is replaced by s theta, so which is quite natural.
00:04:19.874 - 00:05:43.164, Speaker B: But the, maybe the big difference here is that you have, there is in fact two operator which are involved. So here maybe I could also, we call the notation so for x and y in k theta, I denote by x 10th product with y the operator on k theta which acts like this. It's f scalar product with y times x. So it's a one quan operator with range space equal to cx. And so here the operator a would be a truncated octopus operator if and only if a is equal to s theta s theta star plus these two rank one operator where phi and psi are in k theta and k zero theta is in fact the reproducing kernels of k theta at. .0 so in other words, it's, it is this function of k theta at zero.
00:05:43.164 - 00:07:20.974, Speaker B: And in that case, in fact you can take for the symbol of a the sum of phi plus fiber. Okay, I will not prove this theorem, which is a bit technical, not difficult, but a bit technical, and I will maybe deduce one corollary of this characterization, saying that in fact the set of truncated bonded truncated tiptip operator is in fact closed in the weak operator topology. So let me, let's see how it works. So I start with a net a alpha in the set of bonded truncated turplids operator, which converges weakly to a bonded operator a. And I would like to prove that a is also a truncated turitz operator. So first thing is, I use a corollary of last lecture which says that since a alpha is a truncated turpita operator, I can take as a symbol the sum of phi alpha plus psi alpha bar, where Phi alpha and psi alpha bar are in k theta, and I can choose phi alpha such that it vanishes at zero. In fact, I said, I explained you yesterday that in fact this representation of the symbol of a alpha is unique.
00:07:20.974 - 00:09:16.664, Speaker B: If you ask that this particular form of the symbol, and now I applies co m one, which says that a alpha, since it's a truncated operator, satisfy that relation. So in particular, if I apply this relation to k zero theta, so the reproducing kernel of k theta at zero, then you get, you get this, because in fact, when you apply this operator to k zero theta, you get the scalar product of k of k zero theta against psi alpha times k zero theta. And since this is a reproducing kernel of k theta at zero, it gives this term is phi zero, psi alpha zero bar, sorry, k zero theta. And since psi zero, psi alpha zero is zero, it gives you zero. So these terms vanish when you apply against k zero theta, and then you get only that terms. And now using this fact that a alpha converges weakly to some operator a, you get from this relation that psi alpha in fact will converge weakly to some function phi in k theta. And of course it means that psi alpha tense product with k zero theta will converge in the weak operator topology.
00:09:16.664 - 00:10:40.338, Speaker B: And so using one, you get also that this net will also converge in the weak operator topology. And so in other words, it means that psi alpha will converge weakly to some psi in k theta. So using all of this, and if you report to one, in fact you passing to the limit, you get that a satisfy this relation. And then using theorem one, it means that a is a truncated topic operator with that symbol psi plus phi plus psi alpha bar. So you get that this set is weakly closed. So in fact, when k theta is finite dimensional, which corresponds to the fact that theta is a finite blaschka product, you can get more specific result using matrix representation. And so this approach was beautifully developed in this paper by Sima, Ross and Vogen, where they explore in fact some different kind of matrix representation, for instance with Clark bases or malquich bases, so some different bases for k sita.
00:10:40.338 - 00:11:52.984, Speaker B: And they get some characterization of when an operator is a tto in terms of the representation of this matrix representation. Okay, so now I will discuss a bit the relation between Tto and one another famous class of operator, the so called complex symmetrics operators. So Bill Ross last week talked about this class of operator, but I will remind some facts, in fact I will need. And so the first is what is called a conjugation. So, conjugation on an inverse space h is a map, a self map c from h into itself. That is conjugate cleaner, which means that you have this relation, it's involutive and it's isometric. So be careful when you take the scalar product between cx and Cy.
00:11:52.984 - 00:12:30.820, Speaker B: Usually when you have an isometric linear operator, it's cellular product of x with y. But here, since it is conjugate linear, you have to reverse the order of the vector here. Okay? And so we will say that the bounded operator t on h is this metric. If it satisfies this relation. So t is equal to c t. Start c. And the bonded operator t is complex symmetrics.
00:12:30.820 - 00:13:24.644, Speaker B: If t is c symmetric for some conjugation, conjugation c on h. And so in fact, this class of operator was developed in these two papers of Garcia and Putina in 2006 and seven in transaction of the IMS. And then there was a lot of activity in that direction. And in fact there are a lot of, in fact, there are a lot of example of operator which are complex symmetrics. It's a very, very large class of operator. So for instance, complex symmetrics matrices. So which means that the matrix a coincide with these complex transpose are complex symmetrics operator.
00:13:24.644 - 00:14:34.314, Speaker B: Ankel and toplitz matrices are also complex symmetric operators. Normal operators are also complex symmetrics. And as Bill explained us last week, the Voltaire operator is also a complex symmetric operator. But tuplets operator on h two are in general not complex symmetrics. So it's quite easy to see, because when you have a complex symmetric operator, of course, since you have this relation, in particular, it will imply, because tc is a conjugation, it will imply that in particular, the kernel of t and the kernel of t star should have the same dimension. And so, for instance, if you look at the most simpler tplitz operators or the shift operator, so the tplitz operator with symbol zone, of course, it's easy and well known that the dimension of the kernel is zero, whereas the dimension of the kernel of its I joint is one. And so s cannot be complex symmetric.
00:14:34.314 - 00:15:23.636, Speaker B: But however, we will see that all truncated tuplitz operator will be complex symmetric. And this is another big difference between tto and Tuplitz operator. So to see that, and in fact, what is also maybe surprising is it that it will be for the same conjugation. I mean, if you fix your model space. So the conjugation that you will need on k theta is the following. So for f in k theta, you define c theta f as theta z bar f bar. So let's observe that c theta is in fact a self map on k theta.
00:15:23.636 - 00:16:51.344, Speaker B: Indeed, if you start with a function f in k theta and write k theta using that definition, so it means that it's the intersection of h two intersect with theta z bar h two. Then you write your function f as theta z bar g bar for some g in h two. And so if you apply c theta to f, by definition it will be theta z bar times f bar. And so I replace f bar by theta bar zg. And since so here it's on t, in fact, so on t, I recall you that ta and z, of course, are of modulus one almost everywhere, because theta is an inner function, and so on t is coincide with g and so you get that in fact this function c theta f is equal to g with g in h two. So in particular this function will be in h two and by definition it's in theta z bar h two bar because f is in h two and so it's in k theta. So c theta is in fact a self map on k theta.
00:16:51.344 - 00:17:51.283, Speaker B: And now it's very easy to see that it's a conjugate, linear involve and isometric. And so it's a conjugation on k sita. And what Saracen observed is that in fact all truncated bonded truncated tiplitz operator on k theta are c theta symmetric. So meaning that in fact if you start with truncated tplitz operator, a five bonded truncated turpit operator is five, then you have this relations at a phi is equal to c theta, a phi c theta. So the proof is not very difficult. So I will show you. So you start with two function f and g in case theta intersect with h infinity which is contained in the domain of your operator.
00:17:51.283 - 00:18:55.064, Speaker B: And I compute this carrier product. So c theta a phi star c theta f against g. So first I use the fact that c theta is a conjugation. So it coincides with the scalar product of c theta g with a five star c theta. Now I use the fact here that the conjugate of a phi as we have seen yesterday is equal to a phi bar. And I, I put the definition of a fiber. This is equal to p theta time applied to fiber cta.
00:18:55.064 - 00:19:59.364, Speaker B: Now since cta g is in k theta, I can remove here the orthogonal projection on k theta. I get the scalar product of c theta g with fiber staggering. Now I use the definition of c theta. So you get this. Then using one more time that theta is of modulus one and z also on t you can remove this theta and this z bar and you get that this coincide with the scalar product in l two of g bar with phi bar f bar. So I reverse the scalar product to see that it's scalar product of phi f against g. I apply here the projection on k theta because g is in k theta and you recognize here the truncated t operator a phi applied to g and so you get the result.
00:19:59.364 - 00:21:00.182, Speaker B: So all bounded truncated Plitz operator are c theta symmetric. So in particular, so on k theta, I mean c theta symmetric. And in fact this allows us to give another characterization of tto where compared to the, to the first characterization we have seen here. In fact you will reverse here these two terms. So you will get s theta star first and then s theta here. And what happens if you do this? In fact, you will get this different. So in the first result, this is with reproducing kernels of theta at zero.
00:21:00.182 - 00:22:19.226, Speaker B: And here what appears is this function in k theta c theta star. So this is just a consequence of the first characterization and an application of the conjugation. Okay, so this is an analog of the first characterization of bonded truncated tapes operator. So now, so we have seen that Tto are complex symmetric operator. In fact, in some sense there are some results which can make things us that they can serve as a model for all complex symmetrics operator. So in fact, what was observed is that there is a long list of complex symmetric operator which are unitarily equivalent to a Tto. So the first result in that direction was the result of Sara son, in fact, who observed that the voltaire out operator on l two of zero one is unitally equivalent to a Tto on k theta with this particular function theta.
00:22:19.226 - 00:23:35.032, Speaker B: So singular inner function with singular measure equals to the Dirac measure at point at. .1. So another, another result, more recent, is a result of Sima, Garcia, Ross and Vogen, who observed that all normal operators are also unitarily equivalent to HTML. And I would like also to cite a result of strauss, Timotin and Zamardi who observes that remarkable array of inflation of TTO are also unitally equivalent to tto. So all this result, and in fact other result in that direction, yield to the following question. Natural question is every complex symmetric operator unitarily equivalent? So if this question is yes, okay, we are happy, and if not, of course we can ask which ones are. And so to my knowledge, I think these two questions are for the moment open.
00:23:35.032 - 00:25:15.484, Speaker B: And it's a very interesting question, I think. Okay, so now I would like to move to another characterization of Tto, which says the following. So if you have a bonded operator a on Kc, and this result was also observed by, by Saracen. So if you have a bonded operator a on k theta, then a will be a bond truncated turplid operator if and only if, whenever you have a function f and sf in k theta. Of course, this second condition is not automatic, right? Because in general the k theta is invariant with respect to the, the I joint of the shift, but not invariant with respect to ISO. But if you assume these two conditions of the function f, so you impose that it's function f and multiplication by z is also in k theta, then the action of a on f against f should be equal to the action of a on Sf against SF. So I will just prove one implication, and in fact maybe the more important one, because this is what this implication I will use after.
00:25:15.484 - 00:26:25.924, Speaker B: So I assume that a satisfies this condition and I will try to prove that a is indeed a truncated the Plitz operator by showing that a satisfy corollary four. And so what corollary four says. So this is this corollary in fact. So it says that if you look at this operator, I call it b, so a minus s star theta. Then you have to find two functions, phi and psi in k theta, such that b is equal to this rank two operator. So if you can, or at least this sum of two rank one operator. So if you can prove this, then the collary four will imply that a is indeed a truncated pizza operator with symbol in fact phi plus psi bar.
00:26:25.924 - 00:28:11.594, Speaker B: So let's try to prove this. So the first things to check, and this I will not give details, but it's not too difficult, is to see that when f is in h two, then f and sf are in k theta if and only if f is orthogonal to this function, and of course to all multiple of this function. So in fact, the set of function f in k theta which satisfies this condition, coincide exactly with the orthogonal complement of c star theta in k theta. Okay, so this is just a simple computation, so I will skip this equivalence and just use it. So in particular, it says that for if we have orthogonal to this function, then s theta apply to f. It's by definition equal to the orthogonal projection on k theta of cf, because c theta is Turklitz operator with symbol z. And since when f is orthogonal to s theta to s star theta, then sf is in k theta, you can remove here the orthogonal projection and it only Sf.
00:28:11.594 - 00:29:46.784, Speaker B: And so now using two, two is our hypothesis, you get that if you look at the scalar product of bf with f. So here I just replace the definition of b, which is a minus s star theta, a square theta. Here I use, okay, I put the I joint here and here I just use, what I proved is that s theta f is equal to sf when f is in this orthogonal complement. And using two, this is equal to zero, right? So it says that for any f orthogonal to s theta, bff is equal to zero. And of course by polarization identity, you get that bf against g is equal to zero for any f and g here. And so now observe that the orthogonal projection in k theta with range, this orthogonal complement is exactly equal to identity minus c s star theta. 10th product with s star theta, where c is just the inverse of the square of this, of the norm of this vector.
00:29:46.784 - 00:31:07.424, Speaker B: Because in fact, this represents exactly the orthogonal projection on so identity minus this orthogonal projection is the orthogonal projection onto this orthogonal complement. And so using this relation, you can write this in fact property exactly like this. So if you apply b on this orthogonal projection and you project on this orthogonal, with this orthogonal projection, you get the zero operator. And now developed this relation, you can easily write b as phi tends product with s star theta plus s star theta tends product with psi. With this particular function, phi and psi, which are in k theta. And you get what you want, you get the b's of the following of the required form. And then using CRM or corollary four, you get that a is in truncated tuplets operate.
00:31:07.424 - 00:32:02.064, Speaker B: Okay, so this is another characterization. Of course, all these characterization in fact are interesting because as we have seen, there are no unicity of the symbol. And it could be given an operator, it could be difficult to see if it's truncated operator. There are no real, I mean, it could be difficult. And so, having different characterization could be, could be useful to check if a given bounded operator on k theta, to check if it's tto or not. And this is quite an easy, I mean, a concrete characterization. You have to check.
00:32:02.064 - 00:33:02.124, Speaker B: Okay, so now I will skip to another, a way of another point of view on tto, sorry. Which is related to Carlson measure for k theta. So I will make some reminders on Carlson measures for k sita. And see, after given a calf and measure for k sita, we will see that we can associate natural tto on k sita. So what I call a Carlson measure for k theta. So you start with a finite boreal measure, mu one t, and we say that mu is a Carlasson measure for k theta. If you have this embeddings.
00:33:02.124 - 00:34:51.161, Speaker B: So k theta can be embedded into l two of total variation of e. And by closed graph theorem, it's not difficult to see that then there is a constant c such that for every f in k theta, you have this relation. So you can control the norm, the l two norm of f by the h two norm of f, or the l two norm of f with respect to the measure. So here I cheat a bit because, okay, when you, when you have a function in k theta, it's a function in h two. So, but in general, what, the only thing you can say is that as for function in h two, you have a radial limit almost everywhere, but with respect to the Lebeg measure. And of course, it's not clear that the function f will be defined almost everywhere with respect to mu. So here, in fact, normally you have to ask that you have this, embeddings for function f in k theta intersect with the space of continuous function up to the boundary or on the closed disk, and then use a result of Alexandrov saying that this set is dense.
00:34:51.161 - 00:35:43.638, Speaker B: In case I don't want to go into these details. I mean, please forget these technical details and we can make things smooth and clear if we want. Okay, so, this is the concept of Carlson measure for model space. And I will denote by c two theta, the class of such measure. We will see in the third lecture why I put here two. But for the moment, don't worry about that. Okay, so c two theta will denote this class of all carnosine measure for k theta.
00:35:43.638 - 00:36:48.444, Speaker B: And in fact, of course, it's an abstract definition and notion. And if we think, for instance, to the Carlson theorem, the analog for h two, we can ask if we could have a geometric characterization of such a measure. And in fact, in general, the problem is opened. I mean, to get a complete characterization. But still, there are some nice sufficient condition due to trail and Volberg, which are in the same spirit as a famous CArlson theorem for embeddings of the rd space h two. So I will now just explain a little bit this. So I will denote for an epsilon in between zero and one, this sublevel set, omega theta, epsilon.
00:36:48.444 - 00:37:41.124, Speaker B: So, it's the set of z, indeed, such that the inner function theta z is of modulus less, is of modulus less or equal to epsilon. So this is a subset of t, which can touch the boundary. I mean, the closure of this subset can touch the boundary, and in general it touch the boundary. And I recall the concept of garrison window. So, for an arc I in t. So maybe I will make a, it will be more clear, maybe. So, if you have the cycle here, if you take an arc here.
00:37:41.124 - 00:39:37.384, Speaker B: So let's imagine that your zero is here. So the Carlasson windows associated to this arc is in fact this set where here you take something of length. Also, I here I is normalized Lebec measure of the arc. And so, Si will be this subset of the closed unit disk, and it is denoted by si. Okay, so I remind you that the Carlasson crem says that the rd space h two is embedded into l two of mu if and only if there is a constant c, such that the measure mu of si is controlled by this content, c times the length of the arc and trail and Volberg proved that there is a similar result. But the difference is that you have to test this Carlson geometric condition not on every arc I of t, but on this for those such that the Carlson windows intersect some level set. So in general, the set of calcium measure is larger for k theta is larger than the usual one for h two.
00:39:37.384 - 00:41:16.964, Speaker B: And the reason in fact is maybe because k theta function in caseta are in general more regular regularity on the united cycle. They behave more nice nicer than an arbitrary function in h two. So the converse is in general not true. But it is true if theta is what is called a one component in a function, meaning that in fact for some epsilon between zero and one, this sublevel set is connected. So this characterization of trail, this result of 12 volts, the geometric condition is necessary and sufficient when theta is one component. Okay, now what is the relation between tto? So if you have a Carlasson measure mu for k theta, and if you have two function f and g in k theta, then if you look at this integral, so the integral of the modulus of fg against d mu, then using Cauchy Schwartz inequality, of course you can bound this by the l two norm of f and mu of f and g. There is a modulus here which is missing, sorry.
00:41:16.964 - 00:42:59.240, Speaker B: And since nu is a Carlasson measure, these two integral can be bounded by the h two norm of fn. And so in fact it exactly says that if you look at this set square linear functional which I denote by gamma mu theta which acts on k theta times k theta by the following formula, then this functional is sesquid linear functional is bonded. And so in particular it implies that there exists a bonded operator which I denote by a mu or a mu theta on k theta such that which represents this bonded sesquilinear function. Also mu f g where f and g are in k theta is equal to the integral of f g bar dmu. And what Sarasson observed is that in fact this operator is mu is truncated tuplitz operator. And the proof is very easy if you use the characterization we proved a few minutes ago. So according to our theorem, the only things to prove is that when you have f and s f in k theta, then you have to check this formula.
00:42:59.240 - 00:45:11.256, Speaker B: And in fact this formula is very easy because in that case, amu applied to sf against sf is using the definition of amu is exactly equal to the integral of zf against z bar f bar against d mu. And since the modulus of z is equal to one on t, it coincides with the integral of f f bar against d mu, which is exactly amu f against f. And you are done using our characterization, then mu is bonded truncated turklets operator. And in fact, Savason asked in his paper in 2007 if every bonded truncated pleats operator is of this form. So it means that if you have a banded truncated pleats operator on k theta, can you find Carlson measure mu on 4k theta such that your tto will be of the form a? And in fact, in their beautiful paper in GSA in 2011, Baranov, Bezonov and Kapustin proved, among other things, that the answer is true. So it means that if you have a bonded operator a on k theta, then a is a truncated pit separator on K theta, if and only if a is of the form a mu for some, mu for some Carlson measure mu on K theta. So this, it means that this construction in fact of Tto gives you all possible tuplets truncated tuplitz operator.
00:45:11.256 - 00:46:32.744, Speaker B: There is a sort of correspondence between Tto and Carlson measure for k sita. Okay, so maybe I speak too quickly because I plan to stop now. But so here are some references concerning results I discussed today. So the paper of Bezanov, Baranov and Kaprustin, where you can find the last result I mentioned. And we will come back tomorrow on that paper, because they proved a lot of interesting results. And I will discuss tomorrow another interesting problem related to bonded symbols, where the problem was solved also in that paper. And here I put again the survey and the book I mentioned yesterday, where you can find some of the results I mentioned.
00:46:32.744 - 00:46:58.684, Speaker B: One more time, of course the paper of Saracen. And here's the paper of Wolverine 12th where they prove the characterization, not the complete characterization, but the necessary condition to get a CArlson measure for Calcita. Okay, so maybe we have more times for questions, maybe I hope and I will stop now. Thank you for your attention.
00:46:59.224 - 00:47:16.404, Speaker A: Thank you very much for wonderful talk. Thank you Manuel. And questions, comments, suggestions. So there is a question in the chat in link with Ryan's yesterday talk. Is there a trail worldbird serum for CP?
00:47:18.504 - 00:48:15.874, Speaker B: Very good question. I think. I think yeah, this theorem in fact worked for CP. And I think also when theta is one component, the converse is true. But be careful. Nevertheless, there is a difference between ZRD space and models ZrD space Hp. I mean model space K theta P in the sense that for Hp, you know that the Carlson measure for one Hp or all hp are the same in fact, but for k theta p in general, Cpta in fact, depends on p.
00:48:15.874 - 00:48:33.774, Speaker B: So for one component, inner function, I think it does not depend on p. But in general it depends on p. But still the result of twelve volt Berg is true for any p. This sufficient condition.
00:48:35.554 - 00:48:50.534, Speaker A: Thank you. Thank you very much. Other questions? Comments? Okay, if not, let's thank Emmanuel again.
