00:00:00.200 - 00:00:43.920, Speaker A: Thank you, thank you. And it's been a real treat to listen to all the talks we had so far, and I'm getting lots of inspiration from it. And one of the advantages to be speaking later in the workshop is basically that all introductions are done, so I can cut to the chase. But one disadvantage really, is that as I'm listening to what other people have to say, I start to remove, remove, add the slide. So, a little bit worried what kind of mismatch came up at the end. Hopefully not too bad. So I was intending to start by telling you that there are those drivers and passenger mutations.
00:00:43.920 - 00:01:43.804, Speaker A: And I clearly don't have to say this anymore, but we have some additional players. So Igor introduced the best supporting actors, and I would like to introduce yet another player that I'm going to call a witness. And we'll see later on how these witnesses came about. So, in addition to thinking about driving mutation, we also start more and more look at the cancer from the perspective of driver pathways. So here's an example from the TCGA. This is breast cancer. And in blue, I colored all the genes in this pathway that are mutated at 1.5%
00:01:43.804 - 00:03:30.962, Speaker A: or more, most of them much more, and selected all the genes that are kind of most tightly connected, if not exactly within the same pathway, than within a very closely related pathways. Now, as ever so nicely explained and visualized. So I don't have to visualize anymore, that quite often when you see a pathway like that and genes being mutated in those pathway, you will expect them to be mutual exclusives. So again, I don't need to introduce mutual exclusivity anymore, but I would like just to emphasize that although we observe mutual exclusivity, the reason for it are not necessarily always clear and maybe different in different cases. One possibility is what Eva illustrated, that we may have to drivers that are sharing the same pathways, and it perhaps is enough for the pathway to be hit just by mutation in one driver. The second possibility is that, especially when we look at various cancer types, that there are in various tissues, we may have various vulnerabilities, and then that will lead to unique, unique drivers for a particular tissue or particular subtype. And the third thought that was again, the idea of Eto Neeva, that some of those mutual exclusivity can be a result of synthetic lethality or some other genetic interactions.
00:03:30.962 - 00:04:40.694, Speaker A: Now, one of the things that there was a question from, from the audience asking whether the, you know, mutual, whether the genetic interactions happens to be, for the cancer case, happen to be mostly between interacting genes or not interacting genes. And the answer was that actually not. So you have clearly that those different, it's not just a different way of looking at it, but you would expect that some of the different excludes exclusivity, will have some different properties with respect to the interaction networks. So going back here to my example, we have quite a few of pairs that are mutual exclusive. There's one, here's another one, another one, another one. They all are as also I pointed before, mutual exclusivity is somewhat asymmetric. That pIQ three a is unusual exclusive with all those other partners, but they not necessarily are statistically significantly exclusive between themselves.
00:04:40.694 - 00:05:37.684, Speaker A: But then, so what you have on this, what you are missing on this pathway picture, we don't have tp 53 or GATA three, which we know also are significantly mutated in breast cancer. And if I show you the mutual exclusivity with tp 53, that's it. So here, all of those guys are mutual exclusive. All the purple guys are mutually exclusive with p 53. All those fully purple came with very high statistical significance. Those kind of not fully purple are, I just looked them, pulled them up and they're just below the p value thresholds. So that motivates us to start and trying to classify mutual exclusivity into different subtypes, and asking the question how those subtypes might be related to the network properties of the corresponding pairs.
00:05:37.684 - 00:06:49.208, Speaker A: So this is the I will start with a motivation why we did the particular classification this way. And then you will see that what I actually did is perhaps a little bit more loose than the ideal goal, but that was the motivation. So first we'd like to look at the mutual exclusivity between two genes, where if they are knocked individually, they lead to the same phenotype. Our intuition is that for those type of mutual exclusivity, mutual exclusivity that end up to lead to the same phenotype, we are more likely to see those gene pairs to be within the same pathway. Complementary to this, we would like to look at the mutual exclusivity that is consistently present in adriven cancer types. We call this across cancer, mutual exclusivity. And then the third one, that corresponds to the situation that you have two different subtypes and you have mutually exclusive genes that drive mutation.
00:06:49.208 - 00:07:31.464, Speaker A: Actually I wanted to say that drive two different subtypes. So those are the motivation between this classification. The practice is perhaps, well, it's very hard for us to say what exactly. Looking at the gene, what exactly is the phenotype. So as a shortcut and as just to, for now, we are going to assume that phenotype is the same as the tissue. We know it's oversimplification, but it should give us some first look at the trends that we may observe. So for example, for this pair here, it's mutually exclusive between EGFR and RB.
00:07:31.464 - 00:08:38.038, Speaker A: One is statistically significantly exclusive only for the glioblastoma. So this will consider within tissue mutual exclusivity. In contrast, RB one and CDK two A is statistically significantly mutually exclusive in more than one cancer type. While this pair here, what you see here here is exactly what's happening. And this square is really blow up so that you can see, see the composition with respect to the pan cancer classification. So for arid one, B and Kras, if you look at any cancer type and tissue separately, you don't see any mutual explosivity. But if you pull the signal together with a permutation test that preserve three things, the mutation rate of each gene, the mutation rate of its patients and the tissue.
00:08:38.038 - 00:09:37.174, Speaker A: So with that permutation test, you pull up this and this pair became statistically significant. And the third example is where you have a mutual exclusivity that is tissue specific. And the way we do it, we do type unrestricted permutation tests, again correcting for the mutation frequency for the genes and mutation frequency of each patient. Now, this type of permutation test can capture any of the previous one. So we say we declare a pair to be between tissue exclusive. If none of the previous one came statistically significant and this one did. So now to the a question that we wanted to ask to look at with this definition is what is the relation of those different mutual exclusivity types to the interaction networks.
00:09:37.174 - 00:10:31.520, Speaker A: So we took two interaction network. One is human net that just to remind you, this is the functional network and two as additional network with a human, which is a more physical interaction network. We took all the genes that were represented in those networks and then we find all the mutually exclusive pairs with some relatively, I have to admit, liberal p value to discover what trends we may see. So here on the right, on the right you see non interacting pairs and you see how the three mutual exclusivity classes distribute across non interactive pairs. And here you have interactive interacting pairs. And so you have mutual exclusivity between interactive pair. And this is again partition into the classes.
00:10:31.520 - 00:12:07.506, Speaker A: So what you can clearly immediately see that there is more blue here than here. And the blue colors correspond to between cancer mutual exclusivity. So the mutual exclusivity that tends to be drive different subtypes, or maybe in this case really different types, tend to be in different pathways, while mutual exclusivity, that is within particular tissue, or perhaps some together across many tissues, tend to be enriched into interacting pairs. So, with that information, we decided that we'd like to considers enough of the evidence that there is bias to what. If we consider, if we forget about between cancer and mutual exclusivity, there is enough bias to justify looking at the pairs of genes that are neutral, exclusive, and assuming that they're likely to be in the same pathway, although not overwhelmingly more likely. So therefore, we decided to, to combine the, forget about the between counter mutual exclusivity, but combine the score for the other permutation test together with the interaction network, and find the pan cancer dysregulated models. So for this, we used, we adopt a method that we previously developed called module cover.
00:12:07.506 - 00:13:17.564, Speaker A: And this is method that is from this category of methods that Mona discussed before. This is also, this was really pioneered by Ron Shanmir's group, where we look at the, where we represent the problem as optimization problem, where in representing the cancer, cancer genes, together with interaction between them as one subgraph, the patient as the isolated nodes. And then we say that the gene cover a patient, if that particular gene is mutated with these patients, that covering edge can be weighted. If we use MOOC, six cores can be unweighted if we don't. And then we, our goal is to find minimum cost covering set of models, so that every particular patient is covered some minimal number of times. So this is a very general setting. And basically we can play what does it mean to how we define the cost.
00:13:17.564 - 00:14:43.184, Speaker A: So here the cost is being defined that if two genes are in the same models and are closed, close or even connected within the network, that will reduce the score if they have mutual exclusivity, high mutual exclusivity, that will also reduce the score if the weight covering edges is, this is high scoring edges that will also reduce the score, but will also, in going in the other direction, will have a parameter which will penalize for the numbers of models which we can dial higher or lower, depending whether we would like to have smaller number of larger models or large number of smaller models. So with that, we'd like to see whether our models that we uncover can be justified in terms of covering a large number of known constant drivers. Now, I will have to again apologize to Ben before, because I will be comparing to hot net two. And I'm comparing again to the method that was not designed to find drivers. But if we did worse than that, that would be a problem. So, it's not that I don't want to say that our pride, we throw more information and we do better, but I wanted to make sure that, you know, that we didn't do worse. So, here we come.
00:14:43.184 - 00:15:22.374, Speaker A: Compare the performance in terms of the recovery cancer driver. As we go, we recover more and more models. So we can go here and see how the number of proportional drivers depends on the number of recovered genes. And see that two colors correspond to the two variant of the approach. When you have a covering edge, whether that's weighted or unweighted, the weighted one would be the mute seq, and the weighted will be just counting. And clearly, the mutual exclusivity information helps. So what it is, what sort of what we learn from that.
00:15:22.374 - 00:16:00.104, Speaker A: So when we look at the models that we uncover through this combination of interaction network and mutual exclusive scores, then there are kind of interesting groups of models on this figure. What you see the broken line. This would be the line here that corresponds to the hot net or human net edges. So those are interaction edges. And the colors correspond to mutual exclusivity in a given cancer types. And here you have kind of coverage of the cancer types. So some of them, and I give some names of those models.
00:16:00.104 - 00:16:44.518, Speaker A: Those are really kind of arbitrary looking types. What sort of genes are there? So please do not, you know. Yeah. So this is not just to refer to them in some way. So some of those models, you could see that they're really densely connected. And you have mutual exclusivity going left and right, up and down across different cancer types. Many of them have this property that you have one prominent drivers, and you have this kind of star like mutual exclusive relationship that you have tp three exclusive with many partners in the subnet.
00:16:44.518 - 00:17:33.383, Speaker A: But the partners and subnetwork are not necessarily mutually exclusive themselves. Statistically, significantly mutually exclusive. There is also the type of model now, like, for example, splicing, which is actually not often uncovered by those model finding approaches. And was one of the things that we've been able to see that basically you don't see mutual exclusivity except the black color correspond to the situations that we saw those two particular known drivers to be mutually exclusive only when we put together all the cancer types. So that's yet another. And the third group is that, remember, we use a combined score of neutral exclusivity and network. And there are some models that we pull up that there's.
00:17:33.383 - 00:18:21.324, Speaker A: Yeah, this. So what we next, what we look at is we look at, looking at this, assume that we have this network where we have the edges are the mutual exclusivity relationship. What would be the degree distribution? And not surprisingly, you will see the scale free degree distribution. This is the degree, and this is how many genes have that degree. At the top of the list you have this wonderful, well known, powerful cancer drivers. So we kind of hypothesize that maybe that's the general tendency that the most prominent drivers will be at the top of the list. And that turned out to be only partially true.
00:18:21.324 - 00:19:08.180, Speaker A: So next I'm going to move to things that are new and still unpublished. We started to look again, decided to look very systematically about the mutual exclusivity, looking at individual cancer types. For that, we developed a fast method to estimate p values and also false discovery rate. And here are the results for mutual exclusive network for BRCA and endometrium cancer. The size of the nodes corresponds to the number of mutations. The width of the edge is the p value, and the darkness of the edge is false discovery rate. There's no simple relation in the situation between p value of false discover rate.
00:19:08.180 - 00:20:01.864, Speaker A: That's why we draw them all. So of course, as you would expect, there are some prominent drivers as being at the hubs of the networks. This is what we hope. We also find many mutually exclusive pairs, where some of those members of the pairs are perhaps not so highly mutated. So bringing them to the light as possible important players in the cancer we found as a positive sign. But also what you can see, there is some suspicious presence of some guys for which we know that are very unlikely to be cancer drivers. So one of those unfamous genes is TTN.
00:20:01.864 - 00:20:55.900, Speaker A: This is a muscle protein, very long protein, very long genes. It's always being believed that it accumulates just mutation by chance. But we didn't really try to filter anything in advance, because it is by chance, there shouldn't be mutual exclusive. That's one pair, another pair as the mutins here. Well, those are not so obviously unrelated to cancer, because those are, some of those are surface proteins. So it's possible that, especially if they're overexpressed, that they can play the role. However, it's not clear that those are really driving another here is this Fbx w seven.
00:20:55.900 - 00:22:21.212, Speaker A: This particular gene has been picked up by pancancer analysis as a significant differentiating various subtypes. It's known to be to be a tumor suppressor. However, it's a very long gene, and it is tumor suppressors only if it mutates in particular residual. So again, maybe it's right, but perhaps not so. Okay, so if those are not drivers, if those are passengers, and especially considering how long titan is, perhaps they can at least tell us on what is the train they are riding on. So what sort of train can a neutral? Assuming that titan is completely a passenger, how we can tell what is the train? And the recent analysis of mutual spectrum gives us a hint where to look. So it's been recognized that certain mutations, for example, mutations, the overexpression of upper back or mutation pol epsilon and many other agencies smoking, give a particular mutation pattern across all the genome of the individual.
00:22:21.212 - 00:23:23.424, Speaker A: So we hypothesize that perhaps titan is long enough for us to observe it and it's exactly what had happened. When we look at the titin and look at this mutation spectrum in BRCA is very consistent with the upper back mutation spectrum. So I would really have maybe we cannot say that this peak is statistically significant. Okay, so for people who haven't seen this picture before, I wanted to briefly say that this is taken from the TCGA paper from Nature 2013, where the authors look at the mutation spectrum across the various cancers. And what you see here, the colors correspond of the mutation from a given nucleotide. So another nucleotide and the bars here, they looked at all the triples where the mutated nucleotide in the middle. And it doesn't matter right now what the triple I.
00:23:23.424 - 00:24:17.884, Speaker A: But kind of this pinpoints that the mutations that are, that are caused by APObec tends to be biased towards particular triples. And similarly. So, and what we observed that the spectrum mutational aspect of titan is being consistent in BRCA is being consistent with apoback signature apobac overexpression. This is not the same for the endometrium cancer. What we see here, that in this case, a Titan spectrum is very strongly reminiscent on another mutational process name limitation in pole to epsilon. So we have here a situation that we have a very strong material exclusivity. We know this is a passenger, but we are able to pinpoint what is the train the thing is riding on.
00:24:17.884 - 00:25:50.004, Speaker A: So, okay, so looking again at this network, not only we see that titan is mutual exclusive, but you can see that it actually shares quite a few partners with TP 53. If you look at the co occurrence now, there are some very significant co occurrences in some genes in this network. In particular, titan co occur with TP 53. We have also a co occurrence of titan with this gene here. That kind of begs the question, if they occur, is it that of course we don't assume that Titan cause mutation tp 53, but is it the case that tp 53 turns on upper back and apobac is in trans causes the mutation in titan? Or this is perhaps that they're both being caused by apobacco? And this is exactly what we want to test. And in fact, the scenario that TP 53 could be, at least in some cancer types, in some subtypes of BRCA caused by apoplexic mutation proposed by Bronze et al. So the first thing is that the observation that they occur has a very, very statistically single ip value.
00:25:50.004 - 00:27:23.104, Speaker A: But we reasons that if. Sorry, but we reasoned that if it is the case that both are the result of the same mutagenic process, once we correct for the mutation rate, once we correct for for the fact that they are both for the mutagenic process that presumably could cause both of them, they should be came independently. So we develop a mutual co occurrence test that corrects for the frequency mutation frequency within patients. And once we ask whether after correcting for mutation frequency of the patient, are they still co occurring, the answer is not. So that is consistent with the, doesn't prove it, but it's consistent with the assumption that they're basically independent, but they depend on common cause, which that would be APOBEC. Now there's also a previous evidence that apobag is related to immune response. So that will suggest the passive for at least some of the TP 15 mutants, that they are kind of perhaps a result of indirect result of immune response that upregulate upper back, which entrance transmutation involves.
00:27:23.104 - 00:28:32.434, Speaker A: One can ask the question, is that always the truth? And to make the without getting it or it's not. There's enough of examples within BRCA of the TP 15 mutation that are, in the cancer cases that are not highly mutated. Those guys cannot be clearly caused by apoptic. And that is also something that, as I say, that makes me worry about this cancer inhibitor that is really, really, truly a driver for these cancer subtitles. Probably occasionally, yes, but since by doing this analysis we don't look so much into which are the mutations, but rather, mutated or not, we may lose that fact. And perhaps most of them here are also passengers, then we also look once again, as I said, that tp 53 and TTN have the same set of mutual exclusions, explosive genes. Okay, I'm writing.
00:28:32.434 - 00:29:18.750, Speaker A: Okay, so what are those genes? Those are the genes that are having two colors here. And we say, okay, is there anything special that CTN tells us about things about drivers? And when we look at these genes that are mutually exclusive is TTN. They have absolutely better progresses than the ones that are signature. So this is highly statistically significant. And even if we look at the disease free prognosis, that's even better. And with that I will wind up. So I've introduced mutual exclusivity classes and show their non relation to interaction networks that various classes have various preferences to interaction or not interaction.
00:29:18.750 - 00:30:23.294, Speaker A: I showed that the focusing on the class that is biased towards interacting edges, that if we combine this subclass of mutual exclusivity with interaction networks, this will help us to uncover pancancer dysregulated models. And finally, I extended the concept of mutual exclusivity and co occurrence from being acting between two drivers. As equally important as to look at the mutual exclusivity between driver and passengers, because those passengers can be served as witnesses for processes that if we see surprise like that, it's perhaps interesting to go and to look into either mutational spectrum or either the biology behind that make hostels. And here are my acknowledges. Most of the work was mostly driven by Joaqu Kim with help from Dow, Len, Yong Chao and the high school students than Sana Madden who became an intel semi finalist for this work. Thank you all.
00:30:28.194 - 00:30:41.254, Speaker B: We're a little over scheduled, so why don't we do two questions specifically for Teresa and then we can move it all to the discussion. If I can ask a question.
00:30:43.934 - 00:30:44.342, Speaker A: Does.
00:30:44.398 - 00:30:54.234, Speaker B: The number of potential mutual exclusivity partners increase with the degree of examples?
00:30:55.294 - 00:31:24.194, Speaker A: So in the mutual exclusivity partners that you show, those are just the relation of mutual exclusivity. I didn't look at the this is taken outside of the network context, just the relationship. What it correlates with is not a surprise as how frequent the gene is mutated. And it's maybe biology, but it's also this is where you statistically can pull it out and both of them are important.
00:31:29.814 - 00:31:53.306, Speaker B: So how much have you looked into the biology of when you can you show that you find new module or modules? Can you show that you've found players that weren't necessarily already? Well, I guess you could call them novel in a variety of different ways. And I'm trying to think about. So yeah, how have you thought about novelty or have you learned?
00:31:53.330 - 00:32:34.426, Speaker A: Okay, so we find discoveries, right? So we find. I didn't show all the models. So we find some of the models that were not previously discovered by this type of analysis. Now, well, I wanted to say splicing because this type of models did not pull up previously splicing factor s and model like that. And we see it, although as you see, mutual exclusivity was not such a major component of the, of harvesting it. Other models, there were some, but let me, I'll take it offline, I'll have to dig them out. So there are some.
00:32:34.426 - 00:33:32.874, Speaker A: But perhaps more importantly, and this is probably true for the hotline based approach that they bring together, maybe drivers that would not be prominent if you do not provide additional support from the network on mutual exclusivity, especially for the mutual exclusivity partners, since we did now a very all by all mutual exclusivity comparison. So some of our mutual exclusivity partner would be present in 2% or even slightly less. And we pull them. So of course you wouldn't see them if you use any type of high throughput, just frequency or even moutisq based approach, because that's not frequent enough. Of course we have to be very careful because FGC we also pick up tightened. So we have to look back into biology to see the reason why. You see statistical significance, but at least statistic objective, it pulls the signal.
