00:00:06.890 - 00:01:04.580, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap BlackRock Eyes Crypto KPMG jumps down the rabbit hole A year after BlackRock CIO Rick Reader mentioned that the asset management giant was starting to dabble in Bitcoin, CoinDesk revealed that BlackRock is gearing up offer crypto trading services to investor clients. BlackRock will begin by offering lending services using crypto as collateral. Additionally, one of CoinDesk's sources says clients will have the ability to trade crypto. Via Aladdin BlackRock's investment management platform as covered in Thursday's unchained daily. Chris Perkins, president of CoinFund, said that this was an important move for two reasons. Quote First, Aladdin supports many of the largest sovereign wealth pensions and asset managers in the world, and this connectivity will solve many of the operational challenges that have been holding these institutions back, he wrote in a message.
00:01:04.580 - 00:02:22.358, Speaker A: Second, Aladdin typically releases new functionality based on client demand. This tells you that many of the largest institutions in the world are asking for crypto capabilities. For context, BlackRock currently has $10 trillion in assets under management, which is about five times the size of the market capitalization of all crypto assets. In related news, the Canadian arm of the accounting giant KPMG announced the addition of both Bitcoin and Ether to its balance sheet on Monday via Gemini. The firm also hinted at future investments in DeFi, NFTs and Metaverse tokens. ENS fires Brantley Milligan after controversial tweets resurface this week Ethereum Name Service community Steward Brantley Milligan was fired after the unearthing of a tweet from May 2016 which said homosexual acts are evil, transgenderism doesn't exist, abortion is murder, contraception is perversion, so is masturbation and porn. Uniswap's, Hayden Adams, Rainbow's, Dame ETH ens'future, Alicia and numerous others condemned Brantley's words as a big believer in ENS and member of the community.
00:02:22.358 - 00:03:07.830, Speaker A: This is not something that the face of ENS can stand for, wrote Dame ETH. Brantley did not back down on his words. Freak noted. Brantley On Twitter He also published a similar statement on discord. In response, True Names limited the firm providing funds for the ethereum name serviced. Dao decided to terminate the contract of Brantley on Monday. Ethereum Name Serviced Dao also voted to indefinitely remove Brantley from his position as a community steward for the protocol through, though this process is still ongoing.
00:03:07.830 - 00:04:24.330, Speaker A: Brantley has been a valued team member of TNL for the past three years. However, as a team, we felt that his position with TNL is no longer tenable. Many of you were hurt by Brantley's comments over the past 24 hours, and we strongly believe that ENS should be an inclusive community, explained Nick Johnson, lead developer of Ethereum Name Service. Despite being fired, Brantley still holds the title of Director at the ENS Foundation and is the largest ENS delegate, meaning he holds the most voting power in the ENS Dao. According to Inui Makoto, an ENS developer, because of other recent incidents in which old tweets expressing discriminatory or offensive views had caused trouble for other members of the crypto community. A debate began over whether cancel culture was coming to crypto Finance makes a 200 million dollar strategic investment in Forbes. Forbes and Magnus Opit Acquisition Limited, the firm Forbes is partnering with via a SPAC or special purpose acquisition vehicle to go public on the New York Stock Exchange, recently received $200 million in funding from the Cryptocurrency Exchange finance disclosure Forbes is my former employer.
00:04:24.330 - 00:05:24.610, Speaker A: The move will make Binance one of the two largest owners of the publication, and two Binance executives will join the Forbes board. Forbes plans to go public by the end of this quarter and would trade under the ticker symbol FRBs. The news comes about a year and a half after Binance filed a defamation lawsuit against Forbes Media and two of its writers. The CFTC makes a move to wrangle control of crypto. On Wednesday, all eyes and ears were on, of all places, a Senate Agriculture Committee meeting on cryptocurrencies. During the meeting, CFTC Chairman Rostin Benham made his case to bring crypto into the regulatory fold. According to the bloc chairman, Benham asked for a 30% increase in the CFTC's operating budget for 2022 after acknowledging that the CFTC currently lacks the resources necessary to regulate digital assets, as it usually only handles futures and derivatives.
00:05:24.610 - 00:06:38.700, Speaker A: Benham, cited as precedent is CFTC's expansion following Doddfranc, which granted the regulator purview over swaps markets and increased its budget by nearly 50%. Sam Bankman Fried, the CEO of FTX who also participated in the meeting, seemed to like the idea of the CFTC providing more regulatory clarity, adding, I would love to see the CFTC play a more active role. In related news, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, announced its 2022 priorities this week, which included evaluating the risks related to crypto. Wait so did GameStop sell millions in IMX tokens? The short answer is yes. GameStop did just sell off millions of dollars worth of IMX tokens. Last Thursday, GameStop announced a partnership with Immutable X, an Ethereum L2 solution and disclosure, a former sponsor of my show, to launch its own NFT marketplace. As part of the deal, Immutable X set up an incentive fund for GameStop that will provide up to $150,000,000 in IMX tokens for the gaming company's expansion into the NFT space.
00:06:38.700 - 00:07:22.714, Speaker A: However, it appears that Immutable X granted the tokens to GameStop without any vesting or lockup requirements. So when GameStop received roughly 39.17 million IMX tokens after hitting the first few milestones of the partnership, the gaming company could do anything it wanted with the tokens. Based on data from Etherscan, it appears that GameStop began dumping IMX tokens on the open market. The gaming giant made five IMX transactions in February in amounts such as 6.5 million IMX, a little over 8 million IMX, and 2 million IMX, with two other transactions coming before the Immutable partnership announcement. As of now, GameStop's Ethereum address holds just 20.18
00:07:22.714 - 00:08:21.142, Speaker A: million of the 39.16 million IMX tokens it received since last week, meaning that roughly $50 million in IMX tokens have been sent elsewhere. The block reports that tokens were sold on Finance, Okx and WOPI. Notably, IMX's token supply is only about 225,000,000 coins, meaning GameStop's IMX token transfer of approximately 19 million tokens equates to roughly 8.4% of all IMX tokens being moved. The flood of coins into the market from GameStop appears to have suppressed the price of IMX, which hit a peak above $4 on the heels of the GameStop announcement last week, only to immediately drop back down under $3, where it had been trading over the previous 14 days. Zynga to launch a Blockchain Game this year Zynga, the mobile gaming company that produced Farmville and Words with Friends, has plans to jump into the blockchain metaverse.
00:08:21.142 - 00:09:24.830, Speaker A: According to Axios, the firm is reportedly looking to expand its blockchain team from 15 to as many as 100 members. Additionally, Zynga revealed that it hopes to release a blockchain game in 2022 that will target cryptocentric gamers. On that note, Matt Wolf, Zynga's blockchain chief, said the company plans to separate its NFT game ideas from its current ones, so crypto Words with Friends does not appear to be in the works. Speaking of crypto adoption, CNBC reported that Salesforce told employees at a private event online that it would be building an NFT cloud. Russia will reportedly recognize crypto as currency sort of. A report from Commerceant, a Russian newspaper, revealed this week that the Russian government and bank of Russia are preparing a draft law that will make cryptocurrencies an analog of currencies rather than just simply digital financial assets. The newspaper reports that the proposal will be done before February 18.
00:09:24.830 - 00:10:21.058, Speaker A: There's been conflicting news coming out of Russia. Earlier in January, the bank of Russia was reportedly pushing for a blanket ban on crypto. However, separate accounts show that President Vladimir Putin is in favor of regulating rather than banning crypto mining within the industry. Time for fun bits NFTs and crypto to appear in Super Bowl Sunday you've probably seen Matt Damon traversing down gilded halls to proclaim that fortune favors the bold, while an astronaut with a not so slightly planted Satoshi nameplate clanks behind him. This ad by Crypto.com, which disclosure is a sponsor of my shows, is just a taste of how cryptocommercials are about to take over the biggest television event of the year. Super Bowl Sunday's main broadcast, where 32nd ads can cost up to $7 million, will feature spots from Coinbase, FTX and Crypto.com.
00:10:21.058 - 00:11:02.026, Speaker A: Bitbuy will run an ad on the Canadian broadcast. Miller Lite will be running an advertisement in Decentraland, aka the Metaverse. In addition to the crypto takeover of commercial breaks, the National Football League is also bringing crypto to the actual game. Each person at the game will receive a commemorative NFT from the NFL. Finally, parting words from Heather Morgan. No weekly news recap this week would be complete without a rap from the new crypto celebrity, or should I say crypto rap celebrity heather Morgan. She of bitfinex Hack money laundering fame.
00:11:02.218 - 00:11:29.080, Speaker B: Hodo, what I got to do? Yodo, our mission is noble yeah, want to be a mogul? My Tindy's going global build an empire Constantinople you mean Istanbul? Yeah, I see like fro yo, I'll gotta stay vocal bitcoin Ethereum hoddle AMC GameStop yolo, the hedge is short squeeze with ease but they say no pump and dumps, please what?
00:11:29.530 - 00:11:46.170, Speaker A: Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Tom Elliptic and the Bitfinex money laundering arrests this week, check out the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by Me Laura with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Ness, Mark Murdoch, shashank and CLK transcription. Thanks for listening.
