00:00:00.890 - 00:00:49.990, Speaker A: As I mentioned, there's these four components, data availability, consensus, settlement and execution. So you have monolithic blockchains like bitcoin or ethereum as it is traditionally, where you basically have a general purpose, smart contract environment. And the validators and the full nodes handle all of those four components. Then you have roll ups. And in roll ups, the l one handles the first three components, data availability, consensus and settlement, but not execution. And the roll up itself handles execution of chain. And then you have validiums.
00:00:49.990 - 00:01:49.070, Speaker A: Validiums are basically roll ups, but they do not have on chain data availability. Or they do not use the same layer one as the settlement or consensus for data availability. And therefore they are not roll ups, but more like side chains or validiums as they're termed. So this is kind of like the kind of modular design in the Ethereum space that has been kind of like discussed so far. But then there's also a more for celestia centric modular design or configurations of the stack. So in Celestia, we're quite interested in this idea of sovereign roll ups. And in a sovereign roll up, the sovereign roll up uses the l one only for data availability and consensus, but it does not have an enshrined settlement layer.
00:01:49.070 - 00:02:31.790, Speaker A: Instead, it does its own settlement. And the reason why it's sovereign is because it can hard fork and it can upgrade without permission from a higher execution layer. So for example, if you have an Ethereum roll up, your roll up is effectively like a baby chain to the Ethereum settlement execution layer. And you can't really hard fork it without convincing the Ethereum kind of social consensus to do so. But with a sovereign roll up, because it does its own settlement, it's effectively like its own layer one chain. It's effectively like deploying your own layer one. You can hard fork it and it can have its own social consensus.
00:02:31.790 - 00:03:49.550, Speaker A: You've also got this ideal settlement roll ups. A settlement roll up is basically like a standard roll up, except that it's only optimized not for general smart contracts or computation, but for settling other roll ups on top of it. And I think Yuri is going to give a talk about this today with this idea of L ones, l two s, and l three s. So like for example, you can have an l two that has l three s, but the l two might only be up, might only be supposed to be used for settlement for other roll ups, but you're not supposed to host actual applications on that roll up. And then you've also finally got this idea of a celestium which is basically a validium that uses Celestia for data availability on paper, has similar security trade offs as a validium, except that it has slightly higher crypto economic guarantees because of Celestia's data availability, sampling, and slashing. Bye.
