00:00:00.240 - 00:00:26.248, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deadly Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesaro, and today's the 15 March 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode. My cough unfortunately came back with a vengeance, so I wasn't able to record an episode. But I'm feeling a lot better today, actually. It's the first day in, I think, a week and a half where I haven't felt absolutely exhausted and had to have a nap or anything like that.
00:00:26.248 - 00:00:52.468, Speaker A: COVID, I think, affects everyone differently. And it was really weird for me. I kind of just had, I mean, I had the fever when I was in Denver, actually. Um, and then I had the cough, of course, but I was just like really, really tired, uh, and I couldn't really focus, uh, on things and I had to have naps during the day. And that really, actually annoyed me because usually I like to go the whole day and I don't like napping. I just, you know, go to sleep when I sleep and then get up and, and do everything. But uh, but yeah, that was kind of frustrating.
00:00:52.468 - 00:01:25.484, Speaker A: But anyway, as I said, I'm feeling a lot better now. Shouldn't be missing any more episodes. So let's get into today's one, which is news of girlie forking or successfully upgrading to chappella. So you can see here, Parathos put out a thread saying that it's all well and done. I think there were a few issues with finalization because of the fact that people were just being lazy and didn't update their nodes in time or update their software in time in order to be on the Chappella fork. But I think that's all been resolved and it did end up finalizing in the end there. So everything's gone through all right.
00:01:25.484 - 00:02:11.938, Speaker A: From what I can see, there are people doing withdrawals on girly and that's all working fine. So very, very cool to, to see that there. Now, obviously, next is mainnet. I don't think there's a mainnet date being given yet, but as I've been saying to guys, I think it's going to happen pretty much like mid April at this rate, I guess because the next all call devs call, they'll probably decide on a date since everything's gone well and good on the test nets now, but not too far away. I actually saw today a few different things actually on Twitter around withdrawals through the different services, the different staking services. So apparently light O's withdrawal function won't actually be ready till mid May. Now this is simply because they have to integrate their own withdrawal function into their own smart contracts and they have to get that audited and all that stuff there.
00:02:11.938 - 00:02:53.806, Speaker A: I don't know why it's taking them till mid May when they've known that withdrawals has been coming for quite a while now. And they could have done this probably sooner, but I'm not going to throw any kind of, any shade there. I think that Rockerpool will be ready in time. They've got their Atlas upgrade going live relatively soon, so they should be ready in time. The centralized exchanges, not sure, but I'm assuming they'll be ready in time as well. But obviously Lido being as big as it is, it's kind of a blow, I guess, for me, it's kind of like I saw it and I was like, you know what, this is not, this is not fun. Right? This put, this is kind of silly because it means that we have to wait till mid may now to see how much 8th would actually leave Lido and go elsewhere, which is obviously not, not ideal, but that's the way it is.
00:02:53.806 - 00:03:15.894, Speaker A: It's not too far away. It's probably gonna be about, yeah, a month after it goes live on main net, but still, that's a month's worth. That, I guess, could have been done in time, but I'm not sure why it wasn't there. But I'm, as I said, I'm not sure about the other services besides rocket pool, Coinbase and Kraken and binance and all that. We'll have to see what happens there. But I think they should be ready in time. So that'll be all well and good there.
00:03:15.894 - 00:03:51.408, Speaker A: But anyway, great to see that girly has fought to Chappella and. Yeah, I'll keep you guys updated on when the mainnet date gets announced. All right, so the initial KZG ceremony contribution period has now ended. So it ran for two months, from January 13 to March 13. And now for the next two weeks, the lobby will process existing occupants, but not add additional ones. So if you were in the lobby and you were trying to get your, I guess, contribution processed, well, that's what's happening over the next two weeks. And we ended at about 75,000 contributions.
00:03:51.408 - 00:04:43.570, Speaker A: And by the time, I guess it gets through the rest of them, we should be up to almost 90,000 contributions, which is very cool. And there, and then after that, there is also going to be a special contribution period from April 1 to 16, which will allow for a handful of more complex contributions that have been allocated slots. And then Trent van apps continues here. Some have large groups collectively generating entropy or, or particular setup restrictions, which may need more time for computation. These contributions were proposed by the community and funded through the KZG grants round, open for anyone to submit to. So yeah, I guess like the final submission will go in on, you know, by April 16 here, maybe we do make it to that hundred thousand submissions that I originally said that it'd be great to see 100,000 unique submissions here. Obviously some of those are bots and some of those are people farming airdrops, but, um, from what I've seen, it doesn't seem to be the majority.
00:04:43.570 - 00:05:28.104, Speaker A: There's a lot of people just wanting to get involved with it, wanting to contribute, wanted to being part of Ethereum history here, which is obviously always great to see. But, uh. But yeah, if you're still in the queue and you've still got your kind of browser open to get your submission through, then leave it open, because there is this special contribution period for the next two weeks, or I should say this, um, backlog contribution period, and then that special contribution period will be going from April 1 to 16th there. All right. Mario Havel has shared a picture of the third cohort of the Ethereum protocol fellowship members. As it is now over. He says here many talented fellows had opportunity to contribute to various protocol projects, and after months of work, it was a great success.
00:05:28.104 - 00:06:05.176, Speaker A: And then Mario continues reflecting on the cohort projects and onboarding core devs in this little thread here, which of course, I'll link in the YouTube description below. But you can see the photo here, all the people that participated. Great to see this. See Danny Ryan right at the, the front there. All happy smiles, probably because, you know, as I've kind of described before, this, this fellowship is basically tasked with the mission of getting more people involved with Ethereum core protocol development and core protocol research. And of course the existing protocol devs or research core research. People like Danny Ryan would be all smiles here because they're getting more help with, with core protocol work.
00:06:05.176 - 00:06:36.732, Speaker A: But yeah, great to see this. I think I've talked about this before on, on the refuel a bunch as well, and I think that there'll be a fourth cohort announced relatively soon here, so keep an eye out for that if that's something you're interested in. But as I said, Mario put together a thread here. It's, it's quite a detailed thread that you can go check out for yourself. There's a bunch of resources there as well to learn more about this and to see what, what they've been up to here. But great, great picture and congrats to all the fellows here on a job well done. All right, so rated.net
00:06:36.732 - 00:07:12.292, Speaker A: work has a thread on the crazy on chain weakened action from an Ethereum infrastructure perspective. So obviously over the weekend, we saw a lot of volatility on the ethereum network because of the USDC deep egg and all that banking stuff that was going on. And of course, you can see this, obviously, because the chain is fully transparent. Well, Raider.net work has a great overview here. So they've got an overview of what happens on the, I guess, staking side of things, on the validator side of things. So you can see here that overall, overall network effectiveness actually dropped a bit to 95.7%
00:07:12.292 - 00:07:58.728, Speaker A: from 96.2% as the all time average, most likely due to slightly higher percent of missed blocks. The performance degradation is evident in the per operator view, as we observed, higher than normal performance under the network average from more operators than we normally see, obviously because of that volatility and all the MEV stuff going on. Absolutely crazy. And then, uh, they talk about the MEV stuff that was going on and, and how it was the biggest, I think it was the biggest day in MEV history, as I highlighted yesterday as well. Uh, they highlight a bit of things around the block, builder side of things, and how builder zero x 69 had a field day serving blocks that were almost two times as valuable as those from the flashbots builders, representing 37% of main net blocks. And there's a bunch of other kind of stats here, along with the highest proposal payments.
00:07:58.728 - 00:08:21.240, Speaker A: So there was a block that was worth 60 ETH. So whoever was able to get that block is very lucky. I don't know if it's actually listed here who got that block? It probably wasn't a solo validator. It was probably one of the staking pools. But imagine that you're a solo validator and you get a 60 ETH block. That's just almost two new validators, right? Just crazy thinking about the rewards here. And it really is a lottery.
00:08:21.240 - 00:09:01.730, Speaker A: As I've said before, the MEV ecosystem really is a lottery. You can win big, or I guess, like win small. You win small most of the time, because when you propose a block, if you're using MeV boost and you're going to be proposing a block with an MEV payment in it, but in order to win that big payment, there's only a short period of time for that because the volatility or this level of volatility doesn't last very long, especially in obviously a bear market. So it really is like winning the lottery. But if you do, yeah, you could stand to get a very, very juicy proposal payout here. And this ETH is actually available to you instantly because it's an execution layer reward. So it goes straight to your nominated address and you can use it straight away.
00:09:01.730 - 00:09:22.130, Speaker A: There's no need to wait for withdrawals. There's no need to wait even post withdrawals to kind of process it. It's available to you on the execution layer side of things, which is obviously all the more awesome because imagine if you get a 68th payment, add for ETH to that, you've got two new validators that you can spin up instantly. I mean, I wish that were me. You know, that, that meme. God, I wish that were me. Yeah, for sure.
00:09:22.130 - 00:09:50.350, Speaker A: But unfortunately not me. And it was actually funny today I was, I had a block proposal that I was, I was due for and my Internet went off for 6 hours. Of course I was waiting for a block proposal and I saw one come in and I'm like, yeah. And then my Internet was off for 6 hours. So I actually missed that block proposal. So that sucks. And the reason why my backup, I've said to you guys before, I have backup Internet that I, that I use, but unfortunately that can't last very long because I don't have much data on it.
00:09:50.350 - 00:10:15.500, Speaker A: And staking is actually very data heavy. And I don't just have my solo staking box, I also have my odao box or my rocket pool mini pool box as well. So yeah, it trues through the data very quickly. So I tend to not use the backup for very long. And yeah, my Internet was unfortunately down for around, I believe 6 hours. In the end that ended up being, and I missed a block proposal because of it. So damn you staking gods for blessing me with bad luck, I guess.
00:10:15.500 - 00:10:37.972, Speaker A: But it's the aim of the game. And as I said before, that's the most punishing thing for, I mean, I guess the biggest punishment for going offline is missing block proposals. The inactivity leak is very forgiving. So, you know, not, not too big of a deal there. But anyway, you can check out this trade for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, speaking of staking, we have an update out of Swell network.
00:10:37.972 - 00:11:15.364, Speaker A: So they've got the latest deep dive on swell with audit details, guarded launch update and a sneak peek at the new interface. And it seems that they've also changed their branding a bit here, which is pretty cool to see their design branding, so great little new logo there, which I like, but, but yeah. So you can see here in the blog post, the smart contract audits have commenced. They're using Sigma prime, who are the developers behind the lighthouse consensus client, to audit their smart contracts. They're going along with testnets. They have a guarded launch set for early April. And yeah, they talked about their, their new branding as well here, along with a bunch of top tweets.
00:11:15.364 - 00:11:43.832, Speaker A: So Sully's making moves. I think they've been under the radar for quite a while now. I've talked about them a bunch on the refuel before, but they're definitely making moves. And I guess they're waiting right up until withdrawals are enabled in order to get their system live. As I said, there's a guarded launch set for early April which is going to happen after the smart contract audit here. And then I'm sure they're going to kind of raise that limit on their guarded launch as time goes on there. So great to see this coming in time for withdrawals.
00:11:43.832 - 00:12:21.466, Speaker A: As I've mentioned plenty of times on the refuel, that great reshuffling of stake that I've talked about I think is going to happen definitely post withdrawals. It's not going to happen instantly. It's probably going to be like a six to twelve month thing where we see a lot of stake reshuffled and we see a lot of people staking with, sorry, withdrawing from certain providers and going with other ones. I'm very, very curious, as I've said before, to see what the staking distribution looks like or the stake distribution looks like twelve months after withdrawals go live. So we'll have to see how that shakes out there. But if you want to read this deep dive on twelve for yourself, I'll link it in the YouTube description for you to do so. All right.
00:12:21.466 - 00:12:57.050, Speaker A: I did mention the oiler labs exploit the other day, which was unfortunate. And honestly, it's really unfortunate because there's been a lot of people that I've seen that have lost money in this. It affected a lot of people within our community, which is just super, super sad. The funds have not been returned yet. It ended up being around $200 million that was stolen. There are messages going out in order to kind of offer a bug bounty or I guess like a bounty to the hacker, basically saying, hey, you can keep $10 million if you return the rest. Nothing has happened there yet.
00:12:57.050 - 00:13:31.344, Speaker A: And I believe oil is going to be putting a $1 million bounty up for people to report on if they can find any information about who the hackers actually are. Look, I don't know who the hackers are. I mean, obviously, there are only probably a few select groups that could do a hack like this and also get away with it. Unfortunately, if it is the north korean hacking group, which has been pretty prevalent within crypto, those funds are never, ever coming back. Like, I don't think North Korea gives a shit about being found or being found out. Those funds are never coming back. But as I said, it's not confirmed.
00:13:31.344 - 00:14:18.226, Speaker A: No one knows who it is just yet, but I'm sure it'll probably come out eventually. But there's also an update thread here from Euler Labs talking about what they've done. They stopped the attack to basically pause the contracts, I believe, or paused one of the modules. They engaged TRM labs and chain analysis and the broader e security community to help with the investigation. They notified and shared information with US and UK law enforcement, and also they clarified in their thread that the code that people were saying was added and wasn't audited is actually false. So the vulnerable code was reviewed and approved during an outside audit, but the vulnerability was not discovered as part of the audit. Now, I don't know if that audit was done by the same six firms that audited the original code.
00:14:18.226 - 00:14:46.730, Speaker A: It may have just been done by one or two firms, and it may have been different firms that did that. But the actual code that was changed post audits or post, I guess, like those. Those six audits that they have had was audited. It wasn't just put in there and no one looked at it. The bug, I believe, stayed around for eight months. Yeah, it was. It was live for eight months before someone exploited it, or the vulnerability, I should say, which is very unfortunate here, but there was a $1 million bug bounty in place during that time as well.
00:14:46.730 - 00:15:35.028, Speaker A: Now, obviously, this is the. This is the kind of like catch 22 with bug bounties, or the shitty thing about bug bounties is that, okay, there's a million dollar bug bounty up for grabs, but depending on who you are, do you take the million dollar bug bounty or do you still $200 million? I think you're going to go with $200 million, especially if you're a group that doesn't give a shit, like the north korean hacking groups. They obviously don't care about any of that, like, for them, it's like, okay, well, we're going to still, this 200 million, who's going to stop us? No one's going to stop us. And we're just going to, we're just going to walk away with it. And that's what they've done with a bunch of other hacks that they've, that they've kind of been involved in. And that's what makes these hacks, so, I guess, bad is that because crypto is a, I mean, a global thing, because these networks are global, that there is access able to be had anywhere in the world, and there is literally nothing that can be done against North Korea. Korea, like that.
00:15:35.028 - 00:16:04.166, Speaker A: No nation state is going to pursue North Korea and say, hey, like, what are they going to say to them? Hey, pay the money back or else we're going to sanction you. I mean, they're already sanctioned. Pay the money back or else we're going to serve you with a warrant. I mean, they don't care. This, this is the, this is the thing. This is why I always talk about decentralization and security being so critically important, because it's not the nation states that have a rule of law or that are democracies that you have to worry about, necessarily. Maybe you do in the, in the longer term, but it's these other ones.
00:16:04.166 - 00:16:27.542, Speaker A: It's these rogue nation states like North Korea. It's these, these kind of dictatorships, basically, like North Korea and others that you really have to worry about, because they don't give a shit about the rule of law at all. They're not scared of anything. They need the money, for starters, as well. I mean, someone made a joke that North Korea just funded then the, a bunch of their next missile launches. Right. But seriously, they do obviously need the money.
00:16:27.542 - 00:17:05.744, Speaker A: And as I said, they don't care about the consequences. So those are the actors that we are building these systems to resist. The ones that literally don't care about consequences will do whatever is possible to either steal money from a system or destabilize it in such a way. And that's what all of these protocols need to keep in mind, whether it's a base layer protocol like Ethereum itself or the DeFi protocols built on top. I think for the DeFi protocols built on top, they really need to think about this a lot more. And obviously, they get their audits done, and oiler had six audits. And, and obviously, and obviously, um, they introduced this code, and I don't know if it was ordered audited by six different firms, but things slip through audits.
00:17:05.744 - 00:17:58.990, Speaker A: Guys like, I mean, I don't know how, how much you guys know about audits themselves, but a lot of them are just checklists. A lot of them actually aren't as sophisticated as you think they are. And I saw some, some chatter today about how this chat GPT could be used to audit code and how AI can actually be used to audit code. I actually think that's a great use case of AI using it to audit code, because at the end of the day, the auditors are human. They can miss things and they can miss things quite easily for a number of different factors, whereas these AI's can also miss things, but they can also learn from their mistakes a lot more rapidly than a human can. And they're not necessarily going to be subject to the same kind of, I guess, human related pressures and human related intricacies when auditing things like that. Like for example, an AI is not going to get tired, right? They're not going to be exhausted at the end of a day and miss a bug in a contract.
00:17:58.990 - 00:18:41.510, Speaker A: They're just going to look at it laser focused on it and they're going to find whatever vulnerabilities they can. And as I said, of course they're going to miss things. So having AI as, as, like a sidecar, as like a side kit to, for an auditor, I think is going to be very, very powerful, obviously for things like Defi and just crypto more broadly. But anyway, you can read Euler's thread for yourself about what they've been doing. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but that is the latest on that. Unfortunately, there has been no return of any of the funds so far, and we'll have to see and wait and see how it all plays out. All right, so op Labs has posted a very short blog post just talking about their path to technical decentralization.
00:18:41.510 - 00:19:21.340, Speaker A: So it seems that they're taking a two pronged approach here with their milestones. So there's baseline decentralization and then there's canon fault proofs. So the baseline decentralization is about decentralizing the bridge especially, and also having permissionless output proposals and then the canon fault proofs. Decentralization is all about decentralizing the fault proof system so that it can actually be used in the wild. Because as you guys know right now, fault proofs or fraud proofs are not live on the optimism mainnet yet. Yet it will be live with bedrock, but it's going to be permissioned well, these are the two prongs that they're going down with, technical decentralization. It is a long term thing.
00:19:21.340 - 00:20:04.572, Speaker A: They're, they, they said that they're going to be focusing on fault proof decentralization in 2024, with the baseline decentralization being a focus this, this year. So yeah, this isn't going to happen anytime soon, but there's still a credible path. There's still a, a path that everyone can, can kind of see, uh, towards this happening. And that's what I've been talking about a lot when I talk to people about these l two s and how they're currently very centralized. The difference between the l two or an l two and an l one is that l two s have a much more credible and easy path to decentralization than an l one does across a number of different factors. The biggest factor for me is the fact that an l two is a one of n trust assumption, where essentially you only need to trust one party. Right.
00:20:04.572 - 00:20:49.444, Speaker A: Whereas with an l one, it's a lot different. It depends on the consensus mechanism, but it's definitely a lot more than just trusting one person. You have to trust either one third or two thirds of the network or something like that. As I said, depending on the network, if it's a proof of stake, proof of work network as well, it's a totally different ballgame. So that makes it a lot harder to decentralized. And that's the beautiful thing about l two s is that they can be one of n, of a, one of n trust assumption because they basically outsource their decentralization and security to the l one, in this case obviously ethereum. So yeah, that's why I've always said that I believe that these l two are going to have a much easier time to decentralize, and they've got a much more credible path towards that as well.
00:20:49.444 - 00:21:25.016, Speaker A: All right, so speaking of l two s, aztec network put out a faq thread about why they are actually sunsetting aztec connect. Now, I remember the other day, I discussed that. I figured it had to do with regulatory pressure, but they actually clarified that it hadn't got to do with that at all. And I did mention that Aztec was a us company. I believe I was getting them confused with another company. They're actually a UK based company. And I mean, I don't know how much that materially changes given that the US and UK are very similar on certain things, but just for accuracy, that was the, that was the case there.
00:21:25.016 - 00:21:51.914, Speaker A: And in this faq, which I think that they should have put out originally. They clarified a bunch of things. So they actually aren't shutting down aztec at all. They're just shutting down aztec connect because it seems like it's not something that they necessarily wanted to focus on. It was a distraction for them. But they are continuing to build out their, what they're calling their next generation, I guess, privacy protocol, which is an l two. So I've had people kind of come at me and ask, hey, it seems like they're building an l one now.
00:21:51.914 - 00:22:19.234, Speaker A: No, they're building a privacy preserving l two, an encrypted l two here. And they've clarified it in this, in this thread. And they've, as I said, they've also said that they're not building an l one and they weren't, they weren't sunsetting Aztec Connect because of regulatory pressure. They literally announced that here. They say we were under no regulatory pressure nor have we filled it. Any inquiries from law enforcement? Law enforcement. Aztec Connect is and was compliant with UK law, given Aztec is a UK company.
00:22:19.234 - 00:22:50.344, Speaker A: And then they also say that they have over 40 strong team members right now and they're actively hiring. So that might be something that you're interested in. But yeah, I really enjoyed this thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you to read it for yourself. But as I said, I feel like this should have been posted with the original blog post because there was a lot of confusion around why Aztec Connect was so abruptly being shut down. And obviously in the wake of the tornado cash sanctions, we are kind of sensitive to privacy products being shut down. So yeah, I'm just glad Aztec put this thread out.
00:22:50.344 - 00:23:21.336, Speaker A: You can check it for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for, for you to do so. All right, so Eigen layer has always rolling out a refreshed visual identity and website. So you can see here that they have a new brand identity that I think looks pretty cool. I like it. Honestly, Eigen layer, look, the fonts are pretty funky there and then they've got like a new logo, a new kind of typography there and all that good stuff. And they've got a new website or I guess like a new look on their website at eigenlayout XYZ.
00:23:21.336 - 00:23:48.902, Speaker A: As you can see here, it looks very cool. I look, I like this. I really do. I like this kind of flat design where it's stylized, it's got its kind of own feel going on with it. And the website actually has a lot of information on it for you to check out along with the white paper and things like that, so you can go check that that out for yourself. But great to see that this brand looks a lot more mature than the previous brand. You know what's kind of funny? I don't even remember what their previous brand was because it wasn't that, I guess, notable.
00:23:48.902 - 00:24:30.198, Speaker A: It was, it was definitely a placeholder. And now that they have a much better brown identity in place, this is definitely something I think people are going to, going to remember, I'm going to kind of pay attention to. So congrats to Eigen layer for the, I guess, new coat of paint here. You can check out their website. As I said, it's at Eigenlayer XYZ, but I'll also link it in the YouTube description below and you can check out all the information on the website there. All right, so bartech from the l two beat team has put out a tweet where he said on l on the l two beat risk tab, you can learn about the data availability layer used by each l two. To call yourself a roll up, you must use l one ethereum on chain in this column.
00:24:30.198 - 00:25:03.128, Speaker A: But what data exactly is being made available and why it matters? And va tech has a thread here discussing this. And this is really cool, because as I've said before, if your data is off chain, you can't be considered like a true l two or a true roll up. You. There's nothing wrong with being, having your data off chain, like a velladium type construction, is very, is very useful for certain use cases. But being technically accurate is what l two beat is all about. It's what I'm all about. So the fact that if your, if your data is not on chain, you cannot be called a true roll up or a true l two.
00:25:03.128 - 00:25:37.902, Speaker A: Now, if your data is on chain, but your proofs aren't on on chain, then it's the same kind of thing. So you have to have both things on chain. You have to have your proofs, your fraud or your validity proofs. They have to be on the l one, on ethereum l one, for example. And your data has to be on ethereum l one, because then you get and inherit the full security and decentralization of layer one ethereum. Now, of course, as I've mentioned plenty of times, a lot of these things are centralized, blah, blah, blah. But I don't think that really, it's kind of orthogonal to my point here, in that just because it's centralized doesn't take away from the fact that it's still a true roll up.
00:25:37.902 - 00:26:12.368, Speaker A: It's still a true l two. And it's what we mean when we say, when we say roll ups here. And I'm very, very happy that l two b exists, because I know that there's always going to be a lot of confusion around this. There is always going to be a lot of marketing speak that bends the truth here. I know, for example, that Metis never really mentioned that they weren't a roll up anymore when they moved their data off chain. They basically said, hey, you know, we lowered fees by a lot or whatever, right? We lowered fees by considerable amount. But the only reason why they were able to do that is because they were storing their data off chain and they weren't a roll up anymore.
00:26:12.368 - 00:26:51.722, Speaker A: So I think it's always good to make sure that you know what you're getting into here. And I think the Euler exploit is a reminder of this, is that you shouldn't be putting all your funds in any particular protocol. You should maybe have like a djen stack or stack that you're comfortable losing. And I've warned about this plenty of times before, and I've told you guys plenty of times before, a lot of this stuff is still beta software, even the l two s. I mean, I don't have much of my funds on l two still, because they've decentralized, they're still quite early, and they do have single points of failure. But that's not saying you can't play around with things. I mean, I play around with my dj and stack, and obviously it will depend on how much you want to play around with.
00:26:51.722 - 00:27:21.298, Speaker A: My rule of thumb is no more than 10% of total portfolio. That is quite high, though. It depends on what your percentage is like. For example, if you've got like a $1,000 in crypto, 10%, $100 is probably gonna, it's probably gonna hurt you if you, if you lose that, right? Whereas if you got a lot more money in crypto, 10% may not hurt as much. Say you've got like 100,000 in crypto. Maybe losing $10,000 doesn't really affect you that much because you've still got 90,000 and you've got like a bigger buffer there. But it's all down to the individual, right.
00:27:21.298 - 00:28:16.026, Speaker A: So for me, I mean, I don't do much djen stuff these days, but generally I try not to put more than, you know, fight maybe five to 10% of my stack in any of these things besides Ethereum staking obviously I put a lot more of my stack in Ethereum staking there, but there's still risks inherent with, with everything that you do, and it's good to keep in mind and it's good to know what those risks are. And I'm kudos to l two beat for being so transparent with these sorts of things and having it on display for users to go check it out for themselves. All right, last up here, just a quick shout out that we have burned 3 million ETH since AIP 1559. So AIP 1559 went live 586 days ago. Man, it has been a long time since 1559 went live. Time just flies, doesn't it? But yeah, so it's been 586 days and we've burned 3 million ETH and actually since the merge we've burned I think 63,000 ETH. So we are net deflationary.
00:28:16.026 - 00:28:39.228, Speaker A: It's just crazy. It honestly is crazy to me how much ETH that we have been able to burn and the fact that he has been net deflationary for quite deflationary for quite a while now. It just speaks to the fact that the ethereum network is so useful, people are still willing to, to pay the high fees to use the ethereum network to get whatever they want done. It's just crazy. I love it. I love it all. I love seeing these milestone numbers.
00:28:39.228 - 00:29:00.210, Speaker A: But yeah, very cool to see that 3 million ETH has been burned since 1559 onwards towards 4510 million. You know, I'll definitely be reporting on that once it happens there. But anyway, that's going to be it for today's episode. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Get a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:29:00.210 - 00:29:01.914, Speaker A: Thanks everyone. Bye.
