00:00:04.240 - 00:00:59.435, Speaker A: Hi everyone, I'm Kushal Manupati, Marketing director at Binance. So what am I doing here? Binance, as always has the goal of enhancing user experience. And with this user focused approach, we aim to revolutionize the DEFI experience as we strive to make every transaction effortless for users. We understand that the path forward involves integrating with ecosystems. Forums like this prove that innovation is the heartbeat of progress. And I met like so many people here, like creating like groundbreaking projects, inventing and nurturing new things here. And we are committed to fostering a culture of growth and creativity and we are dedicated to this innovative journey.
00:00:59.435 - 00:02:00.397, Speaker A: Enhancing liquidity for users will allow rapid adoption of any ecosystem. And one of the ecosystem is Solana, of course. And Binance plays an active role in making this happen. We want to unlock the potential of partnering with developers such as you to build a scalable and secure ecosystem and push the boundary of what is possible leveraging Binance's global user base. You might have heard about the number we are not just expanding a project or a single ecosystem's reach, we are actually accelerating the adoption of multichain ecosystem. Together we are here to shape the next few years of industry. So Fun fact, before Web3 Industry adopted me like years ago, I was a friendly neighborhood Web2Guy.
00:02:00.397 - 00:03:07.465, Speaker A: So one of the things that Web2Guys have not figured out yet, like be it E commerce, be it messaging, be it social media, even our favorite like banking is interoperability. Maybe at least they haven't figured out it. Well, let's say that envision a world where the boundaries between ecosystems dissolve seamlessly, connecting like Solana, Ethereum, BNB Chain and other networks like never before. And an industry like I think we have made tremendous progress on this. I think we should, we should agree with that. But we will have to provide more reasons to the users to accept this and increase the utility of it. Like in an expanding multi chain ecosystem, developers on one side face inconsistent tooling and users on the other side grapple with single chain DApps and this results in fragmented liquidity and sadly suboptimal UI UX.
00:03:07.465 - 00:04:12.315, Speaker A: Cross chain interoperability emerges as a key solution Here. Imagine a landscape where defi experiences transcend individual platforms. We believe in innovation that spans multiple ecosystems that can build value to the users. And this becomes possible when we foster environment where developers such as you from different blockchain ecosystems can share ideas, build products and create value. All these initiatives are designed to foster healthy competition, drive innovation and increase experimentation. This is how we will be able to push boundaries of what is possible, ultimately benefiting the users. Our aim at Binance is to create unified, accessible and user friendly experience that makes blockchain ecosystem blockchain technology intuitive and engaging to the next billion users.
00:04:12.315 - 00:04:13.695, Speaker A: Thank you.
