00:00:10.250 - 00:00:37.494, Speaker A: It's awesome to be with you guys here on this Wednesday afternoon to talk pricing and business model. Who's fired up. My personal approach to preparation was I just ate an entire plate of the chocolate covered matza. So I'm running on rainbow sprinkle power for now. So, as Jeff said, we're going to talk about pricing and business models. I'm Jason. I'm an operating partner at a 16 Z.
00:00:37.494 - 00:01:26.840, Speaker A: My partner in crime today is Maggie, who runs our go to market team. And so we're going to divide and conquer. On this topic, I'm going to talk first about six questions that all of you should be asking yourselves as Founders and CEOs about your business model and pricing. Maggie's going to take us through some case studies and then also talk about some additional pricing considerations that you want to think about. And let me sort of set the context for what we'll cover in the next little bit. So if you reflect on the kinds of presentations and discussions and content that you all have seen before, like, words that I would use to describe them are very visionary, super intellectual, strategic, inspirational. This is going to be none of that.
00:01:26.840 - 00:02:56.026, Speaker A: So the image that I want you to keep in mind as we go through this is of this toolbox. If we do our job today, what we want to give you is a set of frameworks and examples, and heuristics So as you think about your own business model and how you price your products, you can reach into this toolbox for your mind, find the right tool, tinker with your pricing and come up with an approach that's going to work for you and your product and your business. And so let me just walk through sort of what the six questions are that I think you all want to be asking yourselves. So, question number one what are all of the different ways I could price? And which approach makes the most sense for my product and my market? And the reason that I'm emphasizing the word all here is that I think for each of you right there's sort of some set of pricing heuristics or approaches that are going to logically make sense to you. But given that you're so early, if you sort of take a step back and think through every way that you could price your product, every approach that you could take, you may unlock a combination of pricing models that are going to lead you to a much, much more customer aligned pricing model that is going to help you maximize your business and your market opportunity. And so let me just walk through a number of different ways you can think about this. So one would be user based pricing.
00:02:56.026 - 00:03:35.650, Speaker A: So right. This is a very common, SaaS and Enterprise based pricing approach. You can think of how slack prices or salesforce prices. You count the number of people within an organization who are using your product. You charge them a monthly or a quarterly or an annual fee. The more people within the that use your product, the more revenue you generate. Typically you'll also, as you get to larger and larger organizations, you'll introduce volume discounts so that the price on a per user basis for 1000 users, obviously it's more in terms of nominal dollars, but on a per user basis they're getting a discount than if it was just a ten user organization.
00:03:35.650 - 00:04:19.854, Speaker A: Next is usage based pricing, right? And if you think of the public cloud providers, AWS, GCP, Azure, this is something that they've made super common and well understood. The more compute storage bandwidth GPU that you use, the more that you're paying them. And this approach tends to work really well when you have what I describe as a consumptive product. Meaning the more people use it, both the more value they get and the more underlying infrastructure expense you have in providing that. And so this can work really well in that approach. Feature based. This is actually one that's come up a ton in the conversations that I've had with each of you.
00:04:19.854 - 00:05:39.750, Speaker A: Right? So you're all thinking about, well, okay, I've got some users, some customers who are developers and they're just getting started and they're maybe like a three person startup, but I've got a lot of interest from a big enterprise or a much larger, more established company who wants to use what I have. I don't want to charge them all the same price. How can I segregate a feature based way? Think of it as like a good, better, best, or freemium pro enterprise type of offerings where you put different capabilities into different buckets that are going to appeal to different users and price them differently is a really good way to orient around that. And some things to think about are particularly for your enterprise tier, which is what you want to be. The most expensive, most valuable things that tend to work really well in that is enterprises love to pay for better support because the old saying of nobody ever got fired for buying IBM, although today you probably would get fired for buying IBM. Enterprises tend to want the all singing, all dancing best version of what you have to offer because while they want capabilities, they also want to reduce their exposure and risk. So you can put a lot of extra special capabilities into that bucket.
00:05:39.750 - 00:06:53.578, Speaker A: Value based pricing is one that I think can actually apply really well to crypto that not a lot of people think about. So what I mean by value based is imagine that you're a new product in a new market offering a set of capabilities that historically companies or groups have had to build themselves or do themselves. A really powerful way to price is if you can come in with your offering and say, well, here's a ton of work or a ton of risk or just a breakout set of things that's going to take your customers business to the next level. And by buying our service you're going to save a bunch of money or make a bunch of money, you can often use that as an umbrella pricing model. So at a startup I did now over a decade ago, it was actually where Ben Horowitz and Mark Andreessen came from before they did a 16 Z, it was an enterprise software company called Opsware. We were doing what was called at the time data center automation software. And it was automation software to make system administrators and network engineers and storage administrators more efficient.
00:06:53.578 - 00:07:30.102, Speaker A: And we were doing this at a time it was just post 911, post the.com crash and everybody was looking at how could they save money on their It and their data center operations. And so our approach is that we would come in and we would say, well, to run an application like this, it today takes you 20 system administrators. If you use our automation tools, you can do the same work with two. So you get like a net savings of 90% in terms of human labor. And so that would be our pricing model. And actually another company that has done this really well is Palantir.
00:07:30.102 - 00:08:10.618, Speaker A: Kind of in the defense and intelligence space. They're often replacing huge armies of consultants and so they're able to capture some of that value for themselves. And this tends to be like a very high margin, very high value way of pricing if you have an effective way of communicating that to your customers. Transaction based. This is one that in crypto and blockchain. A lot of people are looking at doing, I'd say the more traditional company that's done a great job of this is Stripe, right, where if you use their payment API, they're taking a small fraction of every transaction that goes through the system. I think that this will work great in crypto over time.
00:08:10.618 - 00:09:25.806, Speaker A: The one caution that I would have for you today is that the transaction volumes across most networks tends to be sort of so small today that you want to have fairly realistic understanding and estimates of how much that transaction volume is going to grow. Such that if you're taking say like zero point 15% of every transaction on a network, if you actually do the math and I'll talk about this in just a few minutes, you're going to see that the number of transactions on that network has to get pretty darn large for you to ultimately have an interesting business. So it's something you want to be cognizant of. Revenue Share this is something that Google did really, really well in the early days of the business where before sort of Google.com and Chrome were the dominant ways that people search. Google would pay for placement to be the default search provider on Yahoo, on AOL, on At, T and Verizon. When mobile first became a thing, and it was a very customer aligned business model, right, because the more searches that someone did via Yahoo, but using Google, the more revenue both Google and Yahoo would earn.
00:09:25.806 - 00:10:13.102, Speaker A: And so this is nice when it works in that it allows you to share an upside with your customers and distribution partners. Services based. This is like Classic consulting and Professional services. While I wouldn't recommend that you adopt this as your dominant approach to pricing, this is a sort of great approach you can take. When you have a customer who wants a feature or think of it as like a custom report or something that's not in your mainstream product roadmap. You're not imminently going to ship it, but the customer needs it in order for you to close the deal. One way that you can bridge that gap is by charging them a nominal professional services fee to either accelerate or custom build that feature for them.
00:10:13.102 - 00:11:07.874, Speaker A: So sort of you get compensated for it, and you give your customer the thing that they need to get excited about your product. This can be sort of a really useful accelerator and deal closer for other things you're doing. Dynamic Pricing uber Lyft Airlines have done a good job of this. And this is the idea of your pricing may vary depending on volume and demand at a given time. And so depending on your product or service, this can be interesting as well. And then last but not least, just sort of like a general catch all bucket of subscription based businesses tend to be really powerful for a couple of different reasons. But one of them, right, is that if you have subscribers, you effectively can lock in compounding growth for a very long period of time because you don't need to net recreate your business every single quarter, every single year.
00:11:07.874 - 00:11:39.398, Speaker A: You're growing on top of a stable revenue base that you have. So when a subscription model makes sense for you and your customers, it can be super helpful and powerful. All right, question number 02:00 A.m.. I charging the right price. So one conversation I've had with many of you is you're brand new your product's in beta. You don't know if you're charging too much, too little. There's a really actually good way to go test this, which is that you can do an early A B test of your pricing.
00:11:39.398 - 00:12:50.094, Speaker A: And the way that I would encourage you to think about it, particularly for those of you who are engaging directly with prospective customers, you can pick a small prospective customer cohort, say, five customers and say that you're doing feature based pricing. So you've got basic premium and enterprise price for this. First cohort Basic at X, premium at Y, enterprise at Z, and then take a second customer cohort about the same size and do five X, five Y, five Z. So literally create a five X or a three X or maybe even a ten X differential between your prospective customers. Pitch them both the same thing and see what happens. If you close 100% of the cohort who you pitch at five or ten X, that tells you that you've got probably a lot more pricing headroom than you thought you had. And what I'll tell you from having done this a lot of times and seeing hundreds of customers, is it's much, much more common for an early startup to underprice rather than overprice.
00:12:50.094 - 00:14:17.358, Speaker A: So experiment here, have some fun and see what you learn. And there is like a great escape hatch in all of this, which is if your higher priced customer cohort just sort of like, throws up on what you're proposing to them, you can say, well, you guys are special, you're early, we really want your business. So as an introductory offer, we'll give you the XYZ pricing. The one mistake you want to avoid here, right, is that when you're doing that price discovery, don't publicly publish your price list on your website, right? If someone can go look at your website, see what you say you're charging, and you present them a different price list, that's obviously going to really foul your A B testing. Resist the temptation to make your pricing public until you zero in more on what you think your actual pricing is going to be. Question number three are there opportunities for me to price discriminate within my product offering? Absolutely. I talked about this a little bit on feature based pricing, right? But you want to think deeply about how you can segment your product offering, how you can segment your customer base, and the better job you can do of putting capabilities in nicely grouped and defined buckets that are easy for your customers to understand, each of which come with a slightly different price.
00:14:17.358 - 00:15:14.274, Speaker A: The better opportunity you're going to have to capture many brand new businesses who want to experiment with your product and get to know it before they commit. And also you'll be able to capture very large established players, both like kind of the big guys in the crypto space as well as more traditional enterprises, by offering a feature set tailored to them. Question four how do other products and services in adjacent markets price? So this is like what I would call a cheat code, right? If you're starting out, you don't really know what to do. And there's another market that you can think of as almost a substitute for what you do, actually. Where's the Chain patrol team? Yeah, right there. Right. So if you think about what Chain Patrol is doing, they're offering a new native service for essentially scam protection and takedowns in crypto, which is amazing, and it's going to be great.
00:15:14.274 - 00:16:11.230, Speaker A: But there's a whole existing Web Two market for the same kind of things, like basically fraud, defender and other things that will take down companies and services that are doing malicious things. So if you're chain patrol and you want to figure out sort of what ballpark you should price in, you can go look at all the web two companies that are doing a similar kind of thing and use that as a way to guide you. Actually, same thing with Bellow, right? You guys are offering an analytics service. There are lots and lots and lots of conversion oriented web two services, analytics services out there. You can use that as a way to map the train that you're operating in. Question five, the next two. So if you remember only two parts, only two questions, I hope you remember all six questions, but if you remember only two from my talk, five and six are where you want to pay attention.
00:16:11.230 - 00:17:11.894, Speaker A: So number five, do my unit economics work, right? So you want to make sure super early in your company that you have a margin structure that if you execute well, you get massive market share, you build a great product, like is actually going to lead to a business that works for you. And let me give you a counter example of that from my prior company, my prior employer, Google. So about a decade ago, Google was riding high, thought they could do no wrong, like everything the company had done today just really worked. And so they decided to get into the high speed internet access business with Google Fiber, where they were amazing service, gigabit Ethernet to your door before anybody was offering anything like that. And the mentality was, we're Google, we got this. The laws of gravity don't apply to us. And so the company invested billions and billions of dollars in rolling this out.
00:17:11.894 - 00:18:16.026, Speaker A: Like, first in Kansas City, then to a few more markets. And unfortunately, what turned out to be the case was doesn't matter if you're Google, if you're Verizon, if you're a local infrastructure provider, like the cost of jackhammering a sidewalk so that you can lay high speed fiber optic cable and then rolling trucks to everybody's homes to set up the service, it doesn't matter who you are. That costs a lot of money. And so it turned out that before Google knew it, they were billions of dollars into a market, into a product line that was just never going to work for the company. So don't make that mistake. Make sure that you can profitably deliver your service and you can for sure make guesstimates and extrapolations that things are going to change and converge over time. But it turns out that particularly in this economic and fundraising environment, the business model of we lose money on every customer, but we're going to make it up in volume, is not going to work very well for you.
00:18:16.026 - 00:19:13.840, Speaker A: So don't do that one. And then last but not least, this is something that nobody does, but everybody should. If I imagined that my market was going to grow ten to 100 X, so one to two orders of magnitude from where it is today, and I captured 100% market share using my current Pricing, would I end up with an interesting Business? And this is like a super simple Google Sheets Exercise that you can do right after this session. And the reason that I encourage you to do this is because the conventional wisdom is like, oh gosh, startups are really hard. Really hope it works. Like, failure would be terrible and I'm going to do everything not to fail. I would argue to you there is a much worse outcome than failure, which is that you pour 4567 years of your heart, your mind, your soul, your employees lives into building what you're building.
00:19:13.840 - 00:20:00.810, Speaker A: You successfully raise capital and you execute perfectly. But then you get to the end of your Journey and you're like, oh, Shit. Even though I did It all right, the end market, the end size of my opportunity just isn't big enough and interesting enough for me to have built a business that was worthy of everything that I put into it. Just to close with an Example that has a happy ending here, there was a L2 Project. If I said the Name, you would all immediately know who it was that I was working with. And they had a very elegant way of thinking about how they were going to do a Transaction rev share on all this cool stuff that they were going to be doing. And It was like super customer aligned.
00:20:00.810 - 00:21:01.962, Speaker A: It was going to be Amazing. And I had them do this exercise and within about 15 minutes, the realization Was, oh my Gosh, we Would need about 70 X the daily transaction volume of Ethereum on our network to have a business Model that made us break even. So they'd have to be 70 times larger than Ethereum Is today just for their relatively small team to be able to be self sustaining. So the good news is when they realized that and they just had literally never done the math before. So when they did that, they changed everything, made a few modifications, were able to keep going with most things, they just sort of changed their pricing and everything worked out where at kind of one 1000 the volume they were able to end up with a pretty good business. So my plea to you is do this exercise so you don't end up regretting It four, five, six years into the future. With that, let me hand it over to Maggie.
00:21:02.026 - 00:21:23.800, Speaker B: Thank you, Jason. So I'll be talking through pricing Strategies for three types of business Models. The first is a Marketplace model. The second is a SaaS business. And then the Third Would be a Business that offers some sort of downside Protection. So in a Marketplace Model, you have buyers and sellers. And the Marketplace itself exists because there's some sort of friction in getting these buyers and sellers together.
00:21:23.800 - 00:22:01.362, Speaker B: And so in a marketplace, you can really charge some combination of the buyers and or the sellers. And so I've put that on this grid here and I'll just walk through from the inside out what this could look like. So when would you not charge a buyer or a seller? Well, this seems quite straightforward, but when you're looking to grow the marketplace, you don't want to have friction in onboarding either of these groups. And so if you don't have enough buyers, you probably wouldn't charge them. Same thing if you didn't have enough sellers. The next category is a one time charge. So in this example, you could think about something like a merch marketplace where the merch is really popular and everyone wants access to it.
00:22:01.362 - 00:22:26.586, Speaker B: And so you're actually token gating this marketplace. You're making buyers purchase a token in order to get that access. You could do the same thing for the sellers. You could basically make sure their incentives are aligned. If you have this curated marketplace and you want them to have a token in order to even gain access to sell into it, the next model or the next category is recurring. And this could come in two forms. One is transaction based and the second would be subscription based.
00:22:26.586 - 00:23:03.640, Speaker B: And this is what we most typically see in marketplaces, which is why I've put the little yellow dot there. So transaction based, we're all very used to this. When you purchase an item, you typically pay a transaction fee, but that fee can actually change. It doesn't necessarily have to be the same for every single transaction in the marketplace. And so you'll oftentimes see marketplaces charging reduced fees. If the transaction value is higher, they might charge different fees for different categories. And as we've seen recently with some of kind of the marketplace battles, they can kind of move this fee up and down to better map out some of the needs that they have on the competitive front.
00:23:03.640 - 00:23:47.246, Speaker B: Now, a subscription based model might apply if you have a marketplace where it's actually hard to estimate the net value of the transaction. And so an example here might be something like a marketplace for NFT holders where it gives them opportunities to commercialize their NFTs through some sort of IP licensing. And so in this case, you're serving up these opportunities, but oftentimes it's hard to estimate the net value of the transaction. Most of these deals probably won't even close. And so you could think about offering something like a subscription where they're getting recurring access to the deals on this marketplace, but you aren't responsible for the net transaction value on the seller side. We often see this as a listing fee. So this is essentially a fee to list a certain item.
00:23:47.246 - 00:24:40.258, Speaker B: But sellers could also pay for things like premium placement or other comarketing. And so you have these value added features that a seller might want in a SaaS example. So you're selling to these archetypes you're selling to individuals, then teams, then enterprises. And so if you think about when you look at most SaaS companies, they almost all follow the same logic. They have this entry tier and so that's their base tier, their free tier, they then have their standard tier and then they go to this kind of power or enterprise tier and if you think about an individual, they're essentially going up these tiers based on a combination of increased usage and increased features. And these might map but they don't have to exactly correlate you can think about increased usage being on a continuum so they're using and you really need to figure out where to cut off those usage at each of these tiers. And the same thing with features and so that's that kind of packaging element.
00:24:40.258 - 00:25:33.174, Speaker B: And so to what Jason was saying earlier, this is really where a lot of the work goes into it, because these things may look neatly packaged here, but the work that you're doing with all those six questions is really to understand how you're pricing these different tiers and reallocating and kind of testing between them. Because oftentimes what's in these will change over time. So an example from our portfolio Alchemy, they offer web3 development tools. You can see here they have their free tier, so it offers a certain number of compute units and it also offers a certain number of features. They then want you to move into their growth tier which offers more compute units and more features. And I would say that this is a bit of a B to C or B to D business to developer Motion where it's essentially self serve. So someone could come to the site, they sign up for the free tier, they then upgrade to the growth tier, they might then downgrade back to the free tier and they could leave all without you ever potentially speaking to them.
00:25:33.174 - 00:26:25.266, Speaker B: And this is actually very different from an enterprise model. In an enterprise model, the sales motion is likely a lot more custom. So you are talking to the enterprise, you're negotiating a custom contract, you have these features and it's really a different sales motion where you really do need some sort of sales resourcing against it. And so it may look clean and similar and you have these three tiers lined up but when you think about how you're allocating your sales resourcing, the first one is this much more self serve motion, what does that look like from a sales process? And then the second one is much more of kind of that white glove approach of this enterprise motion. Another example from our portfolio is Nansen. So Nansen offers web3 analytics and in this case they're taking an individual and they're moving the individual up from standard to VIP to Alpha and this is all with an increased number of features. They also offer length based discounting so you can get discounts if you pay quarterly or annually.
00:26:25.266 - 00:26:56.302, Speaker B: And they also offer things like trials. So the third type of business is a business offering some sort of insurance or downside protection. This could be against hacks, it could be against scams. And the stakeholders in this case are the individual NFT holders as one and then the NFT creator as another. And so that could include the creator, it could include an employee of the creator, that company, it could include the community manager. It's really a different set of stakeholders. And the upside and downside for each of these sets of stakeholders is actually a little bit different.
00:26:56.302 - 00:27:30.540, Speaker B: So for an individual holder, the downside is quite clear. If their wallet is hacked, their assets are gone. And you can measure this because you know the value of the assets in their wallet. You can calculate the expected probability of a hack happening because you have all this onchain data of hacks, you know the value that your service brings. So you can do some sort of estimation of taking that estimate x percent and taking it to Y percent. And then it's actually a very straightforward calculation of the expected value here, where you can multiply those numbers and get some sort of expected value of loss. And then you could theoretically charge the holder a premium based on this.
00:27:30.540 - 00:28:12.070, Speaker B: What I do think is interesting is psychology here, because most holders probably think that they are less likely to get hacked than the next holder. And so even though you should have this number and this premium, you're likely potentially charging less than that just because of this psychological effect for the NFT creator. They actually don't have a direct impact if the holder is hacked, right? This isn't something that they're losing revenue from, but they have a cost to fix this. So potentially this came from something in their discord, or it was a Twitter link that got sent out, and so they need to repair this. There's also reputational considerations. So if you're in a community and everyone's all getting hacked, that's not a great NFT community. And to Jason's point, there are likely alternative options.
00:28:12.070 - 00:28:49.922, Speaker B: So are they paying for security? Other web, three security, web, two security, kind of what else are they using and what else are they paying for? This is something that they've likely looked into. And then if you're thinking finally about how to differentiate, how would I sell into NFT communities? You could differentiate in a few different ways. So one could just be the number of holders, right? So the number of holders of NFTs, and that's a measure of the community size. But that might not be the best way because the number of holders might be changing. The other one could be market cap. So you essentially could take the floor price or the average price of an NFT, multiply it by the number of holders, and you get a rough estimate of total. Value and total assets.
00:28:49.922 - 00:29:29.810, Speaker B: And then the third would just be the type of NFT community. So potentially it's an art NFT community or a sports NFT community. Maybe they have different factors and they have different considerations in what they would want in the service and just wanted to close on some additional pricing considerations. So the first one is, if you're pricing to enter a market and you already have a competitor in that market, you are likely pricing under the competitor, right? You're just trying to get market share. And so once you're entering that market, I think the danger is that you stay at that underpricing for too long. Customers are much more sensitive to small increases in price. And so once you have that market penetration, it's really important to quickly raise the prices back to parity.
00:29:29.810 - 00:30:13.326, Speaker B: A number of you asked about beta pricing versus launch pricing. I personally think that the role of a beta is to feature test, and you want to understand price sensitivity, but you actually don't have to take exactly your beta pricing framework and make that your same launch pricing framework. These can be different things, right? The role of the beta is experimentation. The second one is more of a uniquely Web three issue, and it's essentially exchange risk. And so if you think about your pricing and matching your income against your expenses, you might be pricing in ETH, but all your expenses are in Fiat. So there's some sort of hedging you need to do in order to maintain that parity. In terms of being customer friendly, maybe you want to offer the ability to accept basically everything.
00:30:13.326 - 00:30:57.600, Speaker B: So you're accepting lots of different cryptocurrencies bitcoin ETH, stablecoins, and Fiat. But from a management perspective, on the back end, just understand that you'll have to hedge that out, and there's just certain considerations that you'll want to think about. One potential way to kind of address this is with things like pricing Oracles and others. And then finally, I think this is kind of my biggest point to Hammer home, is don't be in too much of a rush to lock in your pricing model. This is something that's incredibly important to get right. And so it's okay to set up these custom pricings and really work with customers in a more customized way instead of just putting something out there. I think it's just really important to take your time and not rush to put something in place that doesn't make a lot of sense.
00:30:57.600 - 00:31:04.580, Speaker B: So that's it. Happy to take any questions, but hopefully that provides a practical pricing framework for you.
00:31:05.350 - 00:31:33.820, Speaker C: Thank you both. Very useful session. So we are building like a B, two B sales type product, and we are not starting with tiering. We're just having a flat price. And then we were planning on looking at how users interact with different features to then figure out tiering. I'd be intrigued to get your perspective on that, because we looked at all these three tiers, but these were all of mature businesses. And so I wonder what they did at the start.
00:31:37.150 - 00:32:23.606, Speaker A: I think you can definitely give that a try. I think that my bias would be towards taking your best shot and best guess at an initial set of tiered features. And the reason why is that if you do that in a customer conversation, a prospective customer conversation, you have places that you can move. You can go to a lower priced offering with less features. If they are pushing back on the price point, you can give them more. If they want more and they have the ability to pay. If you just have one offering, you lose the opportunity to acquire signal about what might work for you long term.
00:32:23.606 - 00:32:37.040, Speaker A: So I'd say my bias would be be knowingly imprecise is a way to acquire data and intelligence on your prospective customers.
00:32:37.730 - 00:32:47.874, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I would say have at least two tiers. Very rarely. Almost never have I seen kind of that one tier work out. And so for a slightly different reason, I think it's important to start that differentiation early.
00:32:48.072 - 00:32:49.710, Speaker D: Hi, Jay from Etherid.
00:32:49.790 - 00:32:58.158, Speaker B: Thank you very much for the talk. I was curious how for a lot of us, we're still in the process of finding product market.
00:32:58.344 - 00:33:01.494, Speaker D: So how you think of should we.
00:33:01.532 - 00:33:04.854, Speaker B: First find product market Fit before iterating on the pricing model?
00:33:04.972 - 00:33:06.440, Speaker D: Should we try to do both?
00:33:07.130 - 00:33:29.520, Speaker B: How do you calibrate that? So I think it's something that you can do at the same time, but ultimately you want to get to that product market Fit first because a lot of that does determine kind of what you can charge in terms of pricing. So I think I would prioritize the former but have an eye to what are kind of some ways in which you can test out willingness to pay.
00:33:30.050 - 00:33:58.060, Speaker A: Building on what Maggie said. Right. Think of your pricing as some of the tools and levers that you have in that journey to finding product market Fit, because basically what you wouldn't want to learn, right? If you find that some meaningful number of people will use your product for free, but if you then want to charge them $5 a month, they all lose interest. That's a useful thing to know earlier rather than later.
00:33:59.230 - 00:34:00.140, Speaker D: Thank you.
00:34:00.910 - 00:34:38.680, Speaker E: Hey, guys. Emmanuel from Shield. My question is around when do you bring up pricing? Like the timing of bringing up pricing during a sales cycle? And just to give some more context, we've been meeting with a certain company where we've had two calls with them so far. The first one was with someone kind of more entry level. Second one was with the head of marketing. And it still seems like we would need one more call to kind of get the founder to buy into it. So we did bring up pricing with the head of marketing, but I'm just wondering if there's any best practices around when you should bring that up.
00:34:39.610 - 00:35:28.766, Speaker A: I think in my experience you sort of know it when you see it, right? You don't want to hit them over the head with like hey, I hope you like what you see and here's how much it's going to cost you. Like in the first meeting you want to get to the point where they're clearly interested and they want to know more and then rather that I think a good way to introduce it is to say hey, it sounds like we could add some value to what you're doing. Would it be helpful if we gave you some pricing? And they can say yes or no. So when they're interested, when you think you're winning, you can propose it and oftentimes they'll ask you but I think you can particularly with how early everybody is here, I think you can wait. It doesn't need to be in the first meeting.
00:35:28.878 - 00:35:54.794, Speaker B: Yeah, I think in that specific example, if the head of marketing is going to be your advocate right. They're the ones kind of pitching it. They're excited, giving them an indication of what the price is so they can help tee it up for that founder meeting versus to Jason's point, just like throwing it out in the meeting and then having everyone it's the first time they're looking at. So I would identify kind of who your main stakeholder advocate is, who's getting the benefit, helping them understand the pricing and then they can help tee it up for the decision makers.
00:35:54.922 - 00:35:55.326, Speaker E: Got it.
00:35:55.348 - 00:36:55.040, Speaker F: Thanks you I wanted to ask we've been chatting with a couple of companies that are also like they're evaluating our offer. They're evaluating also some competitive offers. And so when you're kind of not necessarily in like a bidding war but you're kind of in this place where whoever you're selling to is exploring different alternatives, is there strategies you found that are effective? Of one, is there a nice way of asking what the alternatives are and what the alternative proposals are? Is there ways of doing that competitive research and basically how do you find what the blockers or maybe if there's a step somebody else is offering that maybe you're not thinking of or that maybe just wasn't in your pitch or something that is making the client lean towards another potential contract with somebody else.
00:36:56.770 - 00:37:30.700, Speaker B: I think it a depends on how important this customer is to you. Right. So you have your lighthouse customers that you'll really do most anything to kind of land versus is this kind of a tail end customer that you might be hoping to get and then from there I would just ask them. I think in that sort of situation they might want to go with you. But there are some either pricing or feature considerations that are the blockers and they will probably tell you right. They might not tell you exactly who you're competing against, but they might say this competitor is offering XYZ. And so just understanding and it oftentimes just starts with asking.
00:37:32.910 - 00:38:27.822, Speaker A: 100% agree. I would give you a simple mathematical model to think about. You guys are all better at math than I am, but so we're going to solve this problem together. If you have like, say in every account that you're going after, particularly if you're an enterprise sales model, think of it, in every customer there's a decision maker, a champion, and an end user. If you convince the end user and your champion that you're the right solution but not the decision maker, how would you probability assess? Let's say they each have like 33% voting authority over to the decision. If you convince like two of the three, what's the probability that you're going to win? No. 66.
00:38:27.822 - 00:39:05.990, Speaker A: Right. So decision maker, decision maker, advocate, user. If two of the three are like, yeah, we should buy chain patrol, you've got a two thirds chance of winning. If you convince all of them, pretty much 100% chance if you convince one of them or none of them, much, much lower. So part of your job when you're talking to the customer is to gather that intelligence, particularly if it's a competitive deal. You want to know how you're doing, you want to know what they like about you, what they don't like about you. You want to know who else they're considering.
00:39:05.990 - 00:39:08.650, Speaker A: The best way to figure that out is to ask them.
00:39:08.720 - 00:39:12.270, Speaker F: Okay, perfect. Thank you. Lucas from Plurgood. Here.
00:39:12.340 - 00:39:19.790, Speaker A: My question is about Marketplaces and how you all think about solving the chicken and egg problem, especially around like bootstrapping liquidity.
00:39:20.370 - 00:39:52.310, Speaker B: I mean, I think that's why the power of Web three. And so thinking about kind of the token incentive model, are you asking about without that or potentially with that? Yeah, I mean, that's like a whole other conversation. I feel like we touched on some web two and Web three pricing. I know Scott talked about things like NFT drop pricing and auction mechanics. I feel like Bootstrapping Marketplaces in Web three is a whole other topic and really goes back to your tokenomics model. And so that's something that some of the other teams might address. We can talk about it offline as well.
00:39:52.380 - 00:39:53.046, Speaker A: Okay.
00:39:53.228 - 00:40:27.080, Speaker D: This is Ash from lockbox. We're working on better monitoring and automation for crypto treasuries. So we'd love to chat more about your previous company. Jason, at some point my question has to do with value based pricing and just generally how you price things when it comes to these expected value calculations for how much you might be saving someone. As far as a risk, especially early on when, let's say you have one or two customers or you have yet to actually launch, how much is research based off of analyzing market conditions for previous hacks or previous companies that have lost money? And then how do you balance that with a very small sample size with how you've actually deployed, if that makes sense, when you're just super early.
00:40:28.170 - 00:41:24.520, Speaker A: Yeah. So I would say in the early customer set, it's largely based on what you can convince them the value is that you're actually delivering. So it's more hypothetical either savings or it's a hypothetical cost benefit calculus based on publicly available data. And then really what you're trying to do is assemble a large enough first cohort of customers that you can then sort of mine their experience to go to the second cohort of customers and say, well, like with our early cohort, this is what we've seen, you should believe it too. So therefore we're pricing this way. But it is definitely it's intuition, inspiration, good presentation for that early set of customers. The result is that you're probably going to underprice for them, but that's okay.
00:41:25.210 - 00:41:26.600, Speaker D: Got it. Thank you.
00:41:27.930 - 00:41:49.710, Speaker G: I think we had one more that a team shared with me, which I'll read to you guys. How do you think about pricing within a certain company? You have one customer, and how do you think about pricing across different projects? Is it okay to start at a certain price for one project, but then increase that price over time, or would that be kind of frowned upon?
00:41:51.490 - 00:42:15.094, Speaker B: I think it just depends on the nature of the project. And so if you're adding kind of custom work, what that looks like and happy to talk about offline. But I think if it feels like it doesn't make sense, it probably doesn't. So if you're just arbitrarily increasing the price for the same type of work, you should have a pretty good reason. But if these projects truly are kind of new builds or different things, then I think there's absolutely a logical argument to increasing price.
00:42:15.292 - 00:43:24.800, Speaker A: And I think if you know that your price is going to have to go up within that same customer over time, like, say it's a collection of multiple NFT projects and, you're know, starting on their smallest brand and you want to move to the larger one, it's logical that the bigger ones are going to cost more. And so, again, I guess another concept I'd leave you guys with is you want these pricing and business discussions to be really a two way street. You're providing information and extracting information so that it's sort of like you want to ultimately end up at a price and a contract and a business relationship that both you and your customer are if not happy with. Both feel as fair value. And the way to do that is through dialogue versus sort of keeping all the insight and data close to your vest. So in the example that you're giving, you would very much want to say, like, hey, we're giving you this price for this project. But just know that if we move on to bigger things or you want more features or we're going to do this for you.
00:43:24.800 - 00:43:29.662, Speaker A: The price is going to need to change. Awesome.
00:43:29.716 - 00:43:31.546, Speaker G: Well, thank you so much, Jason and Matt.
00:43:31.578 - 00:43:32.780, Speaker A: Thank you, guys. Have a great time.
