00:00:00.330 - 00:00:22.910, Speaker A: Liquid staking hadn't really evolved across the existing solutions to move from a consumer facing sort of crypto native offering to one that could be offered to platforms and sort of meet them where they're at, which means providing great performance, security and compliance in an all in one solution that is easy to integrate. And so that is really why we built Liquid collective and why Luvil has been supporting the development of the protocol.
00:00:25.370 - 00:00:48.914, Speaker B: What's up everyone? Welcome back to another episode of Zero X Research. If you're listening to this podcast, there's a good chance that, like Dan and I, you believe the future of finance is on the blockchain. And we're excited that London is becoming a global hub for blockchain innovation and institutional adoption of digital assets. That's why we're pumped to host the 2024 Digital Asset Summit in London this March. Don't miss your chance to get ahead of the curve. Later in this episode, we'll tell you how you can save 20% off on your ticket.
00:00:48.962 - 00:01:28.322, Speaker C: All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Zero X Research. We've got an awesome interview lined up for you today with Amara Schmidt, the co founder and CEO of Alluvial, the software development company supporting the liquid collective protocol. Liquid Collective is a new liquid staking protocol on Ethereum, and they're really focused on bringing and driving institutional adoption. We get into conversations around what alluvial is doing to support liquid collective and some of the ins and outs of liquid collective as a whole. But most importantly, we have a very exciting news announcement related to the introduction of slas for liquid collective node operators. This is a very needed piece of the puzzle for liquid staking in the industry as a whole. So without further ado, let's jump straight into the episode.
00:01:28.386 - 00:01:30.840, Speaker D: Mara, thanks so much for coming on, we appreciate it.
00:01:31.150 - 00:01:32.860, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm glad to be here.
00:01:33.390 - 00:01:35.226, Speaker C: So I guess if you could just.
00:01:35.248 - 00:01:42.606, Speaker D: Walk us through your eye level overview of the liquid staking market on Ethereum today and Alluvial's role, that would be super helpful to paint that color for.
00:01:42.628 - 00:03:14.006, Speaker A: The listeners, for sure. Maybe we can start just by setting the baseline a little bit, so give you guys a little bit more context about Alluvial's role in supporting liquid collective and what the quick collective protocol is. So alluvial is the software development company behind the liquid collective protocol. The liquid collective has come together as a collection of industry leaders focused on building enterprise great liquid staking standard in the market. So the reason that we started alluvial and looking at the liquid staking market from the perspective that we did is we had a lot of members from our team, including my co founder Matt, who came over from Figment, myself coming over from bison trails and Coinbase, as well as others in our team, would spend a tremendous amount of time over the last couple of years building traditional staking products in the market to support businesses and platforms, to provide great access to staking, and supporting the security on other blockchain networks. And one of the gaps that we noticed in the market was that liquid staking had garnered traction, I would say, over the last 24 months, particularly today, liquid staking makes up almost a majority of the staking market in totality, and those numbers have actually been growing on a relative basis throughout that time period. So there's definitely resonance for liquid staking in the market as a product that offers distributed access across different operators.
00:03:14.006 - 00:04:55.142, Speaker A: A receipt token or liquid staking token that provides users a proof of their stake tokens on chain, and an ability to use those stake tokens for other purposes. And so that really reduces the opportunity cost of using staking and locking it in a traditional staking solution. And so one of the things that we've seen in that sort of market trend is that it seems like a lot of the early participants of the market, early adopters being crypto native users, folks that are both financially and technically literate and really understand how to use crypto, have really started migrating from traditional staking solutions to liquid staking options in the market. Now, one of the things that we had seen in the staking market, as has been evolving since, I want to say, 2019, is that a lot of platforms, businesses such as custodians, exchanges and others, were starting to look at staking as something that they could offer to their customers. But the liquid staking market hadn't really evolved to provide a solution that would actually work for those market segments, participants, that I would consider entering the early majority of the market, if you want to think of it from an adoption perspective. So platforms that provide services to users that are starting to on ramp into crypto, so participants that are providing custody, support, or exchange services to retail users, as well as fintechs that provide access to your average and everyday user. And so liquid staking hadn't really evolved across the existing solutions to move from a consumer facing sort of crypto native offering to one that could be offered to platforms and sort of meet them where they're at, which means providing great performance, security and compliance, and an all in one solution that is easy to integrate.
00:04:55.142 - 00:05:01.110, Speaker A: And so that is really why we built liquid collective and why Lou Wheel has been supporting the development of the protocol.
00:05:01.270 - 00:05:43.754, Speaker C: Awesome. I love the context there. And so if we zoom in a little more on to the players in the space and kind of the market structure, we've seen that liquid staking has been incredibly popular with about 80 or 80% of staked ETH as staked liquidly. And if you go deeper into that, then you see Lido's market dominance has grown to about 78% of liquid staked ETH and about 32% of total staked ETH. And this has been a bit of a point of contention across much of the ecosystem. You've seen some of the smaller players in the space come together and kind of self limit themselves. And you've seen, honestly, just a lot of the discourse revolving around this as being a lot of push and pull between.
00:05:43.754 - 00:06:03.280, Speaker C: They should be more cognizant of the impact this has on the market versus, well, I think the other side of that is you just need better solutions in the market that users actually want to use. So how do you think about this market dynamic with Lido's dominance in the early stages of this liquid staking market as a whole?
00:06:04.450 - 00:07:44.160, Speaker A: Yeah, so it's a super interesting and also very timely conversation, given all the discourse in the ecosystem around this. I think circling back on sort of the comments I made earlier, I think liquid staking does fundamentally change the dynamics of the market in a meaningful way. There is really no reason to hold Ethereum if you have the option to hold staked Ethereum and earn rewards and contribute to security while doing so. And so the way that we think about this, sort of zooming out and looking at the markflow level, is that liquid staking tokens sort of change the natural constraint that you would see on the target addressable market, or the total amount of ETH that we would see staked in the network, because the amount of ETH that would be staked in the network through traditional staking is really constrained by the fact that ETH is also a consumable asset, right, for gas payments, fee payments and other things, and the opportunity cost of using ETH for other things, right. And you would think that other reward generating activities, such as using them in lending or other participation opportunities, could create an equilibrium in the market where we could see 35% to 40%, sort of being the cap on the total estate and traditional solutions. But liquid staking really changes that fundamental dynamic and sort of mitigating the opportunity cost or the trade off that you have to make when having the option to hold staked ETH and also use it for other things. And so we do fundamentally believe that that just changes and expands significantly how much of Ethereum we're going to be seeing staked in the market.
00:07:44.160 - 00:09:29.954, Speaker A: To your comments on how have we seen the market evolve? I've worked in the staking space for a couple of years now, and proof of stake is still really early, and it's also still a maturing market. And so when you look back about two years ago, the main trend that we've seen is there were previously actually also providers that sort of hit that 32 33% mark. And those were mostly traditional staking as a service providers that were really successful at sort of capitalizing on the early market opportunity of providing staking services to businesses and platforms and other users. And there was sort of the shift of a lot of that market share away from these centralized providers and towards distributed solutions like lido protocols that provide liquid staking services. I think our general view of the market, and just having seen that evolve, is that sort of these early means of centralization and concentration are somewhat of a sign of sort of a maturing market, a market that is still evolving, where you sort of see solutions transcend one another, sort of evolve into something that in the end becomes a more comprehensive, a more secure, a more diversified offering for users. From our point of view, I think we do want to see Ethereum as an environment where users have many different options of how they want to stake their ETH, whether it's doing it themselves, or choosing a traditional staking provider, or running DVT clusters across themselves and their friends, or choosing to work with liquid staking protocol that sort of meets the needs and requirements that they have. And from our perspective, building a really healthy competitive market with optionality for different user segments and solutions that are really catered to.
00:09:29.954 - 00:09:53.434, Speaker A: Meeting the needs of those user segments have, is the best way to make sure that we end up with a much more diversified solution landscape. And I think having sort of seen this evolution over the last few years, my personal perspective is that we're really early still. There's a lot of market participants that haven't entered, and there's a lot of the early majority and late majority market that is looking to come on board.
00:09:53.472 - 00:09:53.626, Speaker B: Right.
00:09:53.648 - 00:09:59.130, Speaker A: And that will require very different types of solution scope and expertise to bring those types of customers on.
00:09:59.200 - 00:10:00.794, Speaker D: That's super helpful context as well.
00:10:00.832 - 00:10:01.578, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:10:01.744 - 00:10:30.982, Speaker D: In terms of adoption, I mean, liquid collective launched in March and then made its code open source in July, and now it kind of has seen recently, deposits really pick up, and now it's up to around $75 to $80 million of collateral for its LST. So how does the product offering, I guess, differ from other things on the market? That would be enough of a force to bring users over to you guys, as opposed to people in the competition, for sure.
00:10:31.036 - 00:11:15.102, Speaker A: So I would start probably by saying that we have a very differentiated approach to who we service in the market. As I mentioned previously, having come and helped build businesses like Bison trails and figment across people on our team, we really understand and know what it means to serve enterprises and platforms that are using products to service their users. And our protocol is actually b to b to c, or if you will, a protocol to platform to user type of distribution model, where we actually build a protocol that can service businesses and platforms, that can integrate our solution through a comprehensive suite of APIs, and then actually service that capability to their user segments.
00:11:15.166 - 00:11:15.394, Speaker B: Right.
00:11:15.432 - 00:12:12.982, Speaker A: Whether those are institutional customers or retail users. And so we do have a quite distinct focus on servicing those users. We're not directly to consumer or directly to retail, which is what all liquid staking protocols in the market today are really targeting. So that's probably the first thing. Today we have multiple different integration venues, which means that you can go on Coinbase, or you can go on bitcoin Swiss, or you can connect your fireblocks or bitcoin wallets through figment, and you can actually access the protocol through those different venues in an experience that's natively embedded, something that you're used to, and with all the benefits and perks of selecting that platform of choice. What we had noticed, as I mentioned earlier, and sort of the part of our origin and why we started building this product, was that when you service businesses and platforms, there's sort of an innate focus that you need to have on security, performance, compliance and security. Right.
00:12:12.982 - 00:12:25.738, Speaker A: And so those are the things that we have doubled down on as we have thought about our positioning, the things that we prioritize and invest in. And we can go into sort of the things that differentiate that feature set in a little bit more detail.
00:12:25.824 - 00:12:47.700, Speaker C: So I want to dive a little deeper on an exciting announcement that you guys have. Liquid Collective will become the first liquid staking protocol to introduce service level agreements for baseline validator performance. How does this really help to ensure that the liquid collective users are receiving superior staking performance? And can you just dive in a bit on the importance of this overall service level agreements in this space?
00:12:48.390 - 00:13:50.738, Speaker A: Yeah, we're really excited about this, actually. We are really the first protocol to have an embedded SLA for users. And the reason why we did this is when you look at traditional SaaS products, right, slas are really standard. You have a set of provisions and guarantees that you extend to platforms or to the users that are using the product, because those guarantees are really important to them. They want to know what they're getting, and they want to know that the things that you're offer. Right. And for us, taking this approach of finding the middle ground between building a decentralized and distributed backend, but servicing different platforms that extend those to users, building this type of performance SLa, this type of guarantee around relative performance, was really important to us, and sort of a herculean effort overall as a number of different partners, including rated and the stake team, the folks over at Coinbase and Figment.
00:13:50.738 - 00:14:50.714, Speaker A: And so it was really exciting to get a task group together that really looked at this in detail, to figure out the right approach, what kind of methodologies and objectives we were looking at. And so what we ended up deciding on was really in an effort to build a market wide sort of understanding for how we can measure performance, sort of requires using a methodology that is replicatable. It can be generalized. Ideally, it reduces randomness as much as possible, is taking a more deterministic approach, and it's accessible to everyone else, so that not just liquid collective, but other participants in the market can use it. And we recognize that need, because when we asked our node operators how they were measuring performance, so that we could aggregate that in some way that could be measured to our users, we found that everyone had a different way of measuring it. And that obviously doesn't really work when you're trying to explain to customers what they're getting, if they're using your product. And so we decided to sort of join forces with everyone on this.
00:14:50.714 - 00:15:42.454, Speaker A: And Raiden has done really great work putting together what they call the ravers. So this is basically a measurement that looks at how validators are performing against the duties that they have, the consensus layer duties, so proposing and basically testing and how effective they are in doing these things over time. What it doesn't look at is some of the elements that are more random, right? Like execution layer fees and other things that introduce randomness into this measure. So we wanted to look at something that is deterministic and that we can really use as a comparative metric. And so we went through a benchmarking process. We looked at how different node operators that run more than 100 nodes of professional operators that operate at scale, need to perform. And we set a benchmark at the 50th percentile of all each providers that run more than 100 nodes as the benchmark for the SLA that we've put in place.
00:15:42.454 - 00:16:27.800, Speaker A: And so what we do is take a three month trailing average and then we update that every month to take a look at a snapshot of the overall network and how everyone is doing. And our benchmark is set on a relative basis across our node operators. What's really great with this methodology is that you can build on it over time. So we're going to be looking at things like adding missed blocks, quotas for example, and other things that are sort of meaningful and building out sort of the dashboard capabilities, API and monitoring that people can use for observability as well. And so our hope is that this is sort of a contribution to something that the industry can actually use more holistically and can be implemented in a way so everyone can really compare what they're looking at when we say how performant is a protocol or solution and the operators within it.
00:16:28.330 - 00:17:00.420, Speaker C: Now that's super exciting to hear and also very awesome to hear that the folks over at rated were involved as they've been doing such a great job kind of pushing forward the data side of the beacon chain. So really appreciate to hear that as well. And I find it really interesting that all of the node operators that you are using today kind of had different metrics, but that makes sense. But I'm curious, when you kind of approach them with this idea of using this unified metric, what was their reaction? Were they almost relieved or did they help kind of guide and create this as well?
00:17:01.030 - 00:18:10.120, Speaker A: They most definitely did. I think everyone had a ton of feedback perspectives. We spent a lot of time sort of across the task group looking and considering different inputs that ended up tweaking the way that we thought about both the methodology, the benchmark and other things that sort of folded into that. I would say that for us, collaboration has sort of been an anchor point of the way that we've built the business. And so we have been running this sort of task group format with industry experts and subject matter experts on a number of different things like the compliance standards that we put in place or the terms of service agreements that we publish. We partnered with an industry leading cohort, including folks like Lito, on a set of regulatory white papers. So we've generally taken the approach that taking a collaborative measure is the best way to build buy in, is the best way to accomplish the establishment of some type of holistic or objective standard setting, whether it's in the performance category or in the security category and other areas, because we do think that it actually helps everyone in the industry sort of use a common language right around the things that are important.
00:18:10.120 - 00:18:36.498, Speaker A: And we definitely want to contribute to that golf course and that foundation. And so I think the node operators were excited to sort of dig into this. And again, we're providing a ton of perspective. And so it's been really helpful to sort of get those folks rallied around. And hopefully there's more participants and other node operators and the community at large that has feedback on the methodology and things that can be incorporated to continuously iterate on that.
00:18:36.584 - 00:18:39.086, Speaker D: I'm curious, when you kind of conducted.
00:18:39.118 - 00:18:40.626, Speaker C: This, I suppose a bit of a.
00:18:40.648 - 00:19:04.394, Speaker D: Study, how much variance was there between the big boys and from the most performant one, let's say, absolutely perfect, to, let's say, towards the lower bracket, was it that big of a difference? Because in my head, I always kind of just assumed that everyone was more or less the same, which is probably a bad assumption. But if you could shed some light on, that'd be awesome.
00:19:04.592 - 00:19:54.570, Speaker A: Totally. I mean, we did a really widespread analysis on a number of different things. We looked at different operator categories, so validators that were running a different amount of validator counts, looking for anything like at home validators to professional operators that run more than 100 validators for their customers. And so the way that we looked at this was, what is the variance or what is the normalistic distribution of the operational performance and how many standard deviations? If you look at the bell curve, right, you'll sort of have the median and you'll have sort of the distribution across standard deviations. It's actually a pretty narrow range. So the deterministic performance is not extremely variable, but that's actually a really important measure because it tells you how effective validators are at doing their actual job. Right.
00:19:54.570 - 00:20:15.600, Speaker A: There's other components like execution layer rewards and fees that may feed into certain randomness depending on the blocks that people are proposing and sort of getting rewarded for. But for us, it was really important that we were able to take an objective measure and to also figure out what the density was across the function. Right. How much was the distribution, how did that look?
00:20:16.370 - 00:20:49.740, Speaker C: That makes a lot of sense, especially on the side of kind of like reducing that randomness, right. If you're proposing a block when it's in the peak of a bear market gas is at nine Gwe, it's going to have a lot different of activity happening within that block than if you're literally the next block after the FTX collapse. Right. So that makes a lot of sense to kind of take that angle. But the other thing I think about on the other side of that, I guess, is opting into mev boost kind of does change how you accrue rewards. So how does that kind of factor in as well?
00:20:50.770 - 00:21:51.338, Speaker A: It absolutely does. All of the node operators in liquid collective run mev relays. And so it's definitely important from a performance distribution standpoint. One of the things that we're looking at is what is the relative performance delta between different relays, and what can we learn about the observability there in the market? We have taken the approach of letting node operators sort of make their own selection based on the research and the intel that they've done internally, and not to sort of provision or mandate that. The thing that is important to us, and it's important to us across sort of all different vectors, is just the distribution. So making sure that we have distribution variability and diversity across the different relays that are being used, but also the regions that operators are deploying their nodes in, making sure that people have diversification across cloud providers or on prem, making sure that we have resilient infrastructure that prevents correlated failures.
00:21:51.514 - 00:22:10.360, Speaker D: This is somewhat tangential, but would you say that these service level agreements kind of open the door a bit more so for some more institutional capital to partake in liquid staking? Because you'd think they'd want some kind of assurance? I suppose so. I don't know if that was angle that went into, I guess, the rationale behind and motivation behind this.
00:22:11.530 - 00:23:08.742, Speaker A: Absolutely. I mean, you need to know your customer segment. And so from our perspective, there are additive things that are, I think, important for us to introduce into the industry to ensure that we can actually bring institutional capital online, but also onboard a lot of the enterprises that provide access to just mainstream users to be able to partake in staking. Right. And the things that these platforms look at is in some way a guarantee and an understanding, in an easy to measure way, what it means to have a performance solution, or what it looks like to have compliance measures in place that are meaningful to them. So from our perspective, we've always taken the lens of what do our customers need and what can we build towards to give them the assurances and to build a holistic product offering that can meet them where they're at and where their needs are.
00:23:08.876 - 00:23:28.430, Speaker C: Okay, that's super interesting, and I'm sure this metric will play a role in how you gauge whether a new node operator will be able to be onboarded in the future. But can you just walk us through what that process looks like? I know you have three today between Coinbase, cloud, figment and staked, but do you plan to kind of scale that up as TVL increases?
00:23:29.970 - 00:24:35.646, Speaker A: Absolutely. I think that's one of the sort of foundational elements of the way that we've been thinking about the way that we've sequenced things and where we've been spending our time. Part of the work that we announced with rated is not just around the focus on performance, but also formulating an objective methodology for risk and security measures and standards. More on that soon. But we've really wanted to build a foundation that could build for an objective framework that we could leverage to look at and evaluate, and onboard new node operators to set some of these targets, to set some of these threshold or benchmarks that we want to reach in order to make sure that we have a safe and performant offering for users to tap into. And I think one of the things that is really part of that roadmap is looking at what kind of configurations and middleware solutions we can leverage to not just ensure that we have node operator diversity that sort of meets a lot of the requirements that we've set forth, but also ensure that we're continuing to implement risk mitigating technologies like DBT.
00:24:35.758 - 00:24:36.046, Speaker C: Right.
00:24:36.088 - 00:24:47.880, Speaker A: And so those things will probably run in parallel as we continue doing discovery on the optimized threshold configurations and solutions that our node operator said will effectively execute on.
00:24:48.570 - 00:25:09.040, Speaker C: That's awesome, that's awesome. And I want to get a little more into the, I don't know if tech stacks the right word here, but I want to talk about LSE. So, the receipt token of the protocol, what does the process look like? If a user wants to go and say, all right, I have a thousand eth, I want to go stake them through liquid collective. What would that process look like for me?
00:25:09.810 - 00:26:02.320, Speaker A: So there's two ways to get from ETH to ls etH. The first one is to mint it, right? And so to take your ETH, deposit it through the protocol on the beacon chain, and then get ls ETH as a receipt as that staked position. You can do that across any of the platforms that support the protocol, including Coinbase, Bitcoin, Swiss Figment, who provides custody access to a number of different custodial and non custodial solutions, including ledger and Bitgo, Twinstake, hash node, and others that sort of provide the platform basis for people to deposit ETH. And mint ls ETH in return. The other option, of course, is to swap or take ETH and take it into LS ETH, which we don't necessarily support through any specific platforms, but is sort of available and accessible in the market.
00:26:04.310 - 00:26:17.240, Speaker D: That's super interesting to me. So I guess I'm just having trouble reconciling, why is it so important to have KYC requirements at the minting level, but not so much so at the swap level?
00:26:18.410 - 00:27:34.974, Speaker A: So if you think about it, it's similar to the model that USDC has. And what we really looked at here is, what is the major concern that customers and institutional clients had with using a lot of the know, call them fully permissionless protocols? And the biggest concern is really that when you're pulling ETH into a contract and you receive a receipt token that does not discriminate where that ETH came from, then chances are when you're pulling out that ETH, you might get ETH back. That may be in sanctions violations or that flags and triggers antimoney laundering concerns, and you don't know what eth you're getting back. But that consideration is really important for institutions and enterprises that are looking to adopt the sniper solution in the market, making sure that the ETH that they actually retrieve is clean. Right. And so that's why we've taken the position. Know, similar to the way that USDC sort of has an implementation to make sure that all of the US dollars that enter the system that USDC gets minted against is clean, we have the same sort of methodology with an assurance and global compliance program that includes KYC and AML at the integrator level.
00:27:34.974 - 00:28:02.274, Speaker A: So the platforms that integrate the protocol to make sure that we sort of meet those obligations and requirements. Now, what happens after that, really, the way that we look at it, and I don't know if you guys have read through some of the publications that we've had on this, but we really view liquid staking tokens as receipts. And receipts in the traditional commodities world are similar to the way that you would think about a warehouse receipt or bill that you get when you deposit commodities into a warehouse.
00:28:02.322 - 00:28:02.678, Speaker B: Right?
00:28:02.764 - 00:28:16.300, Speaker A: And so we've leaned on a lot of these considerations when building out this compliance policy, and again, actually worked collaboratively with compliance officers at a number of different businesses and industry leading partners to put that sort of policy in place.
00:28:17.070 - 00:29:09.500, Speaker C: I really love the analogy to USDC there. I think that's a really helpful way to contextualize it, especially for just crypto natives who are already comfortable with USDC, but then see something like this, hear the words KYC, AML or whitelist or permissioned minting set, and kind of have a bit of an aneurysm. But at the end of the day, it is very analogous to USDC. So I love the context you put around that. When I think about that process, I'm just curious if you've kind of built out your own internal system because Coinbase recently announced their verification process, which is kind of their own version of an identity solution. I think they're piloting it on base right now. I'm curious if you like, do you think about that integration at all, the potential for that integration with kind of leveraging an existing solution that potentially gets widespread adoption? And further to that, are you doing your own internal process for this right now?
00:29:10.610 - 00:30:01.018, Speaker A: So alluvial and liquid collective are not directly involved in doing any KYC whatsoever. The way that we've built this model is that every platform that integrates the service needs to adhere to the compliance guidelines that we have. We have a third party compliance partner, exiger, that operates under Capgemini, so large global company that focuses on compliance policies. And what they do is actually validate that the platforms that are integrated in your service are meeting those requirements, as opposed to having every single user go through a net new application or review process. It's actually already embedded in anything that you would do to open a traditional account for any of these venues as it already is. Right. And so there's sort of no net new or burdensome process that users have to go through.
00:30:01.018 - 00:30:53.120, Speaker A: It's all already embedded in the platform experience and account creation process that you would have of any of these solutions. In terms of how we think about credentialing, I'm really excited about this space. I hope that we can get to a place from just technological maturity standpoint where decentralized credentialing, and not just centralized credentialing systems can actually proliferate. We would definitely look to integrate those types of solutions in the long run, right. And foster their development, the discovery around them, and eventually support the funding of those kinds of initiatives. We see this as sort of instrumental to go from a centralized validation landscape where centralized providers or platforms are providing the service, to eventually having a much more widespread surface area where hopefully people can self credential, right. And have some verification proof that relates back to that.
00:30:54.130 - 00:31:02.880, Speaker C: Okay, so the actual process then kind of falls on the shoulders of the integrators. Can you talk to us a bit about who the integrators are today.
00:31:03.830 - 00:31:48.014, Speaker A: Yeah, we have a pretty broad set of integration partners. So integrators include platforms like Coinbase, who has direct access integrations on Coinbase? Prime, bitcoin, Swiss Figment, who provides custody integrations with a number of custodians, Twinstake. Hashnote we also have custody support and access across a number of different venues, including Anchorage, copper, bitco, fireblocks. And so we're really the first liquid staking protocol to have this sort of widespread support across existing solutions. And remember, there's a massive universe of users that actually require access to those kinds of platforms to be able to interact and use crypto because of internal policies that they may have.
00:31:48.052 - 00:31:48.350, Speaker B: Right.
00:31:48.420 - 00:31:58.260, Speaker A: And so for us, it's actually really important that we build a product that can really help that early majority of users really onboard into staking and contribute meaningfully to the space.
00:31:59.030 - 00:32:13.080, Speaker D: This one's a bit out of left field, but have you thought at all about restaking and how that could potentially affect the liquid staking market? Is that something you guys are keeping an eye on, or is that like, we'll kind of get to that when it's actually live?
00:32:14.730 - 00:33:07.366, Speaker A: We're definitely looking at it. I think it's an incredibly exciting and promising innovation for the market in a number of different ways. The way that we look at this is what are sort of the fundamental things that we would need to build towards as an industry in order to make restaking accessible to your average user, as well as institutions that are starting to build an appetite around this space. And so the way that we think about these things are, how do you provide accessibility across, for example, some of the platforms that we support? How can you provide different strategies that have a very clearly articulated, risk adjusted lens to them, so people can articulate the risk of interacting with some of these products and solutions. And so we are excited to roll up our sleeves and support meaningfully in that innovation and bring it to our customers when the time comes.
00:33:07.468 - 00:34:02.386, Speaker B: All right, zero X Research listeners, we're calling on you to join us for the premier institutional Crypto conference in Europe's crypto capital, London this March 2024. You're going to get to hear exclusive insights from industry trailblazers on things like leveraging d five protocols for institutional yield, tokenizing real world assets with instant settlement, navigating the evolving global regulatory landscape, integrating digital assets into banking and payments, or crafting institutional investment mandates with digital assets as the key focus. We'll also be featuring some big keynote speakers, including Melvin Dang, the CEO at QCP Capital, Mark Yusco, the CEO and managing partner of Morgan Creek Capital, and Stani Kluchin, the founder and CEO of Ave Companies. This is not an event you're going to want to miss. Seats are limited, so be sure to register today by hitting the link in the description and using promo code Zero X 20 to save 20% on your ticket. See you in London, the land of tasty pastries. And be sure to hit up Dan.
00:34:02.418 - 00:34:03.282, Speaker D: And I for a beer.
00:34:03.346 - 00:34:25.822, Speaker C: I want to talk about the users of this protocol. Right, so how would you define the maybe what the perfect user looks like or what the target audience is? Because it sounds like you have a bit more of that institutional focus, and I think that makes sense, and it really does feel like a hole in the marketplace today. So can you just walk us through your thought process on who the audience is for liquid collective, for sure, since.
00:34:25.876 - 00:35:42.838, Speaker A: We have a b to b to c model, right. Our customers are effectively the platforms that provide access to liquid collective for their user groups. A lot of those platforms, as we've gone through before, are platforms that are focused on servicing institutional users. And that was quite an intentional sort of go to market decision on our side, which means that a lot of the end users today are actually institutional clients, long holding funds, venture funds, corporate funds, participants that are really security conscious and that want to make sure that they can access a solution through that news that they can use and that have sort of been approved on their side. But over time, we obviously look to expand to other platforms that may serve very broader set of participants and users more holistically. Right? Our hope is really that we can get to a place where a user on Robinhood, or a user on Robinhood on revolut can actually use this product easily, right? Can just plug in and get access to staking, participation in a really seamless and frictionless way. And on that path, what we want to create is a really great user experience, because liquid staking abstracts from a lot of the complexities and the difficulties of using a traditional staking product where bonding periods, unbonding periods, the activation queue, these things change, and that's really hard to digest for users.
00:35:42.838 - 00:35:50.700, Speaker A: So we want to abstract away from a lot of that complexity while providing a solution that is performant and secure for the customers to actually tether to.
00:35:51.470 - 00:36:03.280, Speaker C: What are some of the types of users or entities that you've seen in the initial set of depositors, and how do you expect it to change in the future? Who are some of the entities that you haven't yet seen that you would really love to see come in.
00:36:04.450 - 00:36:54.814, Speaker A: So I think, as I mentioned, a lot of the participants today are sort of long holding ETH participants, people who are looking to participate in staking, but are very security conscious and are looking for solutions that sort of meet them where they're at. I think as we continue expanding support across other platforms, we do expect to see sort of a shift in some of the user groups that we're looking and exciting to activate. And I think two come to mind. Specifically. The first one is the structured product market, which has been moving pretty swiftly in terms of we've had ETP providers that have launched estaking products over the last two years. Most recently, we had folks like three IQ get approved for the first state East ETF in Canada. And so we do expect that the ETP and ETF market will continue to grow.
00:36:54.814 - 00:37:10.034, Speaker A: And we do see liquid staking as actually a fundamental and very strong fit for those platforming participants, right. Because for them having t plus one or t plus two redemption requirements, the activation withdrawal queues being variable is not a good fit for the product that they're offering.
00:37:10.082 - 00:37:10.438, Speaker B: Right.
00:37:10.524 - 00:38:11.434, Speaker A: And so we're really looking to support those solutions and coming live with a product that sort of meets the needs that they have to build a great solution product for their clients. The other thing that I would say, and this is probably in the category of participants that are not meaningfully participating in staking, but could be using a product like ours to actually start participating in the market is basically any institutional participant that is looking at this from a trading perspective, right? So think about hedge funds, for example, or participants that are trying to figure out how to access market neutral trading positions, but for whom traditional staking periods and requirements are not really compatible with the strategies that they're pursuing. And so we do have a lot of partners that we work with that are thinking through these things to figure out how to build market neutral strategies and other things that can help them get access to ethereum space reward rate, right? Which many people have sort of inferred to as the risk free rate equivalent in the web3 market.
00:38:11.632 - 00:38:33.600, Speaker C: The ETp space, I think is super interesting. And you're right, especially with the US ETF narratives coming through, that does seem like this super interesting vector. Can you just expand a little bit more on why liquid staking recede tokens? Make kind of our perfect fit for that. Is it just the liquidity aspect and you can kind of help meet that t plus two redemption, or is there something a little bit deeper there?
00:38:34.210 - 00:38:45.134, Speaker A: I think there's a number of things, and it's not necessarily exclusive to the structured product space. When you look at the benefits of liquid seeking protocols and the way that we designed ours.
00:38:45.182 - 00:38:45.634, Speaker B: Right.
00:38:45.752 - 00:39:22.922, Speaker A: I think the first and foremost thing when you look at most of these platforms is that the offering that they're providing needs to be secure. And so they'll not just look at the providers that are offering the service, but in most cases are already distributing stake across a bunch of different operators. Why? Because Ethereum has correlation protections built in, or disincentives, if you want to call it that. Right. And so there's a motivation to distribute stake across different operators to minimize that risk. Surface. There is sort of a look towards getting accessibility through the venues that they need to access these solutions through, in most cases, qualified custodians.
00:39:22.922 - 00:40:26.690, Speaker A: Right. And being able to sort of provide the protection through splashing insurance and other things that we have natively built into our product. Now, I think specific to the structured product market, as I mentioned earlier, because of the redemption requirements that a lot of these participants are required to fulfill, the variability and the way that Ethereum handles its activation and withdrawal queues is not really compatible with a format where you have a guaranteed redemption period that you need to fulfill. Right. And so instead of managing a reserve on the back end, where you have to sort of arbitrage and figure out how much of your liquidity you need to manage in order to be able to fulfill these redemptions, liquid staking actually alleviates a lot of that operational overhead because you can tap into a solution that allows you to fulfill those recruptions and sort of instantaneous basis. And so that's why we do believe that there's sort of a strong fit, particularly with that solution landscape. And given the timing, now that we're starting to see a lot of these applications sort of move through the process, and some of them in different jurisdictions, actually already going through approvals.
00:40:27.270 - 00:41:01.658, Speaker C: And when I think about the demand for a structured product around the estaking yield, I kind of like am stuck in the middle here. I really do feel like I'm mid curving this one, because on one hand, 4% on my favorite asset, that's a no brainer. Of course I'm going to want to try to get exposure to that. But on the other, I can also see the argument for, well, these institutional capital allocators are allocating just a small portion of their portfolio, maybe 1% to 2%, and even less of that in a specific asset ETH. So the added risk there just maybe isn't worth the return. Right. They're thinking that this is either going to zero or is going to triple.
00:41:01.658 - 00:41:12.450, Speaker C: So in your experience, I want to just get a little bit of insight around how you think institutional investors kind of like position the ETH yield or the ETH staking rate in their minds.
00:41:13.590 - 00:41:54.766, Speaker A: It's really interesting and potentially counterintuitive, but most of the participants that we talk to don't talk much about their reward rates or the performance. And the reason for that is the variance is really not that high. The thing that varies a lot is how secure the setup is. Right. What is the risk of principal loss, which is so much more important than the couple of bibs that you can squeeze in and out, depending on the configuration that you're deploying. And so that is really the dominant part of the conversation that we have with any type of institutional customer, is the security posture as the market continues to evolve. I think it's particularly in this part that changes.
00:41:54.868 - 00:41:55.182, Speaker B: Right.
00:41:55.236 - 00:42:43.680, Speaker A: If we really want to get towards a risk free rate, it's not a risk free rate. Today. The things that we need to do is ensure that infrastructure standards are appropriately configured, that the insurance market, not just the decentralized, but also the traditional insurance market, ramps up so that we have coverage support across the different products and solutions that exist. And making sure that the trade off of evaluating, participating at a 4% reward rate and the risk that is associated with that is effectively reduced or mitigated so that everyone can participate in securing the blockchain. Right. That's ultimately the goal. And us progressing the industry in some ways with the work that we're doing on building a lot of the standards that we're working towards, and sort of bringing them out in an open source way is really a measure that we're taking in order to get towards that.
00:42:44.130 - 00:43:23.966, Speaker C: Okay, yeah, no, that makes a ton of sense to me. And then just lastly on the ETP stuff. So the liquidity aspect of this is, of course, super important, as you mentioned. Can you just walk us through how liquid collective kind of thinks about the withdrawal cube? Because even though withdrawals are live through liquid collective, if there was a mass exit event, for whatever reason, there is the potential for a DPEG for a short period of time. So how's the redemption process designed within the liquid collective protocol? And if you could really just talk about the measures that the protocol takes to help prevent that deep egg during that mass exodus event, for sure, I.
00:43:23.988 - 00:44:13.710, Speaker A: Think probably first and foremost, we deploy c token model, right. And so we don't have a unit based accrual system that you would see with traditional a tokens. Instead, every LSE basically represents staked ETH plus the rewards, and uses a conversion rate that then actually refers to the underlying value of ETH plus accrued rewards, minus the fees and the potential penalties that come from the validation service. And so, in and of itself, the value of LSE does not have an explicit peg to the market value of ETH. Right. The concept of LSE ppegging for the value of ETH is unlikely and are just the opportunity, I think, in the long run, for market arbitrage between the prices in the secondary market and the conversion rate. And I think we've seen sort of self stabilizing forces in the market around that.
00:44:13.710 - 00:44:24.574, Speaker A: When we see liquid staking tokens that are priced at a discount or relative premium, comparative to the market rate of eat, where it's been relevant in terms.
00:44:24.612 - 00:44:40.710, Speaker D: Of fee structure, I think you guys have a 15% take rate on the yield. So that's lower than Coinbase's 25%, but higher than Lido's 10%. How did you guys arrive at this number? And yeah, just any other info you could share on that would be great, for sure.
00:44:40.780 - 00:45:40.914, Speaker A: So we just, as I mentioned before, are obviously focused on distributing to platforms. And so our commercial model is different from what you would see with consumer facing or retail facing products like Lidl or rocket pole or stakewise. For us, it was really important that one, the offering for end users would be competitive and also could be flexibly priced, and that platforms were able to generate meaningful revenue streams and actually a real meaningful commercial model from the integration of the product. Right. And so the way that our business actually works and the way that the reward rate is or the protocol fee is constructed, platforms actually get to decide how they want to price the product to their end users. And so we've built in flexibility for the market to actually determine what end users effectively receive as part of the payment structure. And so the reason for that design was in part because different platforms have different value propositions.
00:45:40.914 - 00:46:35.370, Speaker A: They know their customers, and we really wanted to make sure that platforms were empowered and enabled to actually set the pricing fees for their clients. The other thing is that we're not a pure, just institutional focused product, but we support platforms that may have retail users or institutional customers, and those segments have widely different pricing sensitivities, where in general, institutional clients, especially large sophisticated clients, have a lot of price power and they tend to be quite price sensitive, whereas retail users, as you see, with a lot of sort of the exchange rate fees that you see that are significantly higher than some of the institutional rates, that market segment tends to be a little bit less price sensitive. And so we wanted to kind of find the middle ground in the way that we set the gross protocol fee, and also empower platforms to ultimately make the decision of how they wanted to price their users without necessarily being involved in that process or mandating that pricing structure.
00:46:36.110 - 00:47:02.930, Speaker C: Now, that's super unique. And on the platform. Yeah, I know you have a lot of integrators that are like exchanges, and we've seen a lot of exchanges kind of see that market potential as well, and then create their own liquid staking solution. Coinbase has, CBE Finance now has was. If I was an exchange, why would I not want to funnel all of my activity towards my own staking solution and also opt into liquid collective?
00:47:04.390 - 00:48:02.258, Speaker A: I think this goes back to sort of our fundamental view on the market. I think when we think about mainstream adoption, what does mainstream adoption look like, and what does mainstream adoption mean in terms of the things that solution needs to provide? And so the way that we really have always thought about this is that any market leading product would be leading on the basis of its liquidity, the utility it provides to its users, the opportunity to move tokens across platforms, and having interoperability across them, and having security and compliance built in by design. It's sort of a question of, do you build to holistically service the market, or do you sort of silo your product to the platform that is providing the service? And our view was always that partnering with different platforms, providing access across a really widespread set of market participants, is the best product for users, because it gives them optionality.
00:48:02.354 - 00:48:02.758, Speaker B: Right.
00:48:02.844 - 00:49:09.622, Speaker A: It also means that you can build a much larger addressable market through that than just servicing your own users on your own exchange, or through your own custody platform. Right. And I think because liquid shaking tokens in so many ways behave like money and have the same mechanisms or dynamics, when you think about sort of the network effects that come with building liquid shaking tokens in the market, that interoperability, that scalability model is so, so important to have, and build liquidity to get to the point where the mainstream market can actually access this product in a meaningful way. And I think there's a couple of other things that we always sort of looked at, and we took a lot of inspiration from the way that Visa was built, not as a crypto company, but as an organization that pioneered this model of taking a lot of industry competitors and partners together to build a payment system. We kind of view our business as quite similar in the sense that we partner with a lot of different industry leading companies and businesses to sort of build this standard in the market. And there are merits to taking that collaborative approach, even though collaboration is costly.
00:49:09.686 - 00:49:10.010, Speaker B: Right.
00:49:10.080 - 00:49:55.980, Speaker A: Not an easy thing to do, I would say it's probably one of the harder things to do, but the merit of that is being able to sort of form a collective or shared understanding and sort of built the accountability to build something that is great and ever evolving and particularly in our market. I think one of the unique advantages we see with that approach is the fact that you can actually bring all these parties together to think about things that are sort of beyond just them, right? Building for regulatory advocacy, coming together on publishing white papers like we did on spoilblum proposal workstream, and getting those out there so that we could take a more proactive approach in the policy discourse and conversation. And I think that is actually really important for a technology and a primitive that is as impactful as liquid thing can be on the entire market.
00:49:57.710 - 00:50:15.300, Speaker C: We touched on this a bit with the restaking aspect and I think we mentioned DBT earlier in the conversation as well. But I'm curious if there's any more innovations in the liquid staking market that you think about as being super, super interesting, like maybe the emerging middleware segment in another way. How do you think about these things?
00:50:16.230 - 00:51:18.726, Speaker A: Well, we think about them a lot. I think there's sort of the middleware performance focused landscape of MEV that obviously we're spending a ton of time on taking a look at the way that we can continue sort of advocating for best practices and considerations there. DBT personally, I've been very involved with that technology sort of since its early innings and kicking off the first working group on that with the Ethereum foundation. But I do fundamentally believe that DBT sort of changes the configuration of how we think about risk sharing across load operators, and it also becomes an input, if you will, into the insurance conversations because you're building an effectively resilient model that just provides a significantly better posture and security for users. Right. And anything that can sort of accomplish that is something that I personally, and I think we as a business want to support. I think there's a lot of market trends though that are interesting kind of beyond, just like what is happening in the middleware space.
00:51:18.726 - 00:52:16.070, Speaker A: When you look at everything that's happening in the Altune stratosphere at the moment and all the migrations that are happening, particularly as we think about the conversation, we just had about we see exchanges building their own liquid staking tokens. Well, we're also seeing them build their own altus. Right? And what does that sort of mean for composability in the market? It all goes back to the question of how can we build outside of silos? How do we create utility for users? How do we make it really easy for people to communicate with different platforms? Because that is actually the fundamental value of this technology. Right. If we bifurcate and silo everything at different layers of the stack, you sort of lose a lot of that value for customers and the ability to sort of move around and use the composability that this technology was designed for. So I'm really excited to see how that continues evolving and sort of keeping our tabs on it and of course contributing in our own way to support that as part of our expansion footprint.
00:52:17.130 - 00:52:44.890, Speaker C: That's awesome as well. And getting into some of the closing questions here. Naturally, this conversation centered a lot around Ethereum, given that's the largest staked token by market cap, and that is, of course where liquid collective is launched today. How do you think about expanding into other changes, given that there are many proof of stake chains that do have similar market structures and kind of are starting to see liquid staking become more of a factor within those ecosystems as.
00:52:44.900 - 00:53:34.320, Speaker A: Well, for sure, I think we generally think about the market and ourselves and the protocol as a multichain solution. I think for us the question really becomes sort of what is the escape velocity on Ethereum core development, and how do we see that sort of proliferate and translate into what we see at the l two level today and sort of supporting that expansion path, as well as l ones that are becoming interesting or reemerging in the market, since there's definitely been a lot of changes in the last 18 months, at least in terms of how the market's been configured. But no, I think the short answer is we're really excited to sort of expand this standard across other networks and other chains, whether they're EVM compatible, supporting them on bridging to l two s, or looking at bringing this solution to other l ones in the market.
00:53:35.810 - 00:54:02.890, Speaker C: And then lastly here, I want to talk a bit about the challenge. What are some of the largest challenges that you have faced in building a development company that is servicing liquid collective? Is it actually on solving some of these gigabrain level questions around liquid staking or the staking market as a whole? Or is it something even more on the other side of things where it's just like running a business that is based around a protocol is extremely hard. I'm just curious to hear your story about the challenges that you faced.
00:54:03.390 - 00:55:22.500, Speaker A: Yes, well, I think there's probably a list of things. I think the first one is probably the way that we built the protocol and our business in that sort of collaborative way. I mean, we had a very atypical origin to begin with as part of our founding, we had Kraken and Coinbase and Figment come together and sort of seed funding for the business, which is really atypical if you think about the market just having a bunch of competitors coming around the table and sort of co developing and supporting the design choices of a given solution just because they have a need for it. Sort of over time, scaling from those three, four different participants and businesses to now having so many different platforms, tech providers, partners that we work with that are sort of contributing to that collaboration is really powerful, and I think of it as a load for us, and at the same time, it's extremely challenging. Just imagine sitting in a task group, meeting with a bunch of competing businesses, trying to get to an agreement on something. And so there's definitely sort of the pros and cons to that approach from our perspective. But it's really exciting because you just get loads of different brains and ideas around the table, and that ultimately, I think, helps us build for much better things.
00:55:22.500 - 00:56:09.970, Speaker A: I think the other thing, and it's not unique to us, but when building a protocol development company, and at the same time sort of supporting the development of the protocol, it's almost you have like two children that you have to think about and kind of figuring out how to effectively support the growth and development of these things to eventually become self sustaining. Right. And contributed to by many different businesses. And in an ideal world, we're excited of seeing many different alluvials plugging into liquid collective and providing accounting services or staking APIs or restaking solutions that use the protocol. And we definitely want to see and encourage that market and see it flow freight. So it remains exciting and a great challenge to solve.
00:56:10.550 - 00:56:30.280, Speaker C: Well, Mara, that's all fantastic to hear and we appreciate doing with a liquid collective. And again, congratulations on the big announcement with the slas. I think it's a huge step forward, not only for liquid collective, but also for the industry as a whole. So thanks again, Mara, we really appreciate it and we'll have to have you back on sometime in the future.
00:56:30.970 - 00:56:32.678, Speaker A: Sounds great. Thank you both.
00:56:32.844 - 00:56:33.954, Speaker C: Awesome, cheers.
00:56:34.082 - 00:56:52.650, Speaker B: Hey everyone, thanks so much for tuning into today's episode. We hope you really enjoyed it. Wanted to take one more moment to remind you guys about our upcoming 2024 digital asset summit in London this March. Seats are limited, so be sure to hit the link in the description and use promo code Zero X 20 to save 20% off on your ticket. We'll see you in London. Be sure to hit us up if you plan on attending.
