00:00:00.250 - 00:00:51.950, Speaker A: You all right? Hello, and welcome to the Rate Products workshop. My name is Ben. I'm part of the data products team here at Chainlink Labs, and I'm joined with my colleague Nora. We're very excited to tell you all today about the $5,000 prize we're offering this year for building something off of one of the three new data products we recently launched on the Sepolia testnet. So most of you watching this are probably already familiar with Chainlink and already know Chainlink as the most secure and reliable source of price data in DFI. Chainlink has enabled over $7 trillion in value to be transacted on 15 different blockchains. And that's a really big number.
00:00:51.950 - 00:01:37.530, Speaker A: It's hard to imagine 7 trillion of anything, maybe 7 trillion grains of sand on the beach. But an even bigger number is the size of the derivatives market. In traditional finance, that's measured in the hundreds of trillions of dollars. And three quarters of that market are interest rate derivatives, derivative contracts that depend on rates like the fed funds rate, corporate bond rates, mortgage rates. And up till now, the options for getting rate data on chain have been somewhat limited. That's what we've set out to change with these products that we're going to be talking about today. So the first of those products we wanted to talk about is our east staking APR feeds.
00:01:37.530 - 00:02:48.370, Speaker A: So staking ETH is probably one of the most low risk, sustainable sources of yield in all of crypto today, post merge, post Chappella. And we're also seeing a lot of interesting innovation happening around staking everything from liquid staking derivatives to restaking with protocols like Eigen layer. So we wanted to support that innovation by building a trusted source of truth on chain for the global rate of return. From staking your ETH to the Ethereum network as a validator, our data providers are collecting data from the consensus layer and from the execution layer and using offchain computation to estimate the annualized percentage rate of return over two rolling windows of time, 30 days and 90 days. The data providers report those APR estimates to the Chainlink Oracle network. Once a day, the oracle network comes to a consensus on the correct APR value and writes that value on chain, much in the same way that our asset price feeds already work today. So there are two feeds, the 30 day APr and the 90 day Apr.
00:02:48.370 - 00:03:22.450, Speaker A: Let's take a closer look at those APR calculations. So I mentioned the data providers are collecting data from both the consensus layer and the execution layer. From the consensus layer. They're getting rewards subtracting out any penalties and slashings, and they're adding to that the optional fees from the execution layer. And that gives us a total net returns for any given block or epoch or period of time. To get the rate of return, we use in the denominator the weighted average. Effective balancing.
00:03:22.450 - 00:04:07.834, Speaker A: So that calculation is a little bit more complicated. Data providers are collecting data on the effective balance for every validator in a given block. They're adding that up to get to a total effective balance for that block. Then they're adding that up across blocks and dividing that total by the number of blocks in the sample period to get the weighted average. So the reason we're using a weighted average is the total effective balance can vary block over block, epoch over epoch, as new validators enter and older validators exit. And some validators may incur penalties for being offline, such as a dropped Internet connection. From there, we take that rate, multiply it by the number of periods in a year.
00:04:07.834 - 00:05:12.966, Speaker A: So for the 30 day APR, it'd be the number of 30 day periods in a year, 90 day, the number of 90 day periods in a year, and that's how you get your annualized percentage rate. If you're not familiar with effective balance, it's a function of the actual balance held in each validator's wallet, but it's capped at 32 E. So if a validator has more than 32 ETH in their wallet, any excess is effectively idle capital. The effective balance is what's used by the protocol to calculate rewards, and so that's why we use it for the basis of this rate of return calculation. As far as the potential use cases and applications of this, one of the most obvious ones, I think, are interest rate swaps. You could use the ETH staking APR feed to swap the variable rate of return from staking ETH for a more predictable fixed rate of return. This is a very common interest rate hedge strategy in traditional finance.
00:05:12.966 - 00:06:12.930, Speaker A: You can also speculate on network activity with futures and options. So as network activity picks up, there's more actors competing to get their transactions included in each block, which can increase the tips, which increases your returns. So you can see how that could be used for speculative purposes. You can also use the ETH APR in your funding rate or lending rate calculation to make sure that the return you're offering is always competitive with the current state of the market, something that could be increasingly important in the higher interest rate macro environment that we're experiencing right now. These are just a few ideas what we're really excited to see is what you all come up with. And I think when you combine the aggregated fees like this e staking ApR with Chainlink functions, the possibilities really start to open up and get pretty exciting. So that's the first product we wanted to talk about.
00:06:12.930 - 00:07:35.482, Speaker A: I'm going to pause there for a moment to check the chat to check the comments and see whether there are any questions in there. So I don't see anyone asking it in the comments, but one question we often get is what about MeV payments? So MeV payments, using a solution like mevboost from flashbots, can be a significant contributor to returns for validators. But all that happens outside of the Ethereum protocol and using something like MeV boost comes with its own set of risks. So what we have built for this initial release is a more accurate and precise measure of the rate of return from staking down the line in the future. We anticipate adding other sources of rewards such as MeV payments and maybe restaking in the future. But for this initial release, it's just the sources of return that are native to organic from the Ethereum protocol. If you're wondering about the time periods, the 30 day and 90 day APR, we selected those because they're the most commonly used settlement periods in interest rate swap contracts.
00:07:35.482 - 00:08:27.486, Speaker A: But we do have plans down the line of introducing a total return index that would enable users to calculate an APR over any arbitrary time period in the past. If you're interested in specific staking pools or subsets of validators, that's not something we've enabled just yet, but it is something we are looking into. For now, you might be able to rely on the self reported numbers from those different staking pools, or another solution like Chainlink functions. And lastly, if you're interested in a specific blockchain, another proof of stake blockchain, let us know. We'd be interested in hearing about that. It's something we're thinking about, something we're working on. So that kind of feedback from you all, what would be most valuable to what you're working on is very helpful to us.
00:08:27.486 - 00:08:41.810, Speaker A: To all right, so at this point, I'm going to turn it over to Nora and she's going to tell you a bit more about the bitcoin interest rate curve.
00:08:42.310 - 00:09:25.042, Speaker B: Thanks, Ben. Super interesting. This past year we, being chainlink, partnered with CF benchmarks to calculate the bitcoin interest rate curve on a daily basis. You may have heard of CF benchmarks by their index. That's the bitcoin spot rate. That's used for CME futures, we thought that they were a great candidate to build a different type of interest rate curve, one that is a market wide curve. So rather than just a curve that might be for a particular protocol, a curve that really represents the interest rate risk across the entire market.
00:09:25.042 - 00:10:20.126, Speaker B: So, Ben, if you wouldn't mind. Thank you. Thank you. The way of making a market wide interest rate curve is not exactly clear cut. We chose four main instruments to really look at the data from across the market to develop the curve, and that is perpetual futures, fixed term futures, DFI lending and borrowing, and OTC desks. So, for perpetual futures and for fixed term futures, we use data from multiple dexes to create ten minute partitions at the end of the day to calculate the curve. So the curve is calculated once a day at London, four for multiple tenors.
00:10:20.126 - 00:11:02.046, Speaker B: So a one day interest rate tenor. One week, two weeks, three weeks, one month, two months, three months, four months, five months. That way you can take each one of those tenors and make a shape of a curve out of it. The reason why we use particular TWap partitions to calculate the curve is so that we can have a rate that is used as a daily rate that is more consistent towards whatever the end of day would be. So, for perpetual and fixed term futures, we have ten minute partitions for three to 04:00 p.m. London time. For DFI, we use 30 minutes partitions from 12:00 p.m.
00:11:02.046 - 00:11:41.762, Speaker B: To 04:00 p.m. London time. And for OTC desk, we have a submission panel across multiple OTC desks that give us their lending rates for that day. So for the curve, we use different weights depending on the maturity of the tenor. So just the overnight rate, the rate that you might hear about in the news. For the interest rates in the market, perpetual futures makes up 70% of the curve. It's the most liquid data, it's the most useful to be the highest weighted in the curve.
00:11:41.762 - 00:12:47.086, Speaker B: DFI lending is 10%. That comes from ave and compound data, and OTC lending is 20%. Then, as the maturity of the curve goes out, fixed maturity futures is 50% and OTC lending is also 50%. Having the curve go out to the five month is right when the liquidity is best for each one of those longer term tenors, for fixed maturity futures, and for OTC lending. Ben, if you wouldn't mind going to the next for potential use cases, we really wanted the curve to be used in ways that could be market representative. So for interest rate swaps which is something we also talked about for ETH staking. The burke can be used as either a floating rate or a fixed rate depending on which maturity, allowing investors to hedge their interest rate risk by swapping with the fixed rate, or to speculate against traditional macro rates like the fed funds rate.
00:12:47.086 - 00:13:47.430, Speaker B: Sonia Sofur in futures and options, it can be used to speculate on bitcoin as inflation hedge bitcoin being used as a web three or crypto growth indicator. Or it can be used to speculate on changes in interest rates using futures directionally or as a hedging tactic. The one that I think is quite interesting is using the burke, the bitcoin interest rate curve as a risk management tool so protocols investors can automate or set dynamic risk parameters using the burke as a guideline for risk appetite. You can also use it in recalibrating leveraged positions or setting more efficient collateralization strategies. So those are some ideas for risk management. I would love to know in the chat if you have any questions. Otherwise I might turn it to some of our frequently asked questions I've seen about the Burke.
00:13:47.430 - 00:15:06.052, Speaker B: So without a doubt, the most common question I get is why is perpetual future data only taken for the last hour before London close? Aren't perpetual futures markets 24/7 well, yes, that's definitely true, but the last hour that we use for perpetual futures data before the London floor allows us for enough data to calculate a consistent rate for daily data. And that way it is more in line with the same data that we see for OTC desks and DFI having that same consistent cut off point. If we are a chain link, why is DFI only 10% of the component for the session rate, the one day rate? Well, it's because we want the most valuable data to make up the majority of that curve tenor for that day. So the overnight data for petrol futures is very liquid. We consider it extremely valuable. So that's why it is weighted higher in the index at 70%. Once we might see some changes for our future DFI summer, maybe DFI might end up being a larger component of that one day waiting calculation for the curve.
00:15:06.052 - 00:16:16.436, Speaker B: Why is the curve only calculated out to five months? If you have learned about Sonia or SOFR or even Libor, the majority of those interest rate curves calculated out to a year? Well, that's because we are using actual loan contracts and actual fixed term futures contracts, and the market is a little too illiquid to have enough data to qualify for the curve past the five months. So once again, if we see that we see a lot more longer term maturity loans. We would love to make the curve longer than five months, but for now we will give where we have the consistent data. And then what about an ethereum interest rate curve or a stablecoin based interest rate curve? We plan to introduce feeds for other tokens as well. And prioritization will depend on customer demand curve eligibility, how good the data is for each one of those possible tokens. And we started with bitcoin because for now it's such a good representation of the market in general. So I saw one question for links.
00:16:16.436 - 00:16:52.290, Speaker B: Can we get links for these? So we'll pop in links for each one of the rates products that we've talked about. Oh, Ben, you're on mute.
00:16:55.510 - 00:17:39.646, Speaker A: All right, let's start that over. So what I was starting to say is the last product we want to talk about today is a little bit different from the first two. Realized volatility is a measure of how much asset prices have moved around in the past. If you've heard of implied volatility, that's a measure of the market's expectations for how much prices are going to move around in the future. Realized volatility is how much, or rather what actually happened. It's sometimes referred to as historical volatility. So for realized volatility, we're working with the same high quality, reputable data providers that power our asset price feeds.
00:17:39.646 - 00:18:38.820, Speaker A: Already today, those data providers are using off chain computation to estimate realized volatility over three different rolling windows of time, the last 24 hours, the last seven days, and the last 30 days. Each hour. The chain link, Oracle networks pull those data providers for the latest realized volatility measures, come to a consensus on those measures, and report those on chain again here, mechanics same as our asset price feeds work today. So we're talking about what's available on Sepolia. We have three different look back windows and three different assets, bitcoin, ETH and link. So that's nine different feeds. And you can find the smart contract addresses for those feeds in the documentation, which has been shared in the comments section here.
00:18:38.820 - 00:19:42.754, Speaker A: As far as the realized volatility calculation itself, we borrowed from the world of equities, but adapted the calculation slightly to reflect the unique characteristics of crypto markets. So in equities you have a market open and a market closed. You have a high price for the day and a low price for the day. Crypto trades 24/7 so data providers are sampling price data every ten minutes and using that to estimate realized volatility if you are looking at this formula and thinking that this looks similar to a variance or standard deviation calculation, that's not a coincidence. They are very closely related concepts. The real difference with realized volatility is it's expressed as a percentage relative to the underlying asset price, but otherwise the intuition behind it very, very similar. For use cases, volatility is extremely important in risk management.
00:19:42.754 - 00:20:40.666, Speaker A: So you can imagine using our realized volatility feeds to dynamically adjust risk parameters. These are a lot of use cases we've already talked about again here. This is also not coincidental. These are interrelated products. But you can imagine a lending protocol or a Dex that's offering margin trading, adjusting loan sizes or liquidation incentives or closing factors based on the realized volatility, constructing normal ranges for price movements, and when you see prices move outside of those ranges, triggering a circuit breaker. Another potential use case, one that we've heard of in the market already, is using realized volatility when implied volatility isn't otherwise already available. So implied volatility, or a reliable estimate of implied volatility depends on a liquid options market.
00:20:40.666 - 00:21:40.800, Speaker A: So for small cap tokens, you might not have enough liquidity in the options market, or there might not be any options market today. So you could use realized volatility to seed a ball surface for pricing and trading options. And of course, lastly but not least, you could use realized volatility as a reference rate directly in a derivatives contract. So speculating on the volatility of bitcoin or ethereum surrounding market events, for example, a lot of possibilities here. These are just to get the juices flowing. We can't wait to hear what you all come up with, and if you have some ideas, feel free to add those in the comments. See if you might inspire others or keep that alpha to yourself as far as questions, if you put questions in the comments, be happy to address them.
00:21:40.800 - 00:22:47.300, Speaker A: Some of the frequently asked questions we've heard before already what about implied volatility? So implied volatility has some unique characteristics that don't work as well in an aggregated feed. So the solution we recommend for getting implied volatility on chain, if you want to access implied volatility, is chain link functions. Given the structure of the current options markets, BTC and ETH are really kind of the most liquid options markets, but we do have solutions available for that. Already touched on the difference between implied volatility and realized volatility one's expectations, the other is what actually happened. Yeah, and as far as how do people use realized volatility it's many of the same use cases. We already discussed using it in derivative instruments as well as indices and risk models. So now that was kind of an intro to the three products that are all live on the sepolio testnet today.
00:22:47.300 - 00:23:08.330, Speaker A: The bitcoin interest rate curve is live on Mainnet as well, and we want to shift gears now and show you a quick demo. This is using the realized volatility feeds in a smart contract. It's a recorded demo, so we'll get that going.
00:23:08.400 - 00:24:29.262, Speaker C: Hi, my name is Ade. I'm a solutions architect at Chainlink Labs. Today I'm going to be demonstrating to you how you can use the newly released realized volatility feeds within your projects. As you're probably already aware, the new realized volatility feeds are one set of a suite of rates and volatility feeds that are now available on Testnet for you to start building with. It's available in three assets, BTC, Ethereum and link, and available over three lookback windows for each asset 24 hours, seven days and 30 days. Today in this demo, I'm going to be creating a strategy that determines what the least risky feed is over a one week period by looking at the realized volatility feeds for each both BTC, ETH and link, and comparing all three and assigning the least risky feed status to that with the lowest realized volatility. I've already opened up my remix ide here and one of the first things you should notice outside of determining our license identifier on our solidity version, is that we're importing the chain link contract, the aggregator v three interface sol contract.
00:24:29.262 - 00:25:35.100, Speaker C: That is really important because that's what enables you to interact with these price feeds and select the appropriate feeds. Next, we're going to define the realized volatility addresses that we want to work with. How do you find these? Well, you would find these under rates and volatility feed addresses on our docs page. When you scroll down on the page you see sepolia testnet and those are the feeds that you should be working with here. I'm going to be working with the BTC USD seven day realized volatility, the ETH USD seven day realized volatility and the leak USD seven day realized volatility which I've already assigned as volatility addresses here. Next, I create an array that houses the asset names that's going to be able to allow us easily identify these and a struct that essentially allows us to store the asset name and its corresponding volatility value a let's talk about functions. Our first function here is a private helper function called the gets latest volatility function.
00:25:35.100 - 00:26:32.150, Speaker C: This function is used to get the latest realized volatility value for a specific asset. This is where we create an instance of our aggregated v three interface using the volatility feed addresses. We will then get the latest round data and assign that value to volatility and return volatility. Now, how is this function used? It's used within two other public functions, the first of which is get volatility values. This function is essentially designed to return the names of each asset and their corresponding realized volatility. We iterate through the volatility feed addresses and we get the latest volatility for each address. Using the get latest volatility function that we had defined earlier.
00:26:32.150 - 00:27:24.220, Speaker C: We finally return the memory array that contains the asset names and their latest realized volatility values. The last function we've got here is the get low risk asset function. That's the function we talked about where we're going to figure out of all those volatility values which is the lowest. Again, we're going to use that get latest volatility function. What we're going to do here is loop and iterate through all the volatility addresses that we have and figure out which of those is the lowest, and we assign that the lowest volatility value and return the asset name of the one that has the lowest volatility. Now let's see how this looks in action. First of all, I'm going to save this.
00:27:24.220 - 00:27:54.260, Speaker C: I'm going to come here and deploy this function. First of all, I'm going to do this. I'm going to use injector provider here so we can actually see this happen in real time. I'm going to confirm this using metamask. Wait for a little bit. Very soon we should see that deploy contract, populate this bit here, this second here. Awesome.
00:27:54.260 - 00:28:52.326, Speaker C: Now it's being populated. First of all, let's have a quick look at the volatility values. We call that, and we see the values of BTC USD, each USD and link USD. BtC USD is 54675, EQSD is five, 5490 and link USD is 70368. Now let's remember that these have decimals of five, meaning that this actually means that zero point 54, six, seven, five realized volatility, zero point 50 realized volatility, and 0.70,368 realized volatility. Looking at this, our lowest risk asset should be BTC USD and if we call that indeed, we see that our lowest risk asset here is BTC USD.
00:28:52.326 - 00:29:09.680, Speaker C: I hope this helps and this is a simple way for you to learn how to use our realized volatility feeds. Thank you. Hi, my name is Ade. I'm a solutions architect at Chainlink Labs today.
00:29:11.410 - 00:30:13.250, Speaker A: Little replay real quick. All right, that wraps up the main portion of our content. We shared some links in the chat, but here they are on the screen for you. So the rate feeds and volatility docs, that's the docs page from on chain link where you can find those contract addresses and a little bit more of the information we shared with you today. We also did a blog announcement previously for the bitcoin interest rate curve that you can check out. And the last two, those aren't from Chainlink labs, but if you want to understand a bit better staking rewards or total effective balance, dive a little bit deeper into the calculation I covered earlier in the presentation. These are two links that are particularly helpful documentation on the proof of stake beacon chain, now the consensus chain.
00:30:13.250 - 00:31:08.640, Speaker A: So with that, we'll open it up to any questions. Give folks a moment or two, see if anyone has any burning questions. If a question occurs to you later, go back to let me see if I can return here. If you go to the docs chain link data feeds rate feeds included in the documentation are links out to a form where you can ask questions or provide feedback. So if later something occurs to you, go to that docs page, find that form, submit it with your contact information. We'll do our best to follow up with you later. All right, I'm not seeing any questions.
00:31:08.640 - 00:31:15.206, Speaker A: Thanks for your time. We're really excited to see what you all do with these new feeds. And best of luck to.
