00:00:00.760 - 00:00:14.238, Speaker A: Excellent. Thank you. It's my great pleasure to introduce our next speaker for this morning, who's Daniel Panatolo, who will speak, or you can see it on some aspects of resolution of singularities for differential operators. Please.
00:00:14.406 - 00:01:20.244, Speaker B: Okay, thank you. So, the organizers asked me to give you some overview of the subjects that I intend to cover in this mini course on February. So I'd not be very long. So I not be able, of course, to get into too much detail. But I would like just to give some motivation for this problem of resolution of singularities, and most particularly in the case where you consider, let's say, differential operators or some kind of differential structure defined on a manifold. So let's just say, in a very general sense, the basic idea is that you have some pair given by a manifold, and I call s some object which is defined on this manifold, which, let's say, is attached to some differential geometric structure on m. And we would like to understand this pair given by the manifold and this additional structure defined on it.
00:01:20.244 - 00:02:31.694, Speaker B: Okay, so the basic idea is that you suppose that the local structure defined by such object s is really, let's say, reasonable, well understood almost everywhere. By this, I mean outside some subset of co dimension greater than one in some well defined topology. And so we call this a set where things are not so good. The bad glucose, right? So, the goal of this game is to try to change the ambient pair, let's say, the manifold and this object s, by a sequence of proper morphism, most particularly given by blowing ups, such that, let's say, basically two conditions must be satisfied. We intend that the composition of all these morphisms gives an isomorphism outside the bad glucose. And then we expect that, let's say, this last pair doesn't have a bad locus. So, of course, we'd like to eliminate all the bad points by this procedure.
00:02:31.694 - 00:04:08.114, Speaker B: And in the same way, the first condition asks that in some sense, that the structure is preserved outside bad locus because it doesn't want to touch the points which are already good in some sense. Okay, so I'm going to give some examples. So, of course, the zero example is the case where you have some manifold, compact manifold, let's say, equip the co dimension one analytics subset. So, in this case, we, let's say the tradition says that we have to call the bed lockers the points where s is not normal cross, it's not local number crossings. So by this, of course, I mean that locally, you are not able to find some coordinates where s is given by the zero of a monomial and the elimination of the bed block, which is a very well known theorem of hierarchus on the resolution of singularities, which says that up to a finite number of blow ups you always arrive in this kind of local situation. Well, I just recall that a blow up is this transformation that I've just illustrated here where roughly speaking, you separate the orbits of this torus action, which, let's say the orbits are the lines through the origin. And then you just separate these orbits by replacing the origin by projected a projective line.
00:04:08.114 - 00:05:03.904, Speaker B: And more generally you can imagine this, this, this drawing generalizes in a higher dimension, right? So this is the basic tool for that we'd like to use to eliminate this bed locus. And let me just give a very quick example here. So you have this cuspidal curve in p two. And let's say this, this blue line represents the projective line. So we call this exceptional divisor that is going to be formed by this sequence of blow ups. So the unit of the black line and the blue line corresponds to the transform of the original curve by these maps. So you see that in order to have a normal crossing you don't have to have more than two local components crossing on a point.
00:05:03.904 - 00:06:08.318, Speaker B: So this is achieved by three blow ups. So you see that after making three blow ups you achieve the situation where at each point you have a normal crossing situation. And, well, this is just a simple example. So I would like just to recall that there's a basic mechanism of control to show, let's say the basic idea is that to show that at each step something is improved by this procedure. So of course the basic idea is to use some kind of generalized version of the Newton polyhedron. Now there's more or less, let's say the Newton polyhedron is the basic construction which is have much more sophisticated versions right now. But basically you expand your function in the, in Taylor series and then you just consider the integrals, the n upwards of integers k such that the coefficient a k is non zero.
00:06:08.318 - 00:07:21.548, Speaker B: Then you plot them in the, let's say in the, in the n space and you have this, you take the convex, the convex claw, the convex envelope and you have this drawing here. Once you have this, you can somehow measure how bad a singularity is. So the idea is that you have to measure somehow the distance between the Newton polyhedron and the origin. For instance, the classical way to see this is that you take just the l one distance between the polyhedron and the origin. So this l one distance is just the multiplicity, right? So the idea is that you want to decrease this distance by making blow ups. And once, let's say, this nearest point achieves the origin, you won your game. So the multiplicities, so this distance is, let's say, the basic invariant, but it's not, of course, not enough, it's not enough to define your algorithm, but it has two very, let's say, good properties.
00:07:21.548 - 00:08:04.354, Speaker B: It's horizontal and vertical invariant, by which I mean that it's invariant, invariant by local change of coordinates. So recall that to define the Newton polygon, we need to fix some system of coordinates. But once you, you make the, you consider the action of the local system, let's say changes of coordinates. On this polygon, it's very easy to see that this distance remains the same. And also, it's a vertical environment in the sense that it's environed by blowing up. By this, I mean the total transform, not the district transform. Okay, so now let me just explain some other examples.
00:08:04.354 - 00:09:08.704, Speaker B: You can consider the case of condemnation, one singular foliations. So this is the case where I have a pair given by a manifold and a foliation f, which is locally defined by the vanish. Let's say it's by the integration of a field of hyperplanes determined by the vanishing logs of some analytic one form like this one, satisfying the integrability condition. So generically, as I said, that the leaves are locally immersed as many faults of coordination one. And we can say that the singular set is precisely the set where, where this local, let's say the leaves are not of the expected dimension. And inside the similar set, there are some, let's say, well, behavior singularities. But there's what you call the elementary singularities, which are defined by some algebraic condition on the one jets.
00:09:08.704 - 00:10:26.334, Speaker B: And there is the complementary of this, which you call the bed, or the non elementary singularities, right? So in this case, the idea is to try to eliminate this non elementary singularities by blowing ups. And this is one of the, let's say, an old result in dimension two due to Bendixon and Seidenberg, which has been generalized to dimension three by Felipe in 2005. So I just give an example here in the very simple case where, let's say your foliation is given by the level sets of some function. So I use the same example as before, the cuspidal curve. But now you just give the foliation defined by the level sets of the function y squared minus x to the power three. And so you see that here you have this singular leaf, which is given by the cusp and the nearby leaves are just, let's say, regular ones. But, so this is an interesting case, because the resolution of singularities of the cusp gives you also the resolution of singularities of the foliation, right? It's not always the case, even if you have, let's say, a singular leaf like this.
00:10:26.334 - 00:11:54.104, Speaker B: But in this case, you see that locally, at each one of these points, you have this form, this form which defines your foliation, it's given by a monomer one. So a nice example of application of this result is the so called separatrix theorem of Camacho sad, which says the following, which says that if you have a germ of singularity, of affoliation in dimension two and the complex domain, so there always exists an environment analytic curve through the singularity, right? It's not true in the real setting. Think of the case of a, a singularity of center type. But if you complexify this center type singularity, you will find as a paratrix through the origin, an invariant curve through the origin and the complex domain. So this result, it makes a strong use of the resolution of singularity in dimension two, and an argument using some index in the spirit of the Poincare hop index theorem. So now I give a third example, which is the case where also you have a foliated manifold, but now the foliation is given by curves. So the generic leaves are of dimension one instead of co dimension one.
00:11:54.104 - 00:13:04.708, Speaker B: And this foliage is locally defined by the solution curves of some analytic vector field like this. Right? And, okay, so how you can think of this expression as a derivation in the, in the locker rings at each point of our manifold. So this is an operator which acts on the, let's say on the maximal ideal of each point. And a point is singular for this foliation, if the, this derivation maps the maximal idea into itself, which is completely equivalent to say that this, a one, etcetera, a n, are functions which vanish on p. So using this characterization, we can also define what you call an elementary point. So a point which is singular will be called elementary if, when you consider the induced endomorphism in this vector space. So the quotient of the maximum idea by its square.
00:13:04.708 - 00:14:07.394, Speaker B: So the centaur morphine should be non nil potent. So this is, let's say, in down to earth terms. This simply means that the jacobian matrix of the coefficients with respect to the coordinates should be a matrix which at least one on zero, again valid when computed at p. Okay, so this is, we call this elementary. But of course, we could also ask the question, is it true that we understand very well what happens near an elementary singularity when the answer is, let's say, more or less yes, in dimension two, but there's a lot of things which is left to understand, even in low dimensions. But anyway, the philosophy is that we should like to achieve this kind of situation by blowing ups in which all singularities should be of this type. Right? So I just give you a small list of topological models that I have in dimension two.
00:14:07.394 - 00:14:25.164, Speaker B: Danielle, may I ask a question, Jean Philippe, in your previous slide? So, you are working in a complex setting. I mean, this manifold, for example, is a complex manifold. It could be real. Also both. Okay. Yes. Thank you.
00:14:25.164 - 00:15:56.276, Speaker B: So this is a small list of topological models that we have in dimension two. So these are precisely the phase portraits that we get nearby, an elementary singularity. So you see this focus center node, and let's say a nice example of application of this resolution of singularities. Result is that you have a topological classification of germs of real analytic vector fields in the plane near arbitrarily degenerated singularities. So if you consider a non elementary singularity, you can, by up to a sequence of blow ups, you can achieve one of these elementary situations. And when you go back to your original, let's say, ambient space, you get this decomposition in two sectors, infinite number of sectors, which will be of one of these three different types. Okay, so I have to mention also that this, of course, this resolution of synchronized in dimension two plays an important role in the solution of Dulux problem, which will be one of the themes of this semester, because it's, let's say, an initial simplifying step which allows to, let's say you take an arbitrary vector field, negative vector field, and then up to a finite number of blow ups, you achieve one of these models.
00:15:56.276 - 00:16:48.864, Speaker B: And then you have to understand these models by the machinery of normal form theory, quasi analyticity and recommendation theory, and so on. Right? So you have this initial simplification which leads you to the simplest possible singularities that you can achieve by blowing up. And then you have to use the analytic hard analysis tools. Yeah. So what happens if you try to do this resolution of singularity in dimension higher than three for vector fields? So, there is one new interesting phenomenon, is that the elimination of the bad locus has necessary to use weighted blow ups. So this is one of them. An example which has been found by Fernando Sands and Sanchez.
00:16:48.864 - 00:18:14.658, Speaker B: What's a weighted blowup? Let's say it's a sort of generalization of the blow up that you have seen a moment ago, where instead of separating the orbits of the tolerance action given, let's say the usual tolerance action by the multiplying by a number, the orbits are given by these monomial curves. Like, let's say here, I've drawn a set of parabolas through the origin. So when we want to separate these parabolas by transformation, you have what you call a weighted blow up. So I have to imagine this figure in higher dimensions. So since you have to use these weighted blowups, in fact, you have to generalize a little bit your setting, because you find yourself in this more general category of what we call the norbifold. If you are in the complex domain, but in the real domain, you can also work in the category of manifolds with corners by vitamin, that in the end you have to allow these corners to appear precisely due to the existence of these weighted ropes for the results. The delimitation of the bed locus is also known for vector fields in dimension up to three.
00:18:14.658 - 00:19:28.984, Speaker B: So in dimension two it's exactly the Seidenberg's Bennigsen theorem, and in dimension three it's a result by me in 2007, and then generalized it in a joint work with Macquillan for the complex set in 2013. So, let me just mention a nice application of these results. So, there is a theorem of Brunella which says the following. If you have a vector field in dimension three, real vector field in dimension three, then there is, there always exists an invariant curve through the origin. So it's more or less like the camacho sad theorem. But the important thing is that here your invariant curve is not necessary an analytic curve, right? It's just an environment curve, which is, let's say it's just an orbit of your, an orbit of your vector, or perhaps a curve of similarities. So the idea is again that you have to make some sequence of blow ups until you achieve a situation where you see that you are obliged to have a simple singularity containing an invariant curve which comes from outside.
00:19:28.984 - 00:20:16.174, Speaker B: So the fact that it has to be such a kind of singularity, which is an elementary single, it's also due to some argument using the ponca hair hop index theorem. So once you get this invariant curve, you can go back and you get this invariant curve for your initial vector field. So this is one of the nice applications. And 1 second application. Well, let's say a program which is based on this resolution of singularities is the Roussa Ritz program for the finiteness part of the Hilbert 16th problem. So, one of the subjects of this semester also. So what's the idea is that to have.
00:20:16.174 - 00:21:25.014, Speaker B: Now the Hilbert's problem asks for a bound for a uniform mode for the number of limit cycles for vector fields of fixed degree. So of course this, you can have quite complicated vector fields in this family. So you think of this as a family of vector fields, let's say a vector field defined in the product space. Let's say then the phase space is two dimensional, but you have a huge space of dimension, let's say n given by the parameter space, which are the coefficients of the polynomials. Well, this vector field on this product space has a, let's say the nice property of being, it's not arbitrary because it has to be tangent to the vibration given by parameter equals to constant. So imagine that you have this family here, this vibration given by the plane's parameter equals to constant. And on each one of these planes you have a two dimensional foliation, let's say one dimensional on a one dimensional plane.
00:21:25.014 - 00:22:36.764, Speaker B: The program for grocery consists of trying to simplify these singularities by a resolution of similarity families. Here you have two coexisting structures. You have the vector field and then the vibration which defines your family structure. And the idea is that you have to dissimilarize both objects at the same time in order to achieve, let's say at the end a situation where you have sufficiently good or simple similarities, where you can again apply the machinery of normal form theory, resolution theory, and so on. Okay, so my time is almost over. I just have to talk about this. Well, so I've tried, I've worked a little bit on this problem and I have some, let's say my intuition is that the existence of this family structure doesn't really simplify the problem, by which I mean that it's perhaps as complicated as the case where you treat an arbitrary vector field on this ambient space for dimension n plus two.
00:22:36.764 - 00:23:41.512, Speaker B: So, I'm working right now on this problem of resolution of similarities for vector fields. And in fact, in some sense, it seems to me very natural to look for a generalized framework where you put all these three problems in the same setting, by which I call the signal of linear differential operators. So I not have time to enter into much details. So now you have a pair given by manifold and let's say an order d differential operator given locally by, let's say an expansion like this. And so in this framework, you can see that a hypersurface, let's say the hierarchy framework, can be seen as a differential period of degree zero given by, let's say, multiplication by a function. A vector field defines anomalous operator of degree one. But of course there are natural examples where we are interested in looking for higher dimension, let's say higher order differential operations.
00:23:41.512 - 00:24:23.364, Speaker B: For instance, the Laplacian associated to, let's say some similar metric on the surface. This is also interesting to look at similarities of matrix in a few words. The idea is the same as previously. We want to attach a Newton polyhedron to phi. Sorry. And then we see that it's not very easy because it's not simply, it's not simply the Newton polygon associated to the coefficients. But you have to take care to be careful with the fact that it's not the same thing as the singularizing these coefficients.
00:24:23.364 - 00:25:03.864, Speaker B: F k. You have this differential structure which is very important to keep track. So I've just finished with a drawing here. So this is a Newton polygon of a differential operator. And the new idea is that you have to measure the distance between the origin and your polygon. This is, as I said, is a measure of the complexity of your singularity. But now you don't use the l one metric, but use an l two distance, which is in fact associated to some inner product that we are going to define in the course.
00:25:03.864 - 00:25:24.204, Speaker B: So it's analog to construction of Kempf instability theory in gat. So I explained to you that this approach provides us a resolution of singularities for surface at least. So arbitrary order differential operators on surfaces can be solved by this method that I'm going to explain. Thank you.
00:25:27.344 - 00:25:36.304, Speaker A: Thanks very much. Are there any maybe, perhaps.
