00:00:00.240 - 00:01:02.584, Speaker A: Thanks, Ben. And thanks for the invitation to speak. I just started my lab last July, so most of my talk will be about work that I did as a postdoc in Matthew Myerson's lab at Dana Farber, and the broad, along with work with the collaborator, Katherine Wu. So here's a figure from one of the descriptions of the pan cancer analysis projects. And the goal of the project was to look at various omic types, such as mutation copy number, gene expression, as a way to look at all the ways that cancer genomes are altered, look across multiple tumor types, and try to identify the different pathways that are altered. And so, something that's missing from this figure is the contributions from alternative splicing. And so the main interest of my group is to look at ways that splicing is altered in cancer transcriptomes and to understand how that's actually contributing to tumor genesis.
00:01:02.584 - 00:01:45.754, Speaker A: So, briefly, what is splicing and alternative splicing? So, essentially, every gene in the human genome is alternatively spliced. So, genes start off with the pre mRNA, and you can either decide to include or skip a portion of that pre mRNA. Typically, we describe them as, say, exons. So you can have either exon inclusion or exon skipping. And these different decisions can actually have a functional effect on the gene. So this is just one example of the Fas gene that can have inclusion or skipping of exon six. And this has very different functions to the protein.
00:01:45.754 - 00:02:51.774, Speaker A: One's a membrane bound receptor, one is soluble, and they have very antagonistic functions. And so, one indication that splicing was really important in cancer was that recent whole exome sequencing studies had found that many recurrent mutations occurred in splicing factors. So these typically were in proteins that were part of the coarse splicosome. So, here I'm showing two examples of those splicing factors that have been found to be mutated, which I'll describe in the talk today. So, one is u two, a f one, and this is part of the u two Af complex that's involved in three prime splice site recognition. And another factor is called sf three b one, which associates with the branch point sequence within an intron and is also thought to directly splicing. So what's very striking about many of these splicing factor mutations is that they occur across many tumor types, both in solid tumors and blood malignancies.
00:02:51.774 - 00:04:05.264, Speaker A: The big question in the field is to understand how these mutations are contributing to tumor genesis. So why are these mutations being selected for? And one kind of common hypothesis is that these mutations, since they're splicing factors, are affecting the transcriptome. And so if we were able to then look at the set of altered exon splicing events, potentially you may expect retained introns or unsplicing of introns. You may also observe gene expression changes due to these mutations. And if we were able to then identify the collection of all these transcriptome alterations, we could then potentially look at what are the affected genes or pathways. So when I started my postdoc, I looked into the cancer genome atlas, which was a great data source because for each tumor sample as a part of the TcGA, we had both whole exome sequencing and matched mRNA sequencing from the same tumor. And so we're able to then look for splicing alterations in the same tumors that had these mutations.
00:04:05.264 - 00:05:11.614, Speaker A: So the first gene that we looked at was u two af one. So what I'm showing are just hotspot mutations in U two f one. There were additional mutations found across other portions of the protein, but this S 34 position is the, the most frequently mutated position in U two, if one. And what we also saw by looking across all the TcGA tumors was that this U two f one gene was most frequently mutated in AML and lung adenocarcinoma. And so those were the two tumor types that we followed up on. So I'm simplifying a lot, but essentially what we did was to look for splicing changes due to this mutation. We took the collection of patients that showed no mutations in any splicing factor and compared them with the set of patients that had mutations in this splicing factor, took the rna seq data from those patients and looked for differential splicing.
00:05:11.614 - 00:06:13.244, Speaker A: So the approach that we used to look for differential splicing was to use junk base. So this was a program I originally developed in my graduate work that I've since been updating for improvement with cancer genome studies. So the main benefit of junkbase is that it's able to detect splicing events directly from the rna seq data without the need for an annotation. And actually, this is really important when thinking about looking for splicing changes due to a splicing factor mutation. We may, we may expect that many splicing changes have never been seen before, since these are mutations and core factors. And so with junk base, you're able to detect alternative splicing. It also classifies the splicing in these different types, which I'll show is also very informative to study these factors and junk base can also quantify alternative splicing, and I'll go through one example of that.
00:06:13.244 - 00:07:04.444, Speaker A: So this is a representation of an alternative three prime splice site event, where the white box is representing an alternative exon or a portion of an exon. And there's two different isoform choices. There's one that includes the white exon, and there's one that skips the white exon. And what's represented in red are rna seq reads that would support inclusion of that isoform. And in blue, I'm showing representation of reads that would support skipping. And so, Junkbase will identify these reads and assign the reads to either the inclusion or exclusion isoform. From those reads, it calculates an abundance of the isoform and then of the two different isoforms.
00:07:04.444 - 00:08:09.394, Speaker A: And then from that it can calculate a percent spliced in, which is essentially the proportion of the inclusion isoform that's expressed relative to the total abundance. And so for this one Psi value, we can, or we can quantify this PSi value for every patient sample and for every splicing event, and then we can perform differential splicing analysis on this value. So here I'm showing a real plot of Psi values for one particular splicing event. And what we're doing is we're comparing the Psi values between wild type and mutated samples. And so we can do this for every event. And then after multiple testing correction, we can get a set of strongly associated splicing changes that are correlating with this mutation. So for long adenocarcinoma and AML, we looked into the splicing changes that were associated with this mutation.
00:08:09.394 - 00:09:18.026, Speaker A: And what I'm showing is what classification of those splicing events that we saw. And so we saw primarily cassette exon type events being affected, as well as alternative three prime splice site events that were affected. And this was actually promising because this was what we expected, given the known function of u two f one as part of the u two af complex that's involved in three prime splice site recognition. And I apologize, it's really small, but we saw a total of 131 splicing changes in lung adenocarcinoma and 369 strongly associated splicing changes in AML. So these mutations seem to be affecting hundreds and hundreds of splicing changes. And so one of the challenges and something that I'm planning to continue in my own lab is to try to understand what the functional consequences of these splicing changes are. And so here I'm just showing three genes that were shown to be affected, given some of their known roles in cancer as well as rna processing.
00:09:18.026 - 00:10:18.234, Speaker A: So one we were particularly interested in was beta catenin, as that's a gene that's frequently mutated in cancers, primarily through missense mutation. But this is just to illustrate some of the challenges of understanding the consequence of these mutations. So, beta catenin, the event we saw, was altered in both AML and lung adenocarcinoma. And we could show that this was actually caused by the mutation, by these validation experiments, where we expressed wild type and mutated forms of the protein and could show that, indeed, the mutation does cause a splicing alteration of beta catenin. So this event occurred in the three prime UTR of beta catenin. We tried to follow up a little bit on if it's affecting beta catenin expression or downstream pathways or the pathway that beta catenin is involved in, and we didn't see anything obvious from that analysis. So it's still unclear.
00:10:18.234 - 00:11:09.264, Speaker A: Even though we're seeing this very conserved splicing change, it's unclear how that's actually affecting the pathway. So what I just described was our studies on the effects of u two f one mutation. And so another way that we could perhaps understand the functions of these mutations is to look at other splicing factors and maybe compare what are those transcriptome effects. So another one that we looked at is sfubi one. So again, it's a factor that's associated with the branch point and is also involved in regulation of splicing. So SF three b one is actually one of the most prevalent mutations in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. And so this work is in collaboration with Katherine Wu's lab.
00:11:09.264 - 00:12:00.714, Speaker A: So this is a review from the Wu lab showing the locations of the most frequent Sf three b one mutations in cll. And so these do occur in this heat repeat domain. And the most common, the most frequently mutated position is this k 700 e. So again, we can use the same approach. So, take the samples that have no mutations and splicing factors and compare those with the samples that have the mutation and look for splicing differences. So, again, we see that SF three v one mutation causes altered three prime splice site usage. However, unlike u two f one, we don't see as many cassette exon cases, which here is shown a light blue.
00:12:00.714 - 00:12:56.884, Speaker A: So SF three v one seems to strongly affect three prime splice site changes as well as differential intron usage. So some additional. We've done some additional functional studies of some of these splicing changes to understand what's functionally happening with these mutations. One kind of computational look is just to ask how many of these mutations are in frame and out of frame. So, in the presence of the mutation, we're seeing a splicing switch, and that would be most, in the majority of cases, predicted to be an out of frame mutation. So would thus be predicted to be a loss of function for those genes. Another thing to point out is that many of these splicing changes involved usage of a novel splice site that was never annotated.
00:12:56.884 - 00:14:10.440, Speaker A: So, again, it's really important in these studies that when we're looking at splicing factor mutations, to look at potentially unannotated splicing changes. So one of the interesting in frame deletions, so, just to go back, so most things were out of frame, but we were also interested in genes that might be, that might fall into this category where they're in frame that may indicate that the splicing change is potentially gain of function or a change of function in that gene. One of the genes we have followed up with is Dvl, two, or disheveled. So the Wnt pathway is well known to be altered in ClL, and disheveled is this component of the pathway. And what I'm showing here is Rnac coverage along this event. So the alternative three prime splicite is here, and down below is showing one transcript annotation. And so what you can see is that in the presence of the mutation, more downstream, three prime splice site is being used.
00:14:10.440 - 00:15:05.238, Speaker A: So you can see the drop in coverage in the mutated sample. And again, not an annotated splice site. And so some functional follow up that my collaborator Kathy Wu and Lily Wang have done is to show that this splicing event actually does have a functional effect on the protein. So, just to summarize, kind of what we're seeing with these splicing factor mutations and how we're sort of framing it, is that these mutations, like the known transcription factor mutations, are having very pleiotropic effects. So, classically, p. 53, one of the most frequently mutated genes in cancer, is known to affect many, many different downstream pathways and have many different effects on the cell. And so we can kind of think of it similarly with splicing factors.
00:15:05.238 - 00:15:54.738, Speaker A: These are global gene regulators. And what we're seeing, based on our transcriptome analyses, is that we see many different pathways that are directly being affected by these differences. And another interesting point is that, based on our studies and other studies on these splicing factors, as well as others that I haven't shown. It does appear that these mutations have different effects on the cell. So there's different sets of splicing and gene expression changes. Sometimes you do see common pathways that are affected, but uncommonly, you don't see the same exact gene affected by these mutations. So it's still kind of a mystery as to why these are being recurrently altered.
00:15:54.738 - 00:17:04.260, Speaker A: But I think by looking at these global changes in the rna seq data, we are getting gaining more information as to what their effects are. So one way that we're looking at somatic mutations that disrupt rna splicing regulation is through these mutations in splicing factors. And another way that we're looking at mutations in the cancer genomes that affect splicing is through mutations and splicing regulatory elements, or cis elements. So these are mutations either directly at the splice sites or potentially within the exon, or within the flanking intron. And all these sequences are known to typically act as binding sites for transacting factors. And these sequences can also be mutated and then affect splicing downstream. So one of the splicing changes that we've characterized previously is in a receptor tyrosine kinase called Met.
00:17:04.260 - 00:17:54.154, Speaker A: So this is just a diagram of many receptor tyrosine kinases. These are genes that are frequently mutated in cancer, either through missense mutation, fusion, amplification, and so forth. And so we're looking into also those cases where they're affected by splicing. So it had been previously known. So back in 2006 and 2009, it had been shown that Met is altered through splice site mutations. So here I'm showing particular positions that were shown to be mutated at the five prime splice site. And also these deletions were identified around met exon 14, and the consequence of these mutations were skipping of exon 14.
00:17:54.154 - 00:18:14.634, Speaker A: So in a wild type sample with no mutation, exon 14 would then, at the protein level, contain a binding site for Sibyl, which is a ubiquitin ligase. And so normally then met can be ubiquitinated and then further degraded. However, if you skip exon 14.
00:18:16.734 - 00:18:17.070, Speaker B: Which.
00:18:17.102 - 00:19:20.300, Speaker A: Can come about from any of these splice site mutations, then you would skip the exon 14 and remove that binding site, and so you get a more stabilized protein. So this was really an interesting event, because typically in cancer genome studies, when you look at splice site mutations, it's always assumed to be loss of function. But this is one case where these splicite mutations are actually causing a gain of function activation of an oncogene. And so as part of the TCGA lung adenocarcinoma working group, we wanted to further characterize this event. And again, we had whole exome and rnaseq from the exact same tumor types. And from that analysis, we actually identified an unexpected nonsense mutation that was associated with exon 14 skipping. So I'm down here, I'm showing just a model of exons 1314 and 15.
00:19:20.300 - 00:20:03.644, Speaker A: And then above here, I'm showing coverage of rna seq reads in two different patient samples. The top row is a wild type sample. The bottom row is this one patient that had this y 1300 stop or nonsense mutation. What's interesting is this Y 1003 mutation actually falls directly in the exon. And what I'm not showing is that it's predicted to cause a loss of splicing enhancers. And this is something that we're interested in further testing. And so really, the take home message was if we didn't have the matched exome and rna seq data, we wouldn't have been able to identify this association.
00:20:03.644 - 00:21:24.814, Speaker A: And most importantly, this is a nonsense mutation that's then being is shown to be associated with a gain of function alteration. This is really important in the context of treatment. So what's very promising is that patients that have these met splicing alterations actually show response to targeted Met therapies. And so by identifying more of these or understanding all these different ways that met and other targetable genes are altered, we can potentially help to improve our understanding of how we can target patients for specific therapies. So just briefly, I'll talk about some other goals of identifying additional acting mutations. So we're kind of systematically looking for cis mutations in the exome and whole genome sequencing data and then asking, do you see an associated splicing change? And one interesting case we've observed is actually in Erb two, which is another one of these receptor tyrosine kinases. So this is out of the 230 long adenocarcinomas that we originally studied.
00:21:24.814 - 00:22:23.064, Speaker A: What I'm showing here is a graph of the expression of exon 16, and there's this one. So if you notice, pretty much all patients have about 100% spliced in, meaning most of them are expressing that exon. But there's this one patient that shows a dramatic skipping of that exon. And this was the only sample that actually showed a splice site mutation in Irby two. And just to show that this wouldn't have been identified if we had simply used the annotation as this is in the transcript annotations. This exon is constitutive, and so n of one is kind of risky to make any conclusions on. But what was really promising is sort of just doing some Google searching, we found that this splicing event had actually been functionally characterized before, and so we're further testing this as well.
00:22:23.064 - 00:23:45.386, Speaker A: But essentially, in this transformation assay, expressing control or wild type or unknown activating Erb two point mutation versus this exon 16 deletion, what this group found was that that exon 16 deletion can also transform very similarly to a known activating Herb, two mutation. And so, so far, no one this isoform was reported in breast cancer. It had never been reported in lung cancer, and no somatic mutation had ever been linked to that exon. And again, rb two is one targetable cancer alteration. And so we're interested in following up on this, and then finally, we are also involved in the pancancer analysis of whole genomes group, and mainly because we're interested in looking for mutations that are farther into the introns, which are typically missed by whole exome sequencing studies. So one example is right adjacent to the exon, there's these splicite motifs. And in typical exome sequencing, we only call mutations right near the exon.
00:23:45.386 - 00:24:26.894, Speaker A: But there's additional information that flanks that region. And also, it's known that intronic regulatory elements exist. And so we're looking in these whole genome sequencing data to look for additional cases of splicing mutations. And so we'll continue to mine cancer genome and transcriptome data to look at the various ways that splicing can be. And I'll end with just thanking my collaborators, particularly from Matthew Meyerson's lab and Kathy Wu, for their contributions to the work that I presented. So, I'll answer any questions.
00:24:32.914 - 00:24:34.034, Speaker C: A few minutes for questions.
00:24:34.074 - 00:24:51.970, Speaker B: So, in the big picture of cancer, the splicing mutations are not very frequent. So do they occur in combination with other mutations? Can they drive cancer by themselves? Do you have this bigger picture of their kind of role by themselves?
00:24:52.082 - 00:25:35.344, Speaker A: Yeah, great question. So, they frequently do occur, co occur with known drivers. So, for example, in lung adenocarcinoma, the u two af one mutations frequently occur with Kras EGFR, those kind of canonical driver mutations. When people have tried to make mouse models introducing the mutations themselves, they're subtle phenotypes, but you don't see the very strong proliferative effect that you would see with canonical driver mutations. And so people are looking at combinations of mutations together to see what is potentially the additional selective advantage that the factors are doing.
00:25:38.684 - 00:25:43.464, Speaker D: Can you say something about this license preference that changed due to the mutation?
00:25:44.004 - 00:26:06.144, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, I didn't. I kind of. I took that out. So with u two f one, it's actually really interesting. Well, I guess this is my bonus slide. So for u two, f one, we do actually see different three prime splice site sequence recognition. And so this is the splice site motif of canonical human splice sites.
00:26:06.144 - 00:26:42.464, Speaker A: When we see skipping of three prime splice sites, the splice splice site that's avoided has a tag. And then when you look at it the other way, when you're preferring a more proximal splice site, again, you're avoiding splicing at a tag. So that's one feature of u two, if one, sf three, v one, totally different. So you don't see any three prime splice site recognition alteration. What you're seeing, there's some debate, but essentially a differential branch point usage that corresponds to a different three prime splice site change.
00:26:42.804 - 00:26:47.332, Speaker D: You try to model it in a way that you can even the mutation you can predict.
00:26:47.508 - 00:27:16.044, Speaker A: Yeah. So for u two f one, I've done that a little bit. And it does seem that there's a strong enrichment, that if there's two splice sites that are nearby and one is a Teg and one is a CEG, there's a majority of those are affected by the mutation. But we haven't. We haven't gone further to actually build, like, a stronger model for that. But we do see that those. When you have those two choices, that there's a strong bias for those to be affected.
00:27:21.384 - 00:27:29.908, Speaker C: If splicing factors have these pleiotropic effects, then why don't we see more splicing factors with three? Why only these two?
00:27:30.096 - 00:28:04.864, Speaker A: So those were the only two I talked about, but there are actually many others. So in lung cancer, is RBM ten. There's been studies on SRSF one, so there's also overexpression. There's mutations in SRSF two. So there have been a lot that have been identified. There's also other set of sort of epigenetic modifiers that potentially could also affect splicing, and that has been shown as well. So perhaps we just.
00:28:04.864 - 00:28:12.244, Speaker A: There are. Maybe they're mutated more frequently, but we haven't maybe identified the causal leak.
00:28:14.584 - 00:28:15.624, Speaker C: Good. Well, let's thank.
