00:00:00.330 - 00:01:18.962, Speaker A: It is truly Salana memecoin season, and the Salana ecosystem continues to froth with TVL trading volumes and the price of Sol having increased dramatically since last October, when Sol traded for just $20 per token. Despite a slight pullback yesterday, Sol reached as high as $209, and the alltime high of 259 is not far off. The Salana network, which is usually fast, cheap and scalable, has been experiencing congestion and withdrawal issues as DGens pile in for the memecoin trading frenzy, sending tokens like Wif bonk boom and slurf parabolic. But there's actually a lot more than meets the eye when it comes to the Solana blockchain and its vibrant ecosystem of dapps, its projects and its communities, which you can still explore. So take a deep breath, because today we're diving deeper into the salana ecosystem to understand the hype, the technicals, and the fundamentals in this beginner's guide to Solana in 2024. Given all the celebrity, hype and memecoin action around Solana, you'd be forgiven for thinking memecoins whenever someone mentions Solana, particularly if this is your first crypto cycle. But it's really important to have a thorough understanding of Solana if you're looking to maximize returns this cycle.
00:01:18.962 - 00:02:19.606, Speaker A: So what makes Solana unique? Firstly, Solana is a powerful blockchain that prioritizes speed, scalability and cost effectiveness. Users cover transaction fees or gas fees using Sol, which is Solana's native cryptocurrency. Solana's use of time verification, called proof of history, is really what sets it apart in the crypto space, and we're going to touch on other technicalities in just a second. But briefly, proof of history allows every node in the network to agree on and rely on recorded time, which improves overall efficiency. It's kind of like adding more lanes to a highway to reduce the congestion. Salana was founded in 2017, and it's an open source project run by the Salana foundation. The blockchain itself was built by Salana Labs, and unlike some other major layer one blockchains like bitcoin and Ethereum, Salana stands out due to its impressive speed and low transaction fees, which earned it the title of ETH Killer and made it a bit of a villain among ETH maxis last cycle.
00:02:19.606 - 00:03:10.882, Speaker A: Solana's high throughput and low fee setup is crucial when you consider scalability and real world adoption, and they're so confident they've even built this break Solana game, where they encourage users to try and break the blockchain by flooding it with transactions. Alright, Solana is fast, it's cheap, and it's scalable. But what can I actually do other than trade my soul for other tokens or ape into silly meme coins about cats, dogs, politicians and celebrities? Well, quite a lot, actually. You can buy, sell and store cryptocurrencies using decentralized applications. You can browse, trade, or collect NFTs on various NFT marketplaces. You can put your digital assets to use and generate returns by staking or providing liquidity. And as with any ecosystem, you'll want to start by getting yourself a wallet to access and transact on Dapps.
00:03:10.882 - 00:04:10.870, Speaker A: Solana compatible wallets like Phantom and software are reliable and easy to set up and fund, and they're essentially your gateway into Solana. Phantom is Solana's most popular wallet, and it lets users access multiple chains to create subaccounts, to separate NFT and crypto activity, to display their digital assets and artwork and monitor activity all in a single place for added security. Phantom is also compatible with cold wallet options like ledger to keep your assets even safer than if you simply stored them on a hot wallet. Solana's decentralized application or DAP catalog is quite extensive too. To buy, sell, trade, or swap crypto, you can try Solana's leading Dex Jupiter. Here you'll find the best prices for swaps across the Solana ecosystem, and as an added bonus, you can swap directly from within the Phantom wallet. Jupiter also lets users place limit orders, schedule a purchase for sometime in the future, or perform much riskier actions like longing and shorting tokens with leverage.
00:04:10.870 - 00:05:32.342, Speaker A: Next, you might want to explore lending protocols like Marginfi, where you can lend, borrow, swap, and stake your crypto without the use of intermediaries. Now, once you're putting your assets to work and earning some basic returns through staking, you might dive deeper and discover liquid staking on platforms like marinade, Jito, Blaze and marginfi. In simple terms, while traditional staking limits users for staking one token once for a single reward, liquid staking issues a new fungible token, which represents the underlying native token, which can then be used elsewhere to generate even more rewards. And once you're generating returns on your assets, a logical next step might be to explore NFTs and digital art. Solana's scalability also makes it a perfect NFT trading platform, and the Solana ecosystem has a vibrant NFT scene where users can buy, sell, trade and collect, and even display their digital art collections. Popular marketplaces like Magic, Eden and Tensor offer a great overview of the popular and trending collections, the floor prices, the transaction history, and more. Last, but certainly not least, once you have a portfolio of digital assets like open positions, cryptocurrencies and liquid staking tokens which you're holding, NFTs which you're trading and considering to buy meme coins you've aped into life, can understandably get a bit difficult.
00:05:32.342 - 00:06:22.054, Speaker A: It's stressful to keep track of the value of all of these assets and know when to sell or buy more. That's why portfolio management tools like step finance exist, and they offer a great way to visualize your entire portfolio of holdings. That way, you don't have to switch endlessly back and forth between different Dapps or rely on spreadsheets to see how your portfolio is performing. All right, so there we have it, your beginner's guide to Salana in 2024. Yes, salana memecoins may be hogging the spotlight for now, but there's certainly a lot more under the hood which the Salana ecosystem has to offer. A word of caution here, though, Solana has experienced network outages and periods of poor performance in the past, so please bear that in mind if and when putting your capital at risk. As ever, none of this is financial advice, and you should always do your own research.
00:06:22.054 - 00:06:25.330, Speaker A: And with that, thank you for tuning in and stay defiant.
