00:00:00.320 - 00:00:31.586, Speaker A: What is particle network? So to answer this question, I think it's important to start with the tagline for particle network. Particle network is the intent centric modular access layer of web3. Okay, so what does this actually mean? What is the intent centric modular access layer of web3? I think to start, it's important to build some context about our core flagship product. This product is particle wallet as a service or was for short. Particles wallet as a service aims to not only accelerate adoption, but evolve user onboarding and interaction with the blockchain. It achieves a streamlining of onboarding interaction through three main components. The first is particle Auth.
00:00:31.586 - 00:01:20.050, Speaker A: Particle Auth, across a huge variety of EVM chains as well as Solana can directly facilitate login and onboarding applications through familiar means like your Google account, your email, your phone number, your Twitter account, your discord, etcetera. In essence, particleauth enables in app embedded and customizable authentication through social logins. These familiar social logins for EVM can either result in an EOA wallet or an account abstraction smart account, and this is paired directly with the particle wallet. Particles Wallet uses a seedless key management mechanism called MPCTSS multi party computation threshold signature scheme. And in simple words, this enables social logins without the need for a central seed phrase. So a user can onboard through particle auth and then interact with the blockchain directly. With particle wallet, this entire process and flow can be facilitated through a variety of connection particle connect, rainbowkit web3 modal and particle is even natively available within Solanas wallet adapter.
00:01:20.050 - 00:01:47.826, Speaker A: Okay, so at this point, I've talked a lot about particle WASP particles wallet as a service. I think it's also important to showcase visually what this onboarding and utilization process looks like. So in this case, I'd like to quickly use an example from our web demo. This will be linked below, but you can also find it at web demo particle particle network I've chosen to show you our rainbowkit example. So we'll head over here and click on Connect wallet. And in here, as you can see, there are a variety of options, the first four of which all stem from particle. So we have the overall particle option here, as well as shortcuts to Google, Apple and Facebook.
00:01:47.826 - 00:02:17.668, Speaker A: And of course this is all directly alongside other wallets like Metamask, Rainbow Trust, wallet, argent, etcetera. So in this case, let's go ahead and select particle. There's a huge variety of different authentication mechanisms you can use from your phone number to Facebook, Google, GitHub, Discord, et cetera. But in this case, I'll go the simple route and just use my email address and then I'll click on send code and I'll go ahead and input my code here. And as you can see, I actually just created a completely fresh wallet with that email address. I have just the standard rainbow kit connect UI here, so you can see my address here. Zero ETH have the network drop down as well.
00:02:17.668 - 00:02:48.014, Speaker A: And then of course we also have the wallet pop up right here. Particle is embedded natively within applications, meaning that you never have to actually leave the website to interact with your particle wallet. You don't even have to integrate a UI like this, as particle is completely modular and customizable, meaning developers can integrate the particle tech stack or particle wasp in whatever way that meets their specific application. Let me actually show you an example real quick. So this is Apex Pro, a trading application that's natively integrated particle, although you might not know it immediately at first, as they integrate particle in a way that's very specific to the apex application. Let's give it a try by clicking on Connect wallet. I'll go ahead and log in with the email that I just registered with.
00:02:48.014 - 00:03:18.484, Speaker A: I'll send over the code and I'll throw that code into here. And as you can see, I'm now logged in. It actually logged me into a smart account as apex natively uses account abstraction for things like gasless transactions, so they chose exactly what type of account I logged into. And as you can see, they've actually built out a custom UI and app for this. And this is all facilitated natively through particle networks account abstraction stack to enable gasless transactions. I'd also like to briefly highlight the source code of the Rainbowkit web demo that we just looked at a moment ago. As you can see here, it's a very standard rainbowkit setup with the inclusion of the particle network master variable from particle Auth, as well as particle wallet from our Rainbowkit extension.
00:03:18.484 - 00:03:58.578, Speaker A: As you can see, all the configuration happens right here, the project id client key, the default chain, and even the boolean here to dictate whether that widget UI that I just mentioned a moment ago is displayed on the page or not, and it's added right here directly alongside a variety of other wallets. It's very standard, very quick. Whether you're using EVM or Solana with Solana's wallet adapter, it just takes a few minutes to set up within your own application. Okay, so we've explored a lot of the intricacies of particles wallet as a service. But to quickly conclude here, where does the intent centric component of this come in? Well, what we just looked at was actually the core component of our v one product. The majority of this will transfer over to particle network v two because the main change that we're making with particle network v two, which we just announced two weeks ago in Singapore, is the shift from was a service to Zkwas zero knowledge proof wallet. As a service.
00:03:58.578 - 00:04:33.330, Speaker A: This shift comes with things like confidential authentication and confidential transactions to introduce intrinsic privacy to particles Wasp product. Additionally, with v two, we're taking the next step in user interaction through the introduction of our intent fusion protocol at a very high level. Particles intent fusion protocol enables a user to express a desired outcome, something that they want to achieve. For example, they want to earn yield on an asset. Typically, this would require base level, raw and sequential interaction with the blockchain. With the usage of intents within our intent fusion particle, a user very simply just expresses that they want to achieve this certain thing within the intent fusion protocol. This intent is then deconstructed, signed and executed on behalf of the user.
00:04:33.330 - 00:05:08.874, Speaker A: So in the backend its figuring out what steps need to happen to achieve this desired outcome and then executing those. So with particle network v two, we're taking this existing focus on user experience and bringing it to the next level with the introduction of privacy as well as intent centric interaction. If you'd like to learn more about it, I'll have a link to our announcement article below. I'm super excited to support both EVM developers and Solana developers in essentially effortlessly enhancing the user experience of their application through integration with particle. This week I plan to release another video diving into the actual implementation of particle across a variety of different chains and platforms. But while you're waiting for that, I'll have a variety of resources that you can use to learn more about particle linked below.
