00:00:00.410 - 00:00:32.402, Speaker A: Thank you. So I'm Julian Traversa with Swivel Finance. Just a quick introduction to Swivel. We were founded ourselves as a hackathon project at East Denver 2020. It was a pretty simple idea at the time, but, you know, things kind of just get the ball rolling. So hopefully you guys can do similarly. As far as the workshop today, really the goals are hopefully a little bit less technical, although it's going to be a bit overview of the technical details.
00:00:32.402 - 00:01:22.680, Speaker A: But the goals are really to kind of explain how developers can trade rates and make applications around these things. At the moment, this sector is really largely unexplored beyond the first layer of creating fixed rates. So there is a big opportunity for people creating hackathon projects. That said, the two real big goals we have for it are to kind of identify the various fixed rate protocols out there and where their yield actually comes from, as well as a few strategies and kind of how to work around them. I said Intro to Swivel, right? And where our yield specifically comes from. We take future deposits in money markets like compound, ave, urine, et cetera, and we split them into two components. One is the redemption value for your deposit and the other is the actual interest you earn until some future date.
00:01:22.680 - 00:02:05.650, Speaker A: So the most common use case there is the fixed rate. Lender will have this cash flow and want to just trade it away immediately for something up front. Right? And in doing so, the lender effectively gets themselves a fixed rate while the other person is purchasing some future cash flow. And this user purchasing the cash flow is effectively speculating that the interest rates will increase over time. And this is traditionally the largest merck in the world with interest rate swaps and DFI. It's still pretty small. So, yeah, I mean, the best example, again, just walking you through it, you have one lender that has $1,000 and you have one other user that is willing to pay effectively a market rate of 5% for one year.
00:02:05.650 - 00:02:43.454, Speaker A: So that would be $50. You take this deposit, you put it into compound, and each user gets part of those cash flows. $1,000 in redemption value and $1,000 earning interest until one year from today. The next step from there is really just calculating, okay, how much does this user that owns the tokens earn over the entire period? Right? So under the assumption then that the rates moved up from 5% to 8%, they paid $50 initially, they earned $80. So this user is actually profiting. That 60% profit, which, I mean, honestly, in today's context, this is a pretty old slide. It's very different, right.
00:02:43.454 - 00:03:30.030, Speaker A: If rates are 1% and they go up to 2%, you're getting 100% profit. So the trading opportunity is better now than it has ever been, but the ecosystem is still not really as mature as it can be. We use an order book which is very important. But there's about five other protocols around that try to address the market but completely fail to address what these yield tokens, these end tokens really are, which is a derivative. In the same way an options price is based on some spot asset, this yield token that earns future yield, the value is going to be based on how much interest it earns. It's that simple. So when you look at an AMM or otherwise and try to price these assets, it's actually nearly impossible.
00:03:30.030 - 00:04:10.822, Speaker A: The LPs. Just get arbitraged. It really ends up horribly for all parties involved. And pretty much everyone right now is just hand waving this fact away, saying, hey, we'll give token incentives kind of works, right? Token incentives work. But we've seen similar things with options protocols where Hedgek had Molly Wintermute come out and say, hey, our LPs are losing 30% a year, but they don't care. And now Hedge, a lot of you probably don't know it exists. That said, there is a wider ecosystem of fixed rates, right? And my goal isn't just to show our project, but to kind of introduce what developers can do with this ecosystem.
00:04:10.822 - 00:05:04.160, Speaker A: Right? There's about six different fixed rate protocols. They all generate rates or yields in minorly different ways, or provide markets for the tokens in minorly different ways. Obviously, I'm biased to assume that if it's a derivative, you need an order book to properly trade it. That said, when you look at the yield tokenization method, and this is one that is shared across a number of protocols, we were the first to come out with it, really. But at this point, there's about five others that all use the same model, where you take some deposit in a money market compound and you split it into these two components. At the moment, there's no standardization whatsoever across all these protocols, and it leads to a very difficult user experience in general. This is something we're working on.
00:05:04.160 - 00:06:05.722, Speaker A: And then moreover, as well as a liquidity provider or a user, it is actually very, very difficult to even just properly interact with these protocols. You don't know who's really providing you the best rate, you don't really understand the underlying interactions. But regardless, highlighting the point of the talk, where does the yield actually come from in this model? It comes from one party that is potentially speculating that the rates could go up, or it comes simply from time premium, and that if the rates maintain a consistent rate, let's say you're willing to take a slightly lower fixed rate than the current variable one you're effectively being paid, or that you're paying the other user to release your time premium. Get a medium capital, immediate capital today. And this is obviously worth something. The market is pretty naive at this point, so it hasn't really been properly pricing these things, but more opportunity for traders. The difficulty with these models, so the good ones is it's very good for building blocks.
00:06:05.722 - 00:07:07.726, Speaker A: You can rely on a lot of other stacks and integrate all across the ecosystem. It's also really great because regardless of the rates there is a supply and demand on each side. The great example is if the rates are high 8% there's a big incentive for you to lock it in and kind of get rid of your capital. And alternatively I already gave the example if the rates are very low like they are right now, it's very attractive for users to come and long them. I think really the best example that we've been trying to push recently has been the staked ethereum trade in that a lot of users are trying to short staked ethereum. But you can also just own staked ethereum and lever yourself up on the interest rate, which again, this is only viable because of this sort of supply and demand. The other really most common and in my opinion viable model is just over collateralized lending but through the use of a similar instrument with principal tokens.
00:07:07.726 - 00:08:17.210, Speaker A: Right? If you have let's say $150 in ETH and this is provable same way any sort of money market does prove it at the moment with whatever oracle et cetera and liquidation you can instead of minting variable yield mint principal tokens, these are redeemable at a future date for one dollars. And from your point of view if you sell them today you're borrowing at a fixed rate, right? If you're able to sell your principal token for ninety five cents it means that you've borrowed at a fixed rate of roughly 5% a year because you just have to come up with that last $0.05. So it's actually also a relatively flexible model but there are issues with it as well, right? The supply and demand isn't quite there as much. But the big thing is that there is an abundance of borrowers in the ecosystem. So these markets tend to be a little bit more liquid and they can scale, they can scale a little bit easier. So you have this really accessible user base that you kind of just can immediately identify and that's great. And this is one that has been largely growing more recently under collateralized lending.
00:08:17.210 - 00:09:17.198, Speaker A: I'm a little bit more dubious on this end, but we've seen some incredible growth out of companies like Maple where they allow a centralized entity to essentially sponsor a pool and they're doing the due diligence upon the borrowers that are lent out to that pool porter. On the other hand, similarly they allow Dows to raise debt. There's a lot of risk here that make it a lot harder to create trading strategies around. But if you're the sort of person that is willing to take on some minor amounts of risk, there are large amounts, there's a lot of profit just to gain currently. There just is. So the question starts to become how do you start to create strategies that can actually be applied to this sort of sector and what sort of building blocks can people build next? Right. If fixed rates exist, what else can be done? Obviously, the most common trading strategy is longing and shorting the rates, right.
00:09:17.198 - 00:09:58.060, Speaker A: If you want to long the rate, it's literally as simple as purchasing the token, purchasing the end token and holding it and trading it away. Once prices go up, however, there's usually some other strategies folded into a long. And the most common one is largely people that are trying to I don't know if it's on this side yeah. To borrow at a fixed rate. So here's a quick code example of exactly that. Right? In this example, we're using Swivel and we're going to be borrowing directly from compound. So in our scheme, we're off chain with on chain order book.
00:09:58.060 - 00:10:34.870, Speaker A: We have an off chain order book with on chain settlement, which means that all of these things are effectively coming from our API. All of the order, the amounts and the signatures, and then you immediately just input it into your functions. We have SDKs in pretty much every language for this. If you guys are hacking and want to do anything off chain. And as well, there's other ways to integrate on chain too. So what's happening here is effectively there are these arrays that are input. This order itself contains it's a bit more of a complicated object that's imported, but it effectively includes all of the information on Swivel about the order.
00:10:34.870 - 00:11:33.210, Speaker A: Effectively, what is the underlying protocol, right? USDC or something. What is the maturity in Unix? So let's just say December 20 or 31st. And then per order, what is the amount as well that you wish to fill? This is all done with EIP 712, so this is all pretty familiar for people at this point, but you also have to submit all of the signatures in EIP 712 format and then include the C token that you're trying to input. We add in here. It's honestly, in my opinion, pretty straightforward. After that, after you actually input all of the orders, is identifying how much you've actually spent, right? How much did you lend out in C token exposure? And then after that, you can borrow pretty exactly the exact same amount. So in this scenario, you have someone that comes in, they lend out total lent to swivel through all these orders and then immediately in the same transaction, borrow.
00:11:33.210 - 00:12:33.822, Speaker A: This actually highlights the big issue with a lot of these AMMS, because let's say you come in and you're a large borrower that is able to move the rates up, right? So this is completely separate from whatever system that the rate trading itself is happening on, and you can immediately move the rate up and profit from whatever differential on its derivative. Right. This is the same sort of thing you could do if there was an AMM trading an option and you were able to move the market. And this is actually something that is unique to rate markets. In that unlike spot markets, there's no cost to manipulating Oracles, right. If you want to change the price of uniswap, you need to spend billions of dollars in capital to maintain it for a block or two. This is easy to measure, but if you want to abuse and manipulate the actual rate on compound, what does it cost you? It just costs you moving your capital for 1 second and paying a marginal amount of interest.
00:12:33.822 - 00:13:37.090, Speaker A: Right? So it's actually very important that we're using this order book because it allows people to avoid this attack. But from the user's perspective, this is pretty simple. You're borrowing at a fixed rate, you have bought total lent and C token exposure and then as well had that amount of debt pretty precisely. These are available now, so if you want to get into early mev, these are things you can do and there are not actual many participants doing it because there's not a lot of profit here, I'm going to be completely honest, but these opportunities grow. I've manually been able to do these arbitrage before. And best example here is we've had these tokens, you split them up into principal tokens and yield tokens. And inherently, because they've been split up into two components, well, you can combine them back into the same one as well, which means at a base and core level, one principal token and one yield token is always equivalent to the value of one underlying token.
00:13:37.090 - 00:14:20.378, Speaker A: So you can inherently assume the price of both. However, a lot of these other protocols are quite inefficient like very inefficient. They have pools for each of these individually and anytime there's individual pools for two assets that should be trading at the same price, you can arbitrage the two. So here's a quick code example of doing exactly that and going on to sense and arbitraging the two. You come in and this takes a lot of parameters. Hopefully you've hard coded some of this or made a more advanced contract, but just for brevity's sake, it's pretty parameterized. You input exactly the maturity, the underlying and the sort of asset you'd effectively like to lend and the amounts you would like to lend.
00:14:20.378 - 00:15:28.814, Speaker A: Go in, identify your starting amount so you can effectively calculate your profit and loss at the end of the transaction. Buy a certain amount of sense Pts by a certain amount of sense YTS hopefully the same amount because you've calculated that off chain and then immediately combine them. Right? This seems like such a naive strategy that you would think people are actively doing these things, but these protocols are in a nascent state and this means that, yes, people can go out there and create contracts that will profit off of this arbitrage. Your biggest worry at that point is generalized frontrunners coming and taking your money, but yeah, in this case I've returned the profit you make more realistically, you probably want to require that profit exists so you do the transaction, otherwise you'd revert. But I don't know, I didn't decide to do that in my demo. So the next one, right. This is an actual trading strategy rather than immediate arbitrage or an attack, which with previous two kind of were in that there should be across all of those different strategies of trading yields over long term basis.
00:15:28.814 - 00:16:20.360, Speaker A: I'm giving you a lot of words behind this. There should be a trend towards mean reversion, right? Fixed rate protocols, regardless of the source of their yield over time, should center around the same rate because the people supplying the supply side of the formula always should be optimizing on their own accord. So with that in mind, there are a lot of opportunities just for creating strategies around either immediately arbitraging tokens that are across different protocols with slightly different risks but that mature at the same time, or alternatively being willing to take some amount of time risk there as well. So, again, it's very, very important, I think, that there are a bunch of protocols that have different sources of their yield. And these are real sources. These are not illegitimate sources. These are sources that are sustainable because this can create a healthy ecosystem that people can build on top of.
00:16:20.360 - 00:17:06.362, Speaker A: So the example of that code walkthrough, right? So PT arbitrage, I'm back to Swivel's code base again. So there's these same order objects, et cetera, but then in here as well, this is the pool for yield protocol and its principal token, an FY token. Similarly, we start at the front and we get the initial balance. We calculate the amount that we actually lent out on Swivel and then we see exactly whether we can sell that amount on yield. So this entire thing assumes that you already own the yield token. But with that said, the assumption here is that the rates have oscillated a certain amount and you are reversing your position. You are betting on a return to mean and you just easily do this on chain with an action evation.
00:17:06.362 - 00:18:13.180, Speaker A: More ideally, you could set this strategy on chain, say if the variance is greater than x percent, the calculation can actually be executed at the end of it. Essentially, you just close the order. And likewise, you should really be checking to make sure that your ARB profit is positive rather than just returning it. But there it is. And the effect here is and I had an entire nother deck for this thing, but is that you are creating a deeper and wider fixed rate ecosystem if there are participants that are willing to do this. Arbitrage and we're actually building an entire protocol around this core concept in addition to Swivel that takes all of these principal tokens and accepts whatever minor amount of time risk, you're able to increase the volume of every single individual protocol. Profit yourself and ensure that the ecosystem itself is healthy, right? These are the things that are actually necessary for the growth of any DeFi ecosystem and it's what drove spot volume is integrations, right? These are the important things.
00:18:13.180 - 00:19:22.702, Speaker A: This is honestly relatively similar strategy in that instead of cross protocol betting on mean reversion between principal tokens, this is within protocol bet that there's just going to be reversion between major stablecoins and we have seen this on even a short term basis between Dai and USDC with only recently USDC kind of reverting from that. But the idea here is you're just trying to go from one asset into the other. There's a swivel order. You come in and you try to fill it as quickly as possible and immediately afterwards come and trade on uniswap and trade back into swivel. The result is here you are profiting should there be any more long term disjointments in rates between stablecoins and this is a relatively basic strategy, right? There's plenty of ideas you can even build on top of this similar stuff. I think one great hexon idea, if people are really, really looking for one, is the ability to just arbitrarily trade from one token into another, get it sealed and then trade back at the end of the period. Just a wrapped product is pretty simple.
00:19:22.702 - 00:20:12.880, Speaker A: And things like that, again, are what the ecosystem legitimately needs. And I mentioned this kind of a moment ago, there are issues with the growth and if you can find people that are willing to kind of work around these things, which we're trying to do, you can fuel and profit massively. Traditionally you have things like IMM dates around these fixed rate protocols or not protocols, but whatever asset, right, you have single dates four times a year. That all of the contracts for every financial, everything mature. This makes it so people can actually create structured products on top of them and kind of do the whole building block thing. This exists traditionally. However, our compatriots have been kind of reluctant to adopt this sort of standard with us.
00:20:12.880 - 00:21:09.490, Speaker A: This is something that we're spearheading now and it seems like we're getting more adoption of. But it is extremely important for people to grow in these strategies really to be applicable for there to be shared maturity dates. Another really big thing is, I mean, I showed you some of the code integrations and they look like kind of a pain in the ass because a lot of them are. And one of the things we're specifically working on as well is a standard to reduce the stress of a developer trying to integrate with fixed rates. This is something that I'm spearheading with the yield team and that anybody that wants to integrate with any fixed yield and honestly, I'd count this in with our bounty as well, even though it's kind of a separate thing. Anyone that wants to integrate with a fixed yield should just be able to buy this token off an open market and redeem it later on for the value. So you don't need to do anything other than know how to integrate with Uniswap and use the interface afterwards.
00:21:09.490 - 00:22:00.320, Speaker A: So again, if anyone wants to learn more about these things in particular, please compile booths because I think there is a lot that can be done and there's a lot of opportunities and yeah, I think I'm a bit early, but it's fine. If anyone really is looking for hackathon ideas, I do think we have a link. I think we've posted it in the Fglobal discord but we have SDKs in just about every language. We can help everyone out with their integrations and do some legwork as well. Just come hang out and yeah, I suppose that's most of it from my end. We've got Bounties for 2000 believe and they're really wide reaching. Right, so anything from minor integrations to dashboards? Pretty much anything.
00:22:00.320 - 00:22:02.060, Speaker A: Yeah, that's about it.
