00:00:00.440 - 00:00:28.174, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 24 June 2021. Alright everyone, let's get right into it. So just a heads up here this week, this Saturday, the 26 June, I am doing another AMA in the Discord's voice channel. So if you're on at that time, 11:00 p.m. Australian Eastern Standard Time 03:00 p.m. Central Eastern Standard Time in Europe 09:00 a.m.
00:00:28.174 - 00:00:55.542, Speaker A: EDT Eastern US 06:00 a.m. Pacific so sorry. Sorry for the west coast us. Unfortunately, that's just the best time that I come up with that would accommodate everyone across the world. But never fear, this is going to be recorded. It'll be uploaded to YouTube later on so you can come and kind of listen to it. So if you do want to get your questions answered but you can't attend, just drop your questions into the AMA series channel on the Discord and you can join the discord by using the link in the YouTube description below.
00:00:55.542 - 00:01:38.510, Speaker A: But I hope to see you all there. You know, as much as you, as many of you as possible. I think it's going to be a really fun ama and I'm really excited for it. So I mentioned yesterday that there is a, there was, sorry, an AMA that went on, on Ethereum from the Ethereum Foundation's research team here. And I said I was going to summarize it, but I came across this post on, is it the ETH finance subreddit just before? And it basically summarized the most interesting kind of, I guess, like questions and answers from the AMA. So it's quite a, quite a lengthy kind of post here with links to all the questions and answers. But I suggest going and giving this a read will be linked in the YouTube description, of course, but it has basically, you know, all of the, I guess, meat of the AMA now.
00:01:38.510 - 00:02:20.720, Speaker A: I read through the whole AMA, read through all the different comments and things like that. It was absolutely amazing. I mean, there is just so, so much to look forward to in Ethereum beyond the next like twelve to 18 months. Like I spoke yesterday about how the next twelve to 18 months is going to be really cool in the ethereum ecosystem, but I mean, the Ethereum foundation researchers, they're just thinking so far ahead. They're thinking like at least five to ten years ahead from where we are today and what upgrades we can bring to the protocol beyond kind of sharding. Cause I guess like after the merge happens, sharding and statelessness of the two kind of major things after that. But then beyond that, like what can we do? Well, one, one basic thing we're going to be doing is hopefully adding more shards, more than the 64 shards.
00:02:20.720 - 00:03:03.624, Speaker A: To get more scalability. We can do things like snarkifying the base layer, which is essentially a fancy way of saying we can do some really, really cool things with, with cryptography at the, the base layer here. We can do things with validators. Justin Drake's been working on verifiable delay function functions for a while now. That's basically introducing true randomness into the beacon chain, which means we could actually, from my understanding, we could potentially make it so that with MEV is much less of a problem because we could randomly order transactions within a block without the validators actually knowing what transactions are in there. And there's like commit reveal schema for that sort of stuff as well. I mean, there is so much meat here.
00:03:03.624 - 00:03:27.408, Speaker A: It's just, it really is insane. And I mean, the, the details that the researchers. Sorry, the answers that the researchers gave were very, very detailed. So I highly recommend going and reading the whole AMA, but if you just want a summary, then this post will get you, get you there. So definitely go check this out. I'll link this in the YouTube description below. So EIP 1559 is now live on its first testnet, Ropsten.
00:03:27.408 - 00:03:49.568, Speaker A: So actually, technically the London network upgrade is now live, which includes a bunch of different eips. But obviously 11559 is the star of the show there. So that is live as of today. And the next testnet to fork will be going forward in a week and then another one a week after that. So I think girlie in a week. And then Covan, I believe, or rinkeby. Rinkeby probably the week after.
00:03:49.568 - 00:04:15.534, Speaker A: And then if all the testnets go well, we'll get a main net kind of like fork date from there. Now, what's really cool is this watch. The burn website has been updated and now supports the Ropston testnet. So you can actually see how much ETH is being burned on this testnet. So almost 800 ETH at that time of recording here has been burned. And this is just, I guess, maybe about 12 hours worth of blocks so far. And this is just on the testnet, which is really, really cool.
00:04:15.534 - 00:04:39.748, Speaker A: So you can click through to different blocks and you can actually see the breakdown here of how much kind of, you know, what the block reward was. The base fee and how much in weigh and then how much gui was was burned as well. So you can see the amount that's burned here. So just a kind of like a basic kind of breakdown of blocks. But this is real time, by the way. Like every time a block is processed, this gets updated and shows you the total amount of fees burned. And, you know, Robston is here.
00:04:39.748 - 00:05:44.902, Speaker A: And then there's going to be support for girly and Rinkeby when those get activated. And of course, Mainnet. I mean, this site is probably going to be my, I guess, like the site that I check like pretty much probably every day once 1559 is on main net and I'm going to be posting so many screenshots of it to Twitter and things like that because I really want people to just kind of see like, kind of like that it's working right. The ETH is being burned and we're doing what we kind of like, set out to do. But also I'm really interested to see kind of, I guess maybe a site can be created that compares the old transaction fee mechanism to the new one. So pre 1559 to post 1559 and to see how much we're saving users in terms of like, fee overpayment. Because I've discussed this before on the refuel, and I've said that you users tend to overpay on fees a lot because of the fact that fees can move from underneath you while you, when you've put like a transaction in and, you know, you may want to speed it up so you end up overpaying, whereas with 1559, that pretty much kind of eliminates most of that problem and also guarantees that your transaction will get into the next block or so.
00:05:44.902 - 00:06:09.566, Speaker A: So I would love to see the comparison between, you know, how money, how much overpayment there was, you know, pre 1559 and all those sorts of things. But still, this is a really, really amazing side here. Kudos to, I think Mohammed, it was the one of the, is the guy who made it his Twitter's link to down the bottom. I think he made it with another person as well. And it's open source and everything. And there's a git coin grant too for them. So if you haven't donated to them yet or anyone on Gitcoin yet, get on that.
00:06:09.566 - 00:06:21.614, Speaker A: By the way, you haven't got much more time. Actually, you do. I'm joking. You have like a week, but still do it now because I'm gonna keep reminding you. And, you know, once you do it, you know, you feel better about yourself. But anyway, go. Go donate to all the gitcoin grants.
00:06:21.614 - 00:07:04.094, Speaker A: And there's another tweet here from, from Tobby Kitty, who basically just reiterated the fact that the power and the proof of work issuance and proof of stake issuance is very different. Now, the reason I want to talk about this is because it ties into 1559 and it ties into something that I tweeted out today about how 1559 isn't going to make ETH net deflationary during proof of work and less, guys, over 100. Actually, I'm going to try and find this tweet quickly that I. That I put out. I responded to Aaron, I remember if I just kind of find it here. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So I basically said my napkin math says that with proof of work at current issuance rate, which is 4.5%
00:07:04.094 - 00:07:53.508, Speaker A: a year, give or take, you know, a couple percentage, a couple of basis points there. It says that with proof of work, we need 100 way consistently to see a deflationary ETH, which means that we would need gas fees to be at 100 gwei as the floor or higher for east to be net deflationary. And by net deflationary, I mean burning more ETH than what we're issuing per year. So for the whole year, not just for spurts of the year, because obviously, there's times for, like, you know, a day or a couple of days or during, like the. Obviously the mania a couple months ago where more ETH would get burned because of that, we're at 100 way already. So, you know, if we can, if we kind of, like, consider all of that together, then ETH is not going to be net deflationary with proof of work. But where this gets really interesting and what people are talking about when they kind of mention, you know, ETH being net deflationary, it's with proof of stake.
00:07:53.508 - 00:08:56.770, Speaker A: So kind of post the merge. So once the ETH one to ETH two merge happens, we're obviously going to have, you know, much less issuance because we're just going to get rid of proof of work and we're going to go be just on proof of stake, which means that based on my napkin math, again, this is not exact numbers or anything, but we would only need ten gui consistently, which is what we have today. Right. Like, we have it during a very quiet period. And this is before roll ups kind of roll out in a big way and start kind of consuming block space. This is during, you know, a time where we also have, like, flashbots, which kind of, I guess so with flashbots as it currently stands and with, I guess, like, transactions being able to be done outside the public mempool, it kind of gives like, a false sense of measurement on, on guay because these, these transactions aren't currently measured by, like the, I guess, like the measurements that we use to measure fee payments. But post 1559, some of that will happen in the base fee regardless of kind of like if using flashbots, if you, if you, or if you're using the public mempool or anything like that.
00:08:56.770 - 00:09:45.458, Speaker A: So that will kind of get factored in then. But anyway, Tengue consistently and that deflationary ETH post merge with 1559, of course, which is really, really cool. So I just wanted to kind of set some expectations there that, yes, 1559 is super exciting. We're all extremely excited about it, obviously, but don't kind of be disappointed if ETH isn't net deflationary post 1559, if the market heats up again and we go to consistently 100 way plus again, then sure. I mean, it's going to be really cool to just be able to say, you know, we issued this much ETH today and this is how much we burned. So we were actually deflationary for that day or this day or that day. But, you know, that didn't even last a year over the, if you, if you kind of take the last year and kind of like map out what the, what the gas prices were, they varied a lot, and they were definitely not 100 consistently for that whole year.
00:09:45.458 - 00:10:36.894, Speaker A: So we would not have been that deflationary even during that kind of mania there. So in proof of work, but in proof of stake, if, I mean, if we had 100 grade consistently in a proof of stake world, we would be way more than just like net deflation. We would be like, I mean, I don't know what the math is right now, but essentially it's like ten times the amount of kind of ETH being burned after the net deflationary aspect kicks in. So very, very cool once you think about the implications. But anyway, just wanted to kind of explain that and make sure people aren't kind of, I guess, caught offside when 1559 goes live and they're expecting it to burn all the ETH when it will burn a lot of ETH, but it won't burn enough to make ETH deflationary in proof of work. So Chris K. Put out an interesting tweet today, and I've spoken about, like, ETH use as a settlement layer a lot before, but basically, he compared PayPal and Ethereum.
00:10:36.894 - 00:11:46.598, Speaker A: So PayPal in 2020, 2020, sorry, settled $936 billion in payments for the entirety of 2020, whereas Ethereum in 2021 settled the same amount in just 17 days. Now, given this was the peak of the bull market, right, May 1 to May 17, but doesn't matter because ETH is Ethereum just doing this in 17 days, and PayPal doing this in 365 days is an absolutely crazy difference. And I think, again, this is what a lot of people are missing, is that every single one of these transactions that settled value on Ethereum paid fees. Every single one, even if they went through flashbots, even if they went through other dark pools, they still paid fees to, to Ethereum. Now, obviously with flashbots, they go around Ethereum, they don't pay to the protocol, they pay to the miners directly. But as I said, with 1559, there's still going to be a little bit of that fee paid, or like maybe even a healthy chunk of that fee paid to the Ethereum protocol, regardless of flashbots use or whatever. So if you extrapolate this out and you think, okay, well, you know, Ethereum is the greatest sentiment layer we've ever invented in the history of the, of humanity.
00:11:46.598 - 00:12:28.536, Speaker A: And I don't think that's, uh, that's far fetched to say that because, uh, PayPal is an absolutely massive company. Um, and I doubt, like, uh, most things are doing more settlement value than Ethereum is right now. I think Ethereum might be behind things like visa steel and settlement value and maybe like fed wire and stuff like that and some bank stuff. But most fintech is definitely getting beaten out in sentiment value by Ethereum. And Ethereum is still extremely young and it still has, like, problems with scalability and all that sort of stuff. So, you know, taking all that into account, let's imagine a year, sorry, let's imagine a time in five years when we've scaled nicely via L2s and other means. We have 1559 in full swing.
00:12:28.536 - 00:13:08.244, Speaker A: The base layer fees are being just paid by roll ups and things like that. And Ethereum, the network, is settling, you know, the layer one network, if you extrapolate the value that it's been, that it's settling, you know, in terms of what, what's happening on L2, it could potentially be settling hundreds of trillions of dollars a year on that kind of like, base layout. Well, it would. The settlements, I guess, like, sorry, the transactions and value would happen within L2, but then the L2 proof would get settled on layer one. So you'd have to basically deconstruct the proof and just kind of like look into how much value was in that one proof and then you could extrapolate it out. But that can be done. So let's say it's hundreds of trillions of value being settled there.
00:13:08.244 - 00:13:51.872, Speaker A: That is absolutely insane because it means that the fees for that kind of value being settled will probably be quite high on layer one. Now, end users aren't going to have to suffer through those fees. The L2 roll ups and things like that are going to be happy to pay those fees. That, and then, because we'll be in, obviously in a 1559 world that's going to be being burned. So, and we're going to be post merge as well with just on full proof of stake. I really do think, and this is an old saying, but I think it applies to crypto especially, and especially Ethereum, is that humans tend to put way more emphasis on the short term and don't really put much emphasis on the long term. And this goes back to what I was saying about recency bias, but I think this is a bit different to that, where we, for some reason, I mean, I suffer from it too.
00:13:51.872 - 00:14:32.752, Speaker A: We just cannot see very far into the future. And those who do are the ones that are considered, you know, true visionaries and things like that. As I was saying before, the Ethereum foundation researchers are thinking five to ten years into the future of Ethereum and thinking of like the, the most advanced stuff that won't come to fruition until maybe ten years down the line. But they're thinking about it now. So those kinds of people are the visionaries. They are the, the ones who kind of like build this sort of stuff and get us, you know, and, you know, allow humanity progress to progress. But I don't think it should just be kind of, I guess, like limited to them, I'm pretty sure, like, you know, myself and others, you know, watching the refill right now, I hope, you hope all of you kind of can, can see further than even like a year.
00:14:32.752 - 00:15:17.504, Speaker A: I think a year is an eternity in crypto, but it's still, you know, it can still be considered short term if your outlook is decades. So, and obviously, like, just thinking a couple months ahead, well, that's just like, I guess, um, I guess like really short sighted. And I also think that this doesn't just apply to price, this applies to fundamental developments as well. So a theorem in five years is going to be absolutely crazy. Amazing. I mean, I mean, I can't even imagine how crazy it's gonna be, and we're gonna look back at these times and be like, why were we ever, like, bearish? I mean, there's some people out there that are, that are bearish on, on ethereum, obviously, and I'm just gonna kind of, like, keep, keep kind of reminding them in my own little way. It's like, why are you bearish? Why are you bearish, guys? Like, there's no reason to be bearish.
00:15:17.504 - 00:15:41.740, Speaker A: So, anyway, I thought this was a cool tweet from Chris K to kind of put into context just how big ethereum is and just how big it's going to, to get. So ao 16 z have announced their new crypto venture fund that has $2.2 billion worth of funds in it. This is absolutely massive. Their largest crypto fund to date. I saw someone do a breakdown before of there. This is their third crypto fund.
00:15:41.740 - 00:16:36.234, Speaker A: Of the other two funds that they have were much smaller than this. Um, but this is cool, because if the market, as I've said before, if the market goes into kind of like a bear market or a downtrend for many, many months out there, it's not going to matter for the builders because these kind of funds have already closed and kind of, like, gotten funds into them from limited partners, or LP's, as they've called, as they're called. A 16 isn't the only one. There's plenty of others out there that have raised money recently, and there's lots of teams that have raised money recently as part of a seed round or a series A round, which gives them plenty of ammo for, you know, anywhere from, like, one to five years in terms of, like, development, whether that was a seed stage or a series A. And if they're succeeding, they're going to go on to raise even more money, and that'll be easy to come by because all these funds are flush with, with cash now. And the one thing that's important about these funds, people who don't know, is that they can't sit on this money. They have to invest it.
00:16:36.234 - 00:17:02.370, Speaker A: That's part of what their agreement is with their limited partners, is that this cash is going to be invested in crypto projects. So you might think, oh, well, you know, these funds are like, like us. They fomo into things. Well, I mean, yes and no. I mean, I think the reason they raise so much money is because people are fomoing. But at the same time, that money is getting deployed, whether it's a bear market or a bull market, it doesn't matter. Now that money has been raised, it's got to get deployed.
00:17:02.370 - 00:17:38.180, Speaker A: I mean this, it can get returned to investors, but you know, usually it doesn't in any big way. Usually it just gets deployed. Now I'm curious to see what a 16 Z fund. They seem to find a lot of different things and they, they've got like, I mean, they've got a pretty sizable portfolio on the crypto side now, but I don't think it really matters. I mean, the more projects that we fund, you know, the more kind of ideas that we find, especially ones on Ethereum, not just, I mean, there's some kind of pointless things that get funded, but that's just, that's always going to happen. But the more of that that kind of happens, the better it is, I think, a net for the ecosystem. And I, you know, I'm really excited to see that there's $2.2
00:17:38.180 - 00:18:17.480, Speaker A: billion in just one fund up for grabs for crypto entrepreneurs here. So Mstable is teasing the a bunch of new kind of developments coming up in their current development sprint. So there's going to be new MUSD feeder pools on polygon for fracs and Al USD here. The m e spec and Mip is coming up. So MIP stands for m stable improvement proposal, the staking v two spec as well, with an MIP rari capital fuse pool for MUSD, I believe, and a pull together integration and more as they're teasing here. So yeah, lots of exciting stuff coming for Mstable. And I mean, disclosure, I'm an advisor investor in Mstable, but.
00:18:17.480 - 00:18:46.164, Speaker A: And you know, I actually wanted to mention one more thing about mstable, is that, you know, the yields in DeFi right now have been dropping. Stable coin yields in particular have been dropping pretty, pretty badly. Good. But on m stable you can currently get non token subsidized yield of around eight to 10% on your dollars, on your, on your musd. So definitely go check them out if that's something you're interested in. You know, it was funny, we're having this discussion in the discord the other day. It's like there's, there's kind of these two camps, I guess, of people within crypto.
00:18:46.164 - 00:19:30.888, Speaker A: It's like the passive investor versus the active investor, but I don't think they have to be kind of mutually exclusive. I think you can do both. I think you can have like say ten to 20% of your portfolio, maybe more if you expect the market to be bearish in stables just earning a yield somewhere, whereas you can have, and then you can have like say, 80% of your portfolio in volatile assets still, such as ETH. And I was saying that basically, the way I look at it is that I don't really hold stable coins. I mean, one reason is because there's no AUD stable coin. I don't want to expose myself to currency risk, but even if there was, I wouldn't really hold too much of my kind of like portfolio in stable coins because I would rather hold ETH and I would rather stake my ETH. And yes, okay, the APY in staking or APY is 6.5%.
00:19:30.888 - 00:19:58.366, Speaker A: So it's not, you know, super high, but that's 6.5%, that's ETH denominated. So if ETH goes up in value, which I expect it does, then I'm able to stack more ETH. And that 6.5% ApR, as I said, is ETH denominated. So if you dollar denominated, it actually becomes a lot more if you adjust for the price going up. Now, of course the price can go down or whatever, but the way I plan to kind of stake is that I plan to stake my ETH kind of like forever, essentially.
00:19:58.366 - 00:20:39.040, Speaker A: And, you know, whatever I earn in staking rewards, obviously I have to pay tax on it and things like that, but net of tax, like if I need it for living expenses, I can use that to kind of like fund myself. But essentially, you know, if I stake for like five years, and it was, say, the APR for five years average was like 10%, just as a ballpark figure here. Well, then I'd have to factor in the fact that ETH has gone up in value over those five years, because I strongly believe that it will. Which means my API is probably a lot more than 10%. Taking that into account. I know it's not the right way to kind of calculate it, but that's how kind of I think about it. But that's not to say that you shouldn't, you know, take advantage of stable coin farms and you shouldn't kind of like hold some assets in stable coins.
00:20:39.040 - 00:21:26.242, Speaker A: I mean, using ethereum as a savings account is incredibly cool, especially for those who are happy holding USD. You can essentially, you know, even use your. I mean, if you, if you're happy taking the risk for any tax money that you owe, you can use to farm as well. And now, I don't ever, I don't suggest this, like, I'm not recommending this, but I know people who do this where they'll have a lot of USD that they're setting aside for tax, instead of just sitting in a bank account earning basically nothing, they put it into some, some kind of like yield farm on defi and actually think mstable is pretty good here because it's a low risk USD kind of yield farm. But generally, yeah, I mean, obviously do your due diligence. There's risk there and things like that, and risking your tax money is probably not never a good idea, but I know people who do it, and if you are comfortable, comfortable with the risk, well, then, you know, more power to you. But anyway, I'll leave it at that for now.
00:21:26.242 - 00:22:08.070, Speaker A: Just really exciting things coming out of mstable going forward. So any swap has partnered with arbitram. So for those who don't know, any swap is a protocol for bridging assets between different layer ones and L2s, similar to hot protocol and Connext, of course. So they've partnered with arbitrum, obviously, to be able to do transfers across like arbitrum and different layer ones and L2s and stuff like that. So really cool to see arbitram just getting more support from more ecosystem partners out here. I would wager that any swap is going to be supporting optimism and starkware and zking and all of them, like, I mean, maybe they're already supporting optimism, I'm not sure, I haven't checked lately. But generally they're not going to just stop at one protocol.
00:22:08.070 - 00:22:47.694, Speaker A: This is the thing about like the maximalist mindset where people kind of like call me an ETH maximalist, or they call me an ex maximalist and they'll say, oh, you're, you're this particular L2 maximalist. It's like, no, I mean, it's just such a bad way to think about things. At the end of the day, developers are going to deploy, are going to build what they want to build, they're going to deploy their apps to where they want to deploy it. And that depends on like various factors. And yes, okay, one of those major factors is having like an allegiance or an alignment to Ethereum's core values and mission. But I don't think that's maximalism. So in the same kind of vein, I don't think, you know, preferring one L2 over another is maximalism either.
00:22:47.694 - 00:23:26.928, Speaker A: I think that there are going to be a lot of L2s that eventually fail because they'll just fail to get adoption. But that doesn't mean that these bridges have to say, oh, well, I'm not going to support optimism because I think arbitrum is going to win no, they're going to support all of them, and then whatever wins, wins. It's the same that happened with all of these projects deploying to all the EVM compatible networks like BSc and Phantom and a bunch of others out there. That's a shotgun approach. And as I've said many times, developers aren't going to be able to maintain protocols across like 20 different, sorry, apps across like 20 different protocols. Just not going to happen. So eventually, you know, over the long term, we're going to coalesce around a handful of these L2s and layer ones.
00:23:26.928 - 00:24:09.060, Speaker A: But the bridges don't have to be opinionated about this. The bridges are just going to beyond everything and just like bridge assets and value for whoever wants to bridge them between whatever they want to bridge. So, yeah, anyway, cool to see any swap supporting arbitrum here. So Reddit is apparently selling three ethereum NFTs featuring its snoo mascot here. So Reddit's actually been a pretty good supporter of Ethereum over, over the years, and its co founder, Alexis, who now works at a fund, basically has said before that he holds a lot of ETH as well. But it's still really cool to see that, you know, Reddit's getting more involved with the ethereum ecosystem. If some of you remember, they did like a scaling ethereum hackathon a while ago, and they've obviously done their kind of like community points.
00:24:09.060 - 00:24:34.384, Speaker A: It was moons and something else. I can't remember the exact name here, and they've done donuts before and things like that, so. And those things were ERc 20 tokens, I believe. But now they're doing NFT. So you can essentially buy three legendary NFts here of their snoo, kind of like mascot, which I think is pretty cool. I think that these are going to go for a little bit. You know, obviously owning an official Reddit NFT is a pretty big deal.
00:24:34.384 - 00:25:20.910, Speaker A: And, you know, just on the NFT front, actually, generally right now, it's just so funny to see how different some of the communities are. I am talking to people and meeting people who give zero shits about Defi. Like I am telling you right now, they couldn't care less about Defi. They have zero interest in it, they don't want to learn about it, they don't want anything to do with it. But they are absolutely obsessed with nfTs, to the point where they're just spending all of their day on it, all in every day, whether it's buying them, you know, researching them, curating them, making their own, you know, doing stuff in the metaverse. There's people doing this as like a, basically a full time job at whilst while completely, you know, ignoring what's happening in Defi because they just don't care about it. But this is the beautiful thing is that that's Ethereum.
00:25:20.910 - 00:26:01.580, Speaker A: You can completely ignore one kind of, you know, use case and do another one. And this is what separates Ethereum from like bitcoin, for example, where in bitcoin, if you don't like BTC, well then what are you going to do with bitcoin? Like, you can't do anything else. You have to like BTC, the asset. And because that's all bitcoin gives you. Whereas with Ethereum, I've mentioned this plenty of times, there's a million dollars to get into Ethereum. I mean you could love L2 stuff, you could love building L2s and being a dev there and kind of doing the research there, but you could also absolutely hate nfTs. I mean there's plenty of people I know that actually hate Defi but love all the other aspects of ethereum, or hate nfTs, but love the other aspects of Ethereum.
00:26:01.580 - 00:26:45.392, Speaker A: I mean it's just, it's insane to me like how diverse the ethereum ecosystem is and no one is forced to like anything. Like, you don't even have to like ETH as an asset if you don't want to. And believe me, believe it or not, there are lots of people out there who really don't like ETH as an asset and don't believe that it should be investable. I mean, I'm sure some of you have seen some of the Fud around 1559 recently. For some reason people are coming out and being like, you know, 1559 is just like something for the moon boys to pump ETH. It's such a stupid take, but I've talked about this before and I'm not going to go into it now, but essentially these people are still in the Ethereum ecosystem, right? Just because they don't like 1559, they don't like ETH as an asset, doesn't mean that they're kind of like exiting the ecosystem now. Some of them will, some of them may find homes in other ecosystems and that's fine.
00:26:45.392 - 00:27:49.468, Speaker A: But I think just the diversity of Ethereum is an incredible strength that not really any other platform has at this point in time. So yeah, really, really cool to see that and cool to see Reddit issuing these three nfts on Ethereum here. So yield protocol announced their series a funding round yesterday, so they raised $10 million in a round led by a paradigm with participation from Framework Ventures, CMS holdings, variant fund and Defi alliance among, I'm sure, other investors here. So for those who don't know yield protocol, or yield I guess it's called, is a DeFi protocol for fixed rate borrowing and lending. They have their v two going live soon and this funding is to kind of build out that v two which is going to extend their protocol to new use cases by enabling new collateral assets and new borrowable assets here. So you can read this kind of announcement in the YouTube description and you can also visit yield protocols medium page to read more about how yield protocol works and how they do fixed loans and why fixed rate loans are important and all the sorts of things like that. So congrats to the team here.
00:27:49.468 - 00:28:17.892, Speaker A: Really great to see another ethereum native defi app raise some money here. So the new version of the Power mobile app is now live. You can go to power Xyz iOS to check this out. I don't believe it's available on Android. I think it's only on iOS. Maybe it is on Android, I'm not sure. But anyway, this new kind of like update comes with, I think some performance improvements maybe, or something like that.
00:28:17.892 - 00:28:42.708, Speaker A: I'm sure there'll be some kind of notes here if I open up the website here. Some kind of like changes. Yeah. So enhanced welcome screen with an internal FAQ page city, silly city illustration pages and resolves to ens by address, which is really, really cool as well. So yeah, if you have the power up app on your phone, be sure to download this. I mean, I mean, I think that you all should have it on your phone because power ups are just absolutely awesome. I love collecting them.
00:28:42.708 - 00:29:20.410, Speaker A: I'm sure a lot of you, you know, are aware of this and love collecting them too. But actually, for those who aren't aware of what power is, it stands for proof of attendance protocol. And what essentially they are is like little nfts that you can get for attending different events, whether that be online events or in person events. So for example, if you go to like a Devcon, you'll get a QR code that you can scan on a piece of paper and that'll give you the poll app and that'll basically prove that you are at Devcon. Now you can extend this to basically everything you can online events, offline events, you know, but participating in different things on protocols. There's been pops for that. There was a pop for being a genesis validator in ETH two.
00:29:20.410 - 00:30:04.570, Speaker A: And, you know, I think the point is to eventually get it to the point where you can basically use power up as a governance signaling signaling mechanism, where if someone has a lot of powers and they have a lot of the rare and coveted ones and the older ones, it signals to the rest of the people that they're an OG, so to speak, or. Or they are real human, and they kind of, like, are involved in these things. They've been around for a while. So, yeah, I really love the power project. Definitely go check out their app if you haven't yet, and start collecting your Po apps here. So finally, Arthur Zero X from Defiance Capital announced that they now have a job board on their website. And this job board covers basically all of their portfolio companies, all of the companies that they've invested in, which currently includes 37 companies, and there are 80 jobs here.
00:30:04.570 - 00:30:31.332, Speaker A: So I've spoken about this a lot lately where I said that this is the absolute best time to get a job in crypto. No matter what your proficiency is, no matter what you're good at, you can get a job developer, marketing, business development, community design, whatever you. Whatever it is. Like, there's a million jobs out there, and you can, you know, legal, whatever. Like, there's a corporate council lead for Gitcoin right now. There's a senior front end engineer for strips finance. There's project managers for diversify.
00:30:31.332 - 00:31:03.296, Speaker A: I mean, there are so many kind of, like, jobs available, and, you know, this is just another way to find them. And I've shield cryptocurrency jobs.com before definitely go check them out as well. But generally, this is, I guess, more of a, I guess, like, targeted kind of approach here, where if you kind of, like, know of defiance capital and you trust that they're really good investors, then you may want to work for one of the companies that they invest in, which is what you can do here. So, yeah, go check this out. If you haven't yet, it'll be linked in the YouTube description. And that is it for today, everyone.
00:31:03.296 - 00:31:12.544, Speaker A: So thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the YouTube channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
