00:00:03.450 - 00:00:27.670, Speaker A: Elastic execution grid is a network provided by Cloud technology. It is widely known for its speed of data processing and reliability of its results. No matter how complex your test is. Let's learn about the combination of this framework with Ethereum on web three, along with Mr. Jun Hao tan, head of Product Engineering Department.
00:00:30.330 - 00:01:42.904, Speaker B: Good afternoon everyone. So I'm Chin Hao from the OD layer team. At OD Layer we are actually helping Ethereum and other EVM chain scale elastically using Lt roll up. So let's take a look at what are the major payment points today in 2022 and not 2018. So earlier this year we have the NFT mean by Yugaslabs which is NFT project which is other. And at that point of time there was a crazy massive congestion on Ethereum and people are losing like thousands of dollars in gas fee and not getting their transaction been confirmed. And what about the side chain earlier this year? Also on Polygon there is also a very popular game and it uses a significant chunk of the block space on Polygon and also finally on the L Two space whereby we have the arbitrary which is they launched the Odyssey campaign and they have deposit along the way because of massive congestion.
00:01:42.904 - 00:02:40.556, Speaker B: Again. So you can see that this congestion issue, scaling issue is due a major problem in 2022 and we have been complaining about scaling issues since 2017, 2018 and we have been building all kinds of solution but we still can't cater to this kind of congestion issue. And one of the major issues is because a lot of DApps nowadays just require some capacity for a very short time, like a sudden spike like NFT ming and so on. So what we are doing at OD layer so OD Layer we are not just building L Two, we are actually building a platform for you to launch L Two on demand on the flight. So we can easily actually launch L Two within let's say 30 minutes or so. And the L Two has quite a decent TPS of about 2000 and above block latency. That's configurable and that is under 2 seconds.
00:02:40.556 - 00:03:19.496, Speaker B: And also it support different VMs such as EVM WASM. And also one very unique point about our route is that you can actually determine the lifetime of your rob. Let's say if you need it for one day, then you just spin it out for one day. If you need it for one month, just spin it out for one month and so on. And also this is all optimistic rob and we build it in a modular way. And in terms of our product line, we have two different tier they are building, they are basically optimistic rock. One is flash layer and the other one is what we call a persistent rock.
00:03:19.496 - 00:04:08.236, Speaker B: So Flash layer are simply roll up that you don't need it for very long. Let's say if you need it for a few hours or need it for a few days, a few months, then you can come and use this solution. Basically you just use it and once you do need it, then you can dispose it off. And whereas for persistent layer, then that is something that like what the name say persistent and that you just launch it and use it forever. So let's take a look at the first type of Rob, which is the flash layer that we are offering. So for flash layer, let's take an example of an NFT Mint. So, NFT Min is basically there is a lot of transaction going through in a very short amount of time, let's say a few minutes or a few days, like up to 48 hours or so.
00:04:08.236 - 00:05:00.750, Speaker B: So in this case, you can actually come use our platform to launch an application specific roll up that is delegated for your NFT Min, deploy your smart contract using your normal tooling, then after that, launch your campaign, launch an NFT Mint with your delegated block space, without anything to worry. You do need to worry about whether is anyone actually having a similar event as you at that point in time. And once you are done with the NLT Min, what we can do is that you can do what we call automatic roll up back to Ethereum. So this roll up is a bit unique, is that it? Roll up the contract state. So imagine that you can actually migrate your data from L Two back to Ethereum. Isn't that wonderful? So this is basically you are burning away the NFT on L Two and minting it on L One. And this is the automatic step.
00:05:00.750 - 00:05:48.360, Speaker B: So one of the main benefit for using this kind of solution, a flash layer, is that really the Minting experience is very similar for most users, there's no congestion. So congestion is the main complaint for NFT Mints. Without congestion, you already solve like let's say 70, 80% of the problem. And the next thing is, because this is a layer that is for you, you can actually create a flash layer that has gas token, but the gas token has zero value. So you can actually AirDrop all this gas token to all your users and once you AirDrop it and they can use it for this Minting and this kind of token won't be rolled out back to L One. So in this case, they are paying $0 for gas. So first, you have no congestion.
00:05:48.360 - 00:06:36.872, Speaker B: Second, you don't even need to pay for gas. But at the end of the day, someone still need to pay for gas, right? And that's where the project team has to incur a bit on the gas fee. That's where they need to actually roll up the contract back onto L One. And of course, the Rob in this case won't be so expensive as compared to what user is paying. Because user are like paying thousands of dollars to get their transaction in first. But in this case for us, you can actually rob at any point of time when the, let's say, gas cost is low. And what about the other kind of rob, the persistent one? So the persistent one has one additional function which is basically fraud proof, that is very common across optimistic Rob like Arbitran.
00:06:36.872 - 00:07:30.700, Speaker B: And I think optimism is also working on their fraud proof. With the fraud proof, then you can derive your security from your L One. And what about diversification and decentralization? So we will be able, for our Rob, we can run multiple producer or what is commonly known as sequencer. And with that you eliminate, let's say, single point failure and also censorship mitigation also. And for Verifier, we allow you to actually run in various modes. Let's say if you wanted to run a light client, if you want to run it in a hardware enclave like SGX, or if you want to run it on a standalone desktop machine or crowd infrastructure, you also can do it. So in terms of security wise, we have a tier security level.
00:07:30.700 - 00:08:07.770, Speaker B: So the first level is whereby the moment the transaction is confirmed on the L Two, you can just basically treat it as confirmed. If you are comfortable with that. The block latency is about two minutes, but if you are not comfortable with that, you can actually run your own litecoin on your browser. This is basically trust bar verified, so you verify it yourself, verify that nothing is wrong, then you confirm it. And this probably will take a few minutes. And if you don't even really trust this step, then you can wait for it to be robbed back to L One. And that's where you just need to trust L One, basically.
00:08:07.770 - 00:08:52.520, Speaker B: And on top of that, we know that there's a lot of some limitation for EVMs. You might want to call center function that's not available within EVMs and so on. For example, certain digital libraries. So as long as those library can be compiled into WASM, we will be able to provide you with an interface that allow you from solidity to call all these external libraries and so on. And so far we have our DevNet ready launched and we will be continually maintaining and upgrading the DevNet. And starting from next year, we are also gearing up for our Minet candidate release. And we will be very busy working very hard towards our minet.
00:08:52.520 - 00:09:28.724, Speaker B: On those side, we are not just going to end with just launching a minute. We know that we want to make life easy for developers. We want to make it very easy and that's why we can have certain toolings to help them. One example is, for example, rob creation template. For example, for NFT project, right, they want an application specific network, but they don't want to configure it themselves. They don't have the capability or they just don't have the bandwidth. So in this case they anyway, yeah.
00:09:28.724 - 00:10:17.440, Speaker B: So in this case they can actually just basically use the default template with the parameters default, other default settings if they need trigger bill settings, deploy a route within let's say 30 seconds or so. All the other Nsim for let's say gaming and so on. And on top of that, we know that application specific has one main issue which is a diversity of the ecosystem. You might lack assets of all the taxes, NFT marketplace and so on. So we are also building additional tooling, additional add on. We also invite ecosystem partner to come and build on top of us and provide them as powerful add ons for this rob. So when you launch a rob right, you can actually deploy all this application together with your rob immediately.
00:10:17.440 - 00:10:59.788, Speaker B: So in this case from day zero you already have all this diverse ecosystem and you don't need to worry about having to source for partners and so on. And we did a few showcase of our tech so far. The first one is NFD mint. So we did our OG batch, we call it OBG batch. Basically we use our logo, change some color and make it very beautiful. And we did an NFD Minting of 100 NFD and the NFD actually got Minted, fully minted within 18 seconds. And after that we rolled them out back onto Ethereum L One and it's actually available on Openc.
00:10:59.788 - 00:11:54.636, Speaker B: And at that point of time the rob cost for us is only zero point 25 if and that is at a G way of about twelve G way. So it really is a very efficient manner and the user actually don't need to pay for gas fee and so on. And we did a second round of Showcase. The second round of Showcase is basically we hold Dark Forest on our gaming flash layer and we ran a community round for two days. And during these two days we have almost about 200K transaction record on chain and everything is very similar. And because it's using a gas token that has no value, people can just claim the gas token from Faucet and play Dark Forest game without incurring a single cent. So our next showcase will be our mascot in this showcase.
00:11:54.636 - 00:12:20.950, Speaker B: It's coming soon. We will be showcasing the execution layer which is L Two settlement layer which is Ethereum and also MultiChain. So you'll be able to bridge asset from various EVM chain into our our L Two and use it to mint NFT. Yeah. And that's it. And if you want to know more about us, you can check out the QR code and yeah, thank you very much.
