00:00:07.850 - 00:01:12.430, Speaker A: Hey guys, good afternoon, how are we all? And I'm Kevin, I'm the co founder of Artella Network and you can always mark me with this hamburger hat. And I'm really glad to be here to share with you about Artella's work. So first of all, what is Artilla? So Artilla is an extensible blockchain enabling, modular and customized DApps through EVM plus aspect programming. So the key information here will be number one, we are a new L1 network and we are focusing on the issue of the extensibility. And number two, we are trying to make Dapps more and more modular, more feature rich by promoting new solutions called EVM plus aspect. And what is aspect and why we on earth need such a new paradigm will be the basic topic I want to cover in today's talk. So the reason why we need aspect will lead us to why we need EVM enhancement.
00:01:12.430 - 00:02:20.300, Speaker A: And I think there's no doubt that EVM has already became the benchmark for data building patterns for most of the blockchain execution layers. But you do get thorough constraints regarding the custom, visibility, the extensibility, and also the realization for complex scenarios. Basically, that's the reason why we got some alternative solutions like precompile, Appchain, NonVM or another programming languages to try to solve all these challenges. But they all get their own trade offs like pre compile aption heavy for most of the developers. And as for the non EVM, they still need time to grow to become the mainstream. So I think it's safe to see that the EVM is now the mainstream and the replacement cost for the EVM is extremely high and even invisible. So what Artella is actually trying to solve is to find new solutions to promote and enhance the capability of the EVM while stay composable with it.
00:02:20.300 - 00:03:54.950, Speaker A: So that's where we promote our new solutions like EVM plus aspect. So in Artilla we will have an EVM equivalence execution layer, but besides that, we will allow developers to use the Wasam runtime to build a native extension that is aspect in Artella as a copaccessor to co work with the smart contract and enhance its capability for some specific scenarios and more functionalities. And the Wasam runtime will also be a part of the artillery network, which means you will share the same level of the security as the EVM and you will be run by the area nodes of the Telugu network. And you may also wondering that we already get know dual VM solutions. So what exactly is that aspect apart? So we're going to need to take a closer look on how technically aspect can separate different things. So like from a technical perspective, we are utilizing the join point model for aspect, which means the aspect can be injected by the developers in the whole blockchain transaction flows, which means the entire transaction lifecycle is now open for developers to customize. In another word, the programmable scope for developers right now on Artella is not just limited to the EVM sandbox, but extend to the whole execution process of the blockchain transactions.
00:03:54.950 - 00:05:26.078, Speaker A: And the second thing is aspect going to have more access to the base layer resources and underlying APIs of the blockchain base layer like call stack and call data. And the combination of these two features will make it possible for the aspect developers to realize in depth customizations will stay composable in the L1 level or some more functionalities that cannot be realized elsewhere. The third thing is that the developers, they will have their own full discretion to decide whether they want to build, operate or even monetize aspect. So let's say if you try to promote some modification specialized for your DApPs in the business level, you don't really have to rely on the really heavy solutions like EIP to promote the global changes for your network. Instead, we are the aspect. You can realize the composable and the lightweight minors of the partial upgrades specialized for your applications, and you can even monetize it by making as a public services and be reused by other developers. As I mentioned, the full point for having ASPA is to have a better execution layer supporting for more on chain functionalities.
00:05:26.078 - 00:06:28.790, Speaker A: So now let's shed some light on some real interesting use cases now possible on Artala, the first case is about the onchain even driving programming. I know you may not be familiar with this specific words, but it's kind of like a very vital and well used programming patterns both in web two and web3. Like in web3, the liquidation process for most of the DeFi protocols, the timely task system and the back end systems. They are all the practice for the even driving programming. But in traditional UVM architectures it is nearly impossible to realize all this natively on chain. So we have to rely on the third party, the keeper network, to monitor the execution result of the EVM and trigger the additional actions to promote such actions. This will introduce several trade offs, basically because we are relying on a third party and synchronized realizations.
00:06:28.790 - 00:07:33.142, Speaker A: So we'll definitely lose most part of the composability with the onchain smart contract and we'll have to suffer minis level of lattices and also by introducing a third party. So basically we are talking about more risk assumptions. But this will not be a problem with the help of the aspect. As a cop assessor for the smart contract, let's say you can put some aspect before the block is finalized, and the aspect can monitor and analyze the results of the EVM execution and produce a corresponding just in time actions for the smart contract. So basically we are talking about like capernetwork or automation services, but number one, with zero latency, number two have the native level of compatibility and the transaction level of custom visibility. You can really do a lot of cool stuff based on that. So these are the projects that are working on our telas for gamings.
00:07:33.142 - 00:08:41.090, Speaker A: We have Blazao and cellular, which are the two four Langchen game. Or you can call autonomous world now running our tela and they are utilizing the aspect to do the on chain automake NPC services that can combat with real players. And the movement of the NPC is backed by the really complex pace finding and combating algorithm that has been integrated into the aspect. So whenever user make a specific move, the MPC will conduct a corresponding move based on the calculation result of the EVM, plus the logic that have been integrated into the aspect. And this kind of realization has perfectly proved like aspects work as an on chain GPU. If we take EVM as a CPU of our, let's say decentralized computers. So because Aspak can have a next level of computation power and can work as a perfect supplementary, modular supplementary of the EVM in some specific scenarios and specific cases.
00:08:41.090 - 00:09:43.426, Speaker A: And for DeFi we also get some amazing developers working on some really cool stuff. Like they are utilizing the aspect to eliminate the bad MEV for their DAX and recapture it for their protocol itself. And also they are using aspect to product, the just in time LP transactions to maximize the capital efficiency for their, you know, DaX. And also Aspak can work as on chain copcessors, which can realize the intern based transaction natively. And another real case is about the risk come true, the real time risk come true. I think I don't have to emphasize how security means a lot for web3 wars, basically because everything about web3 is everything about the asset. But right now, basically we have to fully counting on the code auditing to prevent our fund from hacking.
00:09:43.426 - 00:10:53.258, Speaker A: But the past experience has proved that the code auditing is not that 100% reliable. Well, I'm not trying to say that the code auditing companies, they are not reliable, just from the technical perspective, the code auditing, they are actually implementation of precaution and off chain white box solutions. And you cannot simply rely on the precaution to detect and prevent all of the kind of the risk from happening. But what about the real time control for EVM? It has been proven invasible because we are lack of the information about the transactions. And second, you cannot just simply run the real complex risk control logic through the EVM. But with the aspect, this will not be the problem. For the first time we can realize the web two, scale real time risk control on web3, like as a developer, you can integrate the risk control logic into the aspect and put it before the block is committed.
00:10:53.258 - 00:12:49.300, Speaker A: And once you combine your smart contract with such aspect, they will help you to analyze every of your transactions and prevent your fund from being hacked. And this kind of the implementation is really a modular and plugin and plug out solutions which means as a developer, as a dev owner, or even as a single users, you have your fully discretion to decide whether you try to step into such a relationship that is like having a third party to analyze your transactions. And that's how we try to solve the dilemmas between something like privacy and securities by giving back the decision making rights right back to the stakeholders. Now Artilla is cooperating with several leading security companies in this industry to really promote the security of the web3 into next level. Here is a real use case we conduct with several of our partners. We just deploy and replicated the curve contract on our tele network and use the aspect to successfully prevent the re interest attack from happening again at the runtime level. Yeah, this is just the tip of the Asperg about the real use cases of the capability of the aspect and Artilla, we are just on our testnet and we just ran our first version of our Hexons and we really get Artilla developer communities like transforming some of these interesting ideas into real codes like regarding the security, the on chain, Qic Kyt stuff, the privacy, the AI and even the gaming and the DeFi part.
00:12:49.300 - 00:13:24.300, Speaker A: So yeah, like I mentioned, we are currently on our testnet and like everybody here, we warmly welcome you to join our tela, to join us together to explore the boundary of the web3 communities. And we'll have a booth here in Denver and if you get any questions or if you want to share something with our team, feel free to reach out to me or anyone in Artilla hoodies and yeah, so yeah, I wish you enjoying your stay in Denver. That is all for today. Thank you all.
