00:00:00.240 - 00:00:12.874, Speaker A: Welcome to the third day of this week. We continue with the last mini course by Professor Ransford from Laval University on duration spaces.
00:00:14.854 - 00:01:13.794, Speaker B: Thank you, Javas. So this is a continuation of the two previous lectures. In the first lecture, let me recall that we defined the Dirichlet space and described boundary behavior of functions in the Dirichlet space in terms of capacity. And yesterday we discussed zero sets of functions in the Dirichlet space and multipliers. And today I want to discuss three more aspects of this space, namely conformal invariance, weighted diverse low spaces, and finish with invariant shift invariant subspaces. So, as always, feel free to button if you have questions or ask a question in the chat. I'll try and keep an eye open on the chat, but we have plenty to get on with, so let's get started.
00:01:13.794 - 00:02:03.524, Speaker B: So first remark here is a very simple one formula for the Dirichlet integral of the composition of two functions, f and phi, where phi maps unit disk into complex plane and f is defined on the image of phi. And this is nothing other than the usual train to variable formula for using the Jacobian. So there's nothing very deep in this. I'll just use it to to introduce the notation n phi of w. This is the number of solutions of the equation. Number of solutions z of the equation five z equals w. Okay, so here are a couple of simple consequences of this formula.
00:02:03.524 - 00:02:50.984, Speaker B: The first one is that if phi is injective, and just by taking f of z to be z, f dash will just be one and n phi will be one. And so you just get the area of phi d divided by PI. So this is a geometric interpretation of the Dirichlet integral of an injective function. And even if phi is not injective, you can still, this equality still holds, but you have to count area according to multiplicities. And this way of looking at the derivative integral is sometimes helpful. So an interesting fun fact here is that if phi is in the Dirichlet space, then the area of its image must be finite. So certainly it can't be subjective.
00:02:50.984 - 00:03:33.838, Speaker B: There are no surjective functions in Dirichlet space. That's not true, for example, of the Hardy space. And another consequence of this formula is that if phi is an automorphism of the disk, a PI center disc, back into itself, then, well, n phi is one, because phi is an automorphism, and you just get left with the same integral, the Dirichlet integral of f. So the Dirichlet integral of f compressed phi equals the Dirichlet integral of f. So there's this Merbius invariance property of the Dirichlet interval. And what's interesting is that this actually characterizes more or less the Dirichlet space. So one often hears this result.
00:03:33.838 - 00:04:19.124, Speaker B: But actually it's not simply that the Dirichlet space is the only Mobius invariant homomorphic function Hilbert space. It's the fact that this norm or this integral remains invariant. So here's a more careful statement of this characterization. So h will be a vector space of holomorphic functions on the disk. And we'll suppose we're given a semi inner product on h, and curly e of f will just be the semi inner product of f itself. So at the back of our minds, we have the idea that h will be the Dirichlet space and e will represent the Dirichlet integral of f. Okay, so we have the following theorem of RSV and Fischer.
00:04:19.124 - 00:04:55.372, Speaker B: So suppose we have the following four properties. So the first property is really the key one. It says that if f is in h and phi is an automorphism of the disk, then f composed with phi, again belongs to h, and the value of this e functional is preserved. That's really the key property. And then the others are things we have to add in to make the theorem true. The second one is a completeness statement. It says that essentially this e defines a Hilbert space norm on hook, so it's complete.
00:04:55.372 - 00:05:56.194, Speaker B: The third assumption says that convergence in this norm is somehow related to the real world. We want it to imply point wise convergence on the disk. And the final assumption avoid trivialities. We'll assume that h contains at least one non constant function, and then the conclusion is that h is indeed the Dirichlet space and e is a positive multiple of the Dirichlet integral. I think that's a very nice result, and it serves as an extra motivation when we needed for looking at this space. So this property of Merbius invariance leads one rather naturally to considering composition operators. So if I'm given in fact any holomorphic function from the the disk into itself, I'll define c phi to be the map that takes a function f and composes it with phi.
00:05:56.194 - 00:06:31.234, Speaker B: So this is a composition operator. And what I just said, if phi happens to be an automorphism of the disk, then C phi maps the Duichray space into itself. And it's a fairly natural question to ask for which other functions phi. Is this true? Is the statement true? In the case of the Hardy space, the answer is rather nice. It's true for all phi. This is a famous result called little wood subordination principle. In the case of the Dirichlet space, it's no longer true.
00:06:31.234 - 00:07:42.314, Speaker B: And you can see that very simply. I mean, if C phi maps the Dirichlet space into itself, in particular, c phi of the function z should be in the derivative space, so phi itself should be in the derivative space. And it's not all functions that self maps of the disk that belong to the Dirichlet space. Here's a simple example which I just cooked up. You just check it directly, or if you prefer to quote some results from earlier, in the course, any inner function that's not a finite batch of product also will serve as an example of a holomorphic self map of the disk that's not in the Dewich way space. So in that case, c phi certainly does not map the Dewich way space to itself. And then the natural question is to ask, which phi do have this property? And the answer is contained in the theorem of McClure and Shapiro, which is that the necessary insufficient condition is that this multiplicity function and phi that we defined on the previous slide with area has this property.
00:07:42.314 - 00:08:40.114, Speaker B: So that on any Carlisson box si, the, if you think of this as a measure on the unit disk, the measure of on the CArlson Bot should be bounded by a constant times the length of I squared. So this very much resembles the condition that we saw yesterday for Carlisle measures of the Hardy space. And in fact, it's exactly the condition to be a Carlson measure of the Bergman space. Rather strangely, it's the Bergman space that enters here, not the Dirichlet space. So more than that, I'm not going to say, but this is the necessary and sufficient condition. And as a nice consequence of this, there are some easily checked, necessary and sufficient conditions for C phi to map d into itself. So here, Phi to decay is just the ordinary kth power of Phi.
00:08:40.114 - 00:09:13.326, Speaker B: It's not a composition phi to the multiplied by itself k times. So these, these follow from the McClure Shapiro characterization. So there's a large industry of composition operators and all sorts of questions that you can ask about them. I'm going to sort of sidestep that. I'll mention a few further developments at the end of the section. I just want to mention one result that I can't resist. And this is related to weighted composition operators.
00:09:13.326 - 00:10:02.494, Speaker B: So a weighted composition operator is a composition operator followed by a multiplication operator. And we've just seen which composition operators abounded on the diversion space we saw yesterday, which multiplication operators are bounded on the Dirichlet space. There's a very complicated classification of characterization of multipliers, as Jonathan Partington pointed out in his talk. Obviously, if you have two such operators that are bounded, there product will be bounded. But it can happen that one or other of them is unbounded, and yet the product remains bounded. So there are some delicate results about which weighted composition operators are bounded operators. But the theorem I want to mention here, it goes in a completely different direction.
00:10:02.494 - 00:10:32.774, Speaker B: So this concerns a linear map from zero show space. I don't assume that it maps zero shear space back into itself. I don't even assume that it's continuous in any sense, just that it's a linear map, the final individual space into the holomorphic functions. And then the following conditions are equivalent. So t maps nowhere vanishing functions to nowhere vanishing functions. So it preserves the set of nowhere vanishing functions. That's one condition.
00:10:32.774 - 00:12:04.454, Speaker B: And the second condition is that t is a weighted composition operator in a sense that you can write it as psi times f compressed with phi, where phi is a holomorphic self map of the disk, and psi is any holomorphic function on the disk that doesn't vanish. I mentioned this because it actually uses some of the technology that was developed in the talk yesterday. At the end of the talk, I mentioned some factorization theorems that approved using ideas about complete pic kernels, and this is an essential ingredient in our proof. Incidentally, I forgot to mention yesterday that many of these ideas about complete pit kernels are likely to appear in more detail in one of the subsequent workshops in this focus program, as a workshop on the Drury Alvarsen space, which is a version of the Hardy space in several complex variables, and that space plays a central role in this theory. So I just want to advertise that. And there's also another workshop later on, I think, on non commutative function theory. And this also plays a role even improving commutative results, including one of the factorization theorems I mentioned yesterday.
00:12:04.454 - 00:12:52.730, Speaker B: Oh, and one final thing. The J ranks that you see who's in the theorem is my son Julian, who was a student of Javad at the time we put this theorem. There's a question. Are we assuming that the number of solutions are finite here, unlike an Internet rational product, no, n five can be infinite. So, just to finish the chapter, here are some further developments. Once you've characterized bounded composition operators, the next obvious step is to characterize compact ones. And this was also done by McClure and Shapiro.
00:12:52.730 - 00:13:38.988, Speaker B: And as so often happens in this context, the characterization is exactly the same, except you replace the big o by a little o in that theorem. You can also consider when these composition operators are in various shat and p classes. And there's a paper on this by Lefebvre, Lee, Georgia, Piazza. In fact, I think they've got several papers on this sort of subject. And another thing one might expect is that if. If phi is sufficiently, if c phi is sufficiently compact, then the image of the disc under phi should only touch the boundary of the disc on a rather small set. And this was investigated in detail in a paper of Gallardo, Gutierrez and Gonzalez.
00:13:38.988 - 00:14:26.218, Speaker B: And there have been several other papers since then which have developed these results. Okay, let's move on. Any further questions on that chapter before I go? It seems not. So we'll move on to weight in Derrich lay spaces. So I'm going to discuss in two particular families of weights. The first family has already appeared in several talks, so we. Excuse me, we include this power weight here.
00:14:26.218 - 00:15:06.924, Speaker B: It's part of the Dirichlet integral. I'll call that thing D alpha f. And, well, we can define a space d alpha using this weighted version of the integral. And here are some properties of this. So, first, you can again expand f as a Taylor series, plug it in, and evaluate the integral with polar coordinates. And what you get is just with the classical division integral, we got k sigma, k mod ak squared. You will now get something that looks like k to the one minus alpha.
00:15:06.924 - 00:15:39.890, Speaker B: It's not an exact inequality, exact equality, but it's. It's the ratio of the two sides is abounded above and below by fixed constants. You'll notice here that we have a one minus alpha, whereas I had an alpha here. In many of the other talks where these weights were discussed, the defining property was this one. And if you start with that, it's natural. It's more natural to write alpha here instead of one minus alpha. And then the convention changes.
00:15:39.890 - 00:16:52.854, Speaker B: So sometimes you should be warned that my alpha is sometimes other people's one minus alpha. In fact, even I'm not always consistent about this, but I think, starting from this definition, it's a little bit more logical to take alpha as the parameter. So with that choice, the central value of alpha, alpha equals zero, gives you the just the jewish race space. And as has already been mentioned several times, if you take alpha equals one, then you get something that's isomorphic to the hardy space. And so what happens to the other values of alpha? Well, in between these two, in between the Dirichlet space and the Hardy space, you get a chain, a family of spaces, D alpha, which in many ways behave a bit like the classical Dirichlet space. They're more like the Dirichlet space than they are like the Hardy space. And the natural potential theory that's associated to the D alpha space is the one where, instead of using the logarithmic kernel, you use the kernel one over distance to the power alpha, the Reese kernel.
00:16:52.854 - 00:17:52.249, Speaker B: And this gives rise to the res capacity, c alpha. So many of the results that I've talked about versions for d alpha as well on the other side. So, as alpha decreases, these spaces are getting smaller. And in fact, what you end up with is something that all the functions extend continuously to the boundary of the unit disk, and they are banic algebras. And so the flavor changes quite considerably. On the whole, these are, these are a little bit easier to deal with than the d alphas for positive alpha. Okay, so another family of weights are what you get by, instead of taking the power weight, sorry, I'm going to go back.
00:17:52.249 - 00:18:31.304, Speaker B: Instead of taking a power weight here, you take here a positive harmonic function. We'll see why this is a natural thing to do in the course of the lecture today. So, a positive harmonic function can always be written as the Poisson integral of a positive measure on the unit circle. And it's convenient to think of it this way. So I'll take as my starting point a positive measure on the circle, finite measure, and p mu will denote its Poisson integral. And this is a harmonic positive function of z. And a general positive harmonic function can be written in this form for some suitable choice of mu.
00:18:31.304 - 00:19:39.294, Speaker B: And then I'll define the corresponding weight of Dirichlet space d mu with this weight. So it's Dirichlet integral with this weight. So these spaces were first considered by Stefan Richter in a paper in 1991, and we'll see why a little bit later on today. And their properties were further developed in a joint paper with Richter, with Carl Sonberg just a year or two afterwards. So, some special cases that are worthy of note, if you take mu to be just normalized, the vague measure on the circle, well, the Poisson integral of normalized lu, vague measure is just the constant function one. So you end up with a one as your weight, and you're back to the classical Dirichlet space. And another interesting special case is when mu is just a point mass at a point zeta of the unit circle, zeta here is a point of the unit circle.
00:19:39.294 - 00:19:54.054, Speaker B: Then you get something which is called the local Dirichlet space zeta. And by slight abusive notation, it's often denoted d, sub Zeta. And you can think of.
00:21:08.494 - 00:21:11.154, Speaker A: It seems that there is a connection problem again.
00:21:31.194 - 00:22:27.994, Speaker B: Yeah, we'll just wait for a little bit. I'm sure he'll be back soon, hopefully. Sorry, just a second. Gives me a moment. I supposed to open the right file. Okay, I'm back. I really thought about that.
00:22:27.994 - 00:23:00.354, Speaker B: So I'm not quite sure at what point I cut out. I think you were just starting to talk about the local deerslay spaces. Okay, so we can recover d mu from d zeta just by integrating with respect to mu. This is just Fubini's theorem. If you look at the formula for the d mu integral here, d mu is itself an integral. And just by swapping the two integrals around, you get this formula. So calculate d mu.
00:23:00.354 - 00:23:41.058, Speaker B: It's enough to be able to calculate d zeta. And we'll see a neat way of doing that in just a second. So here are some properties of these DMU spaces that were developed by Richter and Sandberg. So, first of all, they all are contained in the hardy space, and they become a Hilbert space. If you define, for example, the norm this way. There is an analogue of Douglas formula that we saw in the first lecture. So the Douglas formula was a formula for the Dirichlet integral, expressed in terms of the boundary values of f on the unit circle.
00:23:41.058 - 00:24:21.996, Speaker B: And so this is the same formula, except we've replaced one of the Lebeg measures by d mu. And a particular case of interest is when mu is just the Dirac mass at zeta. And then this integral just becomes one integral for a fixed zeta. It's just the inside integral that's remains. And this gives a quick way of calculating d zeta f. In fact, f belongs to d zeta. You can see it from this formula if and only if f is of the former constant plus z minus zeta g, where g is in the Hardy space.
00:24:21.996 - 00:25:08.044, Speaker B: And the d zeta integral of f is nothing other than the square of the hardy space, normal g. So you can compute d zeta of f quite easily from this, at least in many cases, and then d mu of f just by integrating up with respect to mu. And this is a kind of general strategy that often works. So, for example, one result you can get this way is a Carlson formula for d mu f. So Carlson's formula for d of f was an exact expression for the Dirichlet integral of f were expressed in terms of the outer factor of f. The zeros of f, and the singular inner measure of the singular inner function. And there's an analog for d mu.
00:25:08.044 - 00:25:54.356, Speaker B: So Richard and Sandberg also proved this by first of all doing it for d zeta and then integrating that with respect to mu. And their proof is quite different from that of Carlson. And in my humble opinion, it's much easier to follow. So if Carlson's formula is a special case of this, because it's just a special case where mu is the vague measure. Another fact about these spaces is that it's interesting is that polynomials are dense. So this is not quite so obvious as it would be for the classical Dirichlet space. In the classical Dirichlet space, it's sort of obvious from the formula for the Dirichlet integral in terms of Taylor series that you can just take a function in the direction of space and truncate its Taylor series.
00:25:54.356 - 00:26:27.474, Speaker B: And that gives you a sequence of polynomials that will converge to f in the norm that doesn't work in d mu. It's not true in general, the polynomials you get that way won't converge to f necessarily. And you need some other method. Originally, this was done by Stefan Richter using an operator theory technique. And then in the Richter Sundberg paper, they reproved it by exploiting this inequality. So here fr is the radial dilation of f. Fr of z equals f of rz.
00:26:27.474 - 00:27:26.794, Speaker B: And they proved that d mu of the radial dilation remains bounded independently of r by four times the d mu of f. You would think that it was sort of obvious, but it's not so obvious. And actually we had to wait a few years until there was a proof where you could replace four by one. And the proof was a rather interesting technique of Don Saracen, where he identified the d zeta spaces with rather particular de Branch Rovnyak spaces. And in these very special debrajovniak spaces, the norm of Fr was less than the norm of F. That was his method, a rather indirect method. This gives me the opportunity to advertise another workshop in the focus program, which was devoted to these very interesting spaces, the du grand Romaniac spaces.
00:27:26.794 - 00:28:07.434, Speaker B: Okay, so here are some further developments of these ideas. So these DMU spaces, they also have capacities associated to them. You can. One thing where they are more difficult is that they are certainly reproducing Colonel Hilbert spaces. But we don't have an explicit expression for the reproducing kernel. This is something that's a bit special to the classical Dirichlet space. But there are now estimates, at least for the diagonal of the reproducing kernel and applications to capacitors.
00:28:07.434 - 00:28:57.940, Speaker B: A paper of El Fallard and Madame Nkeri. So I've talked about the demuse faces as being spaces with harmonic weights. A little bit after the Richter Sundberg paper, Alleman introduced the notion of super harmonic weights, so positive super harmonic functions. And it turns out that a lot of what's true for harmonic weights also goes over to the superharmonic weights. And it's rather nice because it actually gathers in one family both the harmonic weights and the power weights we saw at the beginning of the chapter. So this is really a very, very beautiful theory. And let me mention finally, that these d mu spaces have also have the complete pick property.
00:28:57.940 - 00:29:41.144, Speaker B: This is a rather remarkable theorem of shimarin, who proved that the, I mean, I said the space has a complete prick property. More correctly, I should say the kernel has the complete prick property. Even though we don't have an explicit expression for the kernel, you can prove that it has this, this important property. And this is true actually, not just for the harmonic weights, but also for the super harmonic weights. And in fact, shimmering proof uses super harmonic weights in a rather essential way. Even if you're only interested in harmonic weights, you, he actually goes via the super harmonic weights to prove this. Okay, so that completes what I have to say on weighted jewish lace spaces.
00:29:41.144 - 00:30:27.514, Speaker B: I don't know if there are any questions. Unfortunately, when my link went down, I also lost the chat. But I've reopened the chat. So if there are any questions, I'll be happy to try and answer them. Okay, so let's move on. So the last topic in this mini course is shift invariant subspaces. And, well, just to introduce a little bit of notation, so, in general, t is a bounded operator on a Hilbert space h.
00:30:27.514 - 00:31:46.136, Speaker B: I'll write lat th to denote the lattice of all closed t invariant subspaces of H. I think this is fairly standard notation. And I'll denote by Mz the shift operator, the operation of multiplication by z, and the theorem that is kind of the model for everything that we do here is this truly wonderful theorem of Berling that kind of lies at the center of so much of function space theory. So it says, it classifies the closed shift invariant subspaces of the Hardy space there of the form. They're exactly the spaces of the form theta h two, where theta is an inner function. And well, given Birling's theorem, it's kind of natural to ask what happens in the case of the Dirichlet space. What are the shift invariants of spaces of the Dirichlet space? Well, it's helpful here to examine the shift operator on the Dirichlet space and try and isolate some useful properties.
00:31:46.136 - 00:32:29.116, Speaker B: So here are three properties that turn out to be key. The first one is a kind of generalization of the notion of isometry. So on the Hardy space, the shift operator is an isometry. On the Dirichlet space, it's no longer an isometry, because the, the expression in terms of the power series is not sigma mod ak squared, sigma k mod a k squared. And because of the factors of k, when you shift, you change the value of the norm. However, k has the useful property that it's the average of k minus one and k plus one. And that property translates into a sort of weaker version of isometry.
00:32:29.116 - 00:33:09.924, Speaker B: For the shift operator, it's this property here. So this is true of the shift operator. And an operator with this property is called a two isometry. A second property that the shift has is that if you look at the image of the shift operator to the power n at the intersection of all those spaces, what you get is zero. And the reason is very simple. It's because if you're in t to the n of h, d to the n of the Dirichlet space, that means that you are of the form z to the n times some function. So you have a zero of order at least n.
00:33:09.924 - 00:34:11.074, Speaker B: And if you have a zero of order at least n for every n, then you have a zero infinite order at the origin. And then that can only happen if you're the zero function. So that's using the identity principle for analytic functions, and for that reason operators is this property is sometimes called analytic operators. And the final property is that the image of the shift operator is of co dimension one. And that's easy to see, because you're in the image of the shift if only if you're the form z times something, which is equivalent to saying that you're a function that vanishes at the origin. So it's good I mentioned one, perhaps a little bit less obvious, but nonetheless true, is that if you replace the Dirichlet space by any one of these d mu spaces, the harmonic weights, then the same properties still hold. Okay, that requires a little bit more work to prove, but it's still the case.
00:34:11.074 - 00:35:14.214, Speaker B: And what's really nice is that there is a converse to this, that these three properties in fact characterize this pair. Mz dmu. This is the theorem of Stefan Richter. So if t is an operator on a Hilbert space that satisfies the three properties at the top of the page, then there is a unique finite measure on the unit circle, such that pair th is unitarily equivalent to the shift operator acting on d mu. So these d mu spaces, even if you weren't interested in them at the beginning, they come up in a rather natural way here. Okay, so what use is this in trying to find shift invariant subspaces of the classical Dirichlet space? Well, here's the idea. Let's suppose that we're given such a shift in variance of space.
00:35:14.214 - 00:35:52.646, Speaker B: Well, just restricting the shift. So this subspace gives you a new pair, a new operator, and a new Hilbert space acting on it. Sorry, a new Hilbert space, a new operator acting on it. And it's immediately obvious that properties one and two are satisfied as well. If you just go back to the previous page, when you restrict the shift to something, it's still going to satisfy this property. And it's sort of obvious that when you restrict an analytic operator, you still get an analytic operator. What's less obvious is that property three holds, but it still does.
00:35:52.646 - 00:36:43.628, Speaker B: This is a theorem that have been proved a little bit earlier by Stephan Rishter and Alan Shields. And so if you combine this with Richter's characterization of operators satisfying one, two and three, you led eventually to the following theorem. Actually, the theorem, I'm lying slightly because this is really two theorems rolled into one. But I've put everything in one big statement. So the second half is kind of Richter's theorem. And the first part is appeared in a paper of Richter and son paper. So it says that if f is a shift invariant subspace of the Dirichlet space, and we pick any function phi in this space of dimension one.
00:36:43.628 - 00:37:37.754, Speaker B: So this is the Richter shields theorem. It says that this space will always have dimension one. Then, first of all, phi turns out to be a multiplier for the Dirichlet space. And secondly, our invariant subspace that we were trying to identify is of the form phi v mu, where mu is given by this rather specific measure on the unit circle. This is really beautiful result, and it's sort of moving towards a Birling type theorem. But it stops short of being an exact analogue of Birling's theorem, because, well, we don't know whether the operation of multiplication by phi acts as an isometry. So it's not clear whether this space here is going to be a closed subspace of the Dirichlet space.
00:37:37.754 - 00:38:34.744, Speaker B: However, one thing we can certainly conclude from this result is that m is a cyclic space. In other words, it's the closed invariant subspace generated by a single function. Why is that, well, I mentioned on the previous chapter that the polynomials are always dense in d mu. So m is the closed subspace bound by phi z phi z squared, phi z cubed phi, and so on, which is just the invariant subspace generated by phi. So every invariant, closed invariant subspace of the shift is singly generated. And so it suggests that perhaps to try and characterize these spaces, we should concentrate our attention on the following problem. Given a function in the Duke space, what is the closed invariance of space that it generates? And here is the problem.
00:38:34.744 - 00:39:23.624, Speaker B: And so here are some partial results. Before I state them, let me just say that in the case of the hardy space, we know the answer. The recipe is you take your function f, you factorize it as an inner factor times the outer factor, and the closed invariant subspace generated by f is exactly the inner factor times h two. And we would like a theorem like that for the lieu shape space. So here is a result along these lines due to Richter and Sandberg. So let's suppose that f has an inner outer factorization of this form, f I f o. Well, then the invariance of space generated by f is equal to both of these things.
00:39:23.624 - 00:40:16.148, Speaker B: This takes perhaps a few moments to drink in to try and understand the relation between this and the Hardy space analog. Well, what's lacking here is that we haven't actually identified what the invariant subspace generated by fo is. But in the case of the Hardy space, the invariant subspace generated by an outer function is the whole space. And so what we would get here is fi times h two. And here also we get fi times h two. So we get back to the answer we know is true in the case of the Hardy space. And so what's lacking by comparison of the Hardy space is the identification of this object here.
00:40:16.148 - 00:41:05.766, Speaker B: What is, if I'm given an outer function, what is the invariant subspace that it generates? And I mean, in the case of the Hardy space, I already said this is the whole space. And we might expect that this is also true in the case of Zurich space. But in fact it's not. And that's because there's another phenomenon that intervenes which didn't exist in the case of the party space, and that's the phenomenon of boundary zeros. Remember that when I discussed zero sets, I mentioned that it's interesting also to try and identify which subsets of the unit circle can be zero sets for functions in the zero phase space. And now this is going to play a role. So to study this, I'll introduce a notation.
00:41:05.766 - 00:41:51.352, Speaker B: So, given a subset e of the unit circle, I write d sub e. To know all the functions of the division layer space that vanish quasi everywhere on e, we always put a qe, because these this boundary function is determined upper sets of capacity zero. But the set e might be quite large in terms of capacity. It could be. I mean, if he has positive measure, then de will just be zero. But if he has zero, vague measure, but positive capacity, then we can get something here that's genuinely interesting. And Carlson proved that this set de is always closed in the Dirichlet space.
00:41:51.352 - 00:42:57.118, Speaker B: This is not 100% obvious, but you can actually deduce it fairly easily using the weak type inequality for capacity that I mentioned back in the first lecture. Anyway, if you take for granted that de is a close up space, it's obviously shift invariant, because if I multiply h by z is not going to make the zero set any smaller. And so this gives me another example of a closed shift invariant subspace. And the existence of these new closed shift invariant subspaces complicates matters. So here is going back to our problem of trying to identify what the closed invariance of space generated by a single function looks like. Well, here's a consequence. If we let e be the zero set of f on the boundary, well, then f is obviously contained in de just by definition.
00:42:57.118 - 00:43:44.102, Speaker B: And since de is a closed shift invariant subspace, and it contains f, it contains the closed shifted variance of space generated by f. And so this is an added obstruction to f being cyclic. Cyclic means that this invariance of space generated by f is the whole of the diversion space. And it's a reasonable question to ask, is that the only extra obstruction? So here is the problem. Let's suppose f is an outer function that e be at zero set. Then we certainly have this inclusion, as I've just mentioned here, do we actually have equality? And this is still an open problem. And it's an open problem even if e is a set of capacity zero.
00:43:44.102 - 00:44:29.782, Speaker B: In the case where e is capacity zero, de is just the whole space, because vanishing quasi everywhere on a set of capacity zero, I mean, every function vanishes quasi everywhere on a set of capacity zero. So in particular, we would like to know whether, if c of e is zero, do we have this equality? And this special case is actually a celebrated conjecture. It's a conjecture of ran and shields. So I just want to finish this chapter by saying a few words about this. So I'm just going to rephrase the conjecture. But it's just restating what I've just said. So the terminology, as I just mentioned, f is cyclic for the Duke layer space.
00:44:29.782 - 00:45:10.094, Speaker B: If the closed invariants of space generated by f is the whole of d. It's another way of saying that multiples of f by polynomials are dense in D. And that's actually equivalent to saying that multiples of f by multipliers are dense indeed. So that is the same definition of cyclicity that I gave yesterday. And two necessary conditions for cyclicity. F must be outer because it, if f is cyclic for the Dirichlet space, it's certainly cyclic for the Hardy space, since the Dirichlet space is dense in the Hardy space, and we know which functions are cyclic for the Hardy space, it's the outer functions. So f had jolly well better be outer.
00:45:10.094 - 00:45:39.910, Speaker B: And this obstruction, using de shows that e had better be a set of capacity zero. And these are two necessary conditions. And the conjecture abandoned, shields, is that they're also sufficient. So there are a few partial results. This is one due to heaven. Marmon shields. There's actually several difficulties in trying to prove the conjecture.
00:45:39.910 - 00:46:25.154, Speaker B: One of them is to do with boundary values. And just to sort of try and simplify matters, I'm going to look at just the case where my functions are not only in the disk algebra, but they extend continuously to the boundary. So they're in the discount. And what Heddon shields proved is that if we're in that situation, and if the zero set of f on the boundary is countable, then f is cyclic. What we would like here is not countable, but capacity zero. So there's quite a big difference between the two, but countable guarantees cyclic. And what's interesting about this result, to my way of thinking at least, is that countable sets, well, they're sort of small because they're countable, but structurally, they can be quite nasty.
00:46:25.154 - 00:46:57.614, Speaker B: And this result works for every countable set, whether it has a nice structure or not. And then another result. That's our proof with Omar el Fala and Ken Kelly, which gives certain examples of uncountable e. So again, we assume f is continuous up to the boundary. It's now a function. Again, what we would like to assume is that e is of zero capacity. Instead, we assume a sort of measure theoretic condition.
00:46:57.614 - 00:47:40.646, Speaker B: So what's et here? Et is the t neighborhood of f on the unit circle mod of it is just the arc length. And we have these two conditions about the arc length of t neighborhoods of e. The first, you should think of it as being a kind of regularity condition. It doesn't say anything about the size other than that e is measure zero, but it sort of says that e has a nice structure to it. And the second condition is very closely related to the capacity of e being zero. It implies capacity of e is zero. And in fact, for certain regular types of set, like Cantor type sets, it's actually equivalent to capacity zero.
00:47:40.646 - 00:48:40.350, Speaker B: And then under these conditions, we get that f is cyclic. Okay, so just to finish with, here are a few further developments. I talked about shift invariant subspaces in the classical Lirischle space. In fact, the Richter theory, Richter Sundberg theory, it works equally well in d mu spaces for any harmonic weight. And for when your mu is a measure of a particular kind, when it's, for example, a finitely supported measure or supported on accountable set, then sometimes you can sow a bit more. So there are results along these lines of Dominique Yeo and I think Omar is going to talk about this kind of thing in his plenary talk a bit later today. Yesterday we heard Kathryn Benato talk about optimal polynomial approximate.
00:48:40.350 - 00:49:41.194, Speaker B: So the idea, original idea, was that instead of considering all polynomial multiples of f and asking whether they're dense, the idea is to look at, to restrict yourselves to polynomials of a fixed degree and try and approximate the function one as best you can. And this has led to all sorts of developments, which she told us about yesterday. And lastly, well, you can talk about Dirichlet spaces in several complex variables. We learned a bit about this from Nicolas talk yesterday, and I think there's going to be more about this in the colloquium talk with Sacha Wahlberg tomorrow. And in this paper, we looked at cyclicity on weighted Dirichlet spaces with power weights on the bidisc, but we looked only at polynomials. So in one variable, polynomials are relatively easy to deal with, but already in two variables, it becomes a rather more interesting problem. So that's what we dealt with there.
00:49:41.194 - 00:50:59.304, Speaker B: Okay, so I think on that note, I'm going to finish, I just want to finish up by saying one or two general things. First of all, I think these slides, I'm going to send a copy of these slides to the Fields Institute and they'll put them up on the website. There is a set of lecture notes that I've already sent several times, but I'll send one more time in case you haven't received them before. And in fact, I've modified them a little bit to take into account some corrections. So this is the most up to date version and finally, if you are moved to try and see more detailed proofs, well, I just can't resist making a shameless advertisement for our book, where you can find details of pretty well all the results that I've talked about, at least those from before 2014 the book was published. So it just remains for me to thank the organizers once again for the invitation to speak, thank the Fields Institute for hosting us, and to thank you all for attending these talks. Thank you very much.
00:51:00.284 - 00:51:42.474, Speaker A: Thank you indeed. Tom, we have a few minutes for question and remarks, if there is any. Thanks. Thanks, Tom. Again, wonderful series of talks we have.
