00:00:00.480 - 00:00:40.813, Speaker A: All right, here is the Blast Alpha that we've all been looking for. But first, we actually need to go back to October 19, 2022, when a seismic shift occurred in the NFT and broader Web3 space with the launch of Blur. This wasn't just another NFT marketplace. It was a game changer that captured both mindshare and market share from the get go, and it continues to dominate NFT trading to this day. Blur came out of the gate airdropping everyone who stuck through Black Swan of Terra Luna crashing in 2022. And to put it simply, the Money Printer went brr. And it was off to the races.
00:00:40.813 - 00:01:30.383, Speaker A: And now here we are in 2024 and all eyes are on blast, the L2 that is being launched by Pac man and the Blur team. To put this into perspective, blast currently has $1.8 billion locked up in their TBL and the Layer 2 isn't even launched yet. With this stat alone, this puts Blast in the top 10 blockchains across the entire Web3 ecosystem. And if we look even a little bit more closely at the L2 chains, Blast is firmly ranked second behind Arbitrum, which launched in 2021. Again, Blast hasn't even launched, and it literally has more money locked up in it than optimism and base combined. But to understand the hype and the culture around Blast, we actually need to look back at the last two years when Blur launched.
00:01:30.383 - 00:02:05.377, Speaker A: Unlike its predecessors, it heavily incentivized trading on its platform. You could get points for things like bidding, listing, lending and platform loyalty. So incentives paired with arguably the best UI UX for NFT traders on Ethereum, led to a few things. Number one, Blur starts to dominate Eth NFT trading volume. Number two, their lending product blend absolutely crushes NFT lending volume. Number three, Blur farmers are making the Money Printer go brr. And number four, the points meta is truly born.
00:02:05.377 - 00:02:56.543, Speaker A: Love it or hate it, nearly every new app, L1 or L2 that is coming out is trying to replicate Blur's playbook. Now, the impact of incentives on NFT trading has actually become a pretty large discussion point blank. Blur has spent tens of millions of dollars in airdrop incentives to incentivize traders. And while trading volume on Blur continues to outperform their competitors, there is a real impact from Blur's incentivized trading on the floor prices of many collections. What drives marketplace activity is ultimately boiled down to where can you get the NFT the cheapest? And more often than not, you'll probably find the cheapest price on Blur. So that way, Blur farmers are bidding to get their points. And on the lending side of things, you end up with these incredibly high LTV loans with little to no interest rates.
00:02:56.543 - 00:03:47.495, Speaker A: And it's interesting because we've seen how Blur farmers have propped up the floor prices of some of these collections. But on the flip side, we've also seen the consequences of heavily incentivized trading activity driving down floor prices or causing things like the Zuki lending debts spiral in June 2023. So with all of that said, the reality is we are in a space where incentives and points are driving community engagement and participation, and that shapes the culture. And we've seen it with Blur and now we're seeing it in real time with Blast. For those of you who don't know, Blast was announced in conjunction with Blur season three. Basically Blur came out and said, hey, we're going to launch a new blockchain called blast. It's an L2 and you're going to get native auto compounding yield on your ETH through ETH staking.
00:03:47.495 - 00:04:22.041, Speaker A: And you're also going to get native auto compounding yield on your stablecoins through things like tokenized t bills via MakerDAO. And we're going to airdrop you guys a redacted token in May 2024 to get points for the Blast airdrop that's coming in May. You basically had three options. Option 1 Lock up your Blur tokens to earn holder points. That will earn you an allocation of the blast drop. Option 2 Continue doing the incentivized trading and lending activities on Blur to earn Blur points. That would translate into an allocation of the blast drop.
00:04:22.041 - 00:05:20.881, Speaker A: Option 3 Get Early Access via an invite link to deposit ETH and USDC on Blast and spin for points. And look, a lot of people deposited again, Blast is not even live and there's already $1.8 billion in deposits on blast and that 1.8 billion in TVL is going to be unlocked later this month with the mainnet deployment. There is a lot of speculation on where that capital is going to go after the unlock, but I have a sneaking feeling that majority of it is going to stay on Blast. And here's why. For the first community drop for the redacted token that's coming from blast, 50% of that airdrop is being allocated to developers, with majority of the airdrop allocation actually being distributed to the winning teams of the Blast Big Bang competition, which is their competition to choose which apps will Blast promote to all Blast users upon mainnet launch.
00:05:20.881 - 00:06:53.549, Speaker A: Not only that, but winning Teams are going to be plugged into big name crypto native investors, which is super exciting. The Big Bang competition has eight categories. There are Perp Dexs, Spot Dexes, Lending protocols, NFT gaming, SocialFi, GambleFi, infrastructure and miscellaneous. And the common thread between all of these categories and what the Blast judges are going to be looking for is actually defi innovations around yield. In the Big Bang competition idea doc that they put out for developers, they literally mention the word yield 30 times. So what does that mean? Well, it means that judges aren't looking for a copy paste platform from another blockchain, but rather they're looking for new apps that truly take advantage of the native yield on Blast for perps. How do you pass yield on deposits directly to users for decentralized exchanges? Is there an opportunity to rebalance LP positions with yield that's been accumulated for lending protocols? How can yield from collateral positions be passed to the lenders to improve capital efficiency for NFTs? Are we going to see new Mint mechanics where the mint price is the yield that comes from holding deposits in escrow? There's literally a whole slew of really, really interesting ideas that the Blast team has taken the time to lay out for those competing in the Big Bang competition, and it's probably worth looking at before they announce the competition winners.
00:06:53.549 - 00:08:19.947, Speaker A: What's really nice is that these categories give us pretty good insight into the ecosystem that Blast is cultivating, and that gives us an idea of what's actually going to be available immediately for users to deploy capital into upon mainnet launch. I've spoken with some of the teams that have applied and are participating, and a really interesting takeaway that I had from that is Blast is not only looking for apps that are well built from a technical perspective, but they're also looking for apps that can tap into the points meta and the brand world of Blast. If you've gone and looked at some of the protocols that are building on Blast testnet, you might have noticed that there's something about the way that they're all branded that seems really, really familiar. And I don't think this is a mistake because competition participants actually had access like one on one office hour access with someone named Titan who did all the design and branding for Blur and Blast. We're also already seeing some cross chain collaboration with some of the apps that are building on Blast and existing Defi products. We're also seeing teasers around point multipliers and some of the teams even saying that a portion of their Blast allocation is going to be reallocated to their users. So it's really easy to start to see how the culture around Blast is being cultivated, and it's clear that it's catered to the degens and farmers of the space.
00:08:19.947 - 00:09:18.329, Speaker A: I mean, look, the blockchain isn't even live yet and there's already things like PacMoon, which is positioning itself as the Blast Community Coin. And I think that's really interesting because Meme coins, or Community coins, whatever you want to call them, are really just a way to measure an ecosystem's culture. We literally have this blockchain that's not even live yet, and there's already a Meme coin on standby for deployment, which is just wild to me. And since the Testnet launch earlier in January, we've actually seen a slew of of projects come out and announce that they're building on Blast. Here are some of the Blast apps that are participating in the Big Bang competition that I'm going to be watching closely. For Dexs, there's Thruster Finance, which is backed by angels from Layer Zero and NFT Perp, as well as CBB, LOLLet and Lumdart. There's also Blaster Swap, which will have a swap, a launchpad, some GambleFi component, and an NFT for perps.
00:09:18.329 - 00:10:05.901, Speaker A: I'm going to be keeping an eye on Blast Futures and Particle, which is backed by Polychain. For lending, I'm looking at Juice, which is focusing on a cross margin lending model. They're also backed by Delphi Digital, Bankless and a few others. I'll also be watching Timeswap, since that's a lending platform that's already live on multiple chains and they seem to have pretty good traction with their existing user base. Under the Miscellaneous category I'm going to be looking at Mangrove Dao, which is a restaking platform that's backed by Winterm and a few others. I also just love this because restaking has become a huge narrative. Definitely keep an eye on Thruster, Particle and Juice as they have announced partnerships with Metastreet, which is an NFT lending platform on Ethereum that currently has a points program.
00:10:05.901 - 00:10:41.685, Speaker A: So there's definitely going to be some triple farming action that's going to come into play in the coming weeks. Look, I don't know what's going to happen, but I do know that the competition winners are going to be announced on February 23rd and that mainnet is launching soon. Soon. None of this is financial advice, but if you are willing to explore and experiment with new protocols, Blast just might be one of the biggest gold mines that we're going to see this cycle, especially if you get in on the ground floor. And hopefully you found this helpful, guys. Until the next one, bearish or bullish, keep building.
