00:00:00.360 - 00:00:35.654, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cesano, and today's the 15 November 2021. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So I came across this chart on Twitter the other day from data always on Twitter here, showing, I guess, a crazy metric around ERP 1559. And you can see on the chart here that 1559 has now burned more tokens than Ethereum miners hold. So more ETH has been burned than the ETH held by miners on Ethereum, which is crazy. You can see here in the blue, miners hold around 0.85
00:00:35.654 - 00:00:45.322, Speaker A: million ETH. I would say. So 850,000 ETH. And we have burned much more than that, it seems. We've burned 800. Oh, wait. No, no, no.
00:00:45.322 - 00:01:40.112, Speaker A: We've burned not much more than that. Sorry, the chart kind of, like, threw me off there. We've burned 893,000. So I guess, what, a 40 ish thousand more, which is crazy, right? Like, I mean, miners have always been lauded as these kind of, like, group that needs to sell ETH, right? And put sell pressure on ETH because they need to sell to cover their ongoing costs, like electricity and hardware maintenance and just other ongoing running costs. And of course, everyone's getting really bullish because you have the merge coming, which reduces this, which I'll talk about in a sec is another tweet that I want to talk about with regards to that. But I think this is just like, I mean, it's so awesome to see kind of like this put in context because we always say, oh, yeah, 900,000 ETH or whatever has been burned, but, and then you kind of, like, you can put a dollar value to that, which is obviously in the billions of dollars. But once you contextualize it and actually kind of, like, show the kind of real problem pressure this is having on the market in terms of, like, taking supply off the market and offsetting even the supply that miners have to sell.
00:01:40.112 - 00:02:00.048, Speaker A: I mean, they, they have to sell to cover costs. There's no way around that. Um, but instead of them getting kind of, like, all the fees now, you know, most of them are being burned. They've only got the block reward to sell, which is still kind of, like, quite high. I mean, on ETH, one, on the proof of work chain, it's still about 4.5% new ETH a year. And that's, that's millions of ETH a year that's still being sold.
00:02:00.048 - 00:02:41.502, Speaker A: But of course, we're burning, you know, if you annualize it out, we're burning millions of ETH as well. So the net reduction is actually being quite, quite insane so far. And that's tetra nodes tweet here, where he kind of like points out that the net reduction has been 65% since 1559 went live. And if you go to the monthly, if you click one month here on the watch the burn site and go to like 30 days, it showed, it'll show the last 30 days, we've burned 85%. So we've got a net reduction of 85%, which means that only 15% of new ETH has been issued from the miners. Cause we've offset the rest of it through, through a burn. And obviously, we had those deflationary days and we had that one deflationary week as well.
00:02:41.502 - 00:03:06.334, Speaker A: So absolutely crazy amounts of ETH being burned here. And I mean, if I go to the watch the burn website here, once it kind of like loads up, you can see what I mean. Hopefully you can see it. I'm not sure my camera, my camera's not blocking it. Okay. If you go see one month, this shows the last 30 days, you can see a net reduction of 85%. So we burned 342,000 ETH over the last 30 days, and there were 400,000 ETH worth of rewards that were paid out to miners, of course, as the block reward.
00:03:06.334 - 00:03:36.882, Speaker A: And then net issuance is only 59,000 ETH. So basically that means a net reduction of 85%, which is absolutely insane, considering that once we go through with the merge, and that's what I said here on tetra nodes kind of tweet, I said that 1559 is only the appetizer. The merge is the main course. When we go through with the merge, this new issuance drops down from 4.5% to around 0.65%, which is, I think, about 85%. Um, you know, the triple harbing kind of term was coined about it being 90%.
00:03:36.882 - 00:04:11.144, Speaker A: But as more ETH gets staked, the issuance goes up over time as well. So it's about an 85% reduction. But once that goes through, we're going to be negative issuance all the time, which is absolutely crazy. I mean, and that's, as I've said before, that's real sell pressure from miners. They have to sell. There's no kind of like, I mean, they can stockpile ETH, of course, any that they get as part of kind of like on top of the profit, basically, the profit that they get. But, like, they have like these baseline running costs that they have to pay for, whereas with stakers, I mean, not only do we get that massive issue introduction when we move to proof of stake after the merge, but stakers don't have these massive ongoing costs.
00:04:11.144 - 00:04:44.462, Speaker A: You know, you could, you could just, you could say that they've got, the biggest cost they've got is selling for taxes because obviously, staking income, or, you know, yield is income is taxed as income tax, depending where you are. So, I mean, obviously, there's a lot of stakers in the US and Europe, and there's income tax there for, for mining and staking, but there are other places where it may not be taxed. Right, depending on where you are. But we can assume that the majority are going to be taxed as if it was income. So we could say you can just take a flat line, maybe 30%, because a lot of these are going to be businesses as well. So you can take like a flatline. I don't know what the corporate tax rate is in us.
00:04:44.462 - 00:05:28.632, Speaker A: Actually, in Australia it's 30%, so I'm just going to take 30%. So you can safely assume that at least 30% will have to be sold to cover for taxes, but then the running costs are basically non existent. So the only other reason really to sell is to take profits. And really, I mean, how often people are going to be doing that, right? And even if they do, the sell pressure is going to be like, way, way, way less than what it is today. So we're really going to have this massive kind of like, supply shock going on once the merge happens, and I think we're already having it, to be honest. You know, I've seen a lot of traders comment about eats recent price action on Twitter saying they don't understand how ETH can just, like, keep trending up like it has over the past, I guess, couple of months. There's no kind of like, you know, I mean, it's trending up, of course, but it's not like pumping really, really hard or so not going up too fast.
00:05:28.632 - 00:06:06.190, Speaker A: It just seems to be trending up over time. And I would argue that it's definitely got a lot to do with the 1559 kind of burn mechanism for the reasons I've outlined previously, but also for the simple reason that it's, it's a huge narrative driver, of course. And also the ETH being burned is ETH being a lot of. A lot of it is kind of like ETH being bought off the market as well, because the people that are paying the gas fees on Ethereum right now, the high gas fees, they're probably two distinct groups. There's the kind of like whales, which can afford to use the network, and they do a lot of things on the network. And then there's the kind of like people extracting value out of block space via meV. Those would be the two distinct groups, and they do overlap.
00:06:06.190 - 00:06:26.050, Speaker A: You know, there's a Venn diagram there, of course, but these groups are going to have to keep funding their operations by buying new ETH. They don't have unlimited ETH to, to use. Right. They're going to have to buy ETH from the market, acquire it in some way, whether that's through MeV or whether that's through buying it for fiat on exchanges. With fiat on exchanges or whatever. They're still acquiring ETH. And then what happens to that ETH that they're acquiring? It gets burned.
00:06:26.050 - 00:07:07.260, Speaker A: So it literally gets taken out of circulation forever. So this isn't just like ETH that's been sitting in cold storage being burned, it's effectively removing active ETH from the, from the supply, which is even more bullish because when you look at supply dynamics, you can see, okay, well, there's a circulating supply of ETH of like 116 million ETH or something like that. But then you have to break that down. Like, how much is locked in smart contracts, how much hasn't moved for a very long period of time, how much is in staking, how much is in Defi, how much is here, how much is there, obviously, how much has been burned. And then you can get the real kind of like, dynamic of how much is like an active supply. And we're, I think, I think it's safe to say we're burning a lot of the active supply. It's not just burning supply.
00:07:07.260 - 00:07:28.244, Speaker A: That wasn't, that wasn't already active. Some of it will be, of course, there'll be some that are sat in cold storage for a bit. Then a transaction happens and it burns some ETH. But I think the majority of it is definitely a lot of mev arbitrage, whale transactions. And that's all kind of like active ETH. It's already kind of like been in the market, but now we're burning it instead of kind of like it just sloshing around. So, I mean, that's just, I don't know.
00:07:28.244 - 00:08:25.896, Speaker A: I think that explains it. I think that's why traders are seeing this and being confused by it, because they looking at it from just a pure technical analysis or chart perspective, they're not kind of like thinking too deeply about, some of them are, but, but for the majority that I've seen, they're not thinking too deeply about how. It's kind of like supply dynamics have drastically changed with 1559, and they're going to change even more with the merge, which a lot of people are playing a trade on right now as we approach the merge. The hype, the speculation is going to get really, really crazy because, you know, funny enough, like, you guys know, because I talk about it all the time, but the, the kind of like triple harvesting or that massive issuance reduction with the merge, not many people know about that. And for those who do know about that, most people don't actually understand how much of a reduction it is. Just like that, most people didn't understand how much ETH was actually going to be burned because of all the fee revenue being generated by the network. So, I mean, I guess the TLDR of my little spiel there, about 1559 and supply dynamics in general is that, you know, buying and holding ETH over the long term seems like a no brainer to me.
00:08:25.896 - 00:09:16.546, Speaker A: That's, I mean, obviously it's not investment advice, but, you know, that's what I do all the time. It's why I'm still buying ETH now. People always ask me like, why are you buying ETH, man? Like, you bought like ages ago, you bought it like $100 or even less than that. And I'm like, well, that doesn't matter. Like, it's just all relative, right? Back then, I didn't have as much money to buy as I do today because just the way it kind of, like, worked out, I wish I could buy all the ETH that I'm buying today at $100, but that's just not how it works. So that's why I still buy every day and, and kind of like buy those big dips as well when I can. Because as I've said before, I truly believe ETH has a path, a very clear path to $100,000, at least in kind of like the next kind of, I guess, five to ten years, you could say, you know, maybe it could happen sooner than, I don't know, things could get crazy with this coming supply shock, especially because it's not just a scarcity tactic, it's also a demand meeting that supply shock with the demand to use the Ethereum network and, you know, demand to do everything on the Ethereum network.
00:09:16.546 - 00:09:46.334, Speaker A: So. So, yeah, I mean, if that doesn't make you bullish, I don't know what will, but I'm sure you guys are already on this train with me. But I think it's good to revisit these sorts of things from time to time. It's something that I haven't spoken about in a little while in the refuel. And I think it's just something to keep in mind as we progress through both. Kind of like the one, you know, the L2 rollout, which will add even more fee pressure to layer one. And then also the kind of like merge that's happening with the issue introduction and all the other kind of like supply sinks that are, that are here and, you know, some that are coming in the future for, for ETH as we progress through Ethereum's adoption.
00:09:46.334 - 00:10:05.986, Speaker A: And one last thing on 1559 is that the first contract to burn 100 ETH happened the other day. So this is Opensea, but it's burned 100,000 ETH, I should say. Sorry, is the first contract ever to burn this much ethanol. Pretty obvious. I mean, Opensea, NFTs had an absolutely crazy September, October. It slowed down a bit in November. A bit.
00:10:05.986 - 00:10:28.286, Speaker A: I mean, it slowed down a lot in November, but yeah, September, October were pretty crazy. But then you can see, like, following close behind is ETH transfers, just regular ETH transfers, which is a no brainer there. Uniswap v two and v three and tether. And then, I mean, you can go to the leaderboard and check out kind of like all the gas guzzles. If I go to the leaderboard here, actually, I'll show you really quickly. I love this leaderboard. It just, it's really easy to see everything.
00:10:28.286 - 00:10:55.376, Speaker A: But essentially you can go all and you can see, like, what the top guests kind of like guzzlers are. I mean, it's funny seeing the metamask swap router be here because I think a lot of people, I mean, even it's over the kind of like the last seven days, all the people are speculating on the mask token. And to get the mask token to an airdrop, people are speculating that you can only do so through using metamask as swap. Metamask swap feature. But you can see, like, how much. I mean, look at Axie Infinity's Ronin bridge. This is the bridge going in and out of their side chain.
00:10:55.376 - 00:11:18.780, Speaker A: It's crazy to see that they've burned 15,500 ETH just from that bridge. And then, I mean, the other stuff isn't surprising to me, you know, USDC, I mean, stable coins, obviously decentralized exchanges aggregators. Like one inch shib. I mean I spoke about this the other day, strong block. I have no idea what this is but that's funny. New contracts being deployed. 8000 ETH has been burned with just new contracts being deployed.
00:11:18.780 - 00:11:52.728, Speaker A: So I mean yeah, looking through this whole list here just gives you a really, really interesting glimpse into, into kind of like how much ETH is being burned by each party. Wintermute, I mean wintermute is a market maker, massive market maker within defi. They've burned 2200 ETH just on their own over all time. So pretty crazy when you look at it like that. But yeah, enough about 1559 onto some other different topics today. So Anish from paradigm has built a new for set for test networks. So Ropston, Kovan, Goalie and optimism on Kovan now can be funded via Fawcett paradigm XYZ.
00:11:52.728 - 00:12:10.872, Speaker A: So this faucet will drip out five ETH, five wrapped ETH, 5000 die and five ERC to 721 NFts. No need to tweet your address, you just sign in with twitter instead to do this. Now this obviously just applies to developers. This is not real tokens. These are testnet tokens. They're worth nothing. So don't get your hopes up.
00:12:10.872 - 00:12:44.258, Speaker A: You're not going to get five e for free unfortunately. But yeah, if you're a developer, definitely check this out. And not even just a developer, if you're someone who wants to test things on a testnet, like maybe there's apps it on there that's you know, new releases of apps on a testnet that's not a main net yet and you're a really big fan of that app, then you could definitely use this as well. So this is actually pretty cool because it's historically been quite hard to source testnet funds in a kind of like efficient way. You would have to like ask on Twitter or there'd be some portals here and there to get some. But this is just kind of like putting it all in one place, which is really, really awesome. So yeah, developer or not, definitely check this out.
00:12:44.258 - 00:13:08.926, Speaker A: You may, may find some use for it, that's for sure. So Hayden from Uniswap announced that governance, Uniswap governance has approved a new 0.01% fee tr for Uniswap v three. Now I believe this is the lowest fee tier in any amm. I think curve is 0.04% or something like that for stablecoin swaps. So obviously this is going to be the lowest kind of like tier four for stable coin swaps.
00:13:08.926 - 00:14:05.152, Speaker A: And it's going to make it much cheaper to swap stable coins on uniswap v three rather than curve, depending on the liquidity and stuff like that as well. But you know, the funny thing is, I always thought kind of like stablecoin swaps were erased to the bottom in terms of fees, because the reason the fees can be lower and much, much lower on stablecoin swaps is because you don't have impermanent loss unless one of the stable coins fails, for example. But in the normal case, you don't have any impermanent loss because they're both worth the dollar, right? Whereas with a volatile pair, such as say, you pair with ETH USDC, you will suffer impermanent loss over time in either direction. So you're compensated for that by higher trading fees, by the fee tier being higher here now, 0.01% on stable coin swaps is fine. I mean, it's still profitable to, especially if, I mean, you're kind of like betting on there being a lot of volume going through this sort of stuff. Like you make up for the lower fees with more volume to make it worthwhile for people to put their stable coins in there, in here in the first place.
00:14:05.152 - 00:14:45.890, Speaker A: But you know, even still, like, you don't suffer impermanent loss by doing this. So it's still something that's very attractive. But I don't know, like any go lower than this. Can we get like 0.005% on the stable swaps? Can it get to literally like, I don't think, I don't think you can get to 0%, but you know, I think it can get like really, really low. And what does that mean for actual stable coin aggregators like curve and kind of like m stable and stuff like that? Maybe it means that they have to lower their, lower their fees as well. I don't, I've always seen stable coin swaps as like a kind of race to the bottom in terms of fees because it just doesn't make sense for them to be, be high considering stable coin stops is one of the most popular things that people do on, on ethereum, on, in crypto in general.
00:14:45.890 - 00:15:03.930, Speaker A: And the fact is, is that the fee doesn't need to be that high for the reasons I outlined. So cool to see this. I'm going to keep, I'm going to monitor this, monitor the metrics around it. We'll see what, you know, how much usage this gets over, over curve. Curve obviously has a lot of liquidity in there. Curve already. Curve has a lot of integrations.
00:15:03.930 - 00:15:23.254, Speaker A: Network effect curve also has liquidity mining. I believe it still has CRv being paid out to people. They have their way to lock up their token and earn extra yield, yield to the gauges and stuff like that. Whereas Uniswap doesn't have that. I mean, it could if governance voted for it, but it doesn't have that right now. So we'll have to see. We'll have to see kind of like how that shakes out, you know, over time.
00:15:23.254 - 00:16:00.170, Speaker A: All right, so on optimism. So last week, last Friday, I believe, I think I mentioned this on the refuel optimisms OVM 2.0 upgrade went live, which means that they are now fully EVM compatible, not just EVM equivalent. And they also have a new form that projects can fill out to get onboarded onto the optimism optimistic ethereum network. And you can see here in the Discord Channel, in Optimism's Discord channel, there is a bunch of announcement announcements being made with protocols being onboarded or being whitelisted to the protocol. So you can see some of your favorites. Gnosis safe is now on there, has been whitelisted, I shouldn't say is on there yet whitelist.
00:16:00.170 - 00:16:35.816, Speaker A: It just means that they can deploy their contracts and get that all set up, which they will do over time. Obviously it takes longer to do this, depending on the project. But other favorites include curve, you know, you got connect, synapse, Uma, D, hedge, I mean, a few others out, I don't know of optimistic bunnies, optipunks, I mean, probably some forks of some NFT projects, poly network, flux protocol. But I mean, this was taken just the other day, so I think a couple days ago. So I'm assuming there's more since then. But I mean, this is, this is it. I mean, I know I said that I hope that optimism removed their whitelist once they did the OVM 2.0
00:16:35.816 - 00:16:59.494, Speaker A: upgrade. But if they're whitelisting projects this quickly, then maybe it doesn't matter that they don't remove the whitelist straight away. Obviously, you know, maybe it hasn't happened yet and we don't, we actually probably won't know, depending, but they might, I don't know if they'll do this or not. Like, I don't know if there's actually a framework in place for them to not whitelist projects that they believe to be scams. Because if they do that, then it gets a kind of like a bit murky. But I don't know. I haven't looked into that.
00:16:59.494 - 00:17:41.325, Speaker A: But it feels like there are white listing projects really really quickly here and that's what you want to see. I mean I want to see more projects on arbitrary and optimism as the, you know, the EVM compatible roll ups right now. But I also want to see liquidity mining programs on here to get users to actually kind of go there. Right? I mean not just with the native token. I'm sure there's going to be an ARB and op token eventually, but until that happens I think these projects will have a, you know, a chance to do this and run it through their governance or kind of like just do it in order to get more users using these sorts of things. But just generally even without liquidity mining, I think the more projects on there, the more users we're going to see anyway. And hopefully there's bridges coming from the centralized exchanges too.
00:17:41.325 - 00:18:06.032, Speaker A: I don't know. Like the thing is, I was saying this in the, in the Discord Channel today. I mean I see very clearly uh, kind of like the path towards ethereum scaling via roll ups, but it's going to require patience. And this is the problem with a lot like the market more generally is that the market doesn't like waiting. Right. The market wants things to happen really quickly. So that's why you see a lot of people kind of like latching onto these things that are ready today, quote unquote ready today in terms of scaling, right.
00:18:06.032 - 00:18:38.010, Speaker A: They have cheaper fees but they've just sacrificed decentralization and security to achieve that. Whereas doing it the proper way, retaining decentralization, retaining security, scaling in a very sustainable way, is a marathon. It is not a sprint and it's going to take much longer than people would like. But I'm, I'm, you know, I'm 100% confident that that's the right way to do it. But it's the long game. So you know, if you're interested in the long game then these sorts of things, you just have to, just have to wait and you just have to be prepared to wait for these things to kind of like play out. I know I see some people saying sometimes ultimate is an arbitrum.
00:18:38.010 - 00:19:17.468, Speaker A: You know, there's not much to do on there. We're still waiting on like a money market on arbitrary and all this sort of stuff. And you know I get that, I get that it's frustrating being an early adopter and stuff like that, but that is the, that's the kind of thing that happens when you're an early adopter. That's why you get all the opportunities as an early user and kind of like being early to the technology, you get to invest early, you get to be early to these things, you get all the really sweet airdrops. And I was thinking about this the other day. People want like mass adoption to happen really quickly, but at the same time, I don't know if people realize that means their airdrops are going to, like near zero. Because if you think about it, say with the ENS airdrop, there was only like 140,000 EnS names actually registered to an address, right where it was actually tied to an address.
00:19:17.468 - 00:19:57.370, Speaker A: Could you imagine if we had already on boarded like 100 million people and there were 100 million people with an ENS address, your airdrop would have been worth nothing. Like, it wouldn't even be able to cover the gas if you, if you did it. Kind of like if you split up the, the airdrop equally there, and even if its valuation was a lot higher because there was more people in the ecosystem and its valuation wouldn't match the, you know, that's a, that's a 1000 x increase on the amount of address, on the amount of kind of like airdrop recipients. It wouldn't have been a thousand x what it is. When it opened at, it opened at like, I think it went to almost $10 billion, fully diluted. I'm sorry, guys, but it's not going to trillions of dollars in market cap. So when you look at airdrops in general, I mean, that's the kind of like, reward for being super early.
00:19:57.370 - 00:20:23.568, Speaker A: Like, especially with the other protocols that have even less users than ens, the ones that only have like 10,000 recipients for the airdrop. That's, that's like nothing. That's why the airdrops are so big. It's got nothing to do with the fact that kind of, like, crypto democratizes access to these things and kind of like, does unique things like airdrops. The reason they've, they're worth so much per user is because of the fact there's not many users yet. And, you know, you should say that as a blessing, not a, not a curse. And that's, that's the way I see it.
00:20:23.568 - 00:20:42.888, Speaker A: That's how I kind of like, have all the patience that I have. You know, sometimes it's annoying for people that I'm so patient with things. I know people sometimes get angry at me and be like, come on, man, like, this has taken way longer than we expected. What? You know, aren't you a bit frustrated? And I'm simply not. I'm simply not frustrated. I'm playing the long game. I am not in any kind of, like, state where I need things to kind of, like, happen right now.
00:20:42.888 - 00:21:00.578, Speaker A: And I've always been like that. Honestly, even throughout all the bear market, I never kind of, like, wanted things to speed up. Like, even, even waiting for, like, the market to turn hot again. I don't remember ever being like, I hope this. I want this to happen right now. God, I'm being, I'm really annoyed about this. It was never like that for me.
00:21:00.578 - 00:21:20.762, Speaker A: It was like, I know that the market's going to go hot again. I know it's going to come roaring back. I know that this technology is going to kind of change the world. It's just waiting, waiting for it to happen. And, you know, you look back and then you kind of, like, realize how quickly it actually happened. Obviously, living day to day can feel slower, but looking back, you kind of see how quickly it happens relative to kind of like everything else. So.
00:21:20.762 - 00:21:38.408, Speaker A: So, yeah. But anyway, cool to see this from optimism here. Moving on. So Polynyard had a great tweet. Now that optimism has upgraded to ovm 2.0. You can see that they said, now that we have an EVM equivalent roll up. Direct comparisons for a uniswap v three trade.
00:21:38.408 - 00:22:10.954, Speaker A: Ethereum. On ethereum, it costs 110,000 gas. On optimistic ethereum, it only costs 6200 gas. So that's a huge kind of like, reduction in gas costs and not 90% plus reduction in gas costs. And then Polynya notes, notes saying that the above numbers are l one gas and l two gas is less than 0.01%. And cold out of compression could potentially get this down to 600 gas, which means that right now there's not much compression going on with the transactions at these roll ups. And this is what I've said before about how these roll ups are an iterative thing.
00:22:10.954 - 00:22:32.242, Speaker A: It's not just like they've just launched and that's it. Like, that's done. They wash their hands with it, have at it. No, not at all. And getting it down to 600 gas with core data compression is a massive improvement. That would mean that you would get to the basically the transaction, uh, kind of like area based on current gas prices. And the cold outer part of the transaction is the part that can't actually be avoided.
00:22:32.242 - 00:23:00.054, Speaker A: That's the l one gas part. So that's why. And that that can't actually be amortized, it has to be compressed to get it down. By amortized, they mean that the l two transaction fees that aren't part of the call data, the kind of like sequence of fees, they can be amortized and spread out across users. But the call data, the actual l one gas fees, cannot because obviously that has to pay to l one, which is very expensive. But you can compress that. You can compress that down to potentially 600 gas.
00:23:00.054 - 00:23:29.730, Speaker A: And I think that Calvin here from optimistic ethereum actually detailed about how they're looking into the compressing things. And one of the nice things about their new fraud proof design, which is still a work in progress, but coming along nicely, is that they can compress aggressively with whatever convoluted compression mechanism that you want to use and don't need to decompress on chain. So that could be a reality. 600 gas per uniswap trade, which, as I said, that's like $0.10 for a uniswap trade. No one's kind of complaining about $0.10, that's for sure.
00:23:29.730 - 00:23:53.896, Speaker A: So yeah, I mean, this is just awesome to see these comparisons, these num, these number comparisons here, and awesome to see like how much more scalability is yet to come and how early we still are in the l two ecosystem. And as I was saying before, patience, guys. It's all coming. It's all coming in waves. We've got a lot to look forward to. As ethereums, there's no need to rush. I know that the market feels like, you know, and the market kind of like, I guess, makes you feel like there's a need to rush.
00:23:53.896 - 00:24:30.314, Speaker A: There is to an extent, in that you may feel the need to rush because the competition is like gaining on you. But at the same time, as I've said before, I really do think we're still like years away from mass adoption. And by mass adoption, I mean onboarding millions of users, like a day sort of thing, or like a week. I really don't think we're there yet. And doesn't matter how much scalability we have right now, it's actually overkill for a lot of these chains to have that much scalability. Some of them are hitting their limits already. Like I saw the ronin sidechain today, which is an EVM side chain that powers the axie infinity network that I think fell over because it reached capacity.
00:24:30.314 - 00:24:57.910, Speaker A: That's because it is based on the kind of like, you know, sidechain design with the EVM. It is not inherently very scalable. They need to get onto a roll up. Hopefully they do eventually. I know it's a big ecosystem, so it might be hard to do that, but as like, as a kind of like a whole, as like the whole crypto ecosystem, we're just not there at the mass adoption phase yet. There's pockets that have a lot of usage, but we have time to scale, I believe, and we should do it right. We shouldn't cut corners, we shouldn't take shortcuts just for the sake of scaling now when we don't have the demand to meet it.
00:24:57.910 - 00:25:23.550, Speaker A: Like, I know l one, Ethereum has a lot of demand and people want to use these l two s, but optimism and arbitram aren't even kind of like anywhere near capacity. They've still got their training wheels on because we haven't hit those limits yet. So from that point of view, you can see that there's just not that much demand just yet. There will be. I mean, and you may say, oh, well, this demands gone to the other networks. It has not, it has not gone to the other networks. I've checked the other networks guys, like, most of them have like hardly any usage.
00:25:23.550 - 00:26:07.344, Speaker A: And, and, and the uses that they do have, I mean, relative to Ethereum and the usage that they do have is, is all incentivized as well, which isn't a bad thing. But when you look at it from that point of view, you can kind of see that it's just like the same kind of money, same kind of users sloshing around and there's not many new users coming on board. Like, don't get me wrong, there are new users coming, but it's more like, I don't know if, I don't even know if it's 100,000 new users a week. I would, I would kind of like be skeptical of that. It's probably like less than 100,000 new users a week onboarding when mass adoption is going to look like millions of users, kind of like onboarding a week and it'll kind of like happen overnight. We'll be blindsided by it. So we've got time to scale and, and I think we should do it right, which is which the l two teams are doing, which I really, really respect and appreciate, of course.
00:26:07.344 - 00:26:30.836, Speaker A: All right, speaking of the l two teams. So Argent has released their first stocknet wallet called Argent X. Now this is for developers to play around with. You cannot use this or anything unless you're kind of like familiar with the developer tools. You have to build this locally, I believe. But yeah, I mean, as I said before, Argent is going to be supporting Starknet and Zksync. And then they're going to be supporting other l two s as well.
00:26:30.836 - 00:26:56.300, Speaker A: They've been unfortunately hit hard by the high alone gas cost because creating a smart contract wallet with Argent is very, very expensive to do. On l one, it's hundred of gas fees. On l two, it's much less, I think, on optimism. In its current state, the cost is like $10 or something like that, which obviously is still not, you know, super cheap. But on stocknet and on ZK sync should actually be cheaper than that. Sorry, I think. I don't think that was for Arjun.
00:26:56.300 - 00:27:18.648, Speaker A: It was for gnosis. So gnosis safe cost about ten to $20 on, I believe, optimism, or arbitrum, one of the two. But those costs are going to come way down over time. And if we can get it to a point where it costs like less than a dollar to create like a fully fledged smart contract wallet, then that's going to be awesome for users and we can probably get it cheaper than that. But I'm talking, you know, short to medium term rather than very long term. But the plan is still the same, guys. Like very long term.
00:27:18.648 - 00:27:54.788, Speaker A: When we have the shar, the shards and statelessness and everything like that, these costs are going to be basically negligible and they're going to be low enough for the operators to cover them themselves. And basically it's going to be kind of like free for users, I believe. So massive update out of metamask and ledger over the weekend. So Metamask announced that they've partnered with Ledger to improve the experience for customers. Now, for those of you have you who have been using your ledger devices with Metamask for the past few months, we'll have run into a ton of issues around connectivity. You know, it's just not because of Chrome, you know, because whenever Chrome updates their browser, they seem to break metamask and ledger integration. Well, no more.
00:27:54.788 - 00:28:28.472, Speaker A: As I said, Metamask and Ledger have worked together to fix these issues caused by browser updates on chromium browsers such as. Such as Chrome, of course. And if you update your Metamask wallet extension to v 100 plus your ledger firmware, then you'll all be good to go. So you can see here in this blog post basically more details about this and kind of like what the partnership. I mean, it's a long lived partnership as well. So it's going to be basically them working together to make sure that this keeps working and doesn't keep breaking. I mean, this was obviously a thing that a lot of users kind of suffered from, unfortunately.
00:28:28.472 - 00:29:15.338, Speaker A: And a lot of users kind of had a hard time with, and it turned users off using hardware wallets a lot of the time, which is not what we want, which actually segues me perfectly into the next thing. Related thing I wanted to talk about was that, you know, the amount of people that I see playing, kind of like, I put this tweet out today where I said, the amount of people I see playing cowboy with large sums of crypto by storing it in a metamask wallet is mind blowing. And I said, meta redacted here, because if you say metamask, you get bloody spam with gonna scam bots. And then I said, seriously, get a hardware wallet. Don't wait until something bad happens to do it. If there's one piece of wisdom I can impart on, kind of like all of you, is that you need to get a harbor wallet. Keeping anything in a hot wallet, where it's kind of like, not stored on a physical device and you don't have to physically sign it, is really, really bad news.
00:29:15.338 - 00:30:02.322, Speaker A: Guys like it. I mean, I'm sure you've seen the countless kind of stories on Twitter about people getting their metamask drained. There's multiple ways it can happen. One of the ways that it can happen that, unfortunately, a hardware wallet wouldn't, kind of wouldn't protect you against unless you checked what you're signing is man in the middle attack, where essentially you could do, you could generate a transaction, right? Say you're doing kind of like a send. Say you're sending eight to someone, you generate the transaction. But what can happen is, if there's malware on your pc, essentially what happens is that the malware injects a different transaction into a metamask, and it displays that to you, and you unwillingly sign that transaction and, like, process it and send it out into the world thinking that it was your transaction that you, that you kind of, like, initiated. And that is, as I said, what's called a man in the middle attack.
00:30:02.322 - 00:30:37.424, Speaker A: And that is how a lot of people lose their funds. Now, unfortunately, a hardware wallet will only protect you against this if you actually check what you're signing. So once it goes to the hardware wallet, you can see on your little screen details about the transaction. But a ledger, Nano, S or X, will not really show you anything because the screen's so small. And a lot of the time, they, they'll show you a little bit, but, and then some of the time, that won't show you anything. So it's really, really crappy from that perspective as well. But what a hardware wallet will do is it'll basically keep your funds really safe and secure on there, instead of it being kind of like on your pc, where malware can get into your metamask and do other nasty stuff with it as well.
00:30:37.424 - 00:31:31.872, Speaker A: And on that note of kind of like signing transactions and being able to see it. This is why I love the lattice one hardware wallet from grid. And this is not kind of like a plug or anything, I'm not, not getting paid to say this, but this is why I love their hardware wallet, because it actually gives you a full size screen, which allows you to basically see what you're signing on it, like see the whole kind of transaction, and confirm that you're actually signing the transaction that you originally intended to sign, not something that someone has injected. So that's a good way to keep safe. But also, the number one thing that you need to do when you're setting up a metamask or a hydro wall or anything, is your seed or secret phrase, as it's known, that needs to never ever, ever touch any type of digital kind of like, thing, ever. Like, don't put it in your phone, don't put it on the pc, don't save it to a text file, don't put it, you know, don't email it to yourself, don't do it any, don't do any of that sort of stuff. Write it down on a piece of paper temporarily, and then, and then kind of like secure it even even more than that.
00:31:31.872 - 00:32:25.702, Speaker A: So write it, maybe if you have to write it down on a physical kind of like piece of paper, put it in a book to protect it or something like that, or put it in a safe, or put it in kind of like, or split up the seed phrase or the secret phrase as well, and make sure that that's kept safe. Or you can get these kind of like metal sheets, you can buy them online that are basically fire resistant, kind of like electrical shock resistant, water resistant, where you can kind of like input your seed phrase into that. But once you do that, those twelve or 24 words, if they, if an attacker gets access to those, they can drain your entire wallet. And not just one wallet, all the wallets associated with that. So that is what you need to protect at all times. And, and you know, as I said, you need to never put that on your pc or any type of digital kind of like, um, area. And the reason why a lot of people actually get compromised is because they go to a phishing website that asks them for their seed phrase or their secret phrase, and they put it in never ever, ever, guys, never never.
00:32:25.702 - 00:33:27.004, Speaker A: And the thing is, is that, like, I say this, and then people ask me, well, what if I have to, like, restore my metamask wallet on a fresh kind of, like, pc build using my existing secret and a seed phrase? And I'm like, well, I mean, I can understand that, but at the same time, you shouldn't be using metamask as kind of like a, kind of like a hot wallet for anything more than, like, a small amount of money. All your addresses and your seed phrase should be tied to your hardware wallet because you can do a pass through. Like, as I was explaining before, metamask works with Ledger. You can basically pass through your ledger, all the wallets on your ledger device to your metamask, and then do the whole kind of, like, transaction flow instead of generating a wallet on metamask and storing funds in there. So from that perspective, because the hardware wallet device gives you the seed phrase on the actual device, not on your computer, not on anything networked, you get it on there once, you write it down on a physical piece of paper, and that's it. And you kind of, like, put it into that metal sheet thing or secure it some other way, and that's it. That never, ever touches anything ever again.
00:33:27.004 - 00:34:06.468, Speaker A: Except if you want to restore into a new hardware wallet, of course, you can do that as well, where you can input your, um, your seed phrase into a hardware wallet, but never put that online or anything. I can't, I literally can't stress this enough, guys. I've seen so many people kind of, like, get tricked into this. Um, that is basically the key to your kingdom. That is the key to everything that you have, and you won't even notice that it's gone by the, by the time it happens, because it'll happen very, very quickly, because it's an automated process. A lot of the time, where they take in the seed phrase, they use a piece of software to run it against the, um, against the thing. Then they'll probably have a bot set up to quickly drain all the ETH and popular tokens out of it, and then you might have some other tokens and NFTs that they don't know about, and then when the attacker goes to manually review them, they'll get those as well.
00:34:06.468 - 00:34:30.020, Speaker A: So be very, very careful out there, guys. You know, you don't want to be a victim of this. It's definitely, it'll definitely be the shittiest thing that will ever happen to you if you get kind of like attacked and your funds stolen, especially if you've been stacking for quite a while. I would hate for that to happen to any of you. So, yeah, heed my warnings. Get a hardware wallet if you don't have one, that's like step one, basically. And make sure that your seed or secret phase is not on your computer or anything like that.
00:34:30.020 - 00:34:45.874, Speaker A: Make sure it's only in on a physical piece of paper or one of those metal sheets. But yeah, I think I'm going to end it on that notes for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
00:34:45.874 - 00:34:46.614, Speaker A: Bye.
