00:00:01.120 - 00:00:23.030, Speaker A: What is up, guys? Taiki here. And welcome to the state of the five report for November. So this is gonna be the agenda for the video. So let's get right into it. None of this financial advice. And I'm a person full time in this industry, so, like, who knows what the hell I'm doing? So you should not be taking any advice from a person like me whatsoever. Right? Like, what the hell am I doing? These are my thoughts as of November 16.
00:00:23.030 - 00:00:48.250, Speaker A: And I hold these tokens for full disclosure. So I'll briefly touch on the FTX thing. But, like, to be honest, at this point, like, every single content creator in this industry is talking about it, so there's nothing really much I can offer. So 95% of this video is just going to be defi stuff. Nfts. And, you know, if you want to learn more about it, right. Just watch some conspiracy theory videos, right.
00:00:48.250 - 00:01:25.180, Speaker A: I guess the only thing I can offer you, right, as, I guess, advice or words of wisdom, right. Is to just alleviate yourself from potential bridge risk. We saw this with the bitcoin on Solana, right, the Soleil bitcoin. FTX was issuing this. So when FTX went under, then these bitcoins were no longer backed. And, you know, I've talked about this every single week, I think, or every single month. But if you hold bitcoin on an alternative layer, layer one or even an l two, you don't really hold actual bitcoin, right? Like, not even actual wrapped bitcoin.
00:01:25.180 - 00:02:22.282, Speaker A: You're holding this bridge asset where if the bridge gets compromised, right, and, you know, the assets under, underneath the bridge gets drained, then, you know, your asset, right, like, wrapped bitcoin that you hold on avalanche is not going to be backed by anything, of course, right. I don't want to cause, like, fud, right? And I'm not saying, like, these bridges are faulty or anything, but just be aware that these risks exist. And don't put yourself in a situation where one bridge going down is going to destroy your entire portfolio. Okay? So I've talked about farming on Algorand, and I had some bitcoin on Algorand, but, you know, given this entire situation, right, the yields on Algorand is still good, but I'll be slowly taking my bitcoin out of it, and, you know, I'll be putting into self custody or just converting it into ether or tri crypto. And I'll talk about, you know, my thoughts on bitcoin versus ether later in the video, and I'll still farmer now, Grant, right. I still think it's a pretty interesting ecosystem. Could do well, 2023, 2024.
00:02:22.282 - 00:03:08.246, Speaker A: And, you know, I'll play with what I have, right, that I got for free via farming. But, you know, just understand that, you know, people are going to be doing this and, you know, people talk about going risk off as like, just selling coins, right? But another way of going risk off if you're worried about bridge risks, and I guess alt l two s or all tail ones, is to just take your assets out of them completely. And, you know, if you are going to hold assets on all tail ones, then, you know, just, you know, don't be too overexposed. And if you can hold native assets, for example, native USDC on avalanche has no bridge risks. Bridge risks, right. So I'm, I'm much like, I'm very comfortable holding native USDC on various chains as long as it's not a bridge asset. Right.
00:03:08.246 - 00:03:33.360, Speaker A: Just be aware of that. Tether is native on Algorand. Right? So these yields are still pretty good, and I still think it's a pretty interesting form given that you can still farm these airdrops from these DeFi applications. But, you know, just be aware of the risks involved. So I've been saying this for the majority of the year, but I expect ethereum maintenance Tvl dominance to go up. I also expect d five 1.0 tvl dominance to go up.
00:03:33.360 - 00:04:16.108, Speaker A: Right? Like, there's no point in US deploying capital into, like, Aave forks or curve forks, even if the APR is attractive, right? Like, why take on that risk? I actually think that in this type of environment, these defi dinos can actually consolidate their power. Because as people go risk off, right? Like, would you rather earn, like, 6% yield on stable coins on curve or 12% yield on some random new form paid in some random farm token, right? Like, I would much rather just put it on the curve and just, you know, just go risk off that way. So I actually think that DeFi 1.0 tokens can do well coming out of here. Of course, in the short term, it might not seem like it. I'll talk about aave later in the video. And I still like the aave.
00:04:16.108 - 00:05:02.190, Speaker A: I mean, aave is my favorite application in all of crypto, and I still think that the aave token could be an interesting hold over a long enough time horizon. Right? But this is the screenshot I took of defi llama. Right, TVL for various blockchains. And hey, avalanche number six now and arbitrum hit the top five. Okay, so I've been saying arbitrum should be top five, probably top four by Navier. It kind of depends, right? But, you know, I expect arbitrum to flip polygon at some point in the next couple of months because I still think that arbitrum is the place to be in terms of like, new defi innovation other than Ethereum. And if you think about, you know, and also, I guess, touching on Solana, I don't know if you can see this, but Solana is like now number twelve with $300 million in TVL.
00:05:02.190 - 00:05:48.104, Speaker A: I really feel bad for the devs on Solana. A lot of people are trying to compare Solana going down 95% to Ethereum going down 95% in 2018, 2019. And hopefully that happens, right. It'll be a really good comeback story if Solana can't come back. But I guess one word of caution is given the whole supply dynamic on Solana, right? I'm given, you know, bunch of these VC's, predatory VC's and Alameda holding Solana. I just feel like Solana is going to be an untouchable asset for the next couple of months. But, you know, it depends, right? And what ETH going, what ETH had going for them in 2018, 2019 was that if you're trying to build a smart contract application or nfts, there was nowhere else for these developers to build, right, other than Ethereum.
00:05:48.104 - 00:06:40.644, Speaker A: So, you know, it was able to survive a 95% drawdown. But now, as you can see here, there are various other chains that people can build on. So I know that some Solana devs are very loyal to Solana and they're going to continue to build, and I hope that happens. But nothing is stopping these developers from just moving over to another rust based chain like atom or near or whatever new l one that ends up popping up, right. So I feel like that's one bad thing that could happen to Solana, given the whole washout, given that some of these tokens are going to go to zero, given that they had investments from things like multicoin, right. Very predatory vc's, you know, who knows what's going to happen. So for me, just focusing on Ethereum defi applications, Ethereum l, two based applications, and if I am on, I guess, alto ones, I'll stick my capital with avalanche because they have GMX and GLP.
00:06:40.644 - 00:07:08.538, Speaker A: Right. So that's kind of how I view it. General thoughts on contagion? Funds will go bust. We've seen ikigai, like, you know, that fund essentially, you know, probably gonna wind down, right? And Ikigai in Japanese stands for the will to live. And unfortunately, I don't think there is any more will to live there. I hope they survive, but, you know, it is what it is. A bunch of funds like, you know, had capital in FTX, market makers are hit across the board.
00:07:08.538 - 00:07:47.376, Speaker A: And if market makers are hit, it means that liquidity across the board for the majors and even longer tail assets are gonna go down, therefore causing more volatility. So if you are buying assets, just understand that, hey, if you're not in it for a short term trade, it's gonna be volatile. It's just the market structure that we're in right now and. Yeah, so, and obviously some projects will go to zero for some reason. These Defi projects had their entire treasury on FTX and, yeah, like they're probably gonna go to zero. A bunch of stronger projects, I guess, obviously had a gnosis safe or they kept their treasury on chain. So I think those are fine.
00:07:47.376 - 00:08:13.190, Speaker A: I, and ultimately prices for every defi token is down. But I think the fundamentals have gotten stronger. Right. I think the whole FTX saga is going to drive people to trust centralized exchanges less, and people will be forced to learn self custody. Even like people that's been in the space for like five years, right. They still hold the majority of their assets on centralized exchanges. I think that's going to change and I think that's going to be for the better.
00:08:13.190 - 00:08:33.800, Speaker A: Right. So I think that's going to be tailwinds for both DeFi and nfTs. And it's funny because nfts, right. Even if you have no idea how blockchain works, if you buy an NFT, you have to self custard your NFT. And I would also encourage people to not believe everything you see online. I think we're in this environment where people are just looking for things to fail, right? Like people are literally looking for things like, that could fail. That could fail.
00:08:33.800 - 00:08:57.316, Speaker A: Let's make a tweet about it. Let's make a video about it. And just don't trust everything you see online. Always trust, but verify. And for me, right, like, I'm really sorry for anyone that's lost money on FTX, right. And I really empathize for them. But, you know, I don't care about the 69th conspiracy video or conspiracy tweet thread on SPF or FTX anymore.
00:08:57.316 - 00:09:30.114, Speaker A: Anymore. And if you want to clean up your timeline, I suggest everyone do this where SPF, FTX. Caroline Sam Alameda. Right. If you just purge these words from your timeline, I think your Twitter timeline is going to look a lot more optimistic. And you're actually, like, find things that people are building and, yeah, like, you know, this is a little bit of a cheat code to, you know, not get too caught up in this mess. Of course you should track it, right? Because there is, I mean, surely there's gonna be contagion, like, whatever, but, you know, like, for me, like, it happened, right? Let's move on.
00:09:30.114 - 00:10:10.914, Speaker A: Like, to be honest, I really don't care what happens to SPF. I mean, I hope he goes to jail and whatnot, or like, you know, I hope something happens to him, right? But, you know, who cares, right? Let's move on as an industry. So before I talk about new projects, I'll talk about yesterday I bought GLP lump sum and I'll talk about it. And I still think that in this type of environment, I have no idea what's, what's going to happen to the price. But I think generally, from a farming perspective, I think it's generally good to just have exposure to the majors because they're going to be less volatile. We all know it's going to survive. And yes, for example, GLP is roughly 50% stable coins.
00:10:10.914 - 00:10:37.592, Speaker A: So even if you buy $10,000 with a GLP, you're still protected to the downside, relatively, because roughly 50% of GLP holds stable coins. And you're going to be earning real yield where it's not going to be paid in a farm token. You're actually being paid out in ether or Avax, whatever chain you're in. The. The recovery from now on is going to be likely going to be a long one, right. Even if this is the bottom, right, 15.5k or whatever we hit, we're not going to.
00:10:37.592 - 00:11:15.172, Speaker A: I think the era of v shaped recoveries are most likely over. Right, in the short term. And no one knows what kind of dead bodies are going to resurface in the coming weeks or months. However, I truly believe that GLP is a time in the market beats timing the market type of asset. And of course, you can say this for anything, right? You know, you can look at the price of bitcoin now and say, hey, like in 2014, right time in the market beats timing the market because bitcoin's at much higher prices. But obviously, when you're living in the moment, it's really, really tough stomaching these drawdowns. But I think for GLP, you can actually stomach all these drawdowns because for the reasons I'll talk about right now.
00:11:15.172 - 00:11:44.262, Speaker A: So on the left hand side, you see the GLP yield. On Arbitraung, it's 53% being paid in ether. That's a cheat code in this environment. And on the right hand side, you see GOP for avalanche, paying 29% in Avax, semi cheap code. But, you know, obviously, it's better to be on arbitram, on GOP. These are the assets that compose the GOP. It's roughly 50% stable coins, right? You know, as you see here, you are exposed to bridgers, right? Like, BTC B is like the avalanche bitcoin rap.
00:11:44.262 - 00:12:03.580, Speaker A: Bitcoin. I mean, you know, these e assets are all bridge assets. So you are being exposed to a bridge asset. So, you know, just be aware that exists, right? Don't just, like, yolo into this, assuming that, you know, everything's gonna be fine, because there's always risks involved. But I. Not a huge. I mean, I've been structurally bearish avalanche for quite some time.
00:12:03.580 - 00:12:44.756, Speaker A: But, you know, even avalanche, like, you know, 6%, 7%, 8%. You know, it's not gonna make, like, a big deal in the grand scheme of things. Like, even if avalanche goes down and the ether and bitcoin is doing well, right, like, it's still gonna pay well, given the yield that this thing is earning a on arbitrum, 35% ether, 15% BTC, roughly 1% uniswap and link. To be honest, I wouldn't mind holding link and uni at these price points. But, you know, I mean, even if you don't want it, right, it's only, like, 2%, and it's roughly 45 ish percent. 46% stable coins, right? I mean, these are good assets to own, and it's being paid in need. And the evacs, like, what? Like, what more do you want, right? Like, I mean, I think people, you know, look into defi.
00:12:44.756 - 00:13:21.044, Speaker A: It's like, hey, I want, like, a 50 x, like, right now, right? But I feel like the beauty of defi in this environment is the ability to be a liquidity provider with a stable coin, muted position, right? Volatility, muted position, and earn, like, really good yields at it. And, I mean, I drew this box, like, you know, in, like, 20 seconds. I have no idea, like, who knows what's going to happen to the price of bitcoin? It might go down lower. It might go down a little bit. But I think it's fair to assume that, you know, we're gonna just be sideways for some time, right? In some range. Might be lower, might be higher. Who knows? I have no idea what's gonna happen to price.
00:13:21.044 - 00:13:54.516, Speaker A: But, you know, if I believe in industry, if I believe in bitcoin, if I believe in ether, if I believe in GMX, then surely GLP is gonna be a really decent asset to hold for the coming months GOP, right? So these are the quick, I guess, key points that make me like Gopdhead. It's 45% to 50% stable coins. Fees are real paid in Evax either. GLp gives me a slow drip of GMX, right? So it's a way for me to farm Gmx because I hold a bunch of escrow. GMx. If you don't hold any, then, you know, you can't really farm GMx at this point. But, you know, I feel like the yield itself is, like, very attractive.
00:13:54.516 - 00:14:43.150, Speaker A: And for me, I think I'm most likely going to farm and dump my AVax into GMX. So, you know, I have a bunch of GMx on Avalanche, right? It has a bunch of, like, multiplier points or like, you know, like that percentage point, the boost. But obviously, I'd rather hold Jmx on arbitrum. So I think what I'll do is whatever Avax I farm, I'll probably convert it into ether, bridge it over to arbitrum, and buy Gmx with it. So I'll hold probably Gmx on both chains, avalanche and Arbitrum. That's probably, like, the idea I have in my head in GMx since the beginning of the year. Basically flat, right? I mean, this thing is holding up better than, like, stocks, right? And I think it, you know, it is showing strength, and, you know, it's easily an asset that I feel comfortable holding throughout the bear market because it pays.
00:14:43.150 - 00:15:14.462, Speaker A: And I definitely see where the trend is going. I think more people will trade on GMX over centralized exchanges, and more people will trade on, like, other decentralized protocols in the future. The fees are going up, only I don't expect these to last. Obviously, when the markets are volatile, fees will go up, volume will go up. But when the dust settles, I feel like volatility is going to just go down across the crypto markets. And when volatility goes down, less people will trade. So I wouldn't look at the current volume and fees and just assume that it's sustainable.
00:15:14.462 - 00:16:03.880, Speaker A: Sure, six months from now, twelve months from now, it might be there, but if you have, like, you know, in the next one to two months, I expect the volume and fees to be at elevated levels, but it's going to go down once volatility is muted. It might have a higher floor than before, but I don't think it makes sense to look at the current fees and just do some discounted cash flow model. Anyone that uses PE models in crypto has gone wrecked, so I don't really recommend them. Maybe in five years you can do it, but right now just focus on the fundamentals. Where is the space going? Which industries, which sectors, which protocols have tailwinds? And just focus if you want dcas or buys there. FTX fallout, definitely positive for things like GMX Gns. Yeah.
00:16:03.880 - 00:16:45.926, Speaker A: And Georgie had an interesting thread of, I guess, the pros and cons of these decentralized perpetual exchanges. And I don't think I've ever claimed that GMX is going to flip. Like, I don't know, like finance volume. Right. Because, you know, I guess you can always argue that GMX and GNS, right, these oracle based applications, they're not true defi in the sense that you're essentially trading numbers on the screen because GMX and GNs, they take price feeds from Chainlink Oracles and Chainlink oracles, they take price feeds from centralized exchanges. I don't necessarily think that's a bad thing. Right? Like, I don't think that centralized exchanges will cease to exist.
00:16:45.926 - 00:17:19.318, Speaker A: I still think that centralized exchanges act as a really good on ramp, off ramp. And for people new to crypto that don't, like, you want the self custody, right? They're going to just hold assets on a centralized exchange and hope not to get rugged. So, you know, if you believe that decentralized exchanges and centralized exchanges will coexist, I don't really see a big down point. I'm sorry. Like, I don't know, like a downfall in the fact that, hey, you know, they use Chainlink oracles. However, from a user experience perspective, this does have some fallbacks and Jordy does make a decent point. And X is the lead dev for GMX.
00:17:19.318 - 00:18:16.210, Speaker A: And he mentioned that given that they used channeling oracles, they introduced a requirement that price had to move by more than 1.5% or 3 hours had to pass before a position could be closed in profit. And obviously from a user experience perspective, this isn't ideal, but it's unnecessary evil, because if, for example, prices are volatile, right, as it is now, obviously these Chainlink oracles are taking feeds from centralized exchanges and there could be a lag. So any bots or any sophisticated actor can front run these trades and drain GLP. So, I mean, this has been known, right? I'm not sure like why it's being brought up by all these, like, GMX flutters right now. But, you know, one way that they're trying to mitigate this is through a partnership with Kubradao where, you know, this partnership that was, you know, that came out on February 4, said Keeperdao. They run MeV bots, like arbitrage bots.
00:18:16.210 - 00:18:59.630, Speaker A: They're going to get the jump on offering, and any profits they make will be split with GMX and the GOP holders, 80% to 20%. So whatever arbitrage profits that these keeper bots make, 80% goes to GLP, right? So it gets refundable into the ecosystem, and 20% goes to these keeper bots. So instead of random bots making money, the money will stay within the ecosystem. So in terms of black swans, I guess maybe the keeper bot keeper Dao team goes malicious and they just extract a bunch of funds from GOP before the GMX team can blacklist the bot address or something. That's always a risk, to be honest, I don't think keeperdao is gonna rug or anything. They're pretty well capitalized. They do these financial reports every quarter.
00:18:59.630 - 00:19:22.568, Speaker A: I've covered Keeperdao. If you go back to, like, my videos, February of 2021, right. I've lost a lot of money buying these keypad out tokens. But this is like when I didn't really understand defi, right? I was like, oh, keeper down, Mev play, I'm gonna buy. And I just got wrecked. But it doesn't mean that the project is, like, bad, right? They're still working and, you know, who knows? Like, maybe they're gonna make a comeback. Like, whatever.
00:19:22.568 - 00:20:07.104, Speaker A: But the point is that Oracle based systems aren't perfect and there's always risk. But I think, you know, I'm not really making a claim that, you know, GMX is going to hit like a $32 billion valuation, right, which was like the peak of FTX's valuation. But I just think that centralized exchanges, decentralized exchanges like GMX, GNS can coexist and they're going to exist as viable alternatives to things like finance. I guess one worry that I have for GMX, right, they are an a non team, and, you know, they're really careful about their opsec, right? Operation Security. I tried to talk to one of, like I said, devs for JMX, and I was like, hey, I'm not gonna dox your voice. I'm not gonna record. I just want to get to know you better and, like, where GMX is going.
00:20:07.104 - 00:20:28.580, Speaker A: But this person, right he or she or they, he's, you know, they said I don't feel comfortable doxxing my voice. So they're very, very careful about, you know, just doxxing themselves and that could be a red flag. Right. But, you know, given all the regulation fear, right. I mean, I don't really blame them. Right. And I would rather like the product and the code speak for itself.
00:20:28.580 - 00:21:08.038, Speaker A: I'm just sharing all these things with you because, you know, with FTX falling out, right. FTX sponsored all these influencers like these podcast shows and whatnot. And, you know, I don't really blame them. Right. Like, how could they have known? And I'm glad that I don't think sponsorships and whatnot. But I guess I have been a very public advocate for GMX since the beginning of the year and if they go to zero or if there's like in some exploit, right, I feel like the pitchforks will be thrown at me. And I'm sure like most of you, like, you know, understand the risks and whatnot, right? And, you know, there's like an on devs and like all that which, you know, I've talked about, but just beware, GMX isn't perfect.
00:21:08.038 - 00:21:39.406, Speaker A: It's great, right? GLP great GMX great applications, good in my opinion. Right. Not perfect, but pretty good. But, you know, just don't yolo your net worth. You know, Gop has bridge risks, GMX has black swan risks. And hopefully, and I'm only going through this too, as well because GMX has been probably like the strongest asset of 2022 within the cryptoverse. Right? So, you know, it's good to think about what could go wrong instead of just focusing on the positives, even though, you know, I do like to focus on the positives.
00:21:39.406 - 00:22:11.702, Speaker A: So that being said, let's talk about me turning into a neat maxi. I mean, kind of, right? I mean, I still believe that we're in this moly chain future, but given the headwinds that surround the crypto industry right now, I think in the short to medium term, I think it makes sense for me to just like focus on ether other than other chains. And, you know, I'm kind of echoing defi XBT's tweet. Right. I'm sorry, a tweet here. I don't really agree. I mean, you know, he clarified bitcoin is like, when he said bitcoin is a failed tech, he just meant that bitcoin is what it is now.
00:22:11.702 - 00:23:08.436, Speaker A: They're not really innovating and there's beauty in bitcoin, right? Satoshi's origin vision, origin story and whatnot. But we've seen ether become deflationary. It's probably going to become inflationary again once there's less volatility in markets, but there's also trust in centralized exchange shattered. And I think it's going to drive more people into self custody and decentralized finance applications. It doesn't mean that I'm bearish bitcoin, right? But it just means that I'd rather hold either GOP or tricrypto than spot bitcoin at this point. Obviously, I don't think it's bad to just buy bitcoin at these price points, right? I'm sure you'll be happy at some point in the future, but from my perspective as a defi guy, I've just, you know, like, seeing FTX getting wrecked and destroying, like, you know, the wealth in the industry, for me, it just made me more bullish on the prospects of Defi in the future. And I feel.
00:23:08.436 - 00:23:46.048, Speaker A: I feel like I'm, like, entering the darks. I'm joining the dark side, right? And, you know, GLP and tried crypto, they hold sizable amounts of bitcoin as well. So it's not like I don't want any exposure to bitcoin. It's just that I'd rather hold, you know, those assets over bitcoin because it pays, um, you know, it pays yield, right? Whereas bitcoin does not. If you want to earn yield on bitcoin, you have to take on risks, right? And you, you know, all these bitcoin maxes took on these block by sponsorships, and they're also wrecked. So defi, defi, defi. In terms of, I guess, tailwinds other than GMX, the benefits of holding tricrypto is you can hold it.
00:23:46.048 - 00:24:29.228, Speaker A: There's rumors about curve USD, which should come out sometime this year, but one of the rumored assets that you can use as collateral to mint CrVUSD was tricrypto, right? So you can hold tricrypto, it pays yield, you can use it. You can mint CrV USD with it, and I'm sure you can use CRV USD to farm on Ethereum Mainnet. Who knows, maybe that can be a good way to earn more yield on truck crypto. And bitcoin will come back, ether will come back, but I expect sideways at some range, so might as well earn yield with it. There's always smart contract risk, so just be aware of that. Truck crypto yields these assets. I guess this thing has tether risk and like wrap bitcoin risk, right? Because wrap bitcoin, the custodian is bitgo.
00:24:29.228 - 00:24:59.122, Speaker A: But you know, they've been around. I mean, you know, there's always tether fud, right? There's always like rap tech one fud. But, and I ideally, right, I don't have to trust these custodians but you know, I mean I personally think they're fine, right. Not financial advice, but you know, ten to 15% yield, right now the base curve APR for tricrpto is pretty high, right. It's generally in the one to 2% range. So I expect these yields to come down to like ten to 13% ish. But you know it's still good, right? Like it's still good, yeah.
00:24:59.122 - 00:26:00.356, Speaker A: So I'm probably gonna, just not really gonna hold any bitcoin in the coming weeks, months and for me like the rule I set for myself and I mean these are like, these are like malleable, right? Like I'm not really set on these but I'm, no, I'm like given the risks of GOP and go Max, I'm not gonna put more than 20% of my portfolio into it. I trust curve more, right? So I trust like I would much rather put more into Tricrypto than GLP even though I do believe that GLP is a better product than tricrypto. Just so you know. Yeah. And you know, talking about nfts, I still think that, you know, even though the NFT market is dead right now, right. It's been dead for like the past couple of months. I still think that if you think about new capital coming into the space, I of course expect more tvl to flow into defi but I think the thing that comes back first are just going to be these consumer brands launching nfts helping shift the sentiment towards nfts because some people still think that nfts are bad for the environment.
00:26:00.356 - 00:26:53.966, Speaker A: Even though you move to proof of stake, I think it's going to take time for that sentiment to shift. And of course the PfE mania where people are spending half a million on monkey jpegs like that doesn't make any sense. But if you think about the next wave of nfts and adoption, it's most likely going to be very low cost or free to mint type of nfts launched by consumer brands like Nike. Nike just unveiled a switch platform that's going to launch on November 18 or at least the website I think is going to launch this Friday or sometime and I think you can start minting nfts in January. But if you look at this thread or this article, Nike has allegedly made at least $185 million in revenue on web3 products. Like, I even know that, like, how did they like, make this much? And if there's any consumer product, consumer brand that is gonna nail it in the series, it's gonna be Nike. Right.
00:26:53.966 - 00:27:08.754, Speaker A: It's gonna be Nike that's gonna, you know, gonna be the moving, the first mover. Right. And then I'm sure that other consumer brands will follow. So there's that. You know, this is, yeah. Registration opens on November 18. I have no idea what this means, but I'm gonna register kind of mint.
00:27:08.754 - 00:27:46.000, Speaker A: It's gonna be on Polygon, right? I mean, Polygon BD is crazy good. They did Reddit NFTs and they're also onboarding Starbucks. I mean, you know, Nike NFt, Starbucks Nfts. It's not gonna make Polygon price go up, but maybe Matic can outperform in the future because if they're able to onboard these consumer brands, you also have to price in the future adoption of consumer brands, you know, because if you're like a new consumer brand trending into the nfts, they're going to look at the current landscape of, I guess, you know, crypto and nfts blockchain and they're going to say, hey, Starbucks did it on Polygon. Nike did it on Polygon. So I'm going to do it on Polygon. Right.
00:27:46.000 - 00:28:15.560, Speaker A: That's probably like the shift. Yeah. The next wave of nfts most likely looks different than all the PFP that went crazy in 2021. Maybe it's gaming, right? A bunch of gaming projects raised a bunch of money during the bull market they're building. Maybe they ship something substantial in 2033, 2024, and maybe those nfts end up being worth something. Right? Who knows? But, you know, I think it's a pretty interesting sector to keep an eye on even though, you know, it's pretty much dead. Right.
00:28:15.560 - 00:28:43.204, Speaker A: And, you know, for like an argument perspective, right. It's like, would you rather get into nfts now, right, when sentiment is dead, people think nfts are dead versus, like, when it was pumping up only. Right. I think it's best to like looking to nfts, getting to nfts right now because everything is down. Right. Okay, so let's pivot into defi stuff, balancer and Aave partnership implications. And, you know, there's a lot of excitement around the balancer ecosystem.
00:28:43.204 - 00:29:56.120, Speaker A: And to be honest, when I first heard about, like, aura Balancer, et cetera, I was kind of skeptical, right, because how does balancer intend on competing with curving uniswap, right, the top two exchanges, decentralized exchanges in DeFi. But I do think that they are on the right path to taking significant market share, and I'm going to keep an open mind. So one thing that balancer has going for them is their partnership with Aave. Aave is the number one bank in crypto, and I expect that to last, right? And back in March of 2022, Aave imbalancer did a token swap, right? A treasury token swap. And when I saw this, I was like, I don't really know why Aave is doing this, but, okay, let's put that in the back of my head. And on October 24, Llama XYZ, who is an avid contributor to decentralized governance for Aave, put up this proposal to essentially put up convex LP tokens, curve LP tokens, aura LP tokens as collateral for people to borrow against. And 95% of the farming rewards or small fees is going to go to the user, but 5% can go to the dow, right? So it's going to be additional cash flow, additional revenue for the Aave Dao.
00:29:56.120 - 00:30:41.590, Speaker A: And this is. This was posted on October 26 this is a good way for Aave to get into ve tokens. And this is interesting because, you know, I'll be right, right now, it's like a. It's like a pure governance token. And, you know, they introduced, like, the go stable coin, right, the ghost coin, the over collateralized a coin, and everyone was, you know, speculating, like, how they're going to create liquidity for the ghost coin. And it seems like what they're going to do is they're going to allow people to use, like, curve convex or tokens as collateral in Aave for them to borrow against. But in return, right, for the additional utility that AavE is going to serve these users, what you'll be giving up is the voting power.
00:30:41.590 - 00:31:33.096, Speaker A: So if more and more people put their LP tokens for convex curve aura balancer as collateral on AavE Aave, the DaO gets control of the governance power that these LP tokens generate. And using the governance power, they can redirect emissions, crv, or balancer emissions towards the Aave LP or the Gho stablecoin, right? So I think that's the direction they're waiting for, and I think it's pretty smart, to be honest. This is like a. I mean, I already kind of explained this, but this is like generally the flow chart and 5% of, I guess, the farming rewards goes to the Dow itself, right? So it's additional revenue. So go likely going to have the deepest liquidity on balancer. It's always going to have liquidity on curve and Uniswap, but I think that's where a trend is going. And I think this partnership creates positive future tailwinds for both balancer and aura.
00:31:33.096 - 00:32:05.326, Speaker A: Though I'm still kind of skeptical. This is a speculation on my part, right. I have no idea what's going to happen, but one way that the aave token can have more value in the future is having it become more of like a. Like a governance, right. Maybe if they can capture all these v tokens, perhaps ex aave or ve ava can determine where voting power goes. And, you know, if ve aave has created it, like Oracle accumulate that as all, or for those that are unaware, is like a convex balancer tokens. And hopefully for other governance tokens in the future.
00:32:05.326 - 00:32:42.506, Speaker A: These are all what ifs, but I think it's productive to think about what could happen and think about, okay, like, if this happens, it's bullish for these tokens, right. Just so that, you know, if they happened, you can act immediately. For example, it's probably good for Aave because they don't have to emit Aave tokens. Something aura is interesting. They have a 25% share of ve bal, so they get to control where balance emissions go. Their TvL went down recently because, I mean, crypto prices went down, but this was one of the few DeFi projects where, aside from GMX and gains, where TDL was literally going up only in a bear market. So I think it's something to keep I out.
00:32:42.506 - 00:33:38.040, Speaker A: And they're trying to create this holistic ve system where, yeah, they're accumulating ve val tokens right now, but they're also going to accumulate other ve tokens. So I think they're pretty. I think the aura team is going to be pretty slow when it comes to figuring out which governance token to accumulate and whatnot. But, you know, the Aura team is pretty strong, right? Xerox Maki is one of the co founders, and I expect good things coming from them in the near future. I don't own any, obviously. As I said in the disclosure, I was kind of worried about these unlocks that was happening, right? So a bunch of these aura was unlocking, like, in late October, but price has been pretty stable, right? So maybe, you know, these early aura, farmer, token holders, whatever. They're like longer term holders, right? Who knows? But, you know, Aura was able to withstand big unlock, and price is relatively going sideways, roughly.
00:33:38.040 - 00:33:52.980, Speaker A: Cool. So let's talk about Kanto. Kanto is another project that kind of flew under my radar. But I think what they're doing is interesting. I do not own any. I'm not interested in owning any. But, like, couldn't, like, like, why not, right? Why not share this to you just so you know what's going on.
00:33:52.980 - 00:34:53.509, Speaker A: So Kanto is going to be an EVM chain built on top of the tendermint consensus engine on Cosmos, and they have this interesting thing where they're trying to create free, free public defi infrastructure. So let's kind of go over what that means. Sorry, this screenshot is outdated, but don't look at the price, don't look at the market cap, but just look at the bridge data, right? The TVL for Kanto has been going up, and in a bear market, it's something to keep an eye on and going back on, I guess, the free public infrastructure perspective. So Kanto has these decentralized exchanges and these lending markets, but, you know, these, these applications, the protocol cannot be upgraded and will remain ungoverned. It's gonna run in perpetuity on Kanto without ever being able to launch a token or implement additional fees over time. So it's not gonna have a token and it's not gonna have fees. So, you know, it's free public infrastructure.
00:34:53.509 - 00:35:33.960, Speaker A: Right. It's similar to how, you know, public parking is free on the streets and anyone can take advantage of it. And hopefully, as more and more people take advantage of, I guess, the parking slots on the streets, it's going to create more value for the businesses that are in that town. And similarly, if more people bridge, if more people benefit from this, the Defi applications that build on top of canto can benefit because there's less extraction going on in terms of fees and whatnot. That's same thing going on with lending market. And there's also this stable coin called note, which is this unit of account token. Sorry, let me close the door in mind.
00:35:33.960 - 00:36:28.870, Speaker A: My girlfriend just came home, but we'll keep going. This note is a pseudo stablecoin, and all interest paid by borrowers will be distributed lenders with no interest extracted as revenue. Kind of cool, right? In terms of, like, the e dose of canto, I think it's kind of interesting. But, like, who's gonna build on here, right? Like, if they can't really extract value. And how note works is it's not necessarily backed, right, one to one by like USDC or something. But basically if note is below a dollar, the interest rate you can earn to lend out your note is going to go up, hopefully creating more by pressure for note. And if note is over a dollar, then the interest rate that you can earn for lending how your note goes down.
00:36:28.870 - 00:37:09.112, Speaker A: I mean, this is kind of sus, right? Like I don't, I'm not sure if I trust this kind of model, like in a bear market, but you know, from like a, create like a builder's perspective. Definitely. Interesting. Um, and you know, they're trying to go with this whole creator, uh, like builder ethos. Right? Um, and uh, 13%, like roughly 13% is going to the devs and 2% to like, you know, like the airdrop and then 85% to the community via liquidity mining rewards and uh, developer grants. And uh, you know, if you want to deform, right, these LP tokens, right, canto Atom, canto eth, kanto note node, USDC, etcetera. Right.
00:37:09.112 - 00:38:06.070, Speaker A: This screenshot is a little bit outdated and the APR is probably lower. But you know, you can LP and then put it as collateral and you can farm more Kanto, right? It's a super inflationary token. And Scott Lewis is the founder of Kanto and he said that, no, it's an experiment that if you got rid of the corporation, the foundation got rid of the team, got rid of the big money, people would maybe self organize around a shared vision for the future. And you know, it's a pretty grand vision. One thing I wish they did, and you know, obviously I'm like an armchair quarterback when it comes to developers and whatnot, but you know, if they really wanted to say, hey, no team builder's vision, shared vision, no vc's and whatnot, like why did they allocate 13% of tokens to initial contributors, right? If you think about bitcoin's origin story, right? You know, there was like no pre mine for Satoshi. Obviously Satoshi has a bunch of coins, but he had to mine it himself. And I wish they did that where 0% went to the team.
00:38:06.070 - 00:39:01.944, Speaker A: But given that they knew this thing was launching, maybe they could have been early LP's and they could have farmed a bunch of Kanto themselves and that was like their way of getting allocation. You know, I feel like that would have been like a better story. But obviously, you know, like these devs have to eat and like, whatever, who cares, right? It's just my opinion. Kendo seems like the antithesis of things like Aptos and Sui and even Solana, right, where it's just the majority of the tokens just go to VC's. And I guess when things go south, it just gets dumped. Like not saying anything bad about devs, but, you know, from a token perspective, you know, these predatory VC's, like, I guess, you know, is part of the reason where, where we are now, right? It's like, you know, FTX use customer funds to invest into sui and aptos, right? Kind of ridiculous. No? VC's fair token fairer token distribution and absence of rent seeking behavior where they built these free public infrastructure.
00:39:01.944 - 00:39:41.150, Speaker A: Pretty interesting, right? I want to see what's going on. It has a roughly a $63 million market cap, which seems kind of expensive for this Giga inflationary token. But, you know, it got dumped to death initially, and then it went up only. And then, you know, with the crypto markets going down, it dumped a lot. Who knows? It maybe built a base. Sorry, this blue part is not updated, but $63 million market cap for an experiment with super inflation tokens seems kind of excessive. But I think the bold case is, given the environment that we're in, where sentiment is washed out, defi developers are super fired up about creating decentralized systems.
00:39:41.150 - 00:40:51.302, Speaker A: Maybe more people build, maybe there's a loyal community who works towards a short vision, and the Kanto token has value, and maybe new tokens that launch has some value even if they don't, like, have any revenue share. I feel like the bold case for Kanto is it flipping Atmos. I know Atmos raised money recently, but how does this thing have $4 million market cap? It makes no sense. And I'll be the first to admit, I was pretty excited about the Atmos launch when it was first announced and whatnot. But obviously, like, you know, different markets calls for different opinions on things because it's, I feel like it's really difficult for, like, all TVM chains to do well in this environment. Surely Kanto can flip fmos, right? Maybe Kanto becomes like the top EVM chain because, you know, of like, the ethos and whatnot. I mean, nothing like, I don't mean to like bash at most or something, right? It's like I've been like, like negative on the Avax token, right? But I still like using that lanshing, right? Like, my thoughts on the ecosystem and my thoughts on the token, like, totally different.
00:40:51.302 - 00:41:33.808, Speaker A: But yeah, upcoming catalysts, I feel like, ultimately depends on, like, what new projects can launch on Kanto, right? There's, like, this hackathon happening right now. I've seen the projects in this hackathon. Seems like nothing too exciting, but maybe it takes like, five hackathons for, like, you know, real things to be built. And also, like, Synapse has been rumoring they've been teasing the Kanto bridge. And the fact that they were able to amass this much TVL using the native Kanto bridge, I think, is interesting. And I think when the synapse bridge actually launches, it's gonna, you know, bring on more TVl because for you to bridge into Kanto right now, you have to go to Ethereum mainnet to bridge the Kanto. Then you have to go to the discord on Kanto and ask for gas from somebody.
00:41:33.808 - 00:41:58.100, Speaker A: And to be honest, I don't want to do that. Right? I don't want to dox my address. I don't want to go through the trouble. Like, I just, like, wait for this to launch, right? And if everyone thinks that way, then maybe there's edge in alpha in, like, bridging early and, like, buying tokens to, like, dump on people like me, right? It's like, when are you going to launch this? Right? Sounds like never. Okay, so the next section is called the tiki is bank holding, and you're going to know about it. Section. Okay.
00:41:58.100 - 00:42:30.428, Speaker A: And the reason I titled it this way is, is because I've mentioned in the past where I think, you know, most influencers in this space, right. They have. I'm not really sure, like, what their motives are. And I've, I've just seen so many behavior where people, like, pump a token and they just, like, dump it right at the first sign of trouble or, like, whenever they want to realize their profit. And I want to be different. Right. Obviously, all the tokens I've talked about in the bear market has gone down because it is a bear market and people are just looking for cash sources and there's a bunch of capitulation going on everywhere.
00:42:30.428 - 00:43:08.144, Speaker A: And, you know, it sucks as a token holder. Right. But, like, ultimately, like, I don't, I don't really think that the fundamentals have gotten worse or anything, right? It's just that people are just, like, being forced sellers or panic selling. So, you know, I guess the commitment I made is, like, if I make a dedicated video on a particular project, I'm not gonna sell it unless, you know, it's confirmed to go to zero, right. If it's, like, a failed project and everyone knows it, then I'll sell, right? Without notifying people, whatever. But assuming that it is functioning and working and trying to ship and whatnot. If I do sell in the future, I'll do it in a transparent manner.
00:43:08.144 - 00:43:48.928, Speaker A: So maybe one thing I could do is, hey, maybe I'll say, hey, I'm going to take profits on this coin. I'll sell 10% of my bags every single month, the first Monday. Or, like, whatever, right? I'll do it in a transparent manner so people don't accuse me of dumping or something, right? To be honest, at this point, in a bear market, nobody cares. It's like, hey, techie, sell if you want. And obviously, surely. But I think this type of transparency and commitment is going to make me look better. Like, when things are better, right? It's like, you know what? Like, fuck it.
00:43:48.928 - 00:44:34.420, Speaker A: Like, all back hold, right? So the reason I'm going to talk about these projects is, first of all, I'm back holding, right? So you know that, right? I hold these tokens, and you know, the reason I hold these tokens is because I'm genuinely excited about the future of these protocols. So, yes, I'll talk about it, but I'm assuming that you're subscribed to me because, you know, you care about my opinion, so I'll show my opinion, right? And timestamps are added, so you can skip the description if you want. Right? Like, whatever, right? So, I mean, I've already talked about GMX and gains. I actually sold my gns just because I wanted to. Like. Or, you know, like, when the markets were, like, kind of being iffy, I was like, you know what? Like, I'll just, like, take profits. Funny thing, like, I caught, like, a two x on gns, and then I bought Exmon with it, and then Xmon went down 50%.
00:44:34.420 - 00:45:04.266, Speaker A: So technically, I didn't make or lose money, right? Like, not to brag or anything. Actually, everything else I've lost money on because the rest of my portfolio is down. But anyways, you know, FTX went down tailwinds for GMX and Gns. GMX hit a billion dollars worth of volume when FTX collapsed. That's cool, right? That's cool. There's a GMX trading contest right now for avalanche. So right now, GOP is paying 29%, but I'm sure that it's gonna bring more volume.
00:45:04.266 - 00:45:43.516, Speaker A: And maybe, you know, the GLP fees will be elevated, and Ava Labs is allocating $4 million to incentives, so maybe that's going to subsidize GOP holders, right? So there's a lot. There's so many good things happening for GMX right now. I hope they don't go, I hope they don't like get vector exploit or something, but, you know, I'll continue to support them. And in terms of gains, they're being audited by Halborn and they're going to launch on Arbitrum soon. Their audit ETA is November 21, so maybe they're gonna launch like late November, early December. Right. So I'm sure that can bring on more TVL.
00:45:43.516 - 00:46:25.286, Speaker A: Funnily enough, I think GMX and GNS is both flat to up pre FTX collapse, which is very, very interesting. I definitely did not expect it, but it makes sense, right? A bunch of things make sense if you're doing hindsight analysis. But I still think that GMX and GNS is the best, best way to play arbitrum right now, given there's like not that many things happening on Arbitrum. But I think GMX is higher quality. But they both have a place in the decentralized leverage leverage trading platform space, I guess. Yeah. Also Dydx, too.
00:46:25.286 - 00:47:06.868, Speaker A: I feel like all these have value, all of them have positive tailwinds, and I'm excited to see where these tokens go. Right. FXS, I think the most exciting thing is like this frax eth product, right? Which is their way of competing with Lido and rocket pool. And finally, the one interesting that I'll share, and sorry if this doesn't make any sense, I kind of have a hard time explaining this. It's hard to explain by words. So hopefully I'll give an example and hopefully makes sense. So fraxied is a raft version of ether, right? And every eth that enters the fracs eat contract gets staked into the validator, right? So it earns eat staking rewards.
00:47:06.868 - 00:47:56.030, Speaker A: However, in order for you, as a participant, as a retail participant, to earn those fees or those validated rewards, you have to stake your frac seater, right? So. And the other point is, there are obviously going to be farms for fraxeed on Mainnet, notably curve. So, you know, you can earn yield on frac seed in two ways. One, you can stake it and earn more eth with it, or you can lp your frac seed on curve to earn swap fees and also curve emissions, right? So there's two ways to earn yield. And remember I mentioned earlier that every ether that enters a staging contract staked. But in order for you to earn the staking rewards, you have to stake your fax ether. So let's assume that there's ten either deposited into frax ether.
00:47:56.030 - 00:48:17.120, Speaker A: Okay. And the staking rate is 6%. And only five of them get staked. Okay. And the other five factseed enters curve farms or whatever. So what this means is that anyone that stakes their frac seat is going to receive two extra staking rewards because only half of the frac seat is being staked. Right.
00:48:17.120 - 00:48:59.706, Speaker A: And, you know, the emissions are going or the validator rewards are going to them. Okay. Hopefully that makes sense, right. You kind of have to think about it, right? Give it, you know, you know, like, think about it for like a few minutes and it kind of makes sense, Sam, right. Not, not, not bank free, right? Cause I mean, right, this, this Sam, right. You know, he confirmed this where, you know, you know, if there's 100,000 proxy to minted, but only half of that is staked, then the 50,000 frac seed is going to be earning double the staking apr. So I think this is a competitive advantage that FXs and Fracs has where, you know, Frax has a bunch of CRV, a VeCRV and a bunch of CBX, and they can use that to, you know, give favorable emissions for Frax seed.
00:48:59.706 - 00:49:43.812, Speaker A: And what I expect to happen is, like, if the staking work for ether is like 6%, maybe the farming rewards for curve, for fact seats, like maybe like 10%. And then the staking rewards for a staked backseat gonna be like seven or 8%, right. There's gonna be some equilibrium for the market, but I expect the stake track seat yield to always be higher most of the time. Right. There could be discrepancies, like the short term, to always be higher on average than Lido steak ether or rocketpool re. So that's kind of cool. And I think it's Frax ether is going to slowly but surely gobble up more and more ether from the markets, and it's going to compete with rocket pool.
00:49:43.812 - 00:50:04.628, Speaker A: I don't think it's. I don't think the bull case is for FXS to compete with Lido. I think it's to compete with the rocket pool and other centralized staking services and become the number two liquid staking derivative on Ethereum. Rocket pool has roughly 300,000 ether staked. And. Sorry, this screenshot is outdated. I think the market cap is like 300 million or something.
00:50:04.628 - 00:50:27.446, Speaker A: I made these slides some time ago, but. And, you know, there's a bunch of slides I kind of forgot to update. But let's just say that the market cap of rocket pool is 300 million, right? So the market is valuing a liquid staking derivative. No. That has 300,000 each, staked at roughly $3 million. So if FXS can compete with rocket pool, then surely there could be a miss. Sorry.
00:50:27.446 - 00:51:14.650, Speaker A: There could be a repricing of fxs in the future if fxs can not only be an issue of stablecoins, but can also be an issuer for, you know, like, you know, wrapped ether like staking derivative, you know, like whatever. And 10% of the ETH earned is going to go towards ve FXS holders. So, you know, its additional cash flow. And, you know, Fracs is basically a stable coin issuer for Fracs and frac seed where VeFXs holders get cash flow from those business operations. Right. I think it's kind of interesting. I'm not going to read through this, but obviously, right, FXS is like a pseudo governance token with some cash flow, right? Not too many, but I think the bet on FXS is a bet on the team continuing to ship a bet on fracs growing its supply over time.
00:51:14.650 - 00:51:55.610, Speaker A: Obviously in the short term, probably not, but yeah, over time and fraccy to gaining more market share. And for me, I have my fxs on convex earning roughly 15% to 20% in yield. And I'm happy just writing it out. And c two TP, who's the lead dev for convex mentioned that the curve rewards emissions should start to be higher starting 17th or the 18th, because right now the emissions are kind of low, right. But it takes time for things, these things to go live. So hopefully the rewards are high enough where it attracts more ether. Who knows? Right? Wait and see.
00:51:55.610 - 00:52:19.648, Speaker A: Cool. Let's talk about citizenship. Obviously bought a bunch down, right? It's capitulated, right? So I'm down bad. Like, funny story, right? Recently, a couple weeks ago, right before FTX collapsed, I went. I list. I watched this musical called Hadestown, right? It's a Broadway, right? I love musicals, right? Hamilton. Like, I love Hamilton.
00:52:19.648 - 00:53:08.150, Speaker A: But anyways, you know, Hadestown, the first song that they sing was road to hell, right? And the reason I'm bringing it up is because at the very end, you know. You know how every musical, you know, the cast, you know, comes out? You know, they like, bow and the crowd gives them like a standing ovation. It's like, oh, yeah. Like, you're so amazing. And then at the very end, the cast asks for donations to support Broadway programs and whatnot. It's like, hey, whatever. And Eva Noblezada, who was the main singer for Eurydice, at the end, she was like, hey, there will be people outside with red buckets.
00:53:08.150 - 00:53:39.138, Speaker A: We accept cash, credit card, check, but not nfts because those aren't real. And everyone was like, yeah. And this was even before the FTX class, right? And I was like, standing there, I'm like, what? Like, what? Like, what mess have I got myself in? But who know? Like, who knows? Like, maybe that's, like, where sentiment is on nfts. I do expect nfts to come back, to be honest. But who knows? Like, maybe I'm just. I should, like, mark my investment as zero because it's down a lot. But anyways, you know, that's where we are with nfts.
00:53:39.138 - 00:54:29.860, Speaker A: But, okay, let's go back to the fundamentals, right? Yeah, that was, like, just a funny story I wanted to share because it happened relatively recently and it happened right before the market collapse. Obviously, the biggest topic right now is, I guess, creator fees, right? Royalties. You know, all these opensea forks, like these central order books, they're trying to compete with Opensea by just lowering fees, right? And just like, making a royalty is optional or just like, lowering it outright. And Opensea recently came out and they said that they're going to continue to enforce royalties. To be honest, I think Opensea will remain the number one exchange for nfts. It's similar to how binance and Coinbase volume, for the most part, is still above that of Uniswap. But it doesn't necessarily mean that decentralized exchanges like Uniswap doesn't have any valid right.
00:54:29.860 - 00:54:56.742, Speaker A: They will coexist. But I think the writing is. Writing on the wall is pretty color. I think that fees will converge to zero over time, given how early, given how new the NFT space is. OpenSea is able to charge 2.5% fees per swap, and creators are able to charge fees. But I do think that Opensea fees will go down over time.
00:54:56.742 - 00:55:35.308, Speaker A: And the marketplace that's going to compete with Opensea isn't going to just purely do it based off of user experience or user interface. It's going to do it. They're going to compete based off of liquidity advantages. And that's like, my book is for Sudo, and I'll talk about why I think that is. So CK from Defiance Capital, this was posted when prices were a little bit higher. So obviously at this point, who knows, really? I'm a certified back holder, right? So, like, you know, like, don't listen to me for advice, but I do think nfts make sense. I think concentrate liquidity for amms to make a ton of sense.
00:55:35.308 - 00:56:35.506, Speaker A: And I think, you know, central limit order books for NFTs and pseudo NFT MMs will coexist where certain types of NFTs will just have the majority of their liquidity on open sea, right? So like, for example, like, you know, generative art 101 nfts, right? Types of things should live in Opensea and should charge royalties, right? Of course. But things like, you know, fungible PFE projects, if a game comes out with like some sword or NFT, right? And you know, it's like, like some cheap sword, right? They're all fungible. Like it's going to be more capital efficient for those nfts to be listed. Unlike an amm, right, with custom curves, it just like naturally makes sense. And I guess the argument against Sudo is like, you know, everything is open source. Like why can't anyone fork sudo and introduce like some farming incentives to like take away market share? And those are valid points, right? But as a back holder, let me give my counter argument against that. So Uniswap, they recently, I mean, back in June they acquired a genie who is an NFT aggregator.
00:56:35.506 - 00:57:26.836, Speaker A: And I can definitely see the argument on like why can't Uniswap compete with unsuedo, right? Like they're an amm, right? Like why can't, why don't they create their own thing? But here is the reason on why they're not doing it, right? So they acquired Genie, an aggregator, instead of creating their own amm. And they mentioned that starting this fall, you'll be able to buy and sell nfts directly on the Uniswap web app. And I think Uniswap can also like, you know, take away market share for away from open c, like depending on the type of product that they launch. I have no idea what type of product they're going to launch, but I could have some sort of an idea, right? And fall is sometime in q four maybe given this entire drama, right? Maybe it gets pushed back. But Hayden, the founder of Unity, has been pretty optimistic on the timing of this. And, you know, Uniswap labs have been quietly building a bear. Our team has grown three x three redacted, redacted and redacted are almost finished.
00:57:26.836 - 00:57:49.206, Speaker A: A lot more coming after that. And, you know, given this announcement, I'm sure that one of them is going to be Uniswap NFTs. Maybe Uniswap before, maybe some other product, who knows? But, you know, it's really coming. Core financial, infra such as the ability to exchange value is too important to be controlled by corruptible, centralized entities. This is one of the many reasons I work on Defi and attacks. Go, Hayden. I love Uniswap.
00:57:49.206 - 00:58:35.590, Speaker A: I think they're one of the strongest teams in crypto. Yeah. And, you know, like, I'm not sure if I agree with his fashion statement, right. But let's keep going. Right? So Scott, who is the founder of Genie, right, who got expired, who got acquired by Uniswap, who is now the head of NFT products at Uniswap, okay. And Scott is a very avid supporter of Sudo and he believes Sudo is the leading NFT hyper structure. And I think, you know, he's saying that the next Shopify is going to look a lot different than, you know, whatever exists now where if you think about the business model of Shopify, days is great, I guess, like the infrastructure for small and medium to large business owners to build their own marketplace from.
00:58:35.590 - 00:59:11.694, Speaker A: And obviously Shopify takes a fee for whatever transactions that happen on Shopify. And similarly, what I think could happen is Sudoswap can be like the base layer of new marketplaces that gets built for like, for example, like new projects and nfcs. And what Scott is saying, that any NFT owner can now become their own marketplace, just deposit nfts in either, right. Create your own amen pool, set your fee on top, and that can be your way of charging royalties. Right. Instead of relying on OpenSea to charge royalties, why not just create your own marketplace, set a fee and just like, you know, benefit from that. And Sudo goes, and Sudo takes a 0.5%
00:59:11.694 - 00:59:29.240, Speaker A: fee. Yeah. So, you know, that's a reading between the lines. Like maybe, and, you know, I don't know if I have it here. Maybe I don't have it here. Yeah, I don't have it here. But if you go, actually, let me just pull it up.
00:59:29.240 - 01:00:14.344, Speaker A: Let me just pull that up. If you go to Genie, right, XYz, they're basically no longer tweeting because they got acquired obviously by uniswap right now. Uniswap. But if you go to, you know, their recent retweets, right, it's like Scott is saying, acquired, NFT roadmap matched. And then we'll be launching nfts on Uniswap with full citosoft support pool data flowing in. So the optimistic guy inside of me says that part of the Uniswap NFT offering is going to be a way for new projects and existing projects to launch their own NFT marketplace using pseudoswap and Uniswap as like the base layer. So hopefully that happens, right? I have no idea.
01:00:14.344 - 01:01:04.554, Speaker A: Right? A bunch of my money is in the hands of this man. And I can say with confidence that maybe that was not a sound financial decision, but let's keep going. And sudo, amen. Protocol is designed to be flexible support for many use cases. They're already working on a standard router contract that can already enforced royalties on chain, right? That's one of the things that NFT people did not understand. It's like, oh, I thought NFTs royalties were baked into the smart contract, but that's not the case, right. Because if I send an NFT to, from me to you, right, there's like no royalties, right? I mean, if there's like a peer to peer transfer of nfts, like, there's no royalties, right? So if there's like a peer to peer decentralized exchange marketplace, then, you know, you can circumvent royalties, you know, like Opensea central limit order books like Blur X two, y two looks, they're going to coexist away tomms.
01:01:04.554 - 01:01:41.398, Speaker A: But I think the advantages that Amms offer is just better liquidity. Yeah, this is better liquidity, right? Yeah. And liquidity is the most important thing when it comes to Defi projects and NFT projects and gem, right, the other aggregator who got acquired by Opensea, right? So Opensea, they're going to be releasing support for buys on pseudosoft. So if you go to the gym and you want to buy something, you know, you can like buy stuff too. But a complete support with sell side support with other fancy things will follow on in the later release. So with Gen V two, which is coming, I have no idea. Right.
01:01:41.398 - 01:02:40.790, Speaker A: This was posted October 24 it's gonna allow people to just instantly sell their nfts, right? And this is one of the huge, like the biggest issues with nfts, right, which is like they're super liquid, right? Similar to how, you know, Alameda was able to say serum was like a $3 billion asset. When the circulating market cap is 60 million, you can't really look at NFT market cap because that liquidity isn't really real. And I feel like for nfts to get to the next level, it just has to be more liquid. There has to be instant sell side liquidity, similar to how you can sell ether on decent decentralized exchanges immediately without having to find someone to buy it off of you. There has to be a way for nfts, NFT owners to just sell your nfts instantly. And of course, you know, Sudo will be part of it. And maybe Opensea is gonna just like, I don't know, be their own market maker where they're gonna accept any NFT bid, five to 10% below spot price or floor price, I have no idea.
01:02:40.790 - 01:03:40.488, Speaker A: Right. But you know, I guess the argument against, you know, the, why can't someone fork Cito and take away market share? I mean sure it's going to happen, right? I mean people forked Opensea and took away market share by charging lower royalty fees. But obviously, like things like Elixra X two, y two probably don't have a future. I mean even if, even if they have a future, I don't necessarily think that their token model makes sense because they're subsidizing a bunch of, you know, trades with like, you know, inflationary token rewards. I think similarly they're going to be competitors, but I think their edge is, you know, their integration with Uniswap slash genie and integration with OpenSea Gem. And I think larger marketplaces like Opensea and Uniswap, I think, you know, they understand that it's going to be very, very difficult to compete with existing marketplaces, you know, and it's probably not a best use of their capital and resources. So I think, you know, what they did was they just acquired an aggregator like Jim, like Genie, and they're probably going to like slap on fees on top of it.
01:03:40.488 - 01:04:15.094, Speaker A: And if we're in that environment, I feel like Sudo can become the winner as the base infrastructure. But who knows? I've been wrong many times before. So, you know, like whatever, right? Don't rely on me for, for me to predict the future of NFTs. But, you know, I do have pretty high conviction in the NFT sector. I do think that it will come back. I think it will be one of the first to come back. Given that it's very, very easy to understand the value proposition of NFTs, right? Self custody, digital identity, digital culture, art, all that cool, rapid fire suction.
01:04:15.094 - 01:04:39.766, Speaker A: Let's go quickly. So Adam 2.0 was rejected and this kind of happens with Cosmos governance, right? Cosmos moves very slowly, right. In a bear market, it's probably fine. And, you know, now they're going to talk about how can we improve on Adam 2.0? And I talked about Adam 2.0 in my last video, so feel free to go to that section.
01:04:39.766 - 01:05:15.448, Speaker A: Right. Timestamps are included, obviously, like from a token holder perspective, the fact that it moves so slow might be like a deterrent, but I think it's good to see, like, actual governance proposals, like, get rejected. And now the committee is forced to figure out what changes are going to be made to shape the future of the protocol. I still like Cosmos, right? Really like it. I definitely want some exposure at some point. Right now I'm focusing on Ethereum and ETH in those projects within those ecosystems. But I definitely am looking for atom or just Cosmos help products.
01:05:15.448 - 01:06:00.804, Speaker A: Maybe DyDX is a good thing there. It's like Avi Feldman, the head of Golden Tree, golden chain. Where's the alpha? Well, cosmos FDV still very low, right? Very low. Dopex Atlantic puts. I think it's kind of interesting. Basically, you know, TLDR is, you know, you can open up a leverage levered long position on ether, on GMX, but your position won't get liquidated because at the same time you'll be purchasing a put option on dopex. So if I technically get liquidated on GMX on either because it dumps and it pumps a lot.
01:06:00.804 - 01:07:02.064, Speaker A: Want to put Xfire worthless? Well, technically, yes, but if price dips to the price of 1100 or lower, right, in this scenario, the deposited collateral from the put moves to your long position to bring the liquidation price to zero, and you begin paying the funding fee for borrowing a collateral. So I'm like, okay, okay, that's kind of cool. And I don't have it, like, live with me. But basically you can kind of like, you know, move the leverage to two x or like ten x, and then it'll automatically, like, figure out your. No, the most optimal put option to buy will be. And it'll show, like, the fees and whatnot, right? Like, my honest reaction right now is like, from a tech perspective, it's pretty cool, right? You combine GMX and topics and you create this non liquidatable product, but who's going to use it, right? Because, like, why would I open a five x lever long position on here, right? Paying a bunch of fees. Like, maybe it's better for me to just like, open a five x lever position and just, you know, go with the flow, right? And just say, if I get liquidated, I get liquidated.
01:07:02.064 - 01:07:45.462, Speaker A: I mean, I haven't seen it. Like, I feel like what would be useful is like, if there's like a chart where, you know, if ETH goes up 20%, I'm this much better off just by naked longing versus, you know, like doing this Atlantic put product versus, you know, if ETH goes down 30%. I'm this much better off by, you know, three x longing on, on this product over just naked long on GMX. But, you know, it's an innovative product. So I'll highlight it, right? I'll share it. And this is a different example where, you know, hundred dollars, five x leverage, it opens this put price, and I'm paying, you know, $106.52 to open this.
01:07:45.462 - 01:08:13.550, Speaker A: So I'm basically paying a 6.5% fee to open a five x leverage long position that won't get liquidated. But I guess, like, the downside is if this put expires at the end of the week, then I'm no longer protected. So I have to open a new position. So maybe the user experience has to be improved upon. But hey, interesting, interesting, right? And they're also teasing dopex USD. I still have no, like, no clear idea how this works.
01:08:13.550 - 01:08:57.647, Speaker A: I mean, I understand it's like over collateralized by USDC Atlantic puts and RDPX, but, like, what's the utility of RDPX or, sorry, DPX USD? I have no idea, you know, but we'll keep an eye out, right? Cautiously optimistic on build packs, Premia launched a new ve model. To be honest, like, it doesn't matter if you improve your tokenomics, you just have to have a good product that people use, that people pay to use. And I'm still waiting on it, right? I'm still optimistic on premia. I think whether or not their v two is good, kind of like, you know, determines their fate. But, you know, if you go to their GitHub. Sorry, if you go to their discord in the GitHub section, you know, you see every day, right? Their devs are shipping something, right? I have no idea. You can't click on it because it's private.
01:08:57.647 - 01:09:32.988, Speaker A: But they're shipping something, right? So cautiously optimistic on premia. And Abo is gonna ship sometime this quarter, right? And I'm talking about these options protocols, right? Decentralized options protocols. Because, I mean, it's obvious that, you know, decentralized perks like GMX, GNS, DYDX, they have tailwinds, but everyone knows that. What's the next growth narrative? It's gonna be decentralized options. And right now, none of these projects have figured it out, right? Like these projects, to be honest, like, not that great, right? Not that liquid. However, whoever figures it out is probably worth multibillion dollars. So I think it's good to keep an eye out.
01:09:32.988 - 01:10:00.869, Speaker A: Still looking into it, to be honest. Like, you know, I'm really looking into it, right? Like, honestly. But I'm not sold on any of them yet. But who knows? Maybe it's gonna be like a Q one Q two story next year. Yeah, I guess, like touching on this, like finally, right? I think there's been a bunch of poor media coverage on, like, the whole SPF thing. And it kind of angers me, right? Given that I'm in, I'm the part of this industry. Like, this is from the Financial Times.
01:10:00.869 - 01:11:22.230, Speaker A: And, you know, for whatever reason, like, the Financial Times is, you know, pointing to CZ being the bad man, right? It's like, you know, Chinaman liquidated american guy, entrepreneur, therefore Chinaman bad, right? It doesn't make sense to me. So I think as an industry, I think it's really, really important to push back against these, frankly, like, stupid journalists that have no idea what they're talking about. But, you know, they're just like using these things to just get clicks and, you know, honestly, like, it's kind of how these media companies are structured, right? It's like even youtubers, right, it's like if people, if it's free to consume, then you're the product, your eyeballs are the product. And if youtubers run YouTube ads, then they monetize off of people's attention. And that's why you see all these engagement farming going on on Twitter journalism and YouTube, whatever. I don't want ads. And I tried not to do, like, clickbait stuff, but, you know, it's, it's a sad to see, right? It's like, I mean, you know, I personally don't want binance and CZ to have all the power, right? They have this recovery fund they're investing into, like distressed assets.
01:11:22.230 - 01:12:39.984, Speaker A: I mean, that's cool, right? That's probably a net benefit for the crypto ecosystem if binance can save some projects that would have otherwise gone bust. But it also means that finance is going to hold more power. CZ is going to hold more power. And I personally like Cz over SPF, right? I think Cz, you know, has the crypto ethos, but he's also a part of finance, right? And I think as an industry, I think it's best to just vote with your money, right? It's like, I never traded on FTX, I never traded on binance because I don't want to give them fees. And similarly, right? And I mean, this is not like trying me trying to virtual signal or something, right? Maybe I am subconsciously, but, you know, if you want to really, you know, be true to, like, the ethos of crypto, right? Like, it's good that decentralized platforms exist, but just understand the values of custody and also understand that, hey, if you're going to use these platforms, understand the downside, understand the upside, and, you know, whatever fees that you pay to them, you know, it's going to help them consolidate more power. My hope is that, you know, both centralized platforms, decentralized platforms coexist, they mutually benefit, benefit each other. But for me, fortunately, I was not hit by the FTX saga because I self custody all my assets.
01:12:39.984 - 01:13:02.528, Speaker A: Of course, all my tokens went down. But I don't know, at least I hold the same number of coins, right? At least there's hope that my tokens can recover. So thank you guys for watching. Let's see how long this video is. Cool. Okay, not too bad. So you'll probably hear from me December for the next state of defi, unless some crazy thing happens.
01:13:02.528 - 01:13:13.640, Speaker A: If you want more frequent videos updates, feel free to check out. The discord link is in the description below. Yeah. Bye bye. Right. I hope everyone's okay.
