00:00:01.840 - 00:00:30.754, Speaker A: You're now plugged into the Delphi podcast. Well, GM, everyone here with some special guests. Yasik, the founder of Djen, will and Ian, co founders of Syndicate. This is actually me coming out of podcast retirement for this very special episode. That's top of mind. I know Tom had some disclosures in the beginning, but since it's my first podcast and we're awesome disclosures, one, Delphi is our investors in syndicate. And then two, I have Djen packs.
00:00:30.754 - 00:01:09.954, Speaker A: So that should hopefully get that out of the way. And nothing financial, tax or anything, advice like that. So, yeah, basically the way this conversation is going to go, like, two main parts that I want to highlight are one, you know, obviously Djen, everything that's going on in that community, what, you know, what and why the l three, and then really dive into syndicate's role in that as well as like, you know, just l three's in general. First part, I really want to dive, you know, go easy, dive into Djen. But before we even get into that, like maybe will and Ian, you can kind of like help, like set some context for the pod. Like, what are l three s? Like, why should people care about them? You know, why should we, you know, why should the listeners even listen?
00:01:10.614 - 00:01:11.878, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely.
00:01:12.006 - 00:01:12.550, Speaker A: Yeah, go ahead.
00:01:12.582 - 00:01:51.936, Speaker B: So in my opinion, l three s are one of the most exciting innovations in crypto in the past six to twelve months. The reason why is because they offer unlimited customizations with near zero gas fees. That is pretty phenomenal. And what's possible, you can start to customize these chains in specific ways, like Degen. Very early on, one of the first things we talked about was let's make sure that we can do forecaster signature verification like other forecaster data on chain. And then at near zero gas fees, transactions on DJN are between a millionth and a billionth of a penny, depending on gas fees. So you start to get this kind of limitless creativity in terms of how you can customize the chain and how you can use the chain.
00:01:51.936 - 00:02:11.844, Speaker B: L three s allow for this because bridging is very cheap. They're an l three because they bridge in and out of base in the case of Djinn chain. And then also the data for the l three is very cheap. So as a result, you just have incredible low cost, high volume experimentation.
00:02:12.624 - 00:02:12.912, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:02:12.928 - 00:03:11.524, Speaker D: And something that I just add is like, the combination of these technical innovations that have come online in the last few months with modularization of blockchains and things like alternative data availability layers like Celestia and whatnot, it really unlocks this customization that ultimately leads to new business model innovations at the l three level. So what that means, I think, is that these applications, these ecosystems, these communities, like Degen and others, have a lot more agency and are empowered in ways to actually design their economy and their economic model in ways that they didn't have if they were on an l two or certainly on an l one. So I think that that's one of the coolest things, is that. And reasons, frankly, why we think l three's is going to be a big thing, is because communities want that economic agency to accomplish whatever short term, medium term, long term goals they have with their ecosystem.
00:03:11.984 - 00:03:45.816, Speaker A: Yeah, makes sense. I think, like, I think this is a great segue into what DGen is and why this community went down the l three path. So maybe some context before I switch it over to Yasik. But DGen launched in January 2024, and I remember seeing it because it was, like, the main utility. It started off as was with this tipping functionality on forecaster. Everyone's daily allowance was based on their recent interactions with cast. You know what I found really interesting about it was it had, like, plurality and distribution kind of built in on the base layer.
00:03:45.816 - 00:04:01.524, Speaker A: Right. Since it was as easy as, like, commenting on someone's cast with an x amount of dGen, you want to tip them. Maybe you ask. Before we even get into l three, like, where did this idea for Djen came from? Come from? And then, like, yeah, it seemed to evolve pretty quickly. Like, how was that kind of journey?
00:04:03.344 - 00:04:24.352, Speaker C: Yeah, it's been a wild ride. And I guess so, like, the genesis was in the Djinn channel on Farcaster, and I had been hanging out in the farcaster channel or in the Deejan channel. Like, prior to that, I actually joined Farcaster in July. So I don't know. Like, I talked to Ted, which is like, she's like a big og. And I was like, I don't know if I'm an Og. She's like, yeah, you're definitely an Og.
00:04:24.352 - 00:04:56.208, Speaker C: So. So maybe I'm part of that crowd, but during, during those times, I guess the Djinn channel wasn't really happening. Like, this was not like, a place where, like, the. I would say the farcaster crowd, which was made of mostly, like, web3 builders and, like, kind of, like, serious personalities in the space I wanted to kind of associate with. But then in December, something changed, and I don't know exactly what, but people started building these tokens and points was the first one. And then there was like, wow, wow. And there was, there was a whole bunch.
00:04:56.208 - 00:05:44.410, Speaker C: And so I kind of caught wind of this. And I had quit my job in November and I kind of wanted to start my own startup, and I was looking for ideas and things that were kind of hot. And so I kind of jumped on this, just kind of thinking like, you know, this is like really cool. And I started with the post or with a cast, and that cast was basically just a promise, like, you know, I want to build a token and it's going to be fairly distributed. I don't know exactly what I put in there, but I got a ton of likes. And so then I decided like, okay, I'm going to drop everything I'm doing and I'm just going to work on this for the next two weeks, like, just like crazy. So basically working day and night for two weeks, like, and figuring out, like, tokenomics, figuring out, like, you know, how to write this token properly, kind of copying things from uniswap and blur and things like that, and then finally kind of putting it out there.
00:05:44.410 - 00:06:24.034, Speaker C: And all the while people were kind of earning points, I think, or I don't remember exactly. Yeah, they were earning points basically on our leaderboard, on Degen tips, and they were earning it based on their likes reactions. We also had, like, NFT boosts. So this all comes from the points meta, that kind of blur pioneered, basically boosting and things like that. So a lot was kind of taken from that whole idea, but also the whole idea of points. It's kind of like Reddit Karma in a way which forecaster didn't really have. And one of my ideas prior to the token was going to be channels fun, which is going to be a mixture of fronttech and Reddit or subreddits, bonding curves, things like that.
00:06:24.034 - 00:06:54.500, Speaker C: I was definitely interested in points and karma and kind of like these kind of ranking systems and things like that. So, so that was kind of like the whole idea behind that. January 6, the token contract was deployed. January 8, the airdrop went live. January 7, the liquidity pool actually went live, like prior, like a few hours prior to the actual launch. And so, like, a lot of bots ended up buying a ton of the token and they became whales. But is what it is.
00:06:54.500 - 00:07:19.336, Speaker C: That's kind of how it happens. And then, so I guess that was the first phase. Second phase was airdrop two. And that was, you know, I was kind of searching for ideas. I talked to a friend of mine who's been in the space for a while and much more seasoned than I am, and we I had a list of ideas. We went through them and, you know, one of the ideas was basically tipping. And that was the last idea on the list.
00:07:19.336 - 00:07:58.080, Speaker C: And he basically stopped me and was like, whoa, you know, like, you know, what is this tipping idea? And, you know, that surprised me because it was lower on my list. I didn't think it was going to be that cool. We went through that would basically take me probably a few hours to, probably four or 5 hours or something to put this together. It's not, it's not all that complicated. And so he's like, well, if it's very low effort and maximum impact, then just do that. And so that's what I ended up doing. And then I think the reaction was kind of like a whoa moment where like, I definitely received some DM's from people who are just like, like, this is kind of like insane in a way.
00:07:58.080 - 00:08:39.284, Speaker C: Like they kind of blew their minds less. So for me, I think I wasn't, like, so blown away by this because I always kind of felt like, oh, man, I need to build like this, like SpaceX style, like application, something that's going to have, like all these different features and things. But it seemed like the small, like the small kind of moves, but impactful moves are like, you know, they leave an imprint and so, yeah, but that, you know, that in its entirety, I think was also taken in part from, like, I used to be on four chan. I remember they were giving out, like, I don't remember what it was. Like, not dogecoin, but maybe like litecoin or things like that. You have to like download the wallets and all that kind of stuff. And they were like, paste your address and they give it to you.
00:08:39.284 - 00:09:11.842, Speaker C: And like, I deleted all those wallets and all those things. I formatted my computer so I don't have any of that stuff. But I remember that, like, that was the mechanism. And then on Reddit, there was a dogecoin bot, which was really popular and then it ended up rugging the founder or the person took all the coins, but that was like super popular. It had a whole bunch of different commands, whole bunch of different things, and it was cool. Like, people were using it for a long time. And then there was the idea of dogecoin potentially doing something on Twitter like Elon Musk, all that kind of hype that happened.
00:09:11.842 - 00:09:56.578, Speaker C: And people were really kind of rooting for Dogecoin finally being this, like official tipping mechanism and it never really happened. So I do think tipping has been ingrained in this whole crypto scene from the beginning almost as like a distribution mechanism. So it felt, but, like, I wasn't intentional about it like that. I kind of started, I think about that now, like today, but when I was doing tipping, I didn't think about that almost at all. So it was almost like, yeah, let's just do tipping. It seems like a cool idea and it's low efforts, but, but it adds a lot of value. And the way we did it was that there's a tipping allocation, which you get and so you don't have to tip out of your own wallet, which was like, that's, I think that's the cool part.
00:09:56.578 - 00:10:19.378, Speaker C: And that's actually. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, yeah. So that was kind of taken from a little bit. So, like, a lot of these things are obviously ideas that kind of get filtered through and kind of get glued together in a way. And so, like, that for sure was, like, heavily influenced by frontech. And I'm actually really excited because I think I'm going to be able to, I think we're organizing a little meeting with racer.
00:10:19.378 - 00:11:13.756, Speaker C: Somebody's like, in between us and I think we'll be able to talk and I don't know what's going to come out of that. But, like, this guy for me is just like a really innovative in, like, the points incentives kind of space. And, like, the whole thing he did with fintech was, like, really cool. And, like, there was one feature where they had this slider sliding bar and you could post, kind of like, you could post on Twitter almost, and they removed this since then, but you could basically, you would get this allocation of points which were not tied to the actual frontec points, and you could move this slider across and give a post some amount of points. And I thought that was genius. And then they took it out and they were just magical Internet points. And so I think the whole idea was kind of like, let's take these magical Internet points, give them some value, and, like, let people actually earn something from them.
00:11:13.756 - 00:11:46.610, Speaker C: Kind of like people earn on YouTube. And I think that's the new narrative that's kind of shaping up. There's like the l two narrative, which is kind of happening in the cycle that at least I've seen and I'm not super deep into, like, the whole, you know, up to date with what's happening in terms of, like, new trends and things like that. But I think social fi is one of those kind of, like, narratives. Another one seems to be like the whole l two wars. And then, like, now there's this l three thing that's happening, which is like, super new, it seems so.
00:11:46.722 - 00:12:25.078, Speaker A: Yeah, no, I think, like, the way that, you know, at least, you know, before last week, the way that I thought about Djen and its role was like, it has utility within the forecaster ecosystem. Is also great beta for forecaster. Right. I know those guys just raised at a billion dollar valuation. Seems like Dan has no intentions of doing the token soon. So it seemed like DJ was a great way to get data on that as well as, like, two weeks ago, you saw Dracula, that, like, TikTok of crypto, kind of like partner and integrate you guys as well. So my thesis for, you know, owning Degen was just like, hey, more of the, you know, one, it's like, has really cool distribution reality built into it.
00:12:25.078 - 00:12:55.362, Speaker A: But then two more like, I'm bullish on Forecaster and its growth. I think more apps will launch. So I just expected more and more apps to kind of, like, you know, launch and kind of integrate Djen. And then, you know, out of nowhere, you know, last week, you guys not only announced, but launched the l three, which I also thought was really cool. Not only did you announce it and say this was coming later, it was like, nah, here it is. Right. So I'd love to, like, you know, learn a little bit more about how that came about, why you thought each and needed an l three.
00:12:55.362 - 00:13:15.878, Speaker A: You know, maybe just for a context for people. Like, that is really interesting how it was built, too. Obviously, the syndicate guys had, like, a huge role to play here, and we can get into that as well. But, you know, it's built using arbitrage orbit framework with settlement on base. Right. Which is, you know, another, like, L2 off of, like, you know, using optimism stack. And then the native token of Djing is obviously djen.
00:13:15.878 - 00:13:25.280, Speaker A: But, yeah, we'd love to learn more about, like, where did you know you go from, like, tipping and that meta to, like, okay, now we need this l three and to, like, have our own kind of, like, world.
00:13:25.432 - 00:14:07.176, Speaker C: Yeah. So I'll definitely leave the kind of, like, the technical aspect to basically the syndicate team because they def. I mean, they were, like, totally hands on. I didn't really have any hands on in terms of, like, coding or, like, piecing things together, so I definitely want to give that to them because, like, I mean, it's been insane, like, how fast we kind of, like, made this thing happen. And also just our kind of, like, initial conversation. I mean, I know we kind of talked about this before the call, but definitely want to mention it that, like, we had our initial conversation while, basically, will and Ian were at ETH Denver, and. And, yeah, and I think, I don't know, things just really clicked for me.
00:14:07.176 - 00:14:51.994, Speaker C: Like, it felt like syndicate was the right person to basically, or the right entity basically, to. To do this, because everywhere else I was kind of looking was more, if you want to do, like, roll up as a service, basically. There's other companies that will do that for you, but they're more of, like, the aws of the world where, like, yeah, you, you know, we have it, but, like, you have to do a lot of different things yourself. Whereas I don't. I don't really have that much time right now to, like, tinker around and, like, I don't have the expertise right now, and I'm not really, like, hiring a blockchain expert or anything like that. So definitely will and Ian had all the expertise and they were super just excited to build on Djen, which was, like, the main factor for me, was like, these guys are on board. So it made sense.
00:14:51.994 - 00:15:37.786, Speaker C: But going back to the initial question was, how did we even arrive at this point? It was mostly basically two developers that came to me. They were building Powerball, which was a big frame on Farcaster, a big dj frame. Basically. You claim a ticket, you play this lottery, it's all on chain. They have this randomness technology that they've been moving from one chain to another chain for, like, I think, a few years now, and they haven't been able to find a good home for it. But this frame really is, like, the UI for the randomness stuff that they're doing on chain, which is, like, the main piece, I guess. And so they were really pushing me towards this whole layer three idea of, like, you know, we're spending dollar 300 a day on gas, on base.
00:15:37.786 - 00:16:40.028, Speaker C: It's kind of expensive. So I was kind of trying to convince them to go off chain, like, do things like Degen is doing, like, do it all, you know, calculate off chain, but, like, their whole, like, model is that they're doing everything, you know, they want the randomness technology to be on chain, so. So, yeah, it was kind of like, yeah, it wasn't really an option. So after they kind of pushed me really, really in this direction, I realized, I started realizing, yeah, this is cool. Like, having our own chain, having our own ecosystem, maybe even having our own, like, App Store in a way that would be, like, super powerful. And I was starting, and I started going in this kind of, like, land, like, this idea of basically, like, the way it's kind of been framed in my mind, and I've kind of been, like, telling people this is like, it's almost like the Las Vegas of blockchains, where, like, basically you might go to Vegas with, like, $500 or something, and, you know, that $500 is just for you to kind of, like, spend at the casino, maybe go get something to eat or whatever. If you lose it, like, whatever happens, happens.
00:16:40.028 - 00:17:15.880, Speaker C: Uh, it's fine. Uh, but maybe you come back with full bags, uh, back home. And so I. But, you know, it's not supposed to just be about gambling. Um, it's mostly about just, like, you're taking money to this place and you're having fun there, and you're spending that on, like, a fun experience. And then, like, if you don't come back with the money, that's fine, because, like, you got, you got your money's worth. And so I kind of think of, like, dogecoin, if they had their own chain that was Evm, I mean, they do have their own layer one, but if they had their own chain that was, like, evm compatible and, like, you could, you know, I don't actually know the technical details.
00:17:15.880 - 00:18:31.408, Speaker C: I know that Vitalik was, is on the foundation there and things like that. So I was really bullish that they're going to start building this out, especially once Elon Musk started, like, pumping it and stuff, but they ended up not really doing too much. And it feels like now we have this opportunity to kind of do something in this space where people can build fun apps, where not necessarily they might not find a good home on base or on optimism, on arbitrum or even on blast, where people are kind of building these more serious kind of big, I don't know, these big tech companies almost, they have these huge, really big visions. And also, I don't want to discount people who are on Djen chain, so you shouldn't have a big vision. But I think it's much more like, of a place where you can find a home, you can find a community. You can also find a token, like the Degen token, which is like, it's not that easy to, it's easy to launch a token technically, but, like, develop a community around it, like, legal aspects, getting your token, like, to be listed on exchanges, like, all that kind of stuff, it's not that easy. So if you want to, like, bootstrap a project, maybe just use the Djen token, like, initially, and then start figuring out, like, maybe you have, like, maybe Dracula will have their own token, maybe somebody else will have their own token.
00:18:31.408 - 00:18:42.440, Speaker C: But now that. But Degen helped with that, and so I think that will be ingrained in the app, and I hope that, you know, they do continue to support that. Yeah, so, yeah, that's kind of like.
00:18:42.632 - 00:19:39.264, Speaker A: Yeah, it's really interesting the way that you paint that, like, the Las Vegas of blockchains with all these kind of, like, mini, like, roulette type, you know, casino like ads, which I think it's pretty cool because, again, like, if you guys talk to Ian and will, you know, during Denver, that means that you guys went from, like, idea to, like, creation and launch, like, in what, like, a month, right? And I think, like, also the timing was really somehow you guys, like, nailed the timing, too, because, you know, I think Ethan, where obviously meme coins were not, you know, we're definitely, like, in the, you know, echo chamber for sure, too. But, like, post Ethan, where they kind of took over the meta. Right. And so, like, djen's kind of, like, place in that world kind of, like, really helped out and played a bigger role. But, like, you know, now in less than a week, like, you guys have, you know, at least. These are the latest stats we're recording on, like, Wednesday, April 3, less than a week, 13 million transactions. 700,000 plus wallets, bridge, Djen and $60 million plus has been bridged, which is kind of, like, insane to think about.
00:19:39.264 - 00:20:13.700, Speaker A: Will I need? Yeah, like, I'd love to hear from you guys as far as, like, how you guys thought, like. And also, like, whose idea was this? Like, l three. Right? Like, I know you guys have. And maybe we can kind of take a step back. It's like, you guys have a really interesting story, too. I've been, like, big supporters think you guys are probably some of the most powerful builders that I've ever had, like, pleasure working with. You guys started building syndicate years ago, and it was more so kind of, like, very parallel to what Kobe just launched recently with Echo, right, where people can kind of, like, launch groups, invest in projects, and, you know, kind of, like, invest their funds together.
00:20:13.700 - 00:20:38.852, Speaker A: You guys kind of pivoted, and I don't know if you guys remember that conversation. I was like, I kind of like the idea you guys are currently building, but whatever you guys want to build up, I'll support. And you guys, like, pivoted to this. And now this is, like, one of your first really big. I know you guys have done a lot of other stuff and stealth that I don't know if you can even talk about, but this is one of the biggest public launches. Right. We'd love to, like, learn a little bit more about that story and then we can kind of talk about how this djen kind of conversation happened, too.
00:20:38.988 - 00:21:38.324, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, one thing I would say is actually we wanted to launch DGN chain even faster than we did. So for us, we were like, man, this is taking a long time. I mean, I do think this is the first arbitrum orbit l three with a custom gas token, which is pretty amazing and especially at the scale. So there were a lot of intricacies involved in that, as Yasik mentioned, there was the roll up, but there was also kind of, you know, the supporting infrastructure required to actually make it usable for users and developers, like the bridge and block Explorer and a number of other things. So there was quite a bit of work there. Even though we would have loved to launch the week after we had talked with Yasic at ETH Denver, or during ETH Denver. I mean, I remember Will and I, we got off that call and we were just, I mean, even during the call, frankly, we were dming each other, just talking about how excited we were to work with Yasic.
00:21:38.324 - 00:23:02.374, Speaker D: It doesn't take long to have a conversation with Yasik and realize that he's just really thoughtful and cutting edge about what he wants to do. And those are the types of teams that we want to work with and have worked with in the past. I think your question is. Your question, Anil is really interesting one, frankly, that one that will and I have been sort of reflecting on, especially over the last couple months, about how we've started to get into this and how it connects to the original mission and vision of syndicate. When we started Syndicate in 2021, it was really about daos as infrastructure to enable communities on chain to do things that, and empower them in ways that they never could before. Right? And we always had this vision long term, that syndicate would sort of decentralize into this network technology and support a wide range of applications for these on chain communities, from social to gaming to know creators and whatnot. But we thought that at least at that time, this is a very different era, back in 2021, that the right application to start with was actually co investing.
00:23:02.374 - 00:23:41.848, Speaker D: And I think we timed that pretty well. We were involved in a lot of the kind of very visible, I guess, initiatives and projects kind of of that era. We still believe in it. And what Cobie is doing and what a handful of others are doing, I think is really awesome, actually. And it's cool to see them sort of go after, I think what is a really big opportunity and a really big problem that continues to exist. I think my reflections on this are that the market was a little early. I think it's still there, though, and it's still really big.
00:23:41.848 - 00:25:04.264, Speaker D: But I think one of the things that I came to realize, or we came to realize, was that more fundamentally, we were, and continue to try to find out how to build the best infrastructure for communities on chain to empower them in the ways that they want and need to grow and succeed in a crypto native on chain native ways. I think initially our approach was at the smart contract layer, and then that led us actually to APIs to easily interact with those smart contracts. But I think ultimately what we're starting to find is that chains themselves, whether you want to call them an l two, an l three, or whatever, but effectively chains themselves or roll ups themselves, might end up being the best infrastructure for on chain communities to do everything that they want and grow. So I think that that's one of the ways that we think about l three s, is that it is potentially the best technology for these on chain communities to do incredible things that they never could if they were only at the smart contract or only at the application layer on basically some of these public chains.
00:25:06.284 - 00:26:00.044, Speaker A: Yeah, I really like the way that you frame that because I think when we first had that discussion, I thought you guys were pivoting very hard. Right. But then what I came to understand, what you guys helped me understand was like, the mission and vision to stay the same. It's just how you kind of achieve that and help enable these communities to kind of like, you know, achieve the best versions of themselves. What was kind of like the thing that you were actually, you know, iterating on? Yeah, so would love to kind of dive more into, you know, layer threes, like what, you know, why they need to exist, you know, I know you kind of like, gave it gave some context early in the call, but like, you know, why was this needed? Why did you see this needed for Djen from your guys side? And then how did you make this happen? Like, what were like, the hard parts, you know? Do you think this is needed for most communities? Which communities should be considering l three s or which type of applications do you think work best using l three s?
00:26:00.864 - 00:27:11.132, Speaker B: Yeah, so I think that a good heuristic for candidates for l three s is does what you're doing benefit from ultra low gas fees and an incredibly high degree of customizability for nfts, gaming, social, and like some of these more experimental apps, the answer is absolutely will benefit from l three s. If you're doing like real world assets or things with really high dollar amounts, like low volumes of transactions, probably not as relevant, but I think that there's a really large swath of the industry that would benefit a ton from l three s. This is, we're still early in the l three space. Degen is one of the earliest l three s. And I think that what we'll start to see over time sort of all is right now all of these chains are using generalized roll up infrastructure, they're using Arpuzam orbit, there's neop stack, and there's customizations that will happen down the road, but very little customizability up front. It's kind of like out of the box, pretty similar upfront, but I think that that will change as the customization frameworks get more and more developed. So when our very first call with Yosec, we're talking about precompiles.
00:27:11.132 - 00:27:45.604, Speaker B: With precompiles, you can basically insert custom code into a roll up that can do anything that would be impossible inside of a smart contract. So we're like, hey, what can we do with farcaster data and forecaster signatures using pre compiles? Like what can we do with some of these on chain social use cases? How can you start to bring this in? And it becomes really, really compelling when you start to customize the chain. I think right now l three is like the gas fees are very immediately visible benefit, but over time I think the customizability will become the primary reason that people go for them.
00:27:45.904 - 00:29:09.194, Speaker C: I'm also thinking about that a little bit more because things kind of sink in the more I hear about them and the more we're along on this journey, and obviously not being hands on in the whole process of actually building the chain and having syndicate do it, they know a lot more. But now that I'm in it and figuring it out and also experiencing it, it does seem interesting, this whole idea of customization, which I think I've discounted a little bit before in our previous talks where we've kind of like been thinking about this. And I think this may be a lot of potential in this, where you do have this NPM, if you write JavaScript, you have these node packages or any basically language. This has object oriented code where you can basically pull different objects basically into your code without effortlessly. And so I think it would be interesting if arbitrum or one of these blockchain providers or blockchain solutions added that added some kind of store, added some kind of library package manager place. I don't know how difficult that is or how crazy of an idea that is, but if you could do, you could basically pull from these different areas and customize your layer three. And maybe there's, maybe that's a place for the startup space to maybe syndicate.
00:29:09.194 - 00:29:42.836, Speaker C: I don't know, like, I don't know what, who the right people are to kind of like work in that area, but maybe that could be a cool place. Like for instance, blast. They totally like reworked their whole l two chain. And basically I think it's based on optimism. They added basically yield as like kind of like a native primitive over there. What if like optimism or arbitrum or somebody just had a code base, you pull that in and now you have that feature, you could maybe turn features on and off. Maybe Forecaster has some kind of features, or maybe people build those features in and you can pull from those repositories and deploy them.
00:29:42.836 - 00:30:27.276, Speaker C: So I think maybe there is a future. And obviously I'm very new to all of this as well. But listening to all of this, it seems like the customization is probably more powerful than I first kind of envisioned. It's just that I don't think I want to be doing the customization myself. I would be rather, I'd rather pull the customizations from startups who are focusing on that and innovating in that space because I don't think DJN should be innovating in the space of customizing blockchains. But I think customizing blockchains is powerful and if we could pull from those kind of places. And right now that's what syndicate has been doing a lot, is, is helping with the customizations and all that kind of stuff which like I don't really want to deal with on, on that level.
00:30:27.276 - 00:30:29.724, Speaker C: So that's, that's big.
00:30:29.844 - 00:30:59.276, Speaker A: Yeah, that's, yeah, that's cool that you say that. Like I, before this part, I actually went back and read, you know, Vitalik's like write up about layer threes and I was kind of like surprised to realize that that was, you know, done almost two years ago at this point. And he had like three main visions that he pointed out for l three s that he thought could be useful. One was like l two s are for scaling, l three s are for customized functionality. Which is exactly what you're hitting on right now. Yes. I think the example he used in that was like privacy because he was more so focused on Startnet.
00:30:59.276 - 00:31:21.346, Speaker A: Two was like l two s are for general burp or scaling. L three s are for customized scaling. So they're again like the customized word. Right? And then three was like, l two s are for trustless scaling and like roll ups. And l three is for like weekly trusted scaling. Right. And I think for that one, he was also thinking like the lidiums, like, again, like akin to like what Starknet's doing now.
00:31:21.346 - 00:31:37.694, Speaker A: Like the way that one other question I had was like, are all l three s like individual? Or, you know, can they interoperate? Can it be composable? Like, is that going to take time for other l three's to launch? Because I know, you know, DJ's one of the first ones, but I'm curious how you guys think about that. Is that gonna be a lot of hard work?
00:31:38.154 - 00:32:22.282, Speaker B: Yes. There's a number of different composability visions in the space, and the composability sits at different layers. So you have this composability at the roll up framework level. So you look at optimism super chain, where every op stack chain base optimism, others can interact and can compose. That requires everyone to be on the op stack, which works really well in some cases, works less well in others. I think it's one compelling vision of scaling interoperability. There's another version of interoperability which is like the shared sequencer vision, where you take a shared sequencer like Espresso, and the shared sequencer is how everyone composes and communicates, which requires everyone to bind to the same shared sequencer ecosystem.
00:32:22.282 - 00:33:03.382, Speaker B: But it's also very interesting tech. We think about the scaling and composability in different ways. Actually, in our opinion, the majority of the composability needs are not actually assets, it's mostly data. So oftentimes what you don't need is atomic composability of assets, except for in a limited set of use cases like real world assets, where you might want to seamlessly bridge whatever ten k over, have it operate, then have ten k back. Most of the time, what you need is composability of data. We want to know how many forecaster followers you have on the DGEN chain so that apps can start to take that into account. Maybe if D gen chain is interoperate with the game, your dgen balance can be known on that chain.
00:33:03.382 - 00:33:31.164, Speaker B: So we've already done a bunch of stuff that helps here, like forecaster signature verification. But we're also working on a bunch of data oracles that'll make it really easy for the data of these chains to interoperate. I think that interoperability of assets is a vision that most people in the space are pursuing. We have a bit of a different view from what we've seen with customers. And I think that interoperability of data, it's not the narrative yet. I think it will be the narrative soon, and that's probably where things will go.
00:33:31.544 - 00:34:18.456, Speaker D: Something just to build on that. Neil, you were asking earlier who needs an l three? I think it's really, really interesting along the lines of what Will was just saying and also related to the low gas fees. When we first launched our first l three, which was far crystal frame developers, I want to say will, it was like two months ago. It feels like ages ago, but that was our first and Degen is our third. And there's a whole bunch of others that we're working on. But when we launched it, we didn't really know what was going to happen. We were just like, the fees on these l two s, like base and others, it's not sustainable for mainstream consumer applications in terms of cost.
00:34:18.456 - 00:35:08.303, Speaker D: So we launched it and we started running it and we were like, this has to be wrong. A single transaction is a hundred millionth of a penny. Like, how is that possible? And it wasn't wrong. So if you look at Degen, right, some of the transactions are like a billionth of a penny, which I don't even know how many. I mean, it's just ridiculous, right? So what does that mean, like when you have near zero gas fees on these, these l three s? Like, you know, application developers or games or whatever, they don't have to now sort of do this mental calculus of like, what should be on chain versus off chain or how much should be on chain versus off chain. They can start to, like, basically by default, put more of it on chain. Things can go on chain that previously weren't on chain.
00:35:08.343 - 00:35:08.639, Speaker C: Right.
00:35:08.711 - 00:36:14.406, Speaker D: And I think what becomes really exciting is that when you have more data on chain, whether from applications natively on these l three s, or as will was sort of saying via oracles, coming from different places, whether different chains or off chain even, I think what we're going to start to see is that you can build more like rich on chain applications in the areas of like, social consumer gaming, et cetera. Right. And like, that means it's going to unlock kind of new experiences that we haven't seen in the web3 space to date. So, like, one analogy that I sometimes use is like, I remember when the iPhone first came out and like, I was kind of, you know, pretty skeptical about it, to be honest. I was like, oh, that's just a smaller computer, which is true, but like, the fact that it was, you know, it dramatically shifted kind of what could be developed on it. Then mobile applications, you know, really started coming out and then Uber and all these other things. Right? And I think you can look at l three s in the same way.
00:36:14.406 - 00:36:39.274, Speaker D: It's like, oh, it's just a cheaper chain, which is true, but I think what we'll start to see in the probably months and years ahead is that actually, no, you can build much more rich and new applications as a result of that. So we're just at the beginning of that. But I'm really excited about what we're going to see in the months and years ahead here.
00:36:39.774 - 00:37:00.594, Speaker A: And, yeah, I can't wait for people to be triggered when we name this episode. L three is the iPhone moment for crypto. Thanks for that, Ian. But I think, like, one question, you know, another maybe technical question I had was like, how does the sequencer work for the l three? Like, is there, like, need for validators in the future? Like, is there going to be, are you going to need a stake agent? Like, how should we be thinking about that?
00:37:01.014 - 00:37:01.486, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:37:01.550 - 00:37:01.814, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:37:01.854 - 00:37:24.766, Speaker B: So I'll talk about how sequencers work. Not going to talk about anything related to staking anything like that. That's all in six core, but, um, essentially. So right now, all l two s and l three s. The sequencer is, it's known as a single sequencer. So it is all transactions flow through one sequencer, and it is essentially centralized l two s and l three s. This equivalent.
00:37:24.766 - 00:38:01.850, Speaker B: That's true for optimism. Base, arbitrum, degen, all the same. What, what you can start to do over time is you can start to decentralized the sequencer, and there's a bunch of different visions for how to decentralize the sequencer. One of my favorite visions for sequencer decentralization is called based sequencing. So essentially it's where there is no centralized sequencer in any way. And every single person who wants to be a sequencer can write directly to the chain. And as long as their transactions are valid, which is what nodes take care of, they take care of making sure the transactions are valid, then the transaction can occur.
00:38:01.850 - 00:38:53.238, Speaker B: This gets really, really exciting because you can basically flip from centralized to decentralized like that. It's wild. What's possible. You need fraud proofs, you need fault proofs, which, again, the L2s and layer threes are working on, and they're equivalent from that perspective in terms of their current level of development. But I'm really excited for the world where these chains start decentralized, because then layer threes are really, really compelling. It's like, hey, this, layer three is an open ecosystem. Anyone can participate, anyone can start to get transactions on chain and you start to have this very, very collaborative ecosystem that's actually uniquely possible with layer three s because base sequencing can be so cheap compared to, for example, L2s, where base sequencing can be more expensive and the cost of failed transactions is higher.
00:38:53.238 - 00:39:06.296, Speaker B: So I think layer threes, okay, this is a very controversial statement, but I think it may be easier for layer threes to decentralize their sequencer than L2s under some different forms of sequencer decentralization.
00:39:06.480 - 00:39:35.856, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, that's interesting. And then, you know, how should we think about the criticism that if all l three s settled to one l two, then like ethereum would capture basically no value? And I know you probably saw some of this criticism like last week when l three s were like the target of town. Like, and you know, then the next step there is like thus, like Ethereum security would be at risk, right? Like, is there any truth to this? How do you think about that? Yeah. Curious what you guys think.
00:39:36.040 - 00:40:20.294, Speaker B: Yeah, so it's important to talk about what gets written to the chain. So there's two types of ways that Ethereum is used for, say L2. It's used for data availability, and it's also used for settlement. Data availability is when you're publishing transactions from L2 to the layer one. In this case using Ethereum EIP 4844 expiring blobs. The first blobs actually just expired a couple of days ago, or where you're bridging in and out. I'd say that the move to cheaper data availability opens up things that are not possible with even 4844 blobs, because you go from one cent to ten cents per transaction to a billionth of a penny to a millionth of a penny per transaction.
00:40:20.294 - 00:40:49.958, Speaker B: So you'll start to see more and more modular data availability solutions used, like Celestia, for example, like arbitram, any trust ea, you'll start to see more of that in use. And then there's the settlement of the funds where, which is which chain you're bridging in and out of. In the case of Degen, that's base. In the case of say base, that's Ethereum. The DGN token is already on base. That's where all the users are that's where the token is. So if you want to bridge in and out, you're going to go where the token is.
00:40:49.958 - 00:41:40.034, Speaker B: I think that all the arguments of like, Ethereum not capturing value are misguided because essentially what is important is adoption of Ethereum. We want more and more people to be using the EVM, to be using smart contracts, to be using Ethereum, where it eventually settles down to some layer, whether it's a layer three or L2, to layer one. It ends up settling through Ethereum at some point. And to say like, oh, well, Ethereum should capture value for like one cent to ten cent transactions to data availability, and mess out on the millions and millions of users, even billions of users who will be onboarded at billionth of a penny to millionth of a penny gas fees. It's kind of missing the forest for the trees. It's like, oh, well, what we care about is our bags, not usage. And I say this as like someone who like, is very pro Ethereum and very pro the Ethereum.
00:41:40.034 - 00:41:57.968, Speaker B: I'm an EVM Maxine. I'm an Ethereum maxi. But like, I say this as someone where like, the majority of my bags are Ethereum and the ether token to say, oh, like, what matters is value capture, it's like, no, I thought what we cared about was usage, right? That's what we're all here for. And that's what layer three is, enable.
00:41:58.096 - 00:42:21.984, Speaker A: Yeah, that's fair. I think the main point of that criticism though, that kind of caught my eye was more so the security talk, right? I think the value capture is definitely like, yeah, like I think you definitely make a good argument for why the value capture. The security is the main thing that we were going to be thinking about. But yeah, I think, like overall, like, you know, having, if DJN chain brings in, you know, tens of thousands, millions of users, that net is positive for Ethereum.
00:42:22.684 - 00:43:14.978, Speaker B: I mean, from the, from the security standpoint, like l two s and l three s, they're both centralized sequencers right now. They both have one sequencer where everything's flowing through. Like l two s and l three s still have either non working or permissioned fraud proofs and fault proofs. You can't permissionlessly submit any of this. And l two s and l three s. Like the sequencer can still censor, the sequencer can still deny transactions, and in both cases you can still go around the sequencer and do a direct write to the underlying chain. I mean, like, I think, how shall I put it? There are obvious ways where l three s start to be very decentralized and very secure with things like base sequencing, which is easier on an l three than an l two.
00:43:14.978 - 00:43:35.022, Speaker B: And in the meantime, bl two s and bl three s are equivalent in terms of their level of decentralization. Like the censorship resistance of having 4844 blobs is valuable, to be clear. But the biggest censorship risk is not node censoring blobs. It's the sequencer, the centralized sequencer that.
00:43:35.038 - 00:43:36.102, Speaker A: We have right now.
00:43:36.278 - 00:44:29.364, Speaker B: And I think, like, in some practical metrics, like when, when there is space sequencing, I think l three s will be, again, controversial, more decentralized than the L2s. I think that it will take some time. But, you know, when you look at mostly security properties and they're almost entirely equivalent except for like small nits here and there, it's like, okay, if one's like, like a single sequencer, and, you know, like, it's writing data to the layer one, and once a single sequencer and it's writing data to a L2, and once a single sequencer is writing data to Celestia, like, the single sequencer is far, far more salient here than anything else. So I think the security arguments are, how shall I put it? I would love to have those debates in five years and all this stuff is decentralized. But when it's all centralized, please, like, hey, the l series can get there faster. Very, very possibly.
00:44:29.744 - 00:45:02.300, Speaker A: I like it. I guess, like, one last question I have on, like, the syndicate and Djen relationship too. It's like, so obviously, you know, you guys went from, you know, idea to shipping in like, a month. How much of that? And I know you guys have, like, other l three s that you guys are working on. Like, how much of your work on Djen chain is, like, fulfilled? And obviously, I'm sure you get you guys are still gonna be working with yastic and stuff, but, but like, is this, you know, 80% of, like, the vision or idea that you had? Is it like 50%? Like, how are you guys thinking about that?
00:45:02.452 - 00:45:22.714, Speaker B: Anil, I will not rest until Djen tipping is able to be used in every single coffee shop in the world. We have a ton of vision around data, around interoperability, around how to make these chains scale up. We're talking with Yasik all the time about these customizations, about these pre compiles. We're, we're at the beginning, man. It's so exciting. Yeah.
00:45:22.754 - 00:46:15.844, Speaker D: Just to jump in there and then Yasic, you should, you know, share everything that you're dreaming up. You know, we said on our first call when with Yasic at Eat Denver, like, the role, like, standing up the chain and, and getting it operational and running is like the easy part. The hard part is everything that comes after that. And, you know, along the lines of, like, our mission as a company and what we've always cared about, which is like, enabling on chain communities and empowering them in ways that they weren't able to before. Like, we really care about the long term success and growth of on chain communities, whether they were a smart contract in our early days, you know, or a chain with an l three, like Degen. So our work, as Will said, is just starting. I don't know if that's 80%, you know, like, there's still 80% left or 90% left or 99% left.
00:46:15.844 - 00:46:39.186, Speaker D: Like, I don't know. But it's probably a significant amount of, like, what we hope to contribute to DJ and chain is coming after and hasn't even yet been sort of publicly, you know, shared. So we're really excited to be a long term partner to Degen and Yasic and, you know, this community and all the communities that we work with.
00:46:39.290 - 00:47:11.998, Speaker C: Yeah, no, definitely the vision is longer term. And now it seems like, because, you know, initially I was thinking of Degen chain more as like an experiment. Like, hey, let's let it run and see what happens in a way. But now since, like, the, I don't know, just the volume and the sheer, like, interest in it seems to have, like, really jumped up and spiked. And now I'm kind of seeing, like, the longer term vision in this whole arena. It kind of, it makes sense. It makes sense for dj and chain to really, like, you know, just support it, flourish, like, let it flourish.
00:47:11.998 - 00:48:01.054, Speaker C: And I think not even just touching on the technical aspects, but also just having our community there and giving visibility to maybe smaller app builders and things like that, I think that's going to be really powerful. And then just having those low cost transactions, that was the ask of the developers that basically initially came, that's the thing they want in terms of security and those kind of things. I don't know. Like, I never, yeah, I get, you know, I used to work at, like, these big companies, and we would get into, like, all these wars of like, man, we should use this language, we should use that language. We should use this framework or something. And then, like, we never solved the underlying problem, which was like the, like, you know, what we should be solving. And so it felt like here, like, transaction fees that's a big thing.
00:48:01.054 - 00:48:31.664, Speaker C: Like, like, basically that enables so much more to be built. So solving that problem and then figuring out security as like a second thing, you know, we'll figure it out at some point if it even is like, as big an issue as people maybe claim. Obviously, I'm not like, so, you know, deep in the woods in that place. But, but yeah, definitely degen chain. I think it's going to be exciting, especially once we get like an App Store style, maybe front page or. I don't know. I don't know what exactly it's going to look like.
00:48:31.664 - 00:49:05.376, Speaker C: And I think right now we're still in this phase where builders are just kind of like building. And so we're not really incentivizing, let's say, users to come on the chain. So that's the surprising part for me because there aren't any incentives for users really to come to Degen chain, like, flowing from us. Like, hey, you're going to get a boost or you're going to get some kind of degen. Whereas on, like, let's say, blast, you get a huge incentive because, like, there's yield built into that. And, and so people will just, you know, they'll migrate there with the interest rates. So, you know, let's say are higher.
00:49:05.376 - 00:49:40.224, Speaker C: So there isn't that. And so I find that super exciting, that built, like, people want to come there if we can kind of get, like incentivized builders to build. And I think that incentive almost is built in by the fact that the fees are so low. So I think that that's like such a huge thing. And then, like, once that point gets across, I think that'll be great. And then I guess then the next thing will be to help the builders gain some, maybe more traction or get some users on there and things like that. So I kind of see this in two phases right now is sort of like the builder phase.
00:49:40.224 - 00:49:56.314, Speaker C: Let people kind of build and then maybe more of, like, users trickling in and then, like the whole, like, user phase where you really want to push users to, like, all right, now things are really happening, but maybe it's all happening simultaneously, probably in realities.
00:49:58.214 - 00:50:31.946, Speaker A: That's, yeah, no, that's really cool because, like, you know, I've bridged over to Djenj. I'm like one of the, whatever, 700,000 users, it seems like. And yeah, so far it's exciting. It's cool to use it. You're totally right about the fees. Like, you can like, buy $5 or something, which is like, insane to think about in crypto, right? So far, all I've really seen are like meme coins, like, you know, like djen, pepe D Pepe or whatever, like wake and stuff like that. But I'm excited to see some of these, like, you know, like that Las Vegas idea I think is like a really cool framing that I hadn't thought about before.
00:50:31.946 - 00:51:09.636, Speaker A: That I think is like, now you have this place where devs will be incentivized to build these small mini apps that have, you know, almost a million users as well as like, you know, over $60 million to be able to deploy in these like small mini apps that don't need, you know, all these like hundreds of millions of dollars to really like, you know, prove valuable. So that's really interesting, I guess. Yeah, maybe like, will Ian like anything else that you guys are really excited about? Djen, I wanted to, you know, ask, you ask a question about forecast to end it off, but any, like, other words you want to say about Djinn chain and like, anything you're excited about.
00:51:09.660 - 00:51:46.302, Speaker D: Near term, I'll just, just say broadly like that. We're really excited to be and grateful and honored. It's a privilege, honestly, to be, be able to work with communities and projects and founders like Yossic and his community. As mentioned, our whole approach to this is helping grow communities on chain long term. So we're really excited. I mean, launching the chain was step one or phase one, but the next phase is actually accelerating development on Degen chain. And so that's something we're really excited about.
00:51:46.302 - 00:52:12.786, Speaker D: A lot of our first party tools like our transaction cloud APIs are now integrated with Degen chain to help more developers build on Degen chain. And we're working on a number of programs with yawsic and others to further support, you know, more developers on Degen chain. So yeah, just, just super excited about that and everything that's going to come from it.
00:52:12.930 - 00:52:33.908, Speaker B: Yeah. And I'm excited for how this chain will evolve. Like, the foundation that we have is so strong, the usage we have is so strong. The developer ecosystem on the chain is so strong. What happens when we start to customize it? What does like a Degen chain envision from first principles look like? Um, we're going to follow that interest and see where it leads. That's very exciting.
00:52:34.076 - 00:53:27.834, Speaker C: Yeah, just adding on to that, I think it's going to be super interesting just to see because like, you know, there are kind of like standard apps on every chain. So you'll have like an NFT marketplace. And so I don't, I don't know, like, I think maybe Zora or um, Opensea, maybe at some point we grow like really large. Like ah, we want to have our marketplace, but I think it'll be much more interesting to see like the, like, who builds the NFT marketplace for Djen because some, I think somebody's going to build it because people want to basically trade these nfts. They want to mint nfts and through a easy like, ui. So I think that's going to be like really interesting to see these like standard kind of applications that are all like, on these like say, I don't know, l two s, like these other kind of chains, but then have like this dgen place. And what is the DGen community pick as their marketplace? What does the Djinn community pick as their, I don't know, their uniswap or.
00:53:27.834 - 00:53:35.702, Speaker C: I know there's already like dj swap and things like that. So I don't know, it's, it's going to be super interesting to see.
00:53:35.878 - 00:54:04.814, Speaker A: Yeah, I think, I think that's really cool because it goes back to what Will is saying, which is like, you know, you can customize, you can customize the l three, you know, as much as you want. So that means anything that's built on the l two or l one, you can basically port over. But however, it's built on Djen chain or an l three probably cannot be ported over to the same degree. Right. So like the l two or l one. So I think this is like a whole other, like, sandbox for devs to be able to play in. And what's great is you already have so many users in just, you know, less than a week.
00:54:04.814 - 00:54:30.316, Speaker A: So it's gonna be really, yeah, I'm really excited. Yeah, I guess. Last question, Yasik. Like, you know, obviously forecaster is very close to your heart. You know, like you said, Ted deemed you an Og. So like, what are some projects that maybe you see coming out of the woodwork that you're excited about forecaster? Because I think what's cool is like, Djen is evolved from, you know, from Farcaster, right. It's become its own thing, but obviously still has ties to it.
00:54:30.316 - 00:54:43.718, Speaker A: And then are there other projects like Dracula and stuff that you see yourself partnering with, or do you even have to have a partnership? Like, can other people just start integrating Djen without having to talk to you? How does that work?
00:54:43.846 - 00:55:24.474, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, the tokens, like, just, it's a standard ERC 20 token, so anybody can integrate it on base. Yeah, yeah, you don't really have to come to me. I think most projects come because they want some kind of, like, grant or maybe like a shout out or something like that, which helps them kind of like bootstrap and kind of get, like, users flowing with Dracula. Yeah, that was like a really great partnership. Like, looking back now, like, giving them 20 million dj almost seems like a lot in, like, financial terms, but back then, you know, it was kind of, like almost a no brainer, so to speak. I guess because Dan. Dan was the person who introduced me to Alex.
00:55:24.474 - 00:55:44.274, Speaker C: And so I was like, all right, well, Dan is introducing me then, Dan Romero from. From Farcaster. So I was like, all right, well, that makes sense. Let's do it. But I wasn't really convinced. I didn't think it was going to have a huge impact. I was like, you know, I want people to build, and these guys have built something and now they want to integrate it, so it makes sense.
00:55:44.274 - 00:56:15.230, Speaker C: And then that ended up ballooning way past whatever I thought was kind of, like, possible. And so that was like. So I think saying yes a lot to a lot of projects was actually a good thing to do, rather than kind of saying no, I'll think about it. And waiting for, like, the next high quality project, quote unquote, to come through the door. Because Dracula is high quality. But, like, they're very earliest, so it's kind of like. But anyway, I think those were kind of good decisions.
00:56:15.230 - 00:56:47.230, Speaker C: And because Dracula ended up kind of releasing it, then that kind of, like, showed other people that, okay, we can also build on Degen. If this is kind of, like a good tool, this is, like a good token, and there's a whole community that will kind of pour in and, like, check it out. So I think bracket game is pretty cool. It's basically like sports. It's kind of like friend tech. It has, like, a bonding curve, and you can kind of, like, buy and sell your favorite sports team. Right now they have the NCAA, where you can kind of, like, purchase different teams.
00:56:47.230 - 00:57:19.574, Speaker C: And then I think they're fine tuning things. And then I think NBA playoffs, you know, when that kind of starts, that's going to be pretty cool. I think that's a cool application. Of course, there's pearl for kind of, like, basically that's been, like, the number one. That's been, like, the day one almost djinn app in terms of, like, this. Like, there's so many applications that have been coming to me for, like, basically integration with Degen that I actually don't have like a list in my head right now. It's been like a little bit overwhelming.
00:57:19.574 - 00:58:21.670, Speaker C: Yeah, it's kind of been crazy. But I hope, I hope that. I hope hopefully I'll be less involved in each, let's say, individual project moving forward and more of have maybe more of an easier way to highlight project. Let's say the App Store where you can sort by transactions, weekly transactions, or by farcaster likes or combination of both or all these different factors, and then that will give visibility to projects rather than me having to do the visibility through all these shout outs that I've been doing, which I'm happy to do. But I think the sheer volume of the number of apps that want to post and me being the only quality person gauging is this noteworthy? Is this noteworthy? Is also not the best kind of thing. It's good to some degree, but it would be better to have a more community ruling on what is the best app. I think transactions probably is a good metric, volume is probably a good metric.
00:58:21.670 - 00:58:27.234, Speaker C: Farcaster likes is a good metric. And then kind of just display that to people.
00:58:28.134 - 00:58:50.900, Speaker A: Awesome. Yeah, guys, now this was a great conversation. I could talk to you guys for hours about this stuff. Will Ian, always great to have you guys back. Yasic is great meeting you. I recommend the whole audience follow all you guys on Warpcast, broadcaster and Twitter if you still use that boomer technology. But yeah, guys, great to have you.
00:58:50.900 - 00:58:52.024, Speaker A: Appreciate the time.
00:58:52.364 - 00:59:03.492, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks so much. And anyone wants to jam all this stuff, we're just obsessed with healthy similar implications. So feel free to dmill on Warpcast or papper on Twitter and telegram. Yeah, always happy to jam.
00:59:03.628 - 00:59:05.004, Speaker C: Yeah, happy to be here as well.
00:59:05.124 - 00:59:06.260, Speaker D: Thanks so much, Neil.
00:59:06.372 - 00:59:07.292, Speaker A: Take care.
00:59:07.468 - 00:59:08.716, Speaker C: Well, see you guys.
00:59:08.900 - 00:59:09.444, Speaker B: Thanks so much.
