00:00:06.170 - 00:00:49.670, Speaker A: Hello, good evening, good afternoon, good morning or good night. I do not know where you are dialing in from, but I do hope it's from all over the world, just as we had over the last few days, participants from all over the world here at the ETH Global and Zora hackathon metabolism hackathon on. My name is Mikhail, based in Berlin. I am part of the Zora team and being also one of the co organizers of the hackathon. And the last few days have been incredibly exciting for us. I'm really not exaggerating. I really, really mean it, that the things that have been happening over the last few days were absolutely unbelievable.
00:00:49.670 - 00:01:42.400, Speaker A: And I want any of you who might have participated as a builder, as a designer, as an artist, or just as an audience member to thank you for your time, for your work, for your gigabrain, galaxy, brain, even ideas and all the beautiful things that you have built. And I'm quite excited also to see what the jury has picked from, I think, nearly 100 submissions that we got on Sunday for the hackathon. The jury was deliberating yesterday. I've heard it was a very thorough and tough process. They were fighting over the greatest ideas. And the prizes will be announced tomorrow. So I hope that you, of all people and your team have won.
00:01:42.400 - 00:03:09.034, Speaker A: So we have also today a wonderful program for you, a digital summit that will explore a few ideas that I think and all of us think, especially here at Zora, we think are very worth and important to pay attention to. When we think about web three as an ecosystem, when we think about web three as a social space, when we think about web three as a technological space, or as I like to call it, as a technosocial space, which combines all these wonderful things into one ever growing, wonderful rhysomatic network of ideas, technologies, communities, and all the wonderful people embedded within. And when we talk about web three, very often, and especially also within the context of a hackathon, very often focus on the technology. So we focus on the code, we focus on the solutions. And very often and very utilitarian that's like somewhat technocratic aspects of these technologies. But ultimately, these technologies are way more they do manifest also sociopolitical realities. They are not just code within stories are embedded within that whole.
00:03:09.034 - 00:03:51.110, Speaker A: Identities are embedded, amplified, and hopefully also empowered. And some of these things we wanted to explore, now that you've had all the workshops, you had all the intros, you had all the technological deep dives, you came out with more wisdom than ever about what it is that you're trying to build. But today we will dive into the more social aspects of it, not just we'll also have a couple of technological things. Let me have a look. By the way, I do this for the very first time. So if this is a little bit rough around the edges. For example, this slide should have been shown already a few minutes ago.
00:03:51.110 - 00:04:16.862, Speaker A: But here is me two years ago. And by the way, Opium Hum, that's like how you find me on all the social media channels. Opium Hum, by the way, my DJ name. So if you ever go into a club, you see Opiumham. That's me. Let's go to today's schedule. So what are we actually exploring today if we talk about all of these ideas that I kind of try to introduce to you.
00:04:16.862 - 00:05:07.306, Speaker A: So one of the things that we really would like to pay attention to is dows. So the idea of a dow has kind of changed over the last 18 months to two years, which used to be really technocratic, kind of fully on chain tools of governance. Those tokenomics has also a little bit changed into a cultural signifier of sorts. So Web Three native communities that want to signal that they are using Web Three technologies, they call themselves often a dow, even though sometimes the technological aspect of a dow are not quite there yet or might not be the priority. But nonetheless it's a really important category. And one thing that we've seen is a lot of the projects that we've seen over the last 18 months are cooperatives. They are vehicles for coproduction.
00:05:07.306 - 00:06:39.098, Speaker A: And this is something we would want to dive into with a couple of participants that are really native to Web Three but also come from the culture industries. In particular Andrea Mcdalina from Shisetso, which is a group of women and femme and queer people in the media and art industries. And what I'm particularly excited about, Elijah, who is an absolute legend of UK grime and bass music and the music industry heavyweight in UK and he will be joining us as well, on top of Sir Sue, who all of you probably know, and Izzy from Refraction Now. And after that we are going to talk a little bit about how these technologies, web Three technologies in particular, can be used for agency, how to manifest agency, what agency really means, especially within the context of politicized bodies. So when we talk about building technology that contains equity, the question is what kind of equity and for whom? And I do think that in particular, trans and queer communities that very often are not at the center of when such technologies are built have a unique opportunity using these technologies for not only empowerment but also for building very, very resilient ecosystems. And this is going to be a panel that is co presented by our friends from Mutual Love, a wonderful group of people that you should most certainly follow, like everyone on these. Please, please.
00:06:39.098 - 00:07:14.902, Speaker A: I find them all incredibly inspiring and so will you follow them and a whole new world will open for you. A whole idea space. Let's see. Oh yes, hanvan and Dorpe legendary like this is an artist who was making NFTs, because NFTs before NFTs were even invented. That is how long he's been doing web three and blockchain based art, one of the very first artists to ever do an artwork on chain. And he will deep dive into his creative process and wrapping things quickly up. We also will look into the emerging ecosystems of web three music.
00:07:14.902 - 00:08:24.620, Speaker A: So web three music is not just minting songs as one on one NFTs, but there are already whole economies and ecologies of web three native ecosystems emerging from on chain digital audio workstations, down to what does that actually mean to bring music on chain? And one aspect that scholars and scientists and also builders have been arguing about a lot is metadata standards. And even if it sounds boring to some of you, it's incredibly important because it enables so much. And then something that I'm particularly excited about is imana Bello will join us from France. She is a lawyer that is particularly focused on AI and innovation law. And given the fact that the last few weeks were all dominated by conversations around artificial intelligence, whether it's art, whether it's not art, she will deep dive with us into the ethical implications of these new emerging technologies and also the economies that will result from it. So this is what we have for now and I'm going to kick it off.
