00:00:01.210 - 00:00:24.990, Speaker A: All right, so now that we have this order, I wondered also what you thought it meant for a number of the tokens that recently have been named as securities by the FCC. Some of the bigger ones obviously are Sol and Matic and yeah, I was curious whether you thought this kind of could help them in any way or if people need to still exercise caution around those tokens.
00:00:25.610 - 00:01:32.970, Speaker B: I think it's a massive help. And I think it's a massive help because, again, not to keep repeating ourselves, but the order stands for the view that the tokens themselves are not securities. And what that means is it is far less likely there would be a holding that any of those creators of tokens have securities compliance obligations as a result of public trading of those assets. What it means is the SEC and courts will have to look at the initial distribution of those tokens. And this is where I think it is really important to distinguish what Ripple was doing sort of before modern industry standards and best practices were developed and what some of these more recent issuers were doing. One really important thing is, and Kayvon, correct me if I have this wrong, but when Ripple did its distributions to institutional investors, it did not take advantage of the regulation D exemption for a private placement to accredited investors. That really became the industry standard only a few years after Ripple decided to distribute XRP in the way that it did.
00:01:32.970 - 00:02:14.502, Speaker B: And what it means is when you look at those initial distributions for many other projects, what you're going to find is there was no unregistered public distribution of a security because those distributions were compliant with the securities laws. Explicitly because they complied with regulation D. And in that case, as long as all of those compliance obligations were respected, meaning the tokens were only sold to accredited investors, they were locked up the right way and all those other sort of requirements under that regulation it means there's not going to be any violation of the securities laws. So if I'm any other issuer who followed those modern industry standards, I'm feeling very good, much more comfortable than I was before this decision came out.
00:02:14.636 - 00:03:16.774, Speaker C: Yeah, I think I generally agree with pretty much everything Jake just said. I think in particular, the character of the tokens in commerce. This provides a lot of comfort that most tokens will not be viewed as securities as they're being used, as they're being sold on exchanges among third parties, or used in the network, or all those things, which led to a lot of concern for a lot of projects. I think the institutional sales component of this does continue to present risk for any project that sold tokens in their own initial sales as to whether those sales might be construed as securities offerings. And we still have issues, as we saw in Telegram, and in Telegram there was a saft so there were initial sales that everybody agreed the agreement for future tokens was intended to be an exempt securities offering, but that the subsequent distribution of tokens would not be. And the court rejected that theory and said this is all one integrated scheme, and therefore it enjoined the subsequent distribution of tokens. So there are still going to be a lot of wrinkles in how you conduct initial sales.
00:03:16.774 - 00:03:26.846, Speaker C: But for all those projects that you mentioned that are out there that have tokens out in the world, they should feel much more comfortable, I think that the token itself won't be construed as a security.
00:03:27.028 - 00:03:30.140, Speaker A: All right, so while all of this is going down.
