00:00:09.980 - 00:00:54.544, Speaker A: So, yes, welcome everybody. Again, we'll start from the top. Scroll is a Zke EVM project where we're a layer two solution for scaling Ethereum and we're bico level equivalent, which is really exciting. And part of our vision and goal is to create an experience that is as close the EVM as possible. The scroll team is we're super decentralized where we're spread around the world, and we're getting close to almost 40 people now. And going forward, we're looking for more people to join us, particularly if you're creative in nature and have a track record of innovation and have strong execution skills and have exceptional communication skills. We want to hear from you.
00:00:54.544 - 00:01:49.730, Speaker A: Not a big ask. So we have a job board on the website and we'll talk more about that later. So a little bit of high level introduction on how and why we started. So, before founding scroll, I've been working in the industry for a couple of years, and over the last few years, we've seen an exponential growth in the number of active users as well as the number of creative applications in the space. So when you look at one simple metric, the number of active monthly users, it was just a few hundred thousand just a few years ago, and now we're looking at 30 million active monthly users for metamask alone. And with that level of adoption, scaling has become a major bottleneck for the industry to grow. And it has given rise this problem for a while.
00:01:49.730 - 00:02:35.308, Speaker A: And we think it's really needed to support increasing demand from innovators and free users around the world. And without scaling, application layer innovations will also suffer. I think in the last couple of years, I think we saw a huge kind of burst of innovation with the beginning of the DeFi summer. But I think that level of incremental innovation has really slowed down. And part of the main reason is because of the scaling problem. So when I met yen Haiten two years ago, I think we saw that this problem existed in the space. But at the same time, there was also a ton of innovation that happened in the academic space that we thought we could leverage to solve this problem.
00:02:35.308 - 00:03:30.400, Speaker A: And I thought Yen Heisen were both very value aligned. We all want to build something that could be used by real users, and we want to build something for the long term. So with that clear value in mind, we set about this task of building a team and also building a product that can translate very theoretical research into practical and usable and also user friendly products. And that brings us to the demo that we're about to see today. So we did a lot of research a little bit about what we care about as a group of people. What is scroll and what does scroll stand for? I think one of the core things about who we are is that we really care about innovation and creativity. And I think these things are not stressed enough in our industry.
00:03:30.400 - 00:04:22.800, Speaker A: It's part of the dna of scroll and we want to foster our space and foster this kind of culture within us so that it could permeate into the wider developer community as it builds around us. So we see a future where ethereum wallets will be owned by everybody on earth. And in order to make that a reality, I think a ton of creativity and value creation attitude is needed. And we've always been open source. It's partly about the way we were organized and the way scroll started. And we've always been collaborative in culture. And I think this has fed to a very open and transparent as well as collaborative building process that speaks to our design choices as well.
00:04:22.800 - 00:05:30.630, Speaker A: And I think as a result, we've had a lot of positive academic feedback and feedback from open source developers around the space. And I think that's the way we can generate even faster innovation in the future. And the last part is integrity and intellectual honesty. We do want to make sure that our users think of the brand as one that delivers on its promise and is not overclaiming and is very, very accurate about what we plan on achieving and what we've done so far. So thinking long term, so we're very long term oriented. And so when we see reactionary kind of regulation or things that are happening in industry, we try to think about how we can position ourselves in the long run and not be too reactionary to short term impacts that the whole industry is facing. But as a part of that, we do want to have an open call to form working groups to think through some of the aspects of decentralization and how we can build a wider ethereum ecosystem where there's no single point of failure and how we can articulate part of this kind of technology will achieve on the social layer to policymakers as well as regulators around the world.
00:05:30.630 - 00:06:42.010, Speaker A: What scroll is about, we're about kind of innovative thinking and thinking about human like kind of mapping some of the human interactions on chain and delivering very serious academic research and implementing it. That's the whole kind of scroll design and organization process, which requires immense effort and a lot of help from all of our community members and also all of our contributors. So going forward, we're going to kind of move our mindset to a little bit about growing the ecosystem. So about bringing more users to space, bringing more developers into space, and fostering more application layer innovations and enable user adoption. So with that in mind, if you like what we do and the way we think about organizing the company and organizing our ecosystem, please apply through our website Scroll foundation. And in particular, we're looking for people who are very good organizers and strong communicators and who have passion for the technology that we're building. We're looking for PMS in particular, and also there's an array of researching roles and engineering roles all advertised on the website.
00:06:42.010 - 00:06:49.660, Speaker A: So with that note note, I'm going to hand over to my co founder Hai Chen to talk about the scroll architecture and design choices.
