00:00:10.330 - 00:00:36.390, Speaker A: Hello, everybody. I know the first person you want to talk to in the morning is a regulatory attorney, right? All right. So the news of late has been unavoidable. The government has been expressing its might in the Web Three space. Just one example is the ongoing tussle between Coinbase and the SEC. There are others. We'll talk about some of them.
00:00:36.390 - 00:01:32.220, Speaker A: But regulations are needed to address important and legitimate policy objectives such as preventing illicit finance, ensuring fair markets, and protecting consumers. So educating yourself about the regulatory landscape is a necessity for you to be successful entrepreneurs. First, let me introduce myself. I'm Michelle. And before I had the good fortune of working with Web Three founders at a 16 Z, I spent a couple of decades at the federal government, first as a financial crimes investigator, then as a prosecutor and a policy advisor for the Department of justice. And then my last stop was at the Department of the treasury leading digital asset matters at the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, otherwise known as Finsen, which I'm going to talk about today. During this talk, I can promise you that I'm going to repeat two things over and over again.
00:01:32.220 - 00:02:16.806, Speaker A: One is that before proceeding in various contexts, you should consult an attorney or an expert advisor. And the second thing I'm going to tell you over again is that you should consult an attorney or an expert advisor. One important caveat to that, although I am an attorney, I am not employed by a 16 Z in a legal capacity. So none of what I'm going to say in this presentation is legal advice. So there's many agencies within the government. We're not going to cover them all and none of them in great depth. But I hope to offer you some familiarity with the major players and the rules of the road in web3.
00:02:16.806 - 00:03:15.500, Speaker A: And that as you're building that you're considering the regulatory implications of your choices and that if a regulator comes knocking that you are well informed and prepared, understanding the regulatory environment is going to help you to build a better business. Okay, let's get started with the fundamentals. So regulation is simply rules made by a government or another authority in order to control the way something is done or the way people behave. But what's the difference between regulation and policy? Well, if you think about the regulation being the rules that are on the books right now that you have to follow. And policy is the process for getting the rules, laws and the business environment that you want in the future. And this afternoon, Colin, our head of government affairs, is going to talk about legislative policy. But first, let's talk about the here and now.
00:03:15.500 - 00:04:18.682, Speaker A: So who in government regulates crypto and Web Three? The answer many agencies. And it depends. And sometimes there are multiple agencies that will have jurisdiction over the business activity that you're engaged in. Let's try to make sense of this alphabet soup of agencies, shall we? So we're going to take a deeper dive into the market regulators and the treasury offices in just a bit. But I want to briefly mention two categories of agencies the banking agencies and the Department of justice and law enforcement. The primary federal banking agencies consist of the Federal Reserve Board and System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency known as the OCC colloquially and also the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the FDIC. You might be wondering, I'm not offering banking services or seeking to get a bank charter.
00:04:18.682 - 00:05:26.770, Speaker A: Why do I need to know about these agencies? Well, you should care because these agencies are in positions where statements of them made by them and positions that they may take can greatly affect your Web Three business. How? First, your ability to get a bank account and to maintain a bank account for running your day to day operations. Everyone needs banking services to make payroll and to pay for a myriad of your expenses. And recently these agencies have attributed much risk in the financial system to cryptocurrency and related crypto businesses. So this can affect banking relationships and these are agencies that you want to keep your eye on. Second, where and how you could custody your crypto could be affected by decisions of these agencies. And last, banking agencies are likely to be leading the charge relating to regulations and supervision of stablecoins which we all know are kind of a very important, they play an important role in the crypto ecosystem.
00:05:26.770 - 00:06:58.930, Speaker A: The other player in the space to be aware of, and this is my old alma mater, is the Department of justice and their companion law enforcement agencies. Their primary job is to investigate and prosecute violations of criminal law and some regulatory infractions can also be charged criminally and that would be handled by the Department of justice and that can happen primarily with violations of the Bank Secrecy Act and sanctions, which I'm going to talk about later. In addition, if you decide to sue some regulatory agencies because you think you're being treated unfairly under the law, the Department of justice has a civil division called Federal Programs that would be defending the agency being sued in court. Now, although today's talk is focused on US regulation, you need to be cognizant that non US countries also have their own regulations pertaining to this industry and some of those rules are similar to the US's and some of them are going to be different. Just know that legal or physical presence of a business is not the sole determining factor as to whether the laws apply to you. So if you're providing products or services to residents of a country then you may likely be subject to regulatory law and this is vice versa. You could be completely set up, physically and legally set up outside of the US.
00:06:58.930 - 00:08:12.918, Speaker A: But if you are serving US citizens or residents then you would also fall under the jurisdiction of the US. Regulatory agencies. Now, as we turn to the agencies who are taxed with regulating the market and investment activities and also with addressing national security concerns, there's one commonality in one way or another, they all regulate financial activity. And financial activity is a fundamental aspect of any business, including the building, computing and operating of Web three products and services. Let's talk about the Department of treasury. Relevant to this discussion is an independent bureau called the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, or Finsen, and the office within treasury called the Office of Foreign Assets Control, otherwise known as OFAC. Both of these report to the Undersecretary of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence, or TFI, which, not surprisingly, focuses them on national security and reducing or eliminating illicit activity in the financial system.
00:08:12.918 - 00:09:17.520, Speaker A: Finsan is the administrator of the Bank Secrecy Act, or the BSA, and it supervises financial institutions and it also supervises money transmission. So this is where a lot of crypto businesses may intersect with the Department of treasury and FinCEN's BSA. Basically, it's a legislative framework or a series of laws. It was created in the 1960s, or rather seventy s, and it requires US. Financial institutions to assist both government agencies and law enforcement in detecting money laundering and other illicit activities. So how do you know if you're engaged in money transmission and you must comply with the Bank Secrecy Act? So first, FinCEN has put out guidance, actually all the way back to 2013, that said that exchangers issuers and administrators of convertible virtual currencies are money transmitters. Users are not.
00:09:17.520 - 00:10:16.340, Speaker A: Second, money transmission is very broadly defined. So generally it's the transmission of funds or value that substitutes as currency, which is going to capture a lot of cryptocurrency, tokens, et cetera, from one person or location to another person or location by any means. So you see how really broad that is for coverage. Whether a token is a convertible virtual currency is a facts and circumstances determination. I will tell you though, most are. And unless they operate exclusively in a centralized, enclosed system, kind of like airline points, where there's not a secondary market for them to be bought and sold and traded around, they're likely going to be considered a convertible virtual currency or value that substitutes for currency. As Fin defines it.
00:10:16.340 - 00:11:20.310, Speaker A: Sometimes the way a code or tech operates is going to make the determination as to whether or not the business is engaged in money transmission, a complex and difficult determination. So here's the first time I say it. Consulting an attorney or an expert advisor is often going to be the key to determining what your obligations are. Also, you see on the top of the slide, I've cited the USA Patriot Act. After 911, Congress passed this act to punish terrorist acts in the United States and also to deter this type of activity around the world, and also to enhance law enforcement tools for this type of collection. There are additional authorities that now supplement the Bank Secrecy Act that mostly fall in Ofax jurisdiction, but some fall in finsens. The other thing that the Patriot Act did that's a good thing, is that it enabled public and private sharing of information.
00:11:20.310 - 00:12:21.980, Speaker A: So if you're engaged in some type of financial activity or you see suspicious activity, it authorizes law enforcement and the Department of treasury to be sharing information with private sector entities and vice versa in order to accomplish these goals. Now under the Bank Secrecy Act. What are the requirements? What do you have to do? And this is related to, again, the anti money laundering laws. Financial institutions, including the non bank money transmitter well, they must register with FinCEN, establish and maintain an effective risk based anti money laundering program. Establish effective customer due diligence or A. This comes in the form of a customer identification program. All of you may be familiar with this when you talk about the term KYC know your customer, know your customer or KYC is part of having to have this customer identification program.
00:12:21.980 - 00:13:03.938, Speaker A: You have to screen against OFAC and other government lists. We're going to talk about that in a second. You have to establish an effective way of monitoring for suspicious activity and file suspicious activity reports. And there are also other record keeping and reporting requirements that I won't get into today. In certain circumstances, FinCEN also has the authority to designate entities as primary money laundering concerns. And when they do that, this effectively cuts the entity off from the financial system and it means that you can't touch them either. The other thing that could affect businesses broader is their authority.
00:13:03.938 - 00:14:13.470, Speaker A: This is under special measures and that is GTOs. They're called geographic targeting orders. Some examples of them that you may have heard about is where real estate in certain areas, those transactions have additional reporting requirements directly to treasury. We've also seen it in insurance related to other illicit cyber activity. So it's important to know that there are other authorities separate from the Bank Secrecy Act that even if you're not covered by them because you're not a money transmitter, treasury could produce an order and you know you're required to report this information. In addition, certain types of businesses regulated by the SEC and the CFTC, they may have some BSA AML requirements. So just because you're not a financial institution or a money transmitter doesn't mean that you may not also have to be collecting KYC or have some type of AML program requirements.
00:14:13.470 - 00:15:19.906, Speaker A: Finally, let's not forget about the states, right? Most states regulate money transmission and they may require you to get a money transmission license before you can do business with residents of that state. There are law firms that specialize in obtaining those MTLs as we call them. And note that if you want to do crypto business in New York, then expect that you're going to spend some money because the NYDFS, the New York Department of Financial Services, requires you to obtain a bit license from them. And not only is this a rigorous licensing application process, but they also supervise licensees vigorously. Again, an attorney well versed in money transmission law and regulation can help you navigate what may seem like a pretty complex area. So now we're going to talk about the Office of Foreign Assets control OFAC this is a really important office within the Department of treasury and the reason why is their broad coverage. So let me talk about what they do.
00:15:19.906 - 00:16:25.942, Speaker A: They administer, enforce economic and trade sanctions based on US. Foreign policy and national security goals. And it's usually targeted against foreign countries and regimes, terrorists, international narcotics traffickers, et cetera. Those people that are engaged in activities related to the proliferation of weapons and mass destruction. You may have seen recent sanctions that have been put out against North Korea, some of the cyber criminal activities that have been engaged by state actors from DPRK in order to obtain funds since they have been blocked from other economic, normal and economic activities. Their sanctions programs work by using the blocking or freezing of assets and also trade restrictions to accomplish these goals. So this is one of the regulators that you need to really care about regardless of what type of business model you have.
00:16:25.942 - 00:16:53.534, Speaker A: It doesn't really matter what the business does because their authority is really broad. It applies to US persons and that's citizens, permanent residents and all persons and entities within the United States, all U. S. Incorporated entities and their foreign branches. So I don't have to go on and on. You see where I'm going with this. Pretty much everybody has to.
00:16:53.534 - 00:17:25.574, Speaker A: It falls under their jurisdiction. And this means what? At a minimum you should be screening against ofax list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons. This is often referred to as the Sdn. Sometimes people call it OFAC's Blacklist and the information about what's on that list is on their website. What will be relevant to you as web3 builders are cryptocurrency addresses. There are plenty of them on there. They're constantly being added.
00:17:25.574 - 00:17:56.354, Speaker A: But know that you don't want to get in ofax crosshairs. And why? Well, because the consequences are very serious. First of all, civil liability. That's where you didn't intend to transact with that North Korean address. You had no idea that that happened. But in fact it did. And therefore you are in violation of sanctions just by the mere fact that it happened, regardless of whether you knew about it at the time or intended.
00:17:56.354 - 00:19:12.334, Speaker A: It's called strict civil liability and it's very, very expensive. The fines are horrendous and you can lose your banking and other business relationships and so doing at the minimum screening of incoming and outgoing addresses and if you're conducting regular fiat, bank transactions are really important. So severe penalties, losses of relationships that will allow you to go forward with the business. And certainly there also, as I mentioned before, are criminal penalties. Now, I know that none of you are going to have to worry about that because in order to be guilty or be charged with a criminal penalty, you would have to be knowingly transacting with a sanctioned entity seeking to help these countries or entities or persons that are on the list. And so a lot of times people talk about going to jail with sanctions and that's going to be rare circumstances. Most of the people who get in trouble with OFAC is because they were negligent or lazy about not setting up, screening and watching what was coming in to their house and what was going out.
00:19:12.334 - 00:19:49.110, Speaker A: So you don't always have to pay an expensive attorney to get information. That's the good thing. And not all attorneys are expensive. Many useful resources are published by these regulatory agencies and are available free on their websites. I encourage you to read and even consider subscribing to some of these guidance, advisories and alerts that are periodically published. Just two examples I want to recommend, particularly if you may be involved in financial activity or money transmission or think you are building. Towards that end, is the 2019 guidance that Finsen published.
00:19:49.110 - 00:21:05.870, Speaker A: It has a lot of good information about different types of technologies and business models and what might qualify as money transmission or not. And then second, the Cyber Infrastructure and Security Agency, sometimes referred to as CISA, and the FBI frequently publish joint alerts about cyber security incidents, ransomware, et cetera. They contain really good descriptions of these incidents, including methods of identified threat actors, and they usually include technical details about the code and suggested mitigation measures. So, given that you're all conducting web Three and online activities, I highly recommend those resources. So now let's turn to the securities and commodities laws and the two primary agencies, although there are some smaller peripheral agencies that dip their toe in this, we're going to talk about the securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission. So generally digital assets can be created that resemble securities or commodities, as well as rights to goods, services and IP. This flexibility sometimes results in uncertainty over which regulator has jurisdiction.
00:21:05.870 - 00:22:18.214, Speaker A: Given the differences in how the agencies operate, it can be important to get good advice on how any token you may want to deploy may be viewed. The commodity futures are regulated by the CFTC, as I mentioned, securities by the SEC and commodity spot markets not really directly regulated by either. But the CFTC has jurisdiction over fraud in the spot market. So, as I'm sure you've heard, while the markets have generally viewed only highly decentralized network tokens like Bitcoin and Ether, depending on who you talk to as commodities, the current SEC Commissioner has asserted that virtually all tokens other than Bitcoins are securities under the Supreme Court's Howie Test. So I know that this is something that you need to think about as you're thinking about how you're going to design and also deploy your tokens both now and in the future. And unfortunately, the law is still in flux. But again, Colin's going to talk this afternoon about some legislative activity that's happening in DC.
00:22:18.214 - 00:23:48.898, Speaker A: On this front, a founder may think that he or she is not covered by the securities law. If you're not engaged in, say, fundraising, you know, you've built your product and it's out there. You're not selling tokens in order to fundraise. But remember that the laws can be implicated by the products and the projects and the project itself is designing. And so you need to remain flexible, particularly as these laws are changing, meaning guidance and rules may change over time and it's important to design with operational flexibility in mind as you're figuring out what you're going to do with your business. And even if you've got everything figured out and you've run it by attorneys and you've run it by securities experts, if you decide to pivot or expand, again, this is an area of the regulatory law that you're going to need to revisit with each pivot and change of your business model. All right, so your favorite thing tax, right? All I have to say is file and pay your taxes, right? The IRS is actually a fairly friendly agency, in my opinion, in this space because they're actually very good listeners as they're trying to develop how these digital assets should be treated for tax purposes.
00:23:48.898 - 00:25:15.390, Speaker A: They've done a lot of interaction with private sector in order to really understand the technology and figure out what is going to work best. So I had a chance to talk to one of our tax experts, and she gave me a few tips that I just wanted to run by you to remember that your federal corporate income tax is also due on april 15, but you can extend all the way out to October 15 when you're filing and deciding where you're going to file state income tax returns. That that's going to be determined by generally the physical presence of where you are, but it also could be affected by market source meaning based on the sales in a particular state, knowing California, that there's a minimum annual tax of $800. And in some states you have to pay sales tax if sales tax is applicable on a monthly basis. So the takeaway for all of these as far as filing is there are a lot of different dates and due dates and filing requirements. So again, going back to the theme, talk to an attorney or a tax consultant, these things can be complicated when you're running these types of businesses. All right, so there's also a lot of different reporting requirements depending on, again, what type of business you're running and also the location of the customers that you're serving.
00:25:15.390 - 00:26:25.240, Speaker A: When thinking about tax costs, you don't want to forget that annual registration and business licenses need to be paid or included and are important part of your tax health. Also know that valuation can vary greatly for different types of stock options. If that's something that's going on with your business looking forward, two developing areas that you're going to want to watch is how IRS is going to treat NFTs and how they're going to treat staking activities. Those are still things that are being decided. And in fact, one of the reasons why I said that IRS is friendly in this regard is that they actually have put out a request for comment to the ecosystem and industry to provide information about what are you doing with your NFTs, how should they be treated? They want to take in all this information so that they can tax this appropriately and fairly. Long story short, a lot of moving parts with tax, so consult a tax advisor or an attorney. All right, I'm getting some smiles, but you're not like, repeating back to me yet.
00:26:25.240 - 00:27:20.714, Speaker A: All right, so what are the circumstances in which you may want or need to communicate or interact with regulators? We're going to turn to two types of interactions reactive and proactive. When you want to go to them, proactive and when they come to you, reactive and particularly those proactive interactions can be really beneficial opportunities. Despite all of the bad, that's the focus of the news with regulators lately. Most regulators, particularly the career staff at these agencies, they are very eager to learn about the latest technology. They want to do this because they want to hear about the developing business models. It helps them to do their jobs better if they're supervising the industry. It helps them to understand what's going on and they want to know what's coming next.
00:27:20.714 - 00:28:07.350, Speaker A: The emerging tech, which is what all of you are working on, so there are lots of ways to interact with them. Some agencies have offices. For example, the SEC has a FinHub which used to be visited in the past quite a lot, but perhaps doesn't get as much traffic these days. Finsen often hosts innovation hours that are based on topic. So if you're working on digital identity, for example, there could be innovation hours related to that in different topics. Some of the regulatory agencies have some type of regulatory lab. There are opportunities to present demos of your products for them and interact with them at conferences and tech sprints that they may host.
00:28:07.350 - 00:29:10.880, Speaker A: In addition, there are opportunities and if appropriate, you should definitely reach out and schedule meetings to talk to them so that you can get clarity as to how you think you fit into the regulatory regime and what the expectations are for supervision. But again, going back to the repeat, you should consult a legal advisor before marching into a regulatory agency and trotting out your wares. Ultimately, however, and this is why I turned to this. Their jobs are to supervise the industries and certain types of activities, right, and to enforce the rules and non compliance within their remit. And so there are going to be times when you are going to get a reactive interaction or a reactive contact from a regulatory agency. Some of those are the, oh, I need to call an attorney, and others are, hey, they're just looking for information and doing their jobs. They're not looking at me.
00:29:10.880 - 00:29:56.380, Speaker A: So examples of, oh, I need to go talk to an attorney, are requests for information, notices of investigations. You may have heard about the Wells notice. You don't want that. That's where they're announcing that they are investigating you and they're giving you notice so that you can basically talk to them and convince them why you shouldn't be charged. You also could get subpoenas search warrants, seizure warrants, particularly if you're custodying crypto. Those are things that, again, I think talking to inside or outside counsel before proceeding is important. But you shouldn't assume that there's a problem.
00:29:56.380 - 00:30:41.594, Speaker A: Sometimes it's that evidence happened to land in your lap in your business in some way, shape, or form. And sometimes you may get legal process. And this is why talking to counsel is good and law enforcement might be looking for something that you don't actually have. They often have a hard time figuring out the myriad of businesses and where data may be held or who has control over assets. And so it's simply sometimes pointing them over to the next guy. All right, so as we've discussed, crypto and Web Three is a very fluid and developing area of regulation. Again, I've repeated this later today.
00:30:41.594 - 00:31:45.754, Speaker A: Our head of government affairs is going to be talking to you about what's happening in Washington. But it's really important to monitor these ongoing activities. I know that you're busy trying to build your business and hire engineers and write code and all of the really challenging things that you're doing. But in developing your business, watching the new legislation, the ongoing court cases, and the agency rulemakings and actions, these could affect the rules of the road and how you're going to proceed as you're building. In particular, I would encourage you to follow the court cases. The reason why is it's a lot more interesting to read kind of the important tidbits that affect what's going on in the regulatory space when you see it with facts set out in something that you understand. Now, one case to watch, in my opinion, is one that I well, I actually was going to allude to at the beginning of my talk, but I forgot to and just yesterday so it's very timely.
00:31:45.754 - 00:33:08.502, Speaker A: The Supreme Court announced that they are going to hear a case that could, overturn a 40 year precedent that we talk about as a legal concept called Chevron deference. And Chevron deference means that a court is required to defer to a government agency's interpretation of the law. So you can be challenging that agency in court, but they're always going to get the benefit of the doubt in the eyes of the court as far as the interpretation of that agency action. And what does this case involve? It involves not crypto or Web three. It involves herring fishermen and herring fishermen in the Atlantic specifically, who say that the National Marine Fisheries Service, which falls under the Commerce Department, doesn't have the authority to require them to pay the salaries of government monitors that are required to actually be on their boats while they're fishing. So the law requires, as it stands right now, that you have monitors on your fishing boats and not only do you have to make space for them, but you also have to pay their salaries. This is being challenged in the court and it's going to go to the Supreme Court.
00:33:08.502 - 00:33:57.560, Speaker A: It was just the regulatory agency position was affirmed in the appellate court, and the Supreme Court yesterday said we'll hear it next term. So this is important because it could affect what the standard is when the courts are looking at regulatory action in a very hot space of the law, and that's crypto, Web Three, and particularly the securities laws. So remember, it's better to be reading about and following the cases than living them. Right. Okay, so I know that was a lot to take in. So here's my Ted Lasso pep talk to leave you with. When written and implemented well and fit for purpose, regulations are a good thing.
00:33:57.560 - 00:35:17.780, Speaker A: They should be promoting a safe and fair playing field for innovation, creativity and economic opportunities for them to thrive. Compliant businesses are successful businesses because they prevent their use by bad actors, including abusive and authoritarian regimes. None of you want to be facilitating that right and because they instill trust in the customers and the creators who use them and the builders who are going to build on top of them. So here's the last thing to remember before I close and open for questions. Given the increased focus on crypto issues by all of the regulators, but particularly the SEC's barrage of enforcement cases that we've seen out there, what is it important for you to do? It's important more than ever to consult good legal counsel, to inform your token and product design and launch, to determine your obligations under the Bank Secrecy Act or the tax laws, and to assess your sanctions exposures where appropriate. You should be building compliance programs and screening mechanisms that's going to minimize the risk of events that's going to draw regulatory scrutiny to you. The good news is that you're not alone in this.
00:35:17.780 - 00:35:54.890, Speaker A: This is not just about avoiding fines, unwanted penalties, getting shut down or going to jail. This is really about is building a trusted customer experience. You've done all of this work. You have a lot of work ahead of you, and you want it to be a. Successful, safe and compliant place for people to interact with, to go to, and for you to be successful in contributing members of society as entrepreneurs. Thank you for your attention and time. Thank you, Michelle.
