00:00:00.320 - 00:00:26.222, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 28 December 2021. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So, as you can see, actually on my screen, I only have four tabs open for today's refuel. It has actually been very, very quiet on Twitter, only natural given it's the holiday period. So I figured today I'm going to go on a little bit of a rant about a tweet that I saw. And it's going to be an educational rant.
00:00:26.222 - 00:01:01.060, Speaker A: It's just going to be me saying whatever and kind of like, expecting you guys to listen. But I think it's important because what I aim to do with the refuel, at least one of my goals is to arm you guys with the knowledge you need to fight back against FuD around Ethereum. To learn more about Ethereum, what it's actually trying to do, you know, things like why the layer one phase are high, why it's not an overnight fix, how this is all going to work long term, just so you kind of, like, know on a fundamental level, all of that good stuff around Ethereum. So, you know, as I said, I'm going to go on a little bit of a rant here. We're going to, going to talk about this tweet here from Tasha. So, yeah, I'll read out the tweet. So you guys know what I'm talking about.
00:01:01.060 - 00:01:32.900, Speaker A: So she put out a tweet today. And actually, before I read out the tweet, I just want to say that this person I don't consider to be a good actor within the crypto ecosystem, they are very clearly putting tweets out like this as a kind of form of growth hacking or kind of like engagement farming, where they know that this will cause outrage. And outrage is the easiest way to get engagement on your tweet, because everyone quote tweets at dunks on you, replies to a, correcting the misinformation. And it's just a surefire way to grow a following. And it's worked for her. I mean, I remember a few months ago, she only had, like, maybe a few tens, thousands of followers when I first saw her. Now she has over 100,000 followers.
00:01:32.900 - 00:02:18.252, Speaker A: So it works, right? And it works wonders because that's just what Twitter and all these social platforms reward. And it's what humans are kind of, like, pre programmed to pay attention to. I mean, I even replied to a tweet that I was tagged in about this, which just gave it more attention. And, you know, like, even if you are conscious of what's happening, it's still, you know, you can still end up doing it. So I just wanted to preface it by saying that I don't consider Tasha to be a good actor within the Ethereum ecosystem. They are just doing kind of like engagement farming tactics, which I honestly, you know, I mean, I've used them before myself, but, like, not in the sense of spreading misinformation to do it. It's more in the sense of, I know if I say something a certain way, it might like, you know, kick the hornets nest a little bit, but there's a difference between that and just spreading outright misinformation to cause outrage and to cause people to give your tweet engagement.
00:02:18.252 - 00:02:45.312, Speaker A: So given that context, I'll read out what she put, what her tweet was today. So she said a L2 without a token will find it hard to get traction. A L2 with a token will be bearish for ETH as users sell ETH for outcomes. The L2 coin to chase growth alternative l one s don't have such a dilemma yet, and thus remain more attractive. If you think l two s are the cure to declining ETH dominance, wake up. Okay, so let's, let's go through this line by line. The first line, an l two without a token will find it hard to get traction.
00:02:45.312 - 00:03:16.224, Speaker A: I agree with this. I actually agree with this, and this is the only part that I agree with because I've, as I've been saying for a few months now, I believe that pretty much anything, l one, l two sidechain, whatever, if it doesn't have token incentives on it, it's not going to go very far. I mean, Ethereum had token incentives, just not in the form of ETH. Like during defy summer, there are plenty of projects that did their own token incentives, and it was just being done on Ethereum. So Ethereum kind of like got all the traction because of that. And, you know, we've seen other ecosystems copy the playbook and it works. There is obviously some form of liquidity that ends up being sticky.
00:03:16.224 - 00:03:41.344, Speaker A: It's like a very powerful marketing tool and all that good stuff there. And, you know, I do agree that an l two without a token will find it hard to get traction. So that, that's the only part I agree with. Now onto the next line here. Tasha says an L two with a token will be bearish for ETH, as users sell ETH for a. For a L2 coin to chase growth. Now, this is a prevalent kind of narrative that I've seen kind of play out over the last, you know, maybe few weeks coming to fruition.
00:03:41.344 - 00:04:14.484, Speaker A: Because every time a bad narrative gets debunked and that narrative no longer is the consensus view of, you know, many participants within the market, they have to shift the goal post if they're trying to paint another narrative. You know, first it was L2s will never work. Then it was, let was L2s will never get traction. Now it's L2. Coins are going to be parasitic to ETH and, you know, take value from ETH as an asset. There's a fundamental reason why this is just outright wrong, and that's because altoos have to pay ethereum for security, and they have to pay that in ETH, and most of that ETH gets burned, right? You all know this. Like, this is not anything new to you.
00:04:14.484 - 00:04:48.702, Speaker A: A second kind of like reason is that ETH is the unit of account for a lot of these, or at least one of the top assets in a lot of these, you know, alternative l one s or side chains or Altus. Right? ETH is used as trustless collateral, or kind of like a trustless asset across all these, all of these networks here. Right. So you've got that aspect to it. The other aspect is, of course, staking. Right. There's a great graphic from Domothy I don't have up here now, but it basically showed, I showed it on the refill before a flowchart of how ETH accrue's value, no matter what's happening on the network and how that actually contributes to the security of the network and the decentralization of it.
00:04:48.702 - 00:05:41.064, Speaker A: The most basic example of this is that the higher the ETH value, the more activity on the ethereum network, the more fees that are being paid to validators. Post merge, the more validators will come online because the APY will be high. And the more validators that come online, the more shards that we get, the more decentralization we get for Ethereum, and also we get more capacity for Altus to scale as well, so we get more scaling. You guys have heard me talk about kind of like inverting the scalability trial in the before and how basically Ethereum is the only platform aiming to do that right now, at least the only one that's live. I know there's a few other projects trying to do that as well, so it's just outright wrong what she's saying here, for those kind of reasons. And then there's a bunch of other reasons as well that are kind of, I guess, like, you could say reasons that kind of like bolt on and kind of bolt on to the other reasons that are already, like, the fundamental reasons just hang off the side of it. And, you know, you guys probably know the ones I would come up with at this point.
00:05:41.064 - 00:06:09.728, Speaker A: But the fundamental one is the fact that Altus will always have to pay Ethereum for security if they are Ethereum based l two s. Of course, other chains can have l two s on them. You know, that's, that's all well and dandy, but I've explained before how it doesn't actually make sense at all for another l two, for sorry. For an l two, to settle to another layer. One, you always want to settle to the most secure and decentralized base layer, which is ethereum by miles. And there's nothing that even comes close. And it's not just about security and decentralization, it's also about long term health.
00:06:09.728 - 00:06:32.148, Speaker A: You want to make. You want to be sure that you can pull and liveness as well. So as an l two operator or as an l two network, you want to be sure that the security that you're purchasing, that's essentially what you're doing. If you're an l two, that's kind of like putting your transactions on an l one. Like Ethereum, you're purchasing security, you're purchasing guarantees that that data, that transaction proof is going to be there at all times. You know it's going to. The network is going to be live.
00:06:32.148 - 00:07:02.796, Speaker A: Now, would you do that for a network that has gone offline multiple times, like Solana? Would you take that risk? Probably not, right. Maybe in the future sometime if the platform proves itself. But right now, as an l two operator, you'd be crazy to do that. Would you do that on one of the newer chains that maybe haven't experienced any kind of, like, hardships and have, like, much lower security because their token price is much lower? You wouldn't do that either. So, you know, a perfect example of this is something like Dy DX. There's a reason they're still on Ethereum, even though the founder said that they would go to somewhere else if it made sense. It doesn't make sense.
00:07:02.796 - 00:07:24.660, Speaker A: That's the thing. Like, I think Polynya put out a tweet, which I'm going to go over where they actually quoted what dy DX is paying. Actually, I'll talk about this. Now, Paulina said that DyDX earned $67 million in October and paid $1.5 million in gas fees for verifying and $0.5 million for data availability. So they paid $2 million to outsource their security, and then they profited 65 million.
00:07:24.660 - 00:07:55.774, Speaker A: Now, obviously, there are other costs involved in that, such as running the off chain stuff and paying, you know, people and whatever, but, like, that wouldn't be, that wouldn't make. Make much of a dent here. So let's just say those costs are like $5 million a month, and they're not. Like, I don't believe that they'd be that high. That's still $60 million clear profit in October for Dy DX after paying for their security. So people who say, oh, it's so expensive for these l two s to pay for their security. Now, one, it really isn't, because when you put it in the context of how much money they're making, it makes a lot of sense.
00:07:55.774 - 00:08:27.438, Speaker A: And that's just DyDX as a single kind of, like, app on an app, l two app based l two. It is not the generalized one. So you have that example there, and then Tasha goes on to say, you know, alternative l one s don't have this dilemma of l two tokens, or l two tokens built on of them draining value from their base token. So, for example, an avalanche doesn't have l two s. So the avex token isn't being. The value isn't actually being extracted to some l two token. I don't think this logic makes any sense at all.
00:08:27.438 - 00:08:44.164, Speaker A: In the crypto markets, the or any market, capital is always. Sorry. Assets are always competing for capital against every other asset. Yes, there are categories. Like, there are. There's the l one s, there's the l two s, there's defi, there's nfts, there's daos. But a lot of the capital overflows.
00:08:44.164 - 00:09:17.046, Speaker A: Like, if you were to kind of like, make a Venn diagram out of this, it would probably be a circle. You know, a lot of people who put money into defi also put money into nfts, also put money into l two s and l one s and all this sort of stuff. And it's just the rotation game, right? I mean, Kobe had a good blog post about this the other day about the metagame and how it's always changing, and people will rotate from one thing to the other. And if you cash the metagame early, you can profit really well from that. That's exactly what happened with a lot of these l one s. People caught them early, they profited from them when they were a much lower market cap. They wrote it up, and then they probably going to rotate or take profits into what they actually want to hold for.
00:09:17.046 - 00:09:54.040, Speaker A: For me, you know, if I was writing it, I would take profits into ETH. Other people may take them into, you know, bitcoin or some other assets, or maybe they'll just keep them in that l one token. You know, that that's an option as well. But the point I'm trying to make is that capital, you know, sorry, the assets are always fighting for basically much of the same capital. And it's hard to quantify, of course, because a lot of things are fungible and it's just very hard to get an accurate mapping there. But from my experience, I would say that just because an l two token exists doesn't mean that it's directly pulling value from ETH. Doesn't mean that someone says kind of like, okay, well, I'm just going to buy this l two token and I'm not going to buy ETH.
00:09:54.040 - 00:10:21.286, Speaker A: I would actually argue that if you're buying an l two token, you probably have an ETH bag as well, because you know that it's good for ETH, that if the l two takes off, let's take an example of, you know, if Arbitrum has a token, would you just go 100% in to arbitram and that's it? Like Arbitrum's token? You probably wouldn't. You'd be like, okay, well, arbitram is on ethereum. It's paying ethereum for its security. So. And that's only one thing, paying ethereum for its security. And ETH has all these other value accrual properties. So I'm going to buy ETH as well.
00:10:21.286 - 00:11:05.812, Speaker A: And, you know, the sophisticated investor is actually probably not even going to compare the two because they're from different categories, like ETH value accrual is very, very different to an l two tokens value accrual, and there's different reasons for each one to accrue or not accrue value. So I just think these comparisons are just really weird, right? And I think that the relative trade works, maybe short to medium term, but long term it doesn't really work that well. And by relative trade, I mean that when you kind of look at these alt l one s, they are definitely trading as a kind of percentage of ethereum. People say, okay, well, Ethereum is worth half a trillion dollars. This l one is worth $10 billion. That means that if this l one becomes 10% of the value of Ethereum, it can go to $50 billion, which means it's a five x from here. These things are done, are being done.
00:11:05.812 - 00:11:35.356, Speaker A: Right. But the thing is, is that's kind of like being done for every single asset within crypto and outside of crypto, every single category. And as I said, I believe that everything is always fighting for capital and also fighting for attention. And I've covered this in a video that I put out a few months, maybe a couple months ago now, where basically said, attention is the scarcest resource in crypto. And if you get the attention, you get the capital and you get the, you know, the price, performance. Like, look at all the alt l one s. They've gotten all the attention over the last few months, and that's why they've performed so well.
00:11:35.356 - 00:11:57.418, Speaker A: And it's kind of like a feedback loop where the more attention they get, the better they perform. And the better they perform, the more attention they get. And it becomes kind of like this self fulfilling thing or this kind of like, really nice flywheel effect there. But the same is going to be true for anything. Like, obviously, we have, like, we have like, defy mania. The, then we had nft mania and then we had nft mania again. It seems that right now, NfT seems to be making a little bit of a move.
00:11:57.418 - 00:12:31.758, Speaker A: I'm sure we're going to have an l two mania. So when you kind of like, look at it in that context, it doesn't matter if it's an alt l one or l one or an l two or a side chain or whatever. Doesn't matter about. It's kind of like, like category. What matters is, is basically where the capital is allocating, what it's allocating for, and the reason someone is going to buy something over another thing. Like, for example, I don't think most people are actually buying the Alt L1 tokens because they believe that they're fundamentally sound and are going to accrue a lot of value. I believe a big reason that they're buying it is narrative, right? Everyone's being like, oh, you know, Ethereum has high gas fees.
00:12:31.758 - 00:13:06.704, Speaker A: I'm going to play these l one s because they have lower gas fees and they have a good narrative behind them. And also they're doing it because they, they're kind of pushing a narrative that, okay, well, there's a relative trade to be had here. This plays out time and time again in every category you can think of. So I don't think that the alt out ones don't have such a dilemma because the dilemma doesn't even exist. The real dilemma is basically the investor's choice of what to put their money into, regardless of what category it is. And obviously, within the category, you can compare things, but when you. When you start doing that, you go beyond narratives and you go into kind of the fundamental analysis.
00:13:06.704 - 00:13:34.762, Speaker A: So. So, yeah, that that's that point there. And then, just to wrap this up, uh, her last kind of sentence was, if you think l two s are the cure to declining ETH dominance, wake up. This is just like pure bait. I think it's just really, really there to kind of like engagement farm to cause outrage. I don't think ETH dominance is something that needs to be cured or needs to be fixed or anything like that. I think that dominance is a flawed metric, because if you're measuring dominance in terms of TVL, well, we all know that TVL is a flawed metric to begin with.
00:13:34.762 - 00:14:19.986, Speaker A: And also as kind of, like, as crypto grows, as the pie gets bigger, and as more kind of, like, incentives come into play, ETH was never going to remain at 100% dominance or near 100% dominance. It doesn't matter if it had five high fees or not. I actually have a theory that the high fees on Ethereum is not what caused these is not the main reason why these l ones kind of, like, took off. The main reason these l ones took off is because of the fact that they had token incentive programs. I can guarantee you that if ETH had low fees and these other chains, you know, say it had near zero fees, if these other chains still had their token incentive programs, they would still have gotten similar traction to what they have today, because people just want to make money. Like, you just go back to the fundamental thing of why most people are in this industry. They want to make money.
00:14:19.986 - 00:15:03.838, Speaker A: A lot of them want to make quick money, and a lot of them want to ride narratives, and that's how they invest, because of the fact that it's so hard to invest in crypto, that writing the narrative is the easiest kind of decision for a lot of people. So, from that perspective, I believe that that would have played out the same way regardless of high fees or not. So ETH dominance is not really a metric. I look at. What I basically look at is, you know, if anything, EVM dominance, like, how dominant is Ethereum's technology across the ecosystem, because that is the real network effect. The EVM seems to be the moat right now, like these other ecosystems that are trying to do something other than EVM are having a very hard time getting traction. Like for all the narratives spun about, you know, as an example, Solana, which doesn't use the EVM natively, it has a different kind of like setup there.
00:15:03.838 - 00:15:42.654, Speaker A: For all the narrative spun there and all the people kind of going on about how much usage it has. If you actually look under the hood, it has way, way, way less usage than the EVM side chains or other EVM chains out there. So I think that building an ecosystem is tough. Building a narrative is easy, and that's why you see lots of these things kind of like playing out there. So anyway, I'm going to leave it at there for Tasha's tweet. There's a follow up tweet here from Polynya that basically they started the tweet by saying, I've gotten a few questions about value accrual on layers, and they say, hey, to break it to you, execution layer, highly competitive, tight margins erased to the bottom. We can see this from Alt l one s where the sole gimmick is accruing as little value as possible.
00:15:42.654 - 00:16:36.072, Speaker A: And they go on in this thread to explain basically what they mean by this. But the TLDR here is basically that people are asking the question of like, where is the value going to accrue? Is it going to accrue at the settlement layer? Is it going to accrue in these l two tokens? Is it going to accrue somewhere else? And the question, the real kind of like answer to this is, no one knows. But I also think that as Paulina points out here in the execution layer, which, which includes the l two s, and these highly perform, highly scalable l one s, that they're trying to do everything at l one, it's extremely competitive, it's tight margins, because if you're offering low fees, you have to basically undercut the competition. But by doing that, you're not really accruing much value to your native token because the fees are so low. So it really is a race to the bottom. Whereas as a settlement layer, you keep fees high because you're offering strong decentralization, security and liveness guarantees. So you can afford to do that.
00:16:36.072 - 00:17:32.476, Speaker A: And that's exactly what ethereum l one is optimizing to do. So I would argue that the settlement layer, regardless of if people directly invest in it or not, over the long term, is going to have the best value accrual. And when it comes to Ethereum, for, uh, for an example here, I mean, one Arp 1559 is that key because it basically leads to everything else falling into place. And I've gone through the value accrual pillars plenty of times. But with 1559, it doesn't matter if people are investing in ETH and they're aware of the ETH bull case or whatever, or anything like that. It doesn't matter if all people are doing is using l two s, they're paying ETH for security regardless of what they're doing. If the ethereum settlement layer is still being used, it is still being like its block space is still being purchased, it is still leading, leading to burnt ETH, it is still leading to fees going to validate the unburnt fees going to validators, which is leading to a high APY, which, which is leading to more ETH being staked, which means more ETH gets taken off the market, which naturally leads to ETH value accrual over time.
00:17:32.476 - 00:18:22.098, Speaker A: So I strongly believe that most of the value will accrue in two places, one at the sentiment layer and two at the, at the application layer. Because applications are distinct from, from the l one s and l two s, because you can bet on, just like with the application itself, without having to kind of think about all the generalized things, and you can basically benchmark them and do pe ratio stuff and price to sales ratios. And they're not trying to be money or anything like that, or store values. They're very easy to kind of like to evaluate. But like in saying that, I don't think that the l two tokens are going to be worth nothing. I just think that a lot of them are going to have a difficult time accruing lots and lots of value over something like a settlement layout. So, for example, if ethereum's market cap goes to $10 trillion, where does that put one of the top performing l two market caps? I don't know.
00:18:22.098 - 00:18:48.834, Speaker A: I honestly have no idea. I couldn't tell you. Is it going to be a 1% of each value at $100 billion, or is it going to be 10% at a trillion dollars? I couldn't tell you. I would actually err on the side that it would be a lot less than, than the settlement layer. So maybe in the one to 5% area. So 100 to 500 billion, which is nothing to scoff at, by the way. That's huge, right? That would basically mean it's as successful as a really, as a, as a big tech company, which, which is fine, but I think it's too early to tell.
00:18:48.834 - 00:19:16.350, Speaker A: We don't know for sure. But I do strongly believe that the settlement layer is where most of the value will accrue over the long term. And you know, the funny thing is, is that you can point to other kind of tokens that have outperformed ETH this year. Plenty, plenty have. But it's all about kind of, I guess, the extra risk you're taking on the market cap difference. Like ETH at a half a trillion dollar market cap is not going to pump like something that starts at $100 million market cap. It's just wildly different for a number of different reasons.
00:19:16.350 - 00:19:41.344, Speaker A: Liquidity profile, investor profile narratives, all that sort of stuff there. But over the long term, I'm talking long, long term, like 510, 2030 years. Um, this is the question that's being posed. Like, where does that value accrue? And I strongly believe it accrues to the sentiment layer in the very long term. So, you know, that's the way I play it with my portfolio. I position myself mostly ETH, but I make other plays as well. Knowing that, you know, ETH is a, is a solid long term bet.
00:19:41.344 - 00:20:17.892, Speaker A: And, you know, I could have more validators and stack more validators, but if you want higher roared, you have to take on more risk and you go play in other things. And that's not to say that nothing else is a good long term investment either. But as we've seen play out in the market, most things aren't actually good long term investments, especially when benchmarked against ETH. So that's where you have to kind of like make your own decisions and make your own investment thesis is about that. But anyway, give this thread from Polynya are read. It goes into a bit more detail about this, but that's just my view on things. And you, you guys know that I believe like ETH is going to that $10 trillion market cap over the long term, regardless of what the narrative say, regardless of if people hate Ethereum or not.
00:20:17.892 - 00:20:44.118, Speaker A: It's always funny when I see that, because Ethereum I think is the most polarizing chain or polarizing ecosystem within crypto for, for, for many, many different reasons. I think that it has just as many people who like it as, as hate it. And I think the people who hate it don't exactly hate it. They basically want to use it, but they can't because they're priced out. So that's why, you know, the l two ecosystem, we have a chance to get them back. Because at the end of the day, as I said, before. Most people just want to make money.
00:20:44.118 - 00:21:13.974, Speaker A: So if they can make money from these l two s, when they do tokens and do token incentive programs, they're going to migrate so fast they're not going to care if they hate ethereum or not. They're going to come and use it because they want to earn that money. Like, you know, being emotional about things and hating something and not investing in it just because you hate it is definitely a way to miss out on gains. And I think most people realize that and most people are very finicky with their views on things. And as I mentioned before, as soon as these l two start doing tokens, you're going to notice a very rapid narrative shift. It's going to be, oh, you know, I love ethereum. Ethereum is great.
00:21:13.974 - 00:21:47.370, Speaker A: Like, this is awesome. Why am I going to use one of these other l one s when ethereum scales at l two? It's got this, you know, all these opportunities for me to make money. I'm just going to stay here and there's going to be like ebbs and flows there. You know, I'm sure the l one s that stick around will do something to kind of like try and take market share back. But obviously I am, you know, super long term bullish on the l two s and ethereum as that settlement layout. But yeah, I'll link this thread in the YouTube description for you to have a read of it. So I guess, like in a related tweet here from superfears and I wrote a newsletter about this today.
00:21:47.370 - 00:22:43.098, Speaker A: He put out a tweet where he said, what if investing in ethereum doesn't mean buying coins and turning a profit? What if it means collaborating to build a highly decentralized network that benefits everyone in the world for hundreds of years? Ethereum can be less about money and more about humanity. So I want to just talk briefly about this. But what I think this tweet perfectly encapsulates is the two main parties we have in crypto. We have the profit maximalist, aka the people who are here really only for money. And the technology is either secondary, like learning about the technology and getting involved with it is a secondary objective for them, or is really not in their kind of like realm of things they care about at all. And then you have the people that are in, you know, mostly in it for the technology and the money is kind of like a nice, a nice bonus for them and they're investing in it with their money because they want to share on the upside, but really they fundamentally care about the technology and making a, you know, technology that can actually be better for humanity. Now, I personally fall into the latter camp, of course, you guys know that.
00:22:43.098 - 00:23:31.708, Speaker A: But I think most people fall into the former camp, and that's why there's always this tug of war going on where you see a lot of, you know, ethereums, a lot of ethereum ogs kind of like, bestow the virtues of why we care about decentralization, why we care about building Ethereum the right way, or at least what we believe to be the right way, and why we won't compromise on our values to and our principles just for short term kind of relief, such as, you know, compromising on decentralization for short term scale at layer one, that angers a lot of people, that gives opportunity to competitors. That means that bad narratives flow. And we've seen it all play out this year. In 2021. It's been the year of bad narratives for Ethereum, based on this. But I'm pretty happy that the Ethereum ecosystem hasn't caved to this. Even though we may have lost, you know, users in the short to medium term because fees were too high, even though we may have been losing the narrative war for a little bit.
00:23:31.708 - 00:24:11.304, Speaker A: I do believe that the, that the pendulum is going to swing back once we have these, you know, more scalable, sorry, these l two s kind of like more, more developed and more integrated with different things. And also that they have tokens. And that's why I think this, this tweet from superfizz where he says, ethereum can be less about money and more about humanity, is so important because without those people who actually care about building this technology the right way, we would never get to experience something like Ethereum. Because what would happen is Ethereum would give up on its decentralization, just say, okay, well, no one cares about it. Let's just centralize everything. We'll just become this data center chain, and it'll all be fine. We'll have low fees, users will be able to enjoy it, and all the bad narratives will go away.
00:24:11.304 - 00:24:37.688, Speaker A: And everyone would love aetherium, but that would be giving up so much. Like, so, so much. I would personally leave the ethereum ecosystem if that happened. And there are many other people out there who would as well. I literally, like, I would not even think twice about if a theorem gave up on its values and its mission and what it's trying to build. I'd be out and, you know, I'd look for something else, but I haven't seen anything else that kind of like, is trying to do what Ethereum is trying to do. And I think that is lost on a lot of people.
00:24:37.688 - 00:25:28.374, Speaker A: I think those kind of like those nuances, those things that people like me are around, they're in this ecosystem for, are completely lost on the newer people because they just here for the money, which is fine. Like, there's nothing wrong with that. But that's why there's always these kind of like, holy wars going on, these narrative wars going on, because you have two conflicting interests. You have the profit maximalist and then you have the ideologist, and they don't see eye to eye on many things. The profit maximalists don't care about this sort of stuff, at least not as a primary objective, whereas the ideologists don't care about being a profit maximalist, at least not as a primary objective. Maybe their secondary objective is money, which I think it is. Like, I'm not saying that there aren't people who care about the technology and can also be a profit maximalist or can also make a lot of money investing in these ecosystems, but I think that the, the people that create or work on the infrastructure, work on Ethereum, work on everything.
00:25:28.374 - 00:25:57.776, Speaker A: What to do with Ethereum, basically make Ethereum what it is like, it's all humans, guys. Like, literally, it doesn't matter if these things can run autonomously, like as daos, it's still humans at the end of the day. Humans decide what happens, humans decide what code goes into Ethereum, humans decide what full nodes to run, humans decide what rules to follow. It is not an AI that decides this for us. We are not at the mercy of the Ethereum network. The Ethereum network is at the mercy of its, its constituent, not, maybe not its constituents, maybe that's the wrong word, but of the people involved with it. So.
00:25:57.776 - 00:26:21.502, Speaker A: And if those people turn out to be all profit maximalist, well, the chain is going to reflect that. The chain is not going to be what we, what are the people the ideologist wanted to be. So, yeah, anyway, I thought this was a great tweet from, from super fears. Just wanted to expand on it a little bit there. And there's one more tweet from Sundip that I wanted to talk about, and it was a very basic one. He said, ETH equals web3. Web three is greater than bitcoin, hence dot dot dot dot dot.
00:26:21.502 - 00:26:53.994, Speaker A: Hence ETH is greater than bitcoin. This basically talks to something that I've spoken about before where I've said that Ethereum's total addressable market, or the total addressable market of web3 is much, much bigger than bitcoin. I actually find it so hilarious how bitcoin isn't even in the conversation anymore. No one I know talks about bitcoin anymore. And maybe that's because I don't really follow any bitcoiners, but I think that even the people that I follow who are not, you know, hardcore theorems or anything like that, they're kind of like, neutral. They don't even talk about bitcoin anymore. And that's because there's not anything going on in bitcoin.
00:26:53.994 - 00:27:23.844, Speaker A: Like their biggest upgrade in like four years was taproot, and that wasn't even anything important. Like, it didn't actually do much. And they tried to oversell it, they tried to sell it as something that it wasn't. And a lot of people caught on. A lot of people said, well, this doesn't actually bring any benefit, so why would I care about this? And whereas Ethereum, like, it's always being talked about, good or bad, it's always being talked about every single day, obviously. Like my, you know, people I'm following on Twitter are going to talk about Ethereum, but even outside of that, people hating on Ethereum are still talking about it. So I just find that funny.
00:27:23.844 - 00:27:56.522, Speaker A: But I think that was, you know, this is just a great tweet from Sunday, because web3 is basically, you know, the biggest total addressable market. Ethereum has, you know, very large presence within web3, you know, the largest presence out of anything going on right now. And, you know, that means that Ethereum is going to be what's being talked about, and bitcoin really isn't. It's going to be the niche asset, digital goal that they wanted it to be is definitely not going to be the thing that most people even know about, I believe, long term in terms of, like, paying attention to. So, yeah, great tweet from sundeep. Yeah. But I think that's going to be it for today.
00:27:56.522 - 00:28:31.276, Speaker A: I'm, you know, I think I made it to almost half an hour here, even though I only had four tabs open there. We'll see how the rest of the week goes. I'll keep doing the refuels, but it may turn into me just ranting about things or doing educational rants, because I don't expect there to be any major news this week. As I mentioned, I think everyone's waiting for the January period to start for Q one to do those major releases because they know, most people are just kind of like offline right now. I've actually been spending a lot less time on my computer lately with the move and everything, but also because I don't have proper home Internet. I'm using my phone's hotspot, which is so unreliable. Really don't like using my computer at the moment because I can't do what I usually do.
00:28:31.276 - 00:28:43.324, Speaker A: But anyway, enough about my life story there. I think that's going to be it. So thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the YouTube channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
