00:00:00.200 - 00:00:31.666, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gray refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Dan. Thanks for Sino and today's the 5 March 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So another reminder from Trent Van Epps here today as part of his ongoing series of, I guess like tweets about what's going to happen when the merge goes through or post merge. So today's tweet was the merge proof of stake will not reduce fees on Mainnet. Now this is something that I have been tooting my horn about or tooting the horn about for months now.
00:00:31.666 - 00:01:07.946, Speaker A: And I've told you guys that I see plenty of people out there thinking that the merge or proof of stake or ETH two, whatever you want, whatever you want to call it, is going to significantly or any or materially reduce gas fees on layer one main net. Now, as you all know, it was not going to do this. It basically has no effect. I mean, the block times are going from 13 seconds to 12 seconds, but that is not really going to have a material effect. As you have seen over the last few weeks though, that when the activity on chain goes down, the gas fees go down. At the end of the day, guys, the gas fees, the females, is really just a function of supply and demand. Demand for block space supply, you know, is limited.
00:01:07.946 - 00:01:38.360, Speaker A: So there's sort of, when there's more demand, prices go up. When there's less demand, the prices go down. Simple as that. There is literally, I mean, it's not complicated like, but the thing is the merge slash people stake does not do anything to reduce fees. Obviously, as you guys know, Ethereum is taking the modular scaling approach. So to reduce fees where leveraging L2s and layer one improvements will go towards utilizing, or, sorry, improving L2s as well. So, and you know, Trent goes on to say in his tweet, smaller blocks slash slot times do increase available block space, but not significantly.
00:01:38.360 - 00:02:19.664, Speaker A: That's that 13 seconds to 12 seconds block times that I talked about. An average block space is only one input which influences fees, the other being demand. As I mentioned, near term scaling lower fees will be on L2s. And I mean, I actually would say like near term and even long term would just be on L2s. But I think what Trent's kind of like saying here is that, you know, once the merge is done, we're going to be really, really focused on getting these layer one upgrades done. You know, obviously sharding bank, sharding statelessness, state expiry ERP 4488 to reduce costs for roll ups and adding kind of like blob transactions and stuff like that, all that's going to help significantly with scaling Ethereum. But that is not happening at the time of the merge.
00:02:19.664 - 00:02:36.438, Speaker A: The merge is literally, as I mentioned before, just going from proof of work to proof of stake. That's the only thing that kind of like happens, guys. We're just hot swapping out the consensus mechanism now. I'm making it sound simple, but it's not. It's obviously a very big undertaking and it's a very big achievement. But the end users really aren't going to feel anything from this. I don't think.
00:02:36.438 - 00:03:06.590, Speaker A: I think the most end users will feel is more predictable block times. But even then I don't think there's going to be much, much kind of like difference felt there. But in saying that, shortly after that, hopefully about six months after that, we'll have the Shanghai update go live, which brings kind of like more scalability to L2s. But L2s already are getting like so cheap lately, guys. I mean, I know they're also influenced by the layer one gas cost, but a swap on arbitrum and optimism right now is one to $2. I think I saw it at. That's pretty crazy, right, for leveraging Ethereum security.
00:03:06.590 - 00:03:37.664, Speaker A: I know, you know, you can get cheaper swaps elsewhere and that's, that's all well and good, but I think, you know, the costs have come down a lot. They were like four, five, $6, $7, $8 for a swap. Right now we're at the one and two $2 mark, as I said, influenced by layer one gas fees to an extent. But also these roll ups are doing significant improvements on their own without having to touch layer one or change layer one. They're kind of like optimizing themselves and bringing more efficiency at L2. You know, arbitrary, doesn't even have nitro live yet and they've, they've managed to squeeze out all of these improvements. So very, very awesome to see that.
00:03:37.664 - 00:03:53.792, Speaker A: But if you want to, I guess, read Trent's previous tweets. There's three other tweets here about kind of like what's happening. I guess going to the merge, you can just click through. He's kind of quote tweeted at each time he's talked about it. So definitely go check those out. And for those of you who don't know, I mean, Trent has been around for a while. I talk about him a lot.
00:03:53.792 - 00:04:38.112, Speaker A: On the refuel. He's an ecosystem person at the Ethereum foundation, so he's across pretty much everything got to do with core Dev I would say, like I mentioned yesterday, have Ben Edgington is really great with keeping up into the weeds with eave to stuff. I would say that Trent is really great on keeping up with pretty much everything on the ETH one and eave tooth stuff, but maybe from like a bit of a higher level, but also from the community level as well. Like he's very involved in I guess talking to different people within the community, different projects and stuff like that, and making sure that they're all ready for major upgrades. He was instrumental in making sure a lot of the wallets and infrastructure providers were ready for ERP 1559, and he still helps with helps them to this day. And he's also the guy behind stateful works, which is a kind of like initiative for ethereum cultural artifacts. And I've talked about this before.
00:04:38.112 - 00:05:12.908, Speaker A: There was the 1559 NFT series, which is run by state for works. And there was also the, the book the man, the Beacon book that was, that was kind of produced by state for works as well. So Trent's doing a lot of great work and I'm loving these tweets from him lately. All right, so superfeeze shared that Avado now offers support for running rocker pool minipool. So as Superfizz says here, this improves access to a decentralized staking solution for many people who otherwise couldn't participate. So for full details you can check out the blog post which I'll link in the YouTube description below. I think they only support Prism right now, it seems.
00:05:12.908 - 00:05:58.356, Speaker A: And then Avada kind of replied and said they're planning to support multiple options before the ETH two merge and they are monitoring the development closely. So and then they say client diversity is one of their goals. We'll supporting other bleak and chain implementations as well. But you know, it's pretty cool. I mean obviously, you know, the fact that they just have prism right now maybe a deal breaker breaker for some people that don't want to spin up the super majority client, which is which is totally fine, but I'm sure they'll be adding other ones relatively soon. Now for those of you who don't know what Avado is, basically they build themselves as a plug and play blockchain computer to run dapps. Essentially you can go to their website, you can purchase one of their Avado kind of I guess boxes here which comes preloaded with an operating system that allows you to just kind of do a one click install of different kind of blockchain nodes, clients, validators, all that good stuff there.
00:05:58.356 - 00:06:29.800, Speaker A: And it makes it super, super simple to do those sorts of things. And not just for the blockchains themselves, but now for the services around them like rocket pool and a bunch of other ones too. So if you don't know what Avada is, haven't checked them out before, definitely do. So I mean you can just go to their website like here at Ava Ava do, you can kind of like see here, there's the Vado cloud use cases, hardware you can buy from them. They buy little nux, kind of a kvado I seven, and they give you a price and everything here. And then there's different kind of like models as well. So you can go check this out if you want.
00:06:29.800 - 00:06:58.618, Speaker A: Just a simple kind of like box to run nodes on, to run your staking software on, all that sort of stuff. I personally opted to build my own, as you guys know, my own staking box. It used to be in the background of my videos simply because I wanted like full and total control over the hardware. Plus I wanted it to look cool as well. Like, not to say that these boxes look bad or anything, but they're quite, quite simple, right? Like they just, you know, if I go to the hardware, as you saw, they're quite simple, kind of like boxes. Looks a little bit like a modem or a router or something like that, which is totally fine. I mean if you just want it to blend in, this is a great solution for you.
00:06:58.618 - 00:07:28.562, Speaker A: But for me, I wanted a bit of more aesthetic to mine. Like, as you can see around me, I love having things on display around me, so I opted for the kind of like more the more noisy kind of like setup there. But it's all just kind of like the same parts at the end of the day. I mean, as I said, like there's different kind of specs of, of the Avada hardware. There's the I seven, which is an intel I seven with 32 gig of ram, two terabytes of SSD storage, and it's fanless as well, which means it's 100% silent. That'll set you back 1600 USD. But this is kind of like the, the top of the range one.
00:07:28.562 - 00:08:06.426, Speaker A: So this will allow you to do everything that you need to do in order to run, obviously an ETH two validator beacon node and an ETH one node. But you'll also be able to kind of like run other, other nodes and other kind of, I guess, validators and other networks as well. So if you just want to kind of like run, I guess, like an Ethereum full node and just stake, then the Alvaro I five would definitely be fine for you. And that will set you back $1,099. So, yeah, there's a few different options there for you to choose from, but as always, you can build it yourself if you want to. And the cool thing is about, I guess, like the software, is that the software can be installed on any hardware, the software that's on the Avado. So, I mean, I've gone blank on the name right now.
00:08:06.426 - 00:08:49.748, Speaker A: There's a specific name for the software that I've just kind of like forgotten here. But yeah, I've installed it on other kind of like pieces of hardware before, and it works fine. So there's no need to buy an Avado kind of like plug and play device if you don't want to. But that's probably the easiest way to get started with all of this. All right, so l two beat has a new diagram on Zksync's page that kind of explains how Zksync's smart contracts work. So you can go to the page here, I'll link it in the YouTube description, but it kind of like shows how smart contracts work on Zksync or, sorry, how the Zk sync smart contracts work. So you can see here, the main roll up contract is identified with the verifier, with the upgrade kind of like gatekeeper, and with the governance contract as well.
00:08:49.748 - 00:09:18.644, Speaker A: So as you guys know, l two b provides more information about the l two s than literally any other website in existence by far. I mean, this is the only website that I use for all this information. I don't think it's documented anywhere, except maybe the official websites of the different kind of, I guess l two s out there. But even then they have, it's kind of like buried in their documentation. Not on purpose, but just because they have a lot of documentation. Whereas on l two bet, it just kind of pulls all the relevant information out. It highlights it in red.
00:09:18.644 - 00:09:44.338, Speaker A: It tells you kind of like, what the biggest risks are. It gives you links to all the different kind of like contracts and stuff like that, which is what we want to see. And kind of like their latest edition is kind of like ZK sync's contracts. Obviously, ZK sync has been getting a lot of attention lately because they have the ZkVM on testnet. But this is really, really cool to see that there's just kind of like more stuff here. And there's obviously links to more references and resources. You know, the funny thing is, is that you can go to the l two b.com
00:09:44.338 - 00:10:23.232, Speaker A: website, click on to each of these l two s, scroll down, read all the stuff on l two B, and then click through to each of these kind of like references to learn even more about all of this sort of stuff. And you can probably spend a good, like, I mean, week, two weeks or something just going through all of this. Like, I mean, not, not straight, right? But like you could spend like a good amount of time just going through each of these projects and then going to the references and kind of like reading about how it all works. And you'll learn pretty much everything there is to learn about l two s at this stage, I would say. I mean, they're all implementing different kind of like solutions. Obviously. Some are optimistic roll ups, some are Zk roll ups, some of the lidiums, some are even plasma, some hybrids.
00:10:23.232 - 00:11:05.104, Speaker A: I mean, there's so much going on, but you, you know, clicking through and reading about the solutions and reading all the different resources out there is probably the best way to get caught up with everything. Layer two, like, and that's if you want to become like a L2 expert, right? Don't do all of that. If you're just interested in staying at the, at the high level of the, of the l two stuff, which you probably only need the refuel for that, but if you want to dig deep, really, really deep, you can do that. And they link to the documentation of each of the kind of like solutions. I mean, if I'm just on Arbitrum's page now, you can go to the arbitrum documentation, which is at developer dot off chainlabs.com. And you can see kind of like everything here and go through the developer kickstart tutorials, you know, how the messaging works. I mean, look at all these guys.
00:11:05.104 - 00:11:44.322, Speaker A: Like, this is just one section. This is messaging between layers. There's token bridging, confirmation and finality. Like, I mean, even as a non dev, you can just read through all of this and kind of like see all the stuff that's gone into this sort of stuff and how, you know, kind of like not complex it is, but how detailed it is and how much kind of like thought has gone into, got into everything there. So definitely do that. If you're interested in learning more about alternate, you know, as I've said before, the perfect time to learn about this sort of stuff is when the market is quiet. I know the market seems to be kind of like heating back up again, but when I say market being quiet, I mean, like, we're in this kind of, like, range and there's just kind of, like, not many people around and the things are much quieter.
00:11:44.322 - 00:12:22.954, Speaker A: I mean, Twitter is still so quiet. I mean, the most things I'm seeing on Twitter lately is just the Ukraine Russia stuff. I hardly even see much crypto stuff anymore, but just generally with the crypto stuff, it's still super quiet. And if there is talk about it, it's usually about the Ukraine Russia stuff, which, to be honest, I mean, I'm glad there's a lot of talk about that because obviously, you know, this is crypto's kind of, like, moment. A lot like crypto is, is really entering the mainstream here. I mean, just today, actually, not to go off topic here, but I think this is pretty on topic. But just today we saw that, I believe one of the governments, one of the western governments, kind of like, ordered that the centralized exchanges make it hard for Russia to get around their sanctions by using centralized exchanges.
00:12:22.954 - 00:13:07.374, Speaker A: So obviously, I guess crypto, at least on the centralized exchange side, is pretty much integrated with the financial system at this point. Like, it is considered part of the worldwide financial system, which is pretty wild to think about. And at the end of the day, we are building these tools like Ethereum, you know, bitcoin, the L2 is all that sort of stuff to be neutral. So there's, the governments can't order Ethereum to basically block transactions or censor transactions or freeze funds or anything like that. Obviously, that's still all possible if the network is being kind of like overtaken by a 51% attack or if the miners decide to collude and census transactions. But it's extremely, extremely difficult. It is very, very unlikely to happen on Ethereum and bitcoin, that is, but on other chains, it's easier.
00:13:07.374 - 00:13:51.808, Speaker A: There are some chains out there that are just super, super centralized, that it's very easy to block this stuff up. I think, you know, people have laughed at me before by when I've said that these kind of, like, blockchains need to resist nation states, because if they can't do that, then they're pointless. Well, I don't think people are going to be laughing for very much longer, guys. I mean, this is the time where the centralization does get tested. Like, if the governments around the world, the US government, the european governments, the, you know, the, the asian governments, if they all kind of, like, came together and had the same narrative where they're like, well, we need to stop, you know, whether it's Russia or someone else, we need to stop them using crypto to get around our sanctions. Well, I mean, they'll go for the centralized exchanges first, which is obviously the lit path of least resistance. Then they probably go for stable coins.
00:13:51.808 - 00:14:34.644, Speaker A: They'll start, they'll, they'll ask stable coin issuers to freeze addresses that they suspect. Not that they can prove, but they suspect involved with illicit activity. And of course it's going to get frozen straight away because, you know, the centralized exchanges or the centralized operators of these stable coins are not going to say no to the US government. They're going to be like, okay, well, I mean we'll freeze it for now, but like kind of like if they want to push it further they can fight it and basically be like, well we'll freeze it, but you guys gotta, you guys gonna have to kind of like prove to us why we froze it, sort of thing. But still, I mean, you're not gonna be going up against the US government as a, as a centralized crypto exchange based in the US, right. You can try, I mean you can take them to court and things like that later on, but in the heat of the moment, especially during times like this. Yeah, it's not gonna work.
00:14:34.644 - 00:15:08.846, Speaker A: And then, you know, what happens if there's evidence of these countries that have been sanctioned using blockchains to get around the sanctions? Well, the governments are not going to sit idly by and basically let that happen. What they're going to do is they're going to do one of two things. They're either going to realize that they can't control Ethereum and bitcoin or, and this is probably the most likely outcome. More likely outcome, I should say. They're going to try and control it. They're going to try and see which ones they can control, which ones they can shut down, which ones they can block access to. And to be honest, I mean they can block access to Ethereum and bitcoin via ordering centralized exchanges to block withdrawals to those networks.
00:15:08.846 - 00:15:33.726, Speaker A: But that's the worst they can do there. They can't overtake the network. They can't force the miners and in the future validators to censor transactions or anything like that. They're powerless there. But that's for ethereum and bitcoin. When it comes to other chains, there are certain things they can do. A lot of the dpos chains have a very small validator set that can control the network that are based in jurisdictions where these governments reside, such as the US and Europe.
00:15:33.726 - 00:16:07.994, Speaker A: So that's going to be the true test. Guys like that, at the end of the day, you don't know what's truly decentralized, I think, and you can't, it's kind of like you can't really prove it until these things kind of like show their true colors to show that they have no clothes. And I think we're going to get to that point sooner rather than later. But, yeah, a little bit of a tangent there, I guess. But I think it's very, very relevant to what we're seeing lately. And I do think that people are going to realize more and more why decentralization matters at the end of the day. All right, so orbiter finance is another update today that they now support Stocknet on girly.
00:16:07.994 - 00:16:32.244, Speaker A: So you can choose Stocknet on orbiter finance and bridge Stocknet into testnet. So this is cool. I mean, I've been covering Alberta recently, but now they're kind of like supporting stocknet girly. And obviously, as you guys know, Stocknet is both on Testnet and Mainnet, which is really, really cool to see. But it's cool to see orbit of finance just like getting up there. I mean, I only started talking about these guys maybe two months ago or something like that. They came out of kind of nowhere.
00:16:32.244 - 00:17:02.940, Speaker A: I mean, I wonder when their Twitter account was created. Okay, the Twitter account was created January 2014, so it must have been repurposed there. But I don't think they've got, these guys have been around for very long, so very cool to see them. I guess they still in Alpha, but very cool to see them adding networks really quickly and kind of like getting their name out there. And it just, it's just great to see more bridges coming online. Obviously, as I've talked about, there's a lot of risks using these sorts of things, which, which actually is a perfect segue into little Cohen's thread today. Little Cohen kind of like works at, as growth at hot protocol.
00:17:02.940 - 00:17:36.640, Speaker A: So he would know a thing or two about bridges. But basically this is a thread about bridge security and kind of like, it's a really great thread. It goes through kind of like what can happen, the risks and the trade offs and all that sort of stuff. So I suggest reading this thread. But, you know, since we saw the massive exploit with the, the wormhole bridge, there hasn't really been any other security incidents on bridges I've seen yet. But don't let that give you a false sense of security guys like that doesn't mean that these bridges are suddenly all super secure and everyone's funds are secure. No, you got to keep your kind of wits about you, especially when using newer protocols like orbiter finance, which is still in Alpha.
00:17:36.640 - 00:18:34.302, Speaker A: You really need to realize that Alpha doesn't mean, hey, ape your whole net worth into this bridge and, you know, kind of like yellow in and no, that's not, that's not kind of like how it works there. You need to realize that Alpha beta that they mean, you know, this is still kind of like very risky software. This is still kind of like basically being tested, right? Is basically in the kind of like maybe they're kind of like testing in prod, so to speak, on Mainnet, but still they shouldn't be treated as kind of like live kind of like, you know, super safe production software here. And, you know, honestly, most things in crypto shouldn't be treated as, uh, super safe or really safe software. At the end of the day, as I said to you guys plenty of times before, every smart contract in existence has the possibility of having a bug in it, even if it's one line of code, can have a bug in it. Um, and it's just kind of like a function of, uh, I guess like time as well. Like, you know, the funny thing is about the time thing, I've had this discussion with many people before.
00:18:34.302 - 00:19:15.648, Speaker A: People kind of argue that the longer a smart contract has been around or the longer a, you know, a set of code has been around, the safer it is. I don't actually necessarily agree with that because there's been tons of examples of things in the web two world that have existed for decades and then there's a massive bug found in it, like a critical bug found in it, you know, 1020 years later. Now, if that's the case, how do you kind of like trust any of this stuff? Well, I mean, there's kind of kind of insurance protocols out there that you can kind of take insurance against. You know, maybe don't put like your whole net worth into one smart contract. Maybe spread out the risk. Say you're using kind of like three different yield farming protocols out there. That's better than just putting all your funds into kind of like one.
00:19:15.648 - 00:20:05.024, Speaker A: Because if that, if one of them kind of gets hacked or something like that, then you kind of like, are protected by being the other two. Maybe your yield is less, but I guess that's, that's kind of like the trade off you take there and then the protocols themselves are having their own, I guess, like insurance funds, too, to cover any losses that they suffer. So there are ways to kind of protect users. But I don't think anyone should ever say that a smart contract or any set of code is 100% secure and 100% bug free. It's just impossible to make that assertion. And if you, if you do say that and later it gets kind of like hacked or anything like that, well, maybe you had the hubris to not prepare for that, and then the user funds are all gone. So I think just taking all that into account, guys, I mean, I know I've said before that one of the only protocols I kind of like, trust with, like a large amount of my net worth is, I guess, like, assets is maker.
00:20:05.024 - 00:20:23.736, Speaker A: And I've used it plenty of times before, but even maker can. Could have a critical bug in it. Like, I'm not saying it doesn't. And, you know, I have obviously have a lot of my ethan in. In staking right now on the beacon chain. That code has only been live for like a year and, what, three months at this point, it's not super secure either. You can't claim that it's like ultra secure.
00:20:23.736 - 00:20:42.304, Speaker A: You can't claim that it has like, Lindy or anything behind it. But I'm well aware of those risks. I take those risk, and that's on me if anything happens. But I think this is true for basically every piece of code. So just. Yeah, just another friendly reminder for you guys to kind of like, take precautions when using these sorts of things. See what would happen if an exploit was to happen.
00:20:42.304 - 00:21:08.564, Speaker A: Like, will you be covered by the protocol itself? Is there kind of ways to take an insurance? How much would you stand to lose? All this sorts of stuff. So. So, yeah, and definitely go give Lida Cohen's thread about bridge security and bridges. Here are. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you to do so. So, Rocco from the Spruce id team published a blog post today called why sign in with ethereum is a game changer, part one. So I highly recommend giving this blog post to read.
00:21:08.564 - 00:22:02.750, Speaker A: Obviously, I'm not going to read it out on the refuel, as I said before signing with Ethereum on chain identity, all this sort of stuff about, you know, around kind of like this area is super important for, I guess, the. The growth of this industry. You know, I often say that I think the two most important things that I'm most excited about to reach mass adoption, scaling and privacy. If I had to pick a third, it would be things like this, right? Like on chain identity. Sign in with Ethereum because it's such a simple thing, but it's such a powerful tool. And I've explained why in previous episodes, so I won't go through this again. But I think, you know, as I've said before, I'd much rather be able to sign in with Ethereum to things rather than having to sign in with Facebook or sign in with Twitter or centralized service because, you know, you get portability, interoperability, composability, all that good stuff that we're used to within defi, all without an intermediary, all decentralized way and be able to kind of like carry our identity with us.
00:22:02.750 - 00:22:27.496, Speaker A: So very cool thing that you should give, you know, you should give this blog post a read to learn more about this, how it works, some of the technicals behind it as well. And you know, how it works on a technical level with signing messages. And a friendly reminder, again, guys, signing a message on Ethereum does not cost gas fees. That's another shitty narrative out there. People actually believe that signing a message cost gas fees. I mean, you don't even have to believe anyone. Go sign a message on Ethereum mainnet right now.
00:22:27.496 - 00:22:41.680, Speaker A: Like, go sign in with, you know, sign into something with, with Etherium right now. You don't have to. It's just signed. And that's it. Because all you're doing is signing a message using your private key. You're not doing an on chain transaction. Just so insane to me that these narratives persist.
00:22:41.680 - 00:23:16.024, Speaker A: And it's kind of like even more insane to me that the, the bad narratives, for some reason, are always the ones that are the most popular. And it goes back to this old adage. I don't know if Andreas Antonopoulos was the first one to say this, but I've heard him say it plenty of times before. Is that kind of like bullshit just tends to spread ten times faster than the truth and then, you know, trying to kind of like correct that bullshit is basically impossible from there. So, yeah, anyway, go give this blog post a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you to do so. All right, so finally here we have a call out from the EF ecosystem support program.
00:23:16.024 - 00:23:46.198, Speaker A: They put out a tweet saying calling all academics, research centers, PhD students, and others interested in researching Ethereum. We're excited to announce a new wave of $750,000 in grants to fund formal Ethereum related research. Learn more and submit your project proposals by 22 April in this blog post. This is really cool. It's more money going towards core Ethereum research here, which is always a good thing to see. And this is coming directly from the Ethereum foundation support program. So if you're interested in this, if this is something up your alley, definitely go check out the blog post.
00:23:46.198 - 00:24:30.290, Speaker A: As I said, the deadline for applying for these grants is April 22, 2022. So you have about just over six weeks from now, but I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out. Now, I've got a few minutes left here. So one last thing I wanted to talk about, which is actually related to this, was about research in general within crypto and how I think that Ethereum has obviously been the leader for quite a while now in terms of like, bleeding edge research and the most interesting things coming out of the Ethereum ecosystem. And I think that's going to be the case for a long while. But I do want to caution people from getting too kind of, I guess, like bottlenecked in things like, you know, I don't think an echo chamber is the right word. I think people use the term echo chamber, like in a really, you know, in a really wrong way these days.
00:24:30.290 - 00:25:21.572, Speaker A: They use it to deride people and say, you know, you're just stuck in an echo chamber, you don't know what's going on around you. It's like, yeah, okay. I mean, some people may be stuck in that, but at the end of the day, like, if you're only interested in keeping up with what's happening in Ethereum and you're happy being in the Ethereum echo chamber, well, I mean, is that necessarily a bad thing? Like if you're happy, if you're aware of it, if you're just like, whatever. Like, I don't care about all the other stuff going on, I'm happy in Ethereum, then that's totally fine, as long as you're not kind of like spouting bullshit or deriding other ecosystems. I mean, the classic example of this is the bitcoin maximalists, who definitely live in their own echo chamber. But not only do they live in their echo chamber, they also kind of like yell outside of it, right? They yell at the theory and people, they say theorem centralized, they say it's a scam, blah, blah, blah, all that sort of stuff. But if you just sit in Ethereum land, sort of like what I do, and you're not there out there just spouting all the bullshit off, including other project scams, and kind of like saying that it's all worthless, I think that's totally fine.
00:25:21.572 - 00:25:44.516, Speaker A: But in saying that, there are interesting ideas out of other ecosystems that haven't come from ethereum. Right. Like, as I said, vast majority of the coolest things that I've seen have been in the Ethereum ecosystem. But there are definitely ideas in other ecosystems that, that, that are interesting. And, you know, to. I've bashed Solana a lot in the past, but to Solana's credit, they're actually building a pretty decent execution layer. Now.
00:25:44.516 - 00:26:28.226, Speaker A: The reason I've bashed Solana in the past is because I don't think that that execution layer can work at, quote unquote, layer one with their consensus engine. I think they're going to run into plenty of problems, and they already have, and I don't think it's going to scale to the world. But, I mean, you know, I reckon Solana can be a really great execution layer, meaning it could be a really great layer, too. And it doesn't even have to use Ethereum as a settlement layer. It could use any consensus engine that it limits itself at layer one as a settlement kind of layer. But at the end of the day, we may see someone just fork Solana, rip out the consensus, and just kind of like, settle it to Ethereum. And it'd be funny because what if it works better? Like, I actually think objectively, it would actually work better than the Solana Solana chain itself because of the fact that it's taking the modular approach instead of doing the monolithic approach.
00:26:28.226 - 00:26:44.878, Speaker A: But that's where credit should be due. Like, Solana is a very different chain to Ethereum. They built things from the ground up. They've, they're using rust instead, instead of solidity. They're doing a lot of, you know, different things out there. But my problem with it has always been the thesis that you could scale everything at layer one. I just don't think that's going to work.
00:26:44.878 - 00:27:04.346, Speaker A: And we've already seen the pitfalls of that. And not just Solana. You know, the terror ecosystem is quite interesting with what they're doing with stablecoin, with UST. I know a lot of people call it a Ponzi and all that sort of stuff, but, you know, the longer it sticks around, the longer it actually works. Maybe it, maybe it ends up working. Maybe we're all where. I mean, I haven't called it a ponzi, but maybe people are all wrong about that.
00:27:04.346 - 00:27:29.670, Speaker A: Like, I don't know, but that's another interesting thing that's happening there. That's not happening in Ethereum. And you know, there are some pockets here and there of other things going on, but there's not, I mean, not really. I mean, some like, a lot of the other l one s are just like EvM clones. They're not very, very interesting. And as I said, the vast majority of the interesting stuff is still happening on Ethereum. But, you know, if you're, if you don't want to be in a, quote unquote, like, echo chamber and you're not happy being in an echo chamber, you want to kind of like expand a little bit.
00:27:29.670 - 00:28:18.696, Speaker A: I would recommend going and viewing going and kind of like looking into these other ecosystems to see what they've got going on. But as I said, most of it is not interesting. But there are pockets there and you don't have to, like, go out and buy the tokens either if you don't want to. It's not like you have to basically go all in on the ecosystems or whatever, but essentially what you can do is you can just check out what they've got going on and then you can see, okay, well, is there anything like this going on in Ethereum? You know, why not? Is it, is it, can I, can I bring it to Ethereum? You know, can I do something here? Just, just a cool thing to do, I think. But, you know, and I've been doing this for, for a while now. It's not a new thing for me. I mean, it's funny because I always get caught in ETH maxi, and I can bet, you know, I can bet you that I know more about the, a lot of the l one ecosystems that, than their biggest fans do because I do keep up with them, just not day to day in the detail in the weeds, but I do keep up with what they're doing to see if anything's actually, you know, innovative.
00:28:18.696 - 00:28:52.566, Speaker A: And to be honest, guys, like, I don't think any of the stuff that the other l ones are doing with regards to scaling is innovative at all. I think all the scaling innovation is happening basically on Ethereum coupled with like the l two stuff and the modular stack. And obviously there's other chains that aren't out yet, like celestial, which is doing interesting things and polygon avail and stuff like that. But, but, yeah, I mean, as I said, always good to branch out. But, but yeah, I mean, on my end, I haven't seen, like, anything too interesting, but there are pockets out there which are worth researching. But I think on that note, I'm going to leave it at that for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:28:52.566 - 00:28:58.974, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
