00:00:00.200 - 00:00:31.244, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to the 16th Daily Gwei AMA series. For those of you who aren't aware, I used to do these AMA's every couple of weeks and I haven't done one in about a year now. So yeah, this is the first one since then. It's the 16th episode. There is a playlist that you can check out that has the previous 15 if you would like to do that. And previously I had run these through the Discord channel where people would ask questions, whether that be prior to the AMA or live on in the voice channel, and then I would answer those and record the AMA and upload it to YouTube. But for, for going forward, I'm going to be doing the AMA's every two weeks again.
00:00:31.244 - 00:01:00.800, Speaker A: But I'm just going to be collecting the questions in the AMA series channel, in the Discord channel, and then answering them as I'm doing today. And there's no kind of time limit on, on how long I go forward these ama's. It's just I breathe the questions, I answer the questions and then we go from there. But there is timestamps. So you can check out the timestamps in the YouTube description below. But yeah, on that note, I'm going to get started with the first question for today. So the first question comes from Tim Jansen, who asks about the pros and cons of different execution clients.
00:01:00.800 - 00:01:43.440, Speaker A: And then they say, you know, they still have to do a deep dive into it myself, my own node. So for those of you who have been listening to the refill for quite a while, you know about this concept of client diversity that we have on Ethereum, where there are multiple different clients that you can run to constitute a full node. So you can run like a prism on the consensus layer, and you can run a geth on the execution layer, which are the two most popular ones right now. Or you could run prism and nevermind, or you could run lighthouse and geth. There are all these combinations that you can do, do, and there are, there are, I think, more than five on both the consensus layer and execution layer side there. But Tim's asking about execution clients and the pros and cons between them. So really there's four major ones.
00:01:43.440 - 00:02:14.270, Speaker A: There's Geth, Nethermind, Beisu and Aragon. Aragon is based on Geth's architecture. Aragon basically got started a couple of years ago with the intent of making it easier to run an archive node. So I guess there's a pro of Aragon over something like Geth is where Geth and Nethermind and Besu would, it would be harder. It will take longer to sync an archive node than it does with Aragon. So there are things like that that can be considered pros of one client over another. And then, for example, Geth has been around the longest, right? It's been around since day one.
00:02:14.270 - 00:02:51.570, Speaker A: So it's considered the most reliable, the most secure, the most stable release of the Ethereum execution client software. But then there are, there are newer ones as well. I mean, you, you guys would have seen the other day, the Reth client, client from paradigm, the execution layer client that came out, they're built, you know, it's built in rust, so Geth is built in go. Um, Aragon, I believe, is also built in go. I'm not 100% sure on what Nevermind's built in, but usually they're built in different languages. Same is true for the consensus layer side of things, and that lets them do certain things, that lets them kind of perform better it depending on what language they're written in. But there's a trade off there with something else that they're doing right, and they did.
00:02:51.570 - 00:03:33.540, Speaker A: And the execution clients may have different sync modes. So, so it may be easier to sync one as a full node rather over the other, whereas with, as I said before, there are ones like Aragon that are just targeting archive nodes, and they can still run a normal node with Aragon, but they're targeting, making it easier to run archive nodes. And they've been pretty successful with that, which is very cool there. So if you want to check out more about the execution clients, you can go to the ethereum.org website. They've got to run a node section. It goes through more of the stuff are there, but generally, yeah, there's just, there's basically trade offs and different clients target different kind of ways of running the software, running the Ethereum spec.
00:03:33.540 - 00:04:05.030, Speaker A: And as I said, like the perfect example is Aragon targeting an archive node, geth being more stable and secure, nethermind being an alternative. I believe it's built on an alternative code base. So because Aragon is derived from get, I mean, Aragon has been changed from the original fork of Geth quite heavily, actually. But, but still, I mean, it is derived from that. But yeah, hopefully that answers your question there, Tim. The more there are, I guess, like more technical differences between them. But I'm not going to go into the technical differences on, on this AMA because it'll take me a while to do so.
00:04:05.030 - 00:04:34.666, Speaker A: And I probably need supporting our documentation here. But I think on the execution client side of things, those four that I mentioned are all pretty good, but if you're going with the most reliable and stable Geth is probably the that right now. But as time goes on, the rest of them catch up and honestly I run, never mind. And it's been fine for me. Like I haven't had any issues with that. I've, I mean, I've run all of them at one point or another, but nevermind is my go to because I don't want to. And I'm also running Geth as part of my rocker pool, mini pool as well, and that's going fine.
00:04:34.666 - 00:05:18.218, Speaker A: I mean, never had any issues with Geth, of course, but Aragon and Base, who haven't run as, as often, but I've run them before and they seem to work fine as well. All right, so on to the next question that comes from bad artifacts. Who says, can you further explain how one can run a full node without 32 ETH? What are the benefits to the network? What is the difference in capability between a node with 32 ETH and a node without any ETH? Alright, so I'll answer these in parts because there's multiple questions here. So the first question of, you know how you can run a full node without 32 ETH? Well, the only thing you need 32 ETH for is to run a validator. So I think it's probably worth me breaking down the terminology here. So there is a, what is considered a full node and then there is a validator. And I mean there are different types of full nodes.
00:05:18.218 - 00:05:53.794, Speaker A: There's an archive node and then there's kind of a light client node. But just for the sake of explain of explanation here, we'll go with full node and validator. Every validator needs to talk to a full node. So as a solo staker, I need to run a full node which multiple validators can talk to. So I can run one full node that ten validators talk to you, for example, I don't need to run ten full nodes that ten validators talk to, but those validators, I can only run a validator if I have 32 ETH bonded to that. Basically by putting it in the deposit contract, I spin up my validator and I'm able to validate on the network. So.
00:05:53.794 - 00:06:51.962, Speaker A: And what does a validator do? Well, a validator attests the blocks is part of sync committees, it produces blocks, and you earn a reward for doing that, whereas just running a full node on its own, you don't earn a reward for doing that because you're not actually doing anything, doing any work for the network. So under proof of work, you're not actually doing any, you know, you're not mining right, you're not hashing, you're not producing blocks or anything like that in proof of stake. It's the same thing. You're not attesting to blocks as a full node, you're not part of sync committees, you're not producing blocks, you're basically just syncing the network, keeping to the head of the chain and basically providing another, I guess, copy of the Ethereum network for the world, so to speak. So why do people do this? Like what are the benefits here to the network? Well the, there's benefits to the network in that the network can say, okay, well there is. Well, I mean not just the network, but like everyone can say, okay, well there's 5000 Ethereum full nodes. That means there's 5000 up to date in sync copies of the Ethereum network at any given time.
00:06:51.962 - 00:07:52.424, Speaker A: Right? So that's very valuable because I think at least my opinion is that one of the core tenants of decentralization is that we have a large number of people who hold the network and are synced to the network at any given time and that it's easy to sync to the network as well. Like it's easy to sync the full history of Ethereum with, with a full node and have guarantees that from Genesis you are syncing to the correct chain and nothing has been kind of tampered with. There. Other benefits for yourself include being able to use your full node as an RPC. So for example, when you use Metamask, the default RPC is infura. And now what is an RPC? Well, an RPC is a kind of service that you connect to that relays your transactions for you. Now obviously if you're using a third party service to relay your transactions for you, they can potentially buy you from doing that, or they can manipulate your transactions and, and send it to the network with, you know, basically as a transaction that you didn't approve of, right, or you didn't, or they could basically deny you service altogether.
00:07:52.424 - 00:08:30.346, Speaker A: So when you're using your own full node as your RPC, which you can change in metamask, for example, you can point it to your own full node. The only person who can stop you is you. So you, you're basically a fully self sovereign Ethereum user by doing that, which I think is pretty important. I mean, I do it myself because I don't want to outsource my RPC duties to infuria or any other centralized service out there. So that's really, really important, and that goes back to what I was saying before, is that you wouldn't be able to do this if it was really difficult to sync the Ethereum network if it required like beefy servers, beefy data centers. But it doesn't, it just requires consumer hardware. I mean, you can run a full node on a raspberry PI these days with an SSD connected to it.
00:08:30.346 - 00:09:09.920, Speaker A: So obviously very, very consumer friendly to run a full node there. And the benefit, and the major benefit is being able to use it as your RPC. As I said, the major benefit to the network as a whole is being able to have those multiple copies available and being able to see that it's available as well. And then, as I said as well, you need to run a full node if you want to be a solo stacker, you can't just, you can't run your own validator on your own hardware and connect to another full node. You have to run your own full node to do that there. And the next question here was, you know, what is the difference in capability between a node with 32 ETH and a node without any ethnic. Well, I explained that just before where I said that to become a validator and to earn rewards, you need 32 ETH.
00:09:09.920 - 00:10:03.350, Speaker A: You need every, every validator needs a minimum of 32 ETH that's kind of bonded to it, and then it can start attesting to blocks being part of sync committees and producing blocks, and then you earn a reward for that. And the reward can vary obviously over time based on a number of different factors, but you earn rewards for doing that. Whereas with a full node there is no ETH requirement at all. It's free to run, you just have to run it on your own hardware obviously needs to be online 24/7 so it's not totally free to run. There is a cost of obviously having Internet and the hardware cost and the power cost, but they're very, very minimal, of course, but you don't get rewarded for that. And really there is an element of altruism to running a full node as well, to maintaining the health of the network too, and making sure that you can spot anything dodgy going on on the network as well, which is obviously very important for decentralization. But yeah, I guess the main point here is that you do not need any ETH or anything really to run a full node.
00:10:03.350 - 00:10:32.548, Speaker A: You only need ETH to become a validator. And that's because validators earn rewards. It's like, for example, to choose an analogy here, in proof of work, you don't need any mining equipment to run a bitcoin full node. But if you want to mine on the bitcoin network, you want to produce blocks, then you need mining equipment to do that. Right? So it does differ in proof of stake because it's not mining and you're not just producing blocks, you're testing the blocks. But the same concepts still apply here. So hopefully that answered your question.
00:10:32.548 - 00:10:58.780, Speaker A: Bad artifacts. All right, one here from Yash ETH, who asks, what tools do you use for analyzing crypto markets and what specifically do you look for? So in terms of like the actual market itself, I mean, I don't really do much analysis on it, at least not over the short to medium term. I do look at the long term stuff, but I mean, there is a lot of noise there. But I use tradingview. I have a premium, premium account there. I love just using trading view. It has all the charts that I need, has the tools that I need.
00:10:58.780 - 00:11:49.532, Speaker A: As I said, I'm not like someone who does charts or looks at short to medium term movements, but I do like having the ability to look at longer term movements and longer longer term trends and seeing different parts of the cycle and being able to reference things. I really find that valuable. But in terms of like broader market analysis, I don't think there's actually like, for me personally, I don't really use tools. What I use is, and it may be funny to say this, I use kind of like a mixture of social signals, of just intuition of my own experience to come to, I guess, like relative certainty over what the market is doing at any given time. So, for example, right now, obviously, we're about a year into the bear market, and it's been a pretty brutal bear market, and the prices are where they at. But I look at that and I'm like, okay, well, we're in. We're a year into the bear market, which means that pretty much everyone who wanted to sell has already sold.
00:11:49.532 - 00:12:40.972, Speaker A: Anyone selling from, from here on out is probably just like a trader that's speculating, that's trying to place more moves, or maybe it's someone that needs the money right now and they just sell because they're forced to sell, so to speak, right? And then I look at things like, well, FTX collapsed and ETH didn't go to new lows, right? So I look at that and I'm like, okay, well, if ETH didn't go to new lows and one of the biggest exchanges collapsed, that means that ETH is, it seems like ETH has already capitulated, right? And we already kind of set that bottom at 880. So there's that. And then I look at, on the reverse side. In bull markets last year, I was looking, okay, well, this, for example, when Elon Musk went on SNL and pumped up doge and doge was having like, a stupid run, I was like, okay, well, this seems like it's close to, like, the top right now. This is just absolutely crazy. And of course, a few weeks later, the market topped and it was a, it was a pretty brutal top. I mean, ETH went from 4400 to 1700 in a week.
00:12:40.972 - 00:13:18.580, Speaker A: Like, that's, that's how brutal it was back then. And then obviously we had that, like, I guess, second pump towards the end of last year as well. But I saw that and I was like, okay, well, this doesn't seem very sustainable either, because there's a lot of just hot air getting pumped up, a lot of these old l one s getting popped up. And it reminds me of my experience in 2017 when the same thing was happening. So, as I said, like, I don't really use too many tools to, to analyze the market. It's just a lot of mixture of subjective social signals and experience and things like that. But in terms of like, going beyond and using tools to analyze not just the market, but like the growth of Ethereum, for example, the growth of Altoos, there's plenty of tools out that you can use these days.
00:13:18.580 - 00:13:58.606, Speaker A: I mean, there's l two beat, there's dune analytics, there's Nansen, there is, I think it's transaction info, I think it's called, that shows you a bunch of stuff there. There's crypto fees dot in fo and all the other sites that David Mihal has built as part of cryptofees dot in for. You can see at the top of that website there's a bunch of other sites he's built there. And yeah, those are, those are kind of like my, my go to eat the scan, of course. But Doon analytics has a lot of cool dashboards that you can look at to measure these things and then looking at things like developer activity on GitHub and the projects that are launching. And there obviously is like very, there are, I guess, like hard signals and soft signals. The hard signals are things you can put data like hard data to.
00:13:58.606 - 00:14:21.318, Speaker A: Soft signals are more subjective and based on your own experience. But yeah, hopefully that answers your question on the market side, but also on, I guess, like the fundamentals side as well. All right. Destroyer asks, are you going to eat Denver? If so, let's organize a deli way meetup. Yes. I actually just booked my hotel today, so I booked my flight yesterday, my hotel today. So I will be at East Denver.
00:14:21.318 - 00:14:46.358, Speaker A: I will be in Denver from February 27 to March 6. The conference is March 2, so I think it's 2nd, 3rd, fourth, and fifth, or 3rd, fourth, and fifth, one of those two, but. And then there'll be, like, side events and stuff around that. Well, I'll look into organizing a deli Gwei meetup. If someone actually lives in Denver and knows a good place that we could. Where we could do a meet up, please reach out to me, because obviously, I don't live there. I don't know the lay of the land there.
00:14:46.358 - 00:15:07.486, Speaker A: But, yeah, I'm hoping to see a lot of you there, Ethan. But is the second biggest ethereum conference of the year. I think the only one bigger is Defcon. So if you are planning to go to Denver and you have put your application in, hopefully I'll see you there. But I think the venue capacity this year is 50,000. So, I mean, I'll be impressed if we can get 50,000 people to eat Denver in a bear market. Right.
00:15:07.486 - 00:15:27.342, Speaker A: I don't. I don't know if we're gonna be able to get to anywhere close to that, and I don't. And look, the venue capacity is 50,000 for the whole venue. I don't know if demo has booked out the entire venue. It's quite a large, large venue, but, yeah, hopefully everyone gets. Is able to come, and even if you aren't able to go to it, then. But if you live in the US and it's just a short flight for you, you can probably just come anyway and hang around at the side events.
00:15:27.342 - 00:15:55.134, Speaker A: There's always other stuff happening. But, yeah, hopefully I get to, um. To see some of you there. And destroy has a second question where they say this might be harder to answer, but there. Are there any studies yet to show how l one gap gas usage will look over time as l two s develop? I don't think there's been any kind of studies, per se. There's more of, like, there's a Doonata leaks dashboard that tracks this, and there are other dashboards that track this. The other day, I saw that l two s are taking up about 5% of layer one gas right now.
00:15:55.134 - 00:16:36.422, Speaker A: And that's been growing, obviously, over time. But the problem is, is that once ERP 4844 gets implemented, that is going to collapse. So let's just say 48 44, which is proto dank sharding, gets implemented q three, q four next year, still quite a while away, right. Could be like nine to twelve months until we get it, so, but just looking at it like that and considering what 48 44 is going to do for l two s, we could see the l two gas usage go up to like, I don't know, 15, 20% in the next nine to twelve months. But then once 48 44 gets implemented, the gas usage just dumps like by 90 plus percent. So it could go back to basically nothing of l one gas fees. So it's very, very hard to actually do any studies on this and to actually project things out.
00:16:36.422 - 00:17:16.194, Speaker A: I think we're going to need to wait until 48 44 is live and then we can get a better idea of the way things are going. But I've said this on the refuel, I don't actually think that it matters too much because there's always going to be people using l one. L1 is still going to be the most decentralized and secure place for your money for the foreseeable future. These l two s, the majority of them, or pretty much all of them except one, I believe, have centralized controls in place and they're going to take a while to get off those centralized controls. And even still they are much newer than ethereum layer one. So there is a higher chance, even if it's a small chance, there is still a higher chance of some kind of bug happening as well on these, on these networks. Or maybe you have assets on layer one and you're a whale and you don't care about paying the fees.
00:17:16.194 - 00:17:49.199, Speaker A: There's that as well. So I think there is going to be a dynamic where layer one gas fees are still just dominated by layer one things. Layer twos will grow over time, but then with 48 44 it's going to collapse the cost down and then we'll probably take a little bit, little while to fill that block space up again and see kind of what the dynamic is like. But yeah, it's very, very hard to project out at this point in time. All right, so next question here comes from. Oh, okay, comes from, yeah, rocket who says? I do have a question kind of related to bad artifacts. Question.
00:17:49.199 - 00:18:35.992, Speaker A: With the future implementation of DVT, is there any way for a group of people to combine their ETH to reach 32 ETH requirement to become a validator and then share the rewards proportionately to each person's stake? So let's say eight people each put four ETH into a multi seq or something, and then that one validator split across each eight people's machines. Thinking it through, I see it as a possibility, but I really have no clue. It would allow people with less than 32 ETH to participate in validation as well as help decentralization. So, I mean, in theory it's possible, but I guess, like, ultimately you're at the mercy of the multi sig, right? Because if you put this into a multi sigma, then, and depending what the multi seq is. So, for example, if you have, like, eight people putting in four ETH each, and then the multi seq is like a five of eight. Well, five of eight people could collude to steal the other three people's money, for example. Right.
00:18:35.992 - 00:19:02.516, Speaker A: So it wouldn't really be like trustless staking. You'd still have to trust. But in theory, this should work. What you've described here, like, I mean, I don't see a reason why it shouldn't, because you'd just be basically having the multi C controller validator, and then you can use DVT to split the validator keys amongst people. But the multi sig is the withdrawal key, so to speak. So the multi sig controls what you could. Like, who can withdraw from my understanding.
00:19:02.516 - 00:19:40.358, Speaker A: So, yeah, you may. It may just fall back to the multisig as being the ultimate source of security there, from my understanding. All right, so, MK Cole, hopefully I said that, right, asks two questions. First question is, what dashboards do you look at on a fairly regular basis? I would say the ones that I look at really regularly. Well, these days, actually, I look at the MEV watch dot in fo dashboard because I like monitoring and seeing those of a compliant blocks come down over time and seeing how the relay are, I guess relay ecosystem develops over time and changes over time. So I'm looking at that one on a very regular basis. I look at crypto fees dot in fo very regularly.
00:19:40.358 - 00:19:56.774, Speaker A: I look at the l two dashboard. So the ones on Doona analytics is a specific one that I look at. I can. I don't have it handy on with me right now, but if you message me on Discord, I can link it to you. I look at l two beats as well. Um, so I guess, like, those are the major ones I look at on. On a regular basis.
00:19:56.774 - 00:20:44.106, Speaker A: And I would say probably like one to two day basis. Uh, but the funny thing about, like, the dashboards as well is that they can be very noisy at times and it can be hard to especially on the shorter timeframes, be hard to filter through that noise because on the shorter timeframes, say, for example, it looks like there's a lot of activity happening on this certain project, but in reality, they have a liquidity mining program going on. They just came out. So they have a lot of buzz and there's like a few weeks worth of activity to go off. Well, that's no indication of what things are going to look like in the future. So you always have to, at least for me, I always like looking at dashboards that give me a longer term outlook rather than a shorter term one, so I can go back and look at, like, three to six months worth of data instead of, like one to two weeks worth because of all that potential noise that could be included there. But, yeah, those are the main ones that I look at on a regular basis.
00:20:44.106 - 00:21:27.524, Speaker A: And then second question is, what do you think will be the next killer app? Or what do you think will drive crypto to a billion users? You know, it's kind of hard to know, right? Like, I don't think anyone picked, well, I don't think most people picked the NFTs would be as big as they were last year, or even, like, this year, they're still pretty big, right? Because I remember I was actually speaking to my old boss at our set protocol when I was working there. I distinctly remember this conversation. I was at the set office in San Francisco, the first office that they were in, and I think it was, what was the date would have maybe. Maybe it was August 2019. It was definitely 29 late 2019. And we're talking about, okay, what's going to bring the bull market back, right? Because it was still the bear market. And I was saying, well, look, I think Defi is going to be a big deal.
00:21:27.524 - 00:22:08.804, Speaker A: And then, and then we're talking about how icos were a thing in 2017 and people didn't see the ICO boom happening. Then I was like, okay, well, when I think DeFi is going to be a big deal, and then because we're working, like, I mean, separate calls, a DeFi protocol, we all already bought into the DeFi mission. All of us are like, oh, yeah, but that's too obvious, right? Like, DeFi is like, super obvious. We already know it's going to going to be big. What's something that no one sees coming? And I don't remember anyone actually bringing up nfts at that point, which was kind of crazy when you think about it, because nfts were still around back then, but they were like, I mean, they were basically non existent. Like, no, literally no one was really paying attention to nfts. There were some pockets here and there, but they were regarded as like the weird kids at high school that just sit in the corner doing their own thing.
00:22:08.804 - 00:22:44.214, Speaker A: No one took it seriously. And then I guess fast forward like a year, we had DeFi summer. So I was right on the DeFi thing, but we were trying to look at things that were unsurprising and defy, for me, honestly, wasn't surprising that they fight, took off like it did. But yeah, we had defy summer, but then we had nfts and that just blew everyone out of the water. No one saw that coming. And it led to a lot of activity on, on a theorem for the majority of last year, really. So when, when kind of like thinking about it like that and taking that into that into account, I don't think we're going to be able to predict what's going to be the next big thing going forward.
00:22:44.214 - 00:23:27.188, Speaker A: I think that the existing use cases that we have are just going to keep getting bigger. Defi, NFTs, the web3 stuff is definitely going to keep growing, I believe, like decentralized social media. And then I think that there's going to be use cases that come to light because of the extra scale that we're getting with L2s that are going to blow people away, that are going to actually catch a lot of people by surprise and basically invent new ways of doing things that we couldn't even possibly think of. And I, off the top of my head right now, I can't even begin to imagine what that's going to look like. But in terms of something that scales to billions of users, that's actually quite hard. There's actually not that many things that scale to billions of users. In terms of apps, there's a very, there's only a handful of apps in the web two world that have a billion plus users, and they're the social media apps.
00:23:27.188 - 00:24:00.528, Speaker A: So can we create a decentralized version of that that gets a billion users? I mean, sure we can't. Will that happen? Who knows, right? Is their product market fit at that scale for a decentralized social media? I don't know, honestly. I think that obviously, like Defi has a product market feed of pretty much, or has a total addressable market of pretty much everyone on the planet. I think that money, money is a use case as well, right? Has, has that addressable market as well, obviously. But outside of that, it's hard to, to see what would drive a billion plus users in crypto. So we'll have to wait and see how, how that plays out. I don't.
00:24:00.528 - 00:24:35.556, Speaker A: Hopefully that answers the question, even though I don't have a really great answer for. I don't think anyone does, to be honest. But yeah, I'm curious to see what the next big use case or killer app is as well. All right, next question comes from space bucks. Who says, what is the landscape of l two or ZK specific hardware looking like? And how do you see this playing out with decentralization, decentralizing the various l two s out there? So there is one company that is working on this right now that I'm aware of, and I'm aware of them because I'm an investor in them. Just as a disclosure there called Ingonyama, they're working on Asics for proving ZK related things. Right.
00:24:35.556 - 00:25:21.270, Speaker A: And I don't think they're the only company working on this. I believe there may be one or two others, but as far as the ones that I know, it's in Gonyama right now. And I think. I think that they're going to be very, very important to decentralizing out the sequencing and the proving on, on these Zk L2s. Because the thing with L2s, and this goes for both optimistic roll ups and Zk roll ups, is that they have a kind of one of n trust assumption, where you only have to trust this one honest, I guess, like sequencer or validator, part of the l two network to basically know that the chain is operating as it should be. Whereas in Ethereum, there's not a one of n trust assumption. You have to basically assume that the majority of the network is coming to consensus on the same stuff.
00:25:21.270 - 00:25:58.678, Speaker A: He's verifying the same stuff. To trust that that is the source of truth. That is the real ethereum, right? So that's like a menu of n, so to speak, whereas l two s is a one of n. And the thing is, though, is that there's a drawback here where there's one of n trust assumption, but one of n isn't really great for decentralization and isn't really great for scale scaling and for getting those proving times down. So, sorry, not decentralization. It isn't good for censorship resistance. And the reason that's the case is because, say you only have one sequencer, so you only got one, I guess, like sequencer processing transactions on L2.
00:25:58.678 - 00:26:45.370, Speaker A: What do you think that means? Well, that means that that sequencer can refuse to process your transaction because there's only one of them. They can censor you. But if you have ten sequences, well, I mean, you only need to trust that one of them doesn't send to you because you'll get your transaction included with one of them. Right? Whereas on, I mean, and it plays out the same way on Ethereum with regards to censorship, where there's not just one validator on the Ethereum chain that processes all transactions, there is almost 500,000 of them. And then if you look at the, you know who they outsourcing their block building to, you look at the relayers, and you can see right now that I think it's 65% issue of all blocks on Ethereum ofaC compliant. Well, that means that 35% aren't. And it will take you less than five minutes to get your tornado crash transaction in still, because.
00:26:45.370 - 00:27:21.576, Speaker A: Because those other validators will include them. So that's why we say ethereum is censorship resistant, whereas on these l two s, on optimism. And arbitram, for example, right now there's only one sequencer, so they could censor you if they wanted to on the l two. Now, does that mean they can steal your money or prevent you from exiting the l two? No, you can exit the l two via l one. You can do what's called an escape hatch on these l two s that lets you pull your funds out of the l two via l one. But, yeah, I mean, it sucked to get censored on the l two because obviously you're trying to get your transactions in and you're being blocked from doing so. So that's why we need multiple sequences, sequences on, on that front.
00:27:21.576 - 00:28:00.754, Speaker A: And the way you get multiple sequences and more efficient sequencing, more efficient proving is with these, I guess, like specific hardware, these asics, for proving. And as I said, ingonyama is the one company I'm aware of, but I'm sure there's others out there, and I think it's going to be a really big space going forward. All right, next question here comes from crypto Spanglish, who says, I heard you bought a new pc for solo staking. Can you please detail what pc components one needs in order to get started with solo staking and where to order it from? Thank you. So I go overboard when I build my solo staking PCs, like, literally the one that I have ordered. I don't have it yet. I'm going to be building it hopefully this week.
00:28:00.754 - 00:28:33.962, Speaker A: But the parts that I've ordered for is total overkill. You don't need that. And the reason I do that is because one, I mean, I like to future proof it for, for quite a while. Two, I like to just build PCs generally and I just find it really fun as a hobby. I built pc since I was like 13 years old, so it's always been a. A passion for me and it's just like a personal preference thing. But the thing is, is that you can run a full node and validators on a raspberry PI or on a rock five b board from Redaxa that's recently come out.
00:28:33.962 - 00:29:10.288, Speaker A: And those things with, with an SSD, I think it's like $500 it would cost you or something to do that. So the upfront cost is very small, obviously very much smaller than it is for a mining setup on, on proof of work. And in terms of where you can get these components from, well obviously it's going to vary based on where you live in Australia. Pc case Gear is the most popular place to buy pc parts online and there's a bunch of other stores as well. But I normally go with pc case gear. Amazon is really great for pc parts too. But in terms of like the Raspberry PI's and the Rock five b board, they can be had from specialized retailers online.
00:29:10.288 - 00:29:48.560, Speaker A: You can just google this, but generally, yeah, I mean there. I mean depending where you are in the world, you'll have your own retailer that you, you can go to and that's. And that's where you can source those parts from. But in terms of, I guess like getting started with solo stacking on the hardware side, as I said, you only need like a low powered kind of raspberry PI rock five b board. But if you want to go to let's like a normal pc, you can have like a NuC, which intel builds a lot of these nucs which is like a small little mini pc that you can buy and you can add extra ram to it and extra storage to it if you want. Or you can build like one of those mini ITX builds. So it's like small PCs, like really, really tiny, and then just attach an SSD to it.
00:29:48.560 - 00:30:14.604, Speaker A: As I said, you don't need beefy hardware for this. You can buy like a standard motherboard, standard cpu, like an I five or something, or a Ryzen five. You don't need the top of the range stuff, SSD. You would want to have like a two terabyte Nvme sSD. I usually use Samsung ones because they've been the most reliable for me, I've had other ones in the past. I don't want to badmap any brands here, but I've had ones that have failed before on me. And it really sucks when it fails, obviously.
00:30:14.604 - 00:30:27.380, Speaker A: So. Yeah, I don't, I don't, um. I really just use Samsung SSD's these days. The. The Nvme ones. Not the. Not the normal ones, just the NVMe ones that plug into the motherboard or the PCIe slot.
00:30:27.380 - 00:30:50.660, Speaker A: You can get adapters for it and then power supply. I mean, you don't need a beefy power supply to run these things, like 500 or 600 watts. But what I actually have, and I've gone above and beyond to have is a backup power supply. So basically it's called a ups and uninterruptible, uninterruptible power supply. It gives you. It's basically a big battery that you connect your hardware to. And then if your power goes off, the battery kicks in and keeps your hardware online.
00:30:50.660 - 00:31:25.918, Speaker A: The reason I've done this is twofold. Obviously, I want to keep my validators online, but going offline is, you know, the penalty is not big for going offline, so it doesn't matter too much. But the bigger reason is that if your computer suddenly shuts off, it can corrupt your full node, which means you'd have to resync it again. And that could send you offline for two to three days. And then obviously the, the pen, the, the offline penalty starts adding up then, especially if you've got a lot of validators. So you don't want to have any corruption happening on the, on the, on the database side of your full node. And that's another major reason why I've done that there.
00:31:25.918 - 00:31:43.002, Speaker A: But, yeah, I mean, they work really well. I bought mine off eBay, but you can get them from like pretty much anywhere. But it basically is like a battery that has. Has connections at the back you can plug your pc into. So I've got my pc plugged into that. I've got my Internet box plugged into that as well. And my.
00:31:43.002 - 00:31:55.962, Speaker A: Sorry, my Internet. I mean, in Australia we have what's called the NBN and the one I'm on, there's like a little black box that can. That, that provides the Internet. It's like a. It's not a modem, so to speak. It's like a connection box they call it. I can't remember exactly what they call it.
00:31:55.962 - 00:32:30.118, Speaker A: Then I've got my modem router set up that I connected to the interrupt uninterruptible power supply as well to make sure that stays online. And then I also have, in case, like, my Internet goes offline, I have a 5G backup. But honestly, like, that's like, probably going a bit too. The problem with the 5G backups is that you don't get much data with it. And the. And staking on Ethereum is pretty data hungry or bandwidth hungry. So I wouldn't like to have that going for too long because then you have like, really big data costs if you go over your limit or you get like throttled and then it's not, doesn't really work anyway.
00:32:30.118 - 00:33:03.322, Speaker A: So that's my kind of step. And that's, that's a solo staker. As a home setup, you can do solo staking on the cloud, but obviously that's more centralizing because you're trusting someone else's hardware and software to run that thing for you. But you do get the added benefit of, I guess, like, not having to worry about things like the ups and backup Internet and stuff like that. But as I said, going offline is not very punishing at all. It's actually very forgiving. So if I put it to you this way, if you're offline for a month and then online for a month, your net rewards would basically be zero.
00:33:03.322 - 00:33:37.860, Speaker A: Your net block rewards would be zero. So you don't lose anything and you don't make anything. So, yeah, I mean, it's very, very forgiving, but that's only if you're offline, like on your own. If. If, sorry, if 33% of the network is offline as well as you are, then something called the quadratic inactivity leak kicks in and the offline penalties become much greater. But I mean, the chances of that happening are quite slim. And I mean, it's quite slim if I guess, like you're solo staking, but like, it can be larger if you're a part of LSD liquid staking derivative pool and that, or if you're part of.
00:33:37.860 - 00:34:07.504, Speaker A: Or if you're kind of like staking on AWS, for example, and AWS goes down and takes all these other validators down with them, it can kick in more there. But yeah, hopefully that answers your question. Crypto spanglish. All right, I don't know if this is a serious question or not, but I'll answer it anyway. Crypto decrypted. Ethan said when token, I've met said many times on the refuel and in the Discord channel that there is never going to be a daily token and I mean, I don't. As I said, I think this is more of a joke question, but I feel like it's worth reiterating that.
00:34:07.504 - 00:34:33.544, Speaker A: And the reason for that is simply that I don't think there's any need for a token. Like what would a token even do? I mean, I don't want to make a dao out of the daily. I don't want to do any liquidity mining or make a token that does profit share. I mean, I don't make any money from dailyguay anyway, so there wouldn't be any profit to share right now. So yeah, there's never going to be a token for it. And I honestly think that most. It's funny because I think that like people started asking that more when bankless did a token.
00:34:33.544 - 00:34:49.896, Speaker A: But bankless as a. I guess business or as a. As a community is much larger than dailygware, has a much larger scope, I should say. And they actually do have a bankless dao that the token is tied to. And they vote on things and they do all sorts of stuff and they have revenue streams, obviously. So it's very, very different. So, yeah, no, no token for.
00:34:49.896 - 00:35:30.384, Speaker A: For Deli Gwei. All right, so Mike Natanzon here referenced his question from back up here, which was asked on the 28 June this year. So, yeah, quite a little bit of an older question here, but he said to answer it. So I'll just read out the question. So he asks, hey, you mentioned all the projects that you're invested in. Really curious if you have insight into what's usually the process for a project to make it in the web3 space. Like if you have a really great idea and are actively building the project, how does it get traction, funding, et cetera, in the space? I find that if the idea is pretty complex, most people weren't bothered too much trying to understand it, while all sorts of Ponzi's have catchy titles that are highly memeable.
00:35:30.384 - 00:36:02.120, Speaker A: So I mean, it all just comes back to what is product market fit, right? Like that's the ultimate kind of thing that you're looking for as a startup, whether it's in crypto or otherwise. You're looking for product market fit. And what that means is basically you're looking for people that actually want to use your product so it actually fits into the market and can become a sustainable business. So what are some of the examples of these most successful sustainable projects on Ethereum today? Well, I think the number one example is Uniswap. Right? Uniswap. Is incredibly successful. It's sustainable, it works, people love it, people use it.
00:36:02.120 - 00:36:22.930, Speaker A: It has product market fit. Compound aave maker, like all these old OG Defi protocols still kicking, still product market fit. Layer twos definitely have product market fit, right? Because they're lowering fees for end users. They have their own ecosystems on there. They have a lot of people on there and it's growing. Nft seem to have product market fit as well. I mean that's debatable depending who you talk to.
00:36:22.930 - 00:36:44.160, Speaker A: But I do, I think they have a product market fit. Things like ens for example, have it. So yeah, those are just some examples of things that have it right now. So how do they get there? Well, they offered a product that people actually wanted to use. So in Unisopp's case, people have always wanted to trade tokens. I mean they were just doing it on centralized exchanges. So UniSop came along and said, hey, you can do this on chain.
00:36:44.160 - 00:37:18.486, Speaker A: And we have this new thing called an amm that allows you to provide liquidity and that anyone can provide liquidity, which means that you can trade the long tail of assets. And that's what people love doing. They love just trading all these assets, trading in and out of them, doing it on chain, doing it self custodially, doing it within like one ethereum block. No need to wait to deposit your funds for centralized exchange and then wait for confirmations. And then hopefully you can withdraw your funds after you're done with the trade. Right? So that was an obvious thing there, ens. I mean they provided a product of people wanting to tie a, I guess like a human readable name to their Ethereum address.
00:37:18.486 - 00:38:14.626, Speaker A: So that was, to me that's like a very obvious thing. It just copying the, the Internet with ips and domain names, right? So those things themselves, I think that they were, I mean, I'm not gonna say they were guaranteed to succeed, but they had better chances than other things that may be considered more of a moonshot, more of something that's not based on as something that you can point to having like just natural demand. So in terms of the projects you mentioned, like Ponzi's, right. For example, there have been a lot of Ponzi's and a lot of things that just, I guess, spin up. They have liquidity mining programs and they seem like they have product market fit, but in reality they don't. And all the time these products actually just look like the existing products. And the reason why the existing products, especially the finance related ones, keep kicking is because when it comes to defi, you're going to be more likely to use long term the protocols that have been around for a long time that have legitimate teams behind them that are more secure than the newer ones just by virtue of not wanting to lose your money.
00:38:14.626 - 00:38:35.262, Speaker A: Right. That's a big factor for a lot of people. And as we've seen this year, it's quite easy to lose your money in crypto, unfortunately. So, so there's that. But in terms of, like, the process to get there, the process to get up to there, I mean, it's, it's literally like any business, you need to work really, really hard. You need to be very nimble in your strategy. You can't just be married to an idea or married to a strategy as part of your project.
00:38:35.262 - 00:38:59.366, Speaker A: You have to be able to pivot when the time is right. You have to be able to seize the opportunities when the time is right. You have to get over things like sunk cost fallacy. Let's say you're building something and you think it's awesome, and you build it for six months and then you launch it and no one's using it. And you, and you kind of think to yourself, wow, how do I get people to use this? And you keep trying to get people to use it. You keep spending money on it, and no one's using it as a team. You need to basically say, well, okay, this doesn't seem to be working.
00:38:59.366 - 00:39:40.116, Speaker A: Let's pivot to something else, or let's try something else and not fall into a sunk cost fallacy where you're like, okay, well, I've spent like a year building this thing out. I can't just abandon now. No, I mean, you kind of need to. If it hasn't been working out for you, if you're getting no traction, then you sometimes really do need to abandon the, the idea altogether and go somewhere else and do something else, and then maybe you find product market fit next time there. So there's, I mean, I could go on for a long time about this, but in the interest of just kind of keeping it high level here, it's not easy. Um, and the thing is, is that 90% or more than 90% of businesses in the non crypto world fail within, like, three or five years. I believe the stat is in crypto.
00:39:40.116 - 00:40:03.076, Speaker A: The failure rate is a lot higher because it's a much younger ecosystem. But the successes are really big. Right. Like, Unisop is a huge success, but there are a long tail of other amms that just haven't really worked out. They've tried to innovate, they've tried to do things differently. But because liquidity begets liquidity, and it's easily. And liquidity can easily kind of, I guess like a monopolize within one pool or a set of kind of pools.
00:40:03.076 - 00:40:37.702, Speaker A: Under the same protocol, it becomes hard to compete in that arena. Lending markets, we've seen a lot of them kind of blow up or have bad debt associated with them or get gamed, things like that. So, yeah, trust and safety when it comes to defi NFTs is a whole nother ballgame, because you can split NFTs up into maybe two broad categories of infrastructure and the NFTs themselves. But then the NFTs themselves can be. Can be split up into like many, many different categories. You have gaming nfts, you have pfps, you have pops, right? Which are nfts. You have nf, you have Ens addresses, which are nfts infrastructure.
00:40:37.702 - 00:41:06.560, Speaker A: Things like immutable x, right? Things like Opensea and looks rare. And other marketplaces, I would say that the marketplaces have product market fit. Like, obviously of those Opensea, Uniswap's NFT integration, there's a few up and comers, like blur, looks red. I haven't looked at looks rare lately, but doesn't seem to be doing too well. Had that initial fan. Fan has kind of paid it out there. And in terms of the NFTs themselves, there's only a handful that have had lasting impact so far.
00:41:06.560 - 00:41:49.756, Speaker A: The crypto punks and apes and I guess like a few others out there. I don't mean, I don't pay much attention to nfts, the PFP nfts with nfts themselves. But that's even harder because, like a lot of them are just either things that are just flash in the pan like fads or rug pulls or scams, right? So, yeah, it depends on which part of the industry you're looking at. But generally, building a sustainable business is hard. Building something that has long term success is really, really hard. And what I've seen work is basically just things that seem like obvious that they have product market fit. Because as I said, with Uniswap, you know that people try like, to trade tokens before you built Unisop, right? That's why Uniswap was built, because Hayden Adams saw, hey, like, people love trading tokens.
00:41:49.756 - 00:42:31.164, Speaker A: What if we could do this on chain? What if we could use an amm to do it and make it more streamlined for users? What if we could do it for the long tail of assets. ENS came to be because, I mean, it's in their name, right? They looked at DNS, the domain name system, and they said, hey, like the Internet was only able to get popular because we invented the DNS system which allow people to map ip addresses to human readable names. Why don't we do this for Ethereum addresses? So it's derived from an existing idea that already has product market fit outside of crypto. And it's brought into crypto like that. So yeah, hopefully that answers your question there. Moving on to the next one here from I think this. This one's definitely a joke question here from I think John Qi, nine.
00:42:31.164 - 00:42:54.166, Speaker A: I haven't said that right, sorry, my pronunciation is terrible. They ask, is it true that Australia is full of giant spiders? Yes, I mean, it's very true. Unfortunately, they are surrounding my house. Every time I go outside of my house, I have to carry a shotgun with me to defend myself. Just going to my mailbox is a mission, right? Like, it's just, it's really scary. They're huge, right? And I'm joking, of course there's no giant spiders. I mean there are big spiders, but like not like giant.
00:42:54.166 - 00:43:18.356, Speaker A: I mean probably like big like that they can grow to. But the thing about the spiders is that like, I live in the suburbs. I mean, you still see spiders, but they're not like the ones you see out in the outback, which is the massive, like huntsmen and things like that. Like you don't, you don't really see those in suburbia too often. And spiders love just like dark places. So you're not really gonna see them in your home too much. Like inside your actual home you might, you know, if you go under the house you're gonna see them.
00:43:18.356 - 00:43:39.046, Speaker A: If you go in your backyard or garage, you might might see them. But inside the actual house, I mean, I rarely see them. The ones that I see in the house most often are what's called a daddy long legs. And they're the most harmless spiders you can see. Like they're literally like, I guess like a light brown color and you just randomly spot them on the wall. You look at it and you just like, you just leave it. I don't even bother killing it cuz I'm.
00:43:39.046 - 00:44:04.674, Speaker A: It can't do anything right. And I'm not, I'm not personally freaked out by spiders, but yeah, there are no like giant spiders everywhere. But if you go in the outback, I mean there are definite. Outback is our term for like rural Australia, there is definitely a lot more wildlife out there and a lot more of these kind of like spiders and other poisonous wildlife. But even around me where I live in the suburb, I mean, there are other wildlife here. There's plenty of birds. Like, plenty of birds where I am.
00:44:04.674 - 00:44:22.330, Speaker A: There's, there's possums as well. Um, there's, there's foxes, there's, there's all kinds of wildlife. But I mean, you don't really see them too much. And I mean, possums are nocturnal. Sometimes I'll hear them at night. They're actually, possums are actually quite scary because when they're running along the fence, they make so much bloody noise. And because it's dark, you actually don't know where they are.
00:44:22.330 - 00:44:40.950, Speaker A: So sometimes I'll like, be at the front of my house and it's dark and I'll hear just like something coming along the fence. I'm like, what the fuck? And then I'll quickly remember, okay, that's a possum. And it just sounds like you're in a horror movie and there's something just coming at you. But possums are tiny. Like really tiny. Um, and, uh, then they're gonna, they'll leave you alone. They're not gonna attack you or anything like that.
00:44:40.950 - 00:45:11.470, Speaker A: But they are nocturnal, so you're only ever gonna see them when it's dark. So. So yeah, but hopefully that answers your question there. All right, so next one from Zero X, Cassie, who says? My question. An Ethereum node which is just running and not used by anybody locally for transactions. Is it still helpful for the network in any way? I know it's a bit similar to the questions above, but I cannot figure out exactly how it would help secure the blockchain. I'm thinking of setting up a node at a location where there is a fast excess Internet connection, but no, ethereum users, wouldn't make sense.
00:45:11.470 - 00:45:56.714, Speaker A: So your full node yourself, if you're only using it for your own purposes and you're not actually opening it up for other people to use as like an RPC, then no, it's not going to be helpful from the network, so to speak. Like from a, from, I guess like an objective or a technical point of view. But what it is helpful with, it's helpful from a social point of view, as I mentioned before, where people can see that there's like thousands of nodes on the network that can have relative confidence that the network is decentralized because of that. And there is, you know, thousands of different copies of the chain at any given time. But the number one way it's very helpful for people or for yourself is to use it as an RPC to relay your transactions. But, yeah, I did answer this in the previous question that you probably heard, but. But if you haven't, there's a timestamp for it, you can go check that one out.
00:45:56.714 - 00:46:52.910, Speaker A: But, yeah, I'll leave that at that because I already did answer it, I think, in the previous questions. All right, so one here from Verque who says, on a very basic level, a system where you lock money to earn future revenue, such as staking yields, but cannot withdraw it until some point in the future, kind of sounds like a scam. If you try to explain, like, I'm five to an outsider, why was it designed like this in the first place? I understand this has been discussed a million times, and there are liquid staking derivatives as workarounds and promise solutions for withdrawals. But without going into all the specific details, this just seems fishy on a high level, doesn't it? Look, I don't think it seems fishy and I don't think it's scammy, but obviously, if you're coming into this ecosystem as, like, a brand new user and someone tells you, hey, you can stake, but you can't withdraw, I mean, it may sound a little bit dodgy to them, especially because there are a lot of crypto scams and Ponzi's out there that. That work like this, and you can't actually withdraw. Right. So I understand that, but the reason it was designed like this is simply because we didn't want to enable withdrawals for safety reasons.
00:46:52.910 - 00:47:17.764, Speaker A: Right. Like when the Beacon chain was first launched, it was launched very basic. It launches a very basic chain on December 1, 2020, where it was just coming to consensus on itself. Then we did the merge and we merged the two chains together. We didn't want to enable withdrawals then because we didn't want to add more complexity to the merge than was already there. So the merge was by far the most complex upgrade Ethereum has ever done. And if we added withdrawals into that, it would have complicated things even more, and there would have been just one more thing that could have gone wrong.
00:47:17.764 - 00:47:42.250, Speaker A: So the promise was made that, or I guess, like the promise and the social consensus among the community was that the first upgrade after the merge would include withdrawals. And that's happening. Withdrawals are slated for the Shanghai upgrade, which is coming in March, April of next year, not too long away now. And then once they're in. They're in. Right. So I mean I understand that there, people are concerned about this.
00:47:42.250 - 00:48:19.964, Speaker A: I understand there's a lot of FUd around this as well. But I think the Fud is, is silly because as I've said like there's been that kind of understanding within the community for a long time that the withdrawals wouldn't be enabled until after the merge. And on top of that it is a voluntary thing. You're not forced to stake. And if you want instant liquidity on your stake, you, you can go through an LSD, of which there are many now, but you are not forced to send your ETH into the deposit contract, lock it up and then not be able to withdraw until withdrawals are enabled. And just holding ETH on, you know, on your own in your wallet, you're not locked into anything there. So I think the FUD around it is silly because of that, because it's a voluntary process.
00:48:19.964 - 00:48:44.118, Speaker A: So hopefully that answers your question. But yeah, I mean this has been discussed to death I think. And I think you've probably seen all the, the different discussions on this as well. But, but yeah, that's the reason it was done. It was really just done for safety and security reasons at the end of the day. All right, one here from Grimey Gwei who says, I'm interested in helping with network decentralization. As someone with just a little bit of capital I can't really afford to participate in staking side of Ethereum, aside from LSD's.
00:48:44.118 - 00:49:13.946, Speaker A: But that experience hardly resembles what it takes to set up something like a solo staking operation. I just want to become a little more knowledgeable so that if I do get to a point of being able to spin up a rocker pool, mini pool, or do some solo staking, I have experienced poking around under the hood. I saw what people have mentioned about running a node and we'll be starting there. Just got a repriseview PI and looking forward to tinkering. So yeah for sure the first thing you can be doing is running an Ethereum full node. But I think there is a misconception within crypto that you have to do something technical to add to the decentralization of the network. You actually don't.
00:49:13.946 - 00:50:06.288, Speaker A: So the, when you really break it down, what's keeping these networks decentralized is the social layer. And the more distributed, the more varied, the more geographically diverse, the more I guess like culturally diverse the social layer is, the more decentralized it is. So what can you do to help with that? Well you can produce educational materials, right? You can make educational videos or podcasts or blog posts. You can participate in the Ethereum governance process. You can go to the ETH research forum and participate in the posts on there and give your feedback on that. You can help people in the daily grade discord channel when they're asking questions. You can obviously keep stacking ETH to run your own validator eventually, whether that be as a mini pool or as a solo validator, right? So there are many different things you can be doing, and you can, I mean, you can just be doing stuff in real life as well, telling your friends and family about Ethereum and crypto and maybe getting them into it.
00:50:06.288 - 00:50:33.128, Speaker A: So it's not just a strictly technical thing that you have to be doing. You can do a lot of stuff on the social side of things as well. Because as I've talked about on the refill a lot of times before, the social a is the is what makes the blockchain decentralized. The social a is the ultimate last line of defense. And the social a is what sets the culture of a chain. That's why you see on bitcoin, the culture is dominated by bitcoin maximalists. They, they basically are the loudest kind of like people in that ecosystem, and it leads to a very toxic ecosystem.
00:50:33.128 - 00:51:09.250, Speaker A: Whereas in Ethereum, it's the. I would say that the dominant culture is one of building and looking towards the future. And that's why Ethereum is such a builder centric community. And we have so many things that people build all the time, and we keep building on not just the core protocol, but on the app layer on l two s, all that good stuff there. So hopefully that answers your question about how you can help with network decentralization. It's not just the technical side of it, it also is also the social side of things as well. All right, one here from Nextech, who asks, can you explain fuel and sway? Like, I'm five, I generally consider myself pretty advanced, but I just don't understand how that L2 works.
00:51:09.250 - 00:51:53.192, Speaker A: It was the bankless alpha leak recently for modular blockchains, so I wouldn't say I'm an expert on this either. So apologies here, but fuel is a is another implementation of a L2. As far as I know, they are trying to use Utxo instead of account based model for their, for their chain here, or for their L2 here, which they propose. They propose gives a bunch of benefits, which I'm sure they explained on the bankless podcast. I haven't actually listened to that yet. And sway is their native language for the fuel layer too, just like how you have solidity with the theorem layer one and with other EVM chains, and you have Cairo on stock net, you have sway for, for fuel. And then you also have like Noir for Aztec as well, which is another layer too.
00:51:53.192 - 00:52:33.980, Speaker A: So yeah, sorry I can't go into more depth about that. I'm not as versed as I should be in that. But yeah, that's like a high level of what those two things are. All right, one here from Adam Nk ETH. He says, if hypothetically, a decentralized algo stablecoin won't be possible to create at all, ever, then what is the best way going forward? It feels like quite a big problem given how important stable coins are with risk of centralization, government bans, slash cbdcs, et cetera. 100. So a 100% anon team with ZK proof privacy, plus proof of reserves and liabilities type of thing, maybe, maybe an algorithm could be integrated to the Ethereum protocol somehow, thus giving it more of a trust factor and won't be easily de pegged.
00:52:33.980 - 00:52:55.444, Speaker A: But that might be a shit show. I don't know. Haven't thought it through. All right, so I've talked about stable coins on the refuel before. I, I've said that I don't believe that we can ever create a truly decentralized stable coin that is pegged to a fiat currency. Right? I just don't think that's going to happen. And I do think the end state is ETH being the stable coin, so to speak, or being the money of the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:52:55.444 - 00:53:41.670, Speaker A: And that it does happen in small parts, like the NFT ecosystem is definitely using money, using ether's money, and people are using either's money across the ecosystem generally. But in terms of saying that he's stable, so to speak. When you talk about stable coins, like, it's funny because a stable coin doesn't necessarily have to be pegged to a fiat currency, and obviously the most popular ones are pegged to us dollars, but that just means it's stable to us dollars. It doesn't mean that it's stable to everything. And this goes into the concept of stability. So, for example, the US dollar loses purchasing power over time by virtue of inflation and by virtue of other things just going up in price against it. So you could say that the US dollar has lost a lot of purchasing power against ETH, because ETH has gone up a lot against that over its lifetime, right? Started at $0.30
00:53:41.670 - 00:54:12.490, Speaker A: right, 30 us cents. And now is that twelve or $1300, whatever it is right now, 1300 us dollars. So when thinking about stability, that's how I think about it. But no, I don't think that there is a possibility to create a decentralized algo stable coin in terms of being able to kind of like self balance it and make it work without clutter or anything like that. I just don't think that's possible. And that goes to your second kind of point here where, you know, baking something into the Ethereum core protocol. I mean, we already saw that play out with Terra with, with the UST stable coin.
00:54:12.490 - 00:54:44.644, Speaker A: It doesn't work. The only way a decentralized stablecoin can work, but work in terms of, I guess like work but not at scale, is something like the original die. So single collateral, dai or rye. But those things can't scale very well because they have to use only truly decentralized collateral, which is really just ETH on Ethereum. And ETH has a ceiling on how much ETH will actually go into that contract to generate that stable coin. Right. So yeah, it's, it's quite a hard problem when you think about it like that, and I don't think we're going to get an algorithm that ever works.
00:54:44.644 - 00:55:37.736, Speaker A: Alright, so a question or two questions here from MI. First question, I know this is a simple back to the basics kind of question, but can you discuss the difference relevance and then tie this into the current news around consensus and execution clients? Please explain what they are, the differences, and why diversity within these are an important issue. I never seem to get it. So I explained earlier, I think was the first question I answered around execution clients and like the differences between them and even consensus clients as well. But maybe I'll answer the, the meta question here about why client diversity matters for Ethereum. So there are a few reasons why client diversity matters. So the reason why we have client diversity at least, and the main reason is that if one of the clients has a bug, right, if one of the clients has something wrong with it, and then everyone was running that client, so say 100% of the network was running that client.
00:55:37.736 - 00:56:20.954, Speaker A: If there was only a single client system, well then the whole network would go offline, right? Whereas with the way it currently is, the network is resilient to one, two or even three of the clients are having major bugs in them, or basically having critical bugs in them that send them offline or send them like out of sync with the chain. Because we have client diversity where people are running multiple different clients. So that is, I guess, like the main reason. At least that's, that's my understanding of the main reason. But then there are other reasons as well. So having a multi client architecture also means better decentralization, because it's not just one team building the one Ethereum client, which would obviously be incredibly centralized. We now have ten plus teams building Ethereum clients, which makes it much more decentralized.
00:56:20.954 - 00:56:51.064, Speaker A: And the knowledge base is also much greater because we have much more people working on the Ethereum core client protocol. And the reason why this is desirable is because the Ethereum protocol has a very ambitious roadmap. We don't want just like five people working on it, we want hundreds of people working on it. I don't think that would be possible with just a single client. You would need multiple clients to do that. And I've seen, we've seen that play out. Another reason is that each of these clients are built using different architectures, built using different sets of code, built using different principles, built by different people from different backgrounds, built to do different things.
00:56:51.064 - 00:57:51.190, Speaker A: Like one of the consensus layer clients is built to be optimized for low power devices like Raspberry PI's. One of the other ones is built for kind of like normal devices, right? And running on those and being fine to run on those. So there are different reasons. And as I mentioned before, like earlier, something like Aragon is built to be better at syncing archive nerd. So there are lots of different little differences and pros and cons to each one there. But yeah, those are the two main reasons why client diversity is, is so important now also from a security point of view, for we want the network to be client diverse as well, because of the fact is that, is that if the, if more than one client is actually above the 67% threshold on Ethereum under proof of stake, it means that if that client had a bug in it, it could finalize that the chain could potentially finalize on the bugged chain. And then to revert that would require a social consensus, surgical, I guess, kind of rollback, so to speak, of the chain, which is obviously not something that we want to be doing.
00:57:51.190 - 00:58:42.058, Speaker A: So we don't want any one client having more than 67 7% share of the network so that that doesn't happen. And there was actually a point where prism actually had more than 67% of the network on the consensus layer side. And then we were able to get that down to under 50% and then improve client diversity there because we educated people and make them understand that that was actually a very big security issue and that people could, if they were running that minority, that, sorry, um, that majority client could potentially get slashed when that social recovery was, was put into effect there. So hopefully that answers that question on, on client diversity. And your second question is what a USD stable coin that's inflation proof be a real world concept? I imagine it would be one USD. That plus the difference in CPI or something, the collateral would have to be constantly added to in drip amounts. I think it's fascinating structure, but we rely heavily on external data, CPI data, which is hotly debated.
00:58:42.058 - 00:59:06.698, Speaker A: Debated. And oracles. I mean, yeah, I mean, it would definitely rely on oracles because this, this outside data, such as CPI data, is not available on Ethereum natively. It requires oracle to bring that data in. But yeah, I mean, the only way it would work is as you described, you would have to keep adding more collateral to make up for the loss in purchasing power to inflation. Right. Or the loss in, I guess, like stability to inflation.
00:59:06.698 - 00:59:47.924, Speaker A: And that just mean, logically, thinking it through just on the spot doesn't seem like it would work very well. It seems like it would punish the existing holders and dilute them anyway. I'm not sure exactly how you would set this up, but yeah, it doesn't seem like it would work. And that's why I've said before, fiat pegged stable coins is really just a stepping stone. I don't actually think that's the end game for these blockchains. I think they need to have their own native money and instead of relying on off chain fiat pegged things. All right, so actually Mi has a last question here, and they're piggybacking off of MK Cole's question, where they said, what app, financial or non financial, do you think would go viral? Where skeptics would say, fuck it, I'll download a wallet and throw a few bucks at this because it looks cool.
00:59:47.924 - 01:00:36.654, Speaker A: Fascinating, interesting. That's not really scamming, of course, social, financial or other. What concepts have you seen that are far out there conceptually that made you think twice? I think an example of this is something like axie infinity, right? Where, I mean, the problem with axie infinity is that, like, it was a bull market thing and it looked very Ponzi esque, where you'd kept needing fresh capital to come in to keep the party going. But it did pique a lot of people's interest. That did get a lot of people into crypto, brought a lot of people into the ecosystem, got them to download a wallet, you know, on board via ethereum, on board via the axie sidechain, and just do crypto stuff. So that was definitely something that I found fascinating and interesting, even though I knew it wasn't sustainable. There was a similar one called Stepan on Solana that was basically rewarding people for exercising.
01:00:36.654 - 01:01:07.714, Speaker A: But I looked at that and I'm like, this was already kind of tried in 2017. And the idea doesn't really make much sense because making it Sybil proof would be very hard. It looks like a ponzi as well, which it kind of was. And I think it's kind of lost a lot of its usage because the market has been quiet and it required new capital come in. But in terms of other things that could go viral, I'm not entirely sure. To be honest. I feel like a lot of the crypto ecosystem is definitely an on chain casino or even an off chain casino where the main value prop is speculation right now.
01:01:07.714 - 01:01:44.622, Speaker A: And definitely, obviously, when the bull markets are really, really hot, more speculation, more people come in. But I don't know what other things right now would. Would act like that. Because anything that brings in a lot of people really quickly, by very nature, I think, would have to be speculative on, on chain. Because if you're thinking about maybe non speculative things or non financial things like games, maybe there could be a game, a crypto native game that brings people in and actually adds something novel that people actually want to use and it brings, you know, millions of players in. I can see that happening. But in terms of, like, the financial stuff, it's always going to be speculation driven.
01:01:44.622 - 01:02:13.576, Speaker A: I don't think there's going to be a case where people are like, oh, my God, like, I can do payments using crypto. Like, I'm gonna just go and do that and like. And I don't think they're gonna do that because honestly, for a lot of people, especially in the west, payments is a solved thing for them. They've got Apple Pay, they've got venmo, things like that. Payments. The payment use case, I think is more important for developing countries that don't have access to that same infrastructure. But, yeah, I can't think of too many things off the top of my head that would bring in a lot of people.
01:02:13.576 - 01:03:06.380, Speaker A: But, yeah, hopefully that, that's a bit of, I guess, background on what's I've seen that was interesting and what maybe there is in the future to come. All right, so one here from the HD sync who says, do you think there is a central entity that drives Ethereum expectations. Do expectations affect price? If there is such, what can be done to decouple them? I assume this affects legal and structural setup of the ecosystem. No, I don't think there is a central entity that drives the expectations of Ethereum. I do think that there are people with like louder voices than others because they're, they're working on the actual core protocol. So core developers and researchers obviously have a louder voice and a more legitimate voice than other people in the ecosystem. Obviously someone like Vitalik, while he doesn't control the chain or anything like that, he puts forward ideas, and usually those ideas are taken with much more, sorry, taken much more seriously than if they had come from someone else.
01:03:06.380 - 01:03:59.240, Speaker A: But I don't think there's any central entity that drives the expectations of Ethereum. I think there is a lot of people that come together, you know, hundreds, thousands of people that come together, and that set the expectations for the ecosystem in terms of how they affect price. I'm sure they do over the long term, because I do believe that fundamentals are priced over the long term. And for example, you know, the expectation was that EIP 1559 would be implemented, the expectation was that the merge would happen, and those expectations definitely influence price over the longer term, at least in my opinion. And then, you know, if you ask if there is such a central entity, what can be done to decouple it? Well, as I said, I don't think there is a central entity. I think that as time goes on, a theorem just keeps getting more and more decentralized. I think that even the big entities like Ethereum foundation and consensus really don't drive a lot of the, I guess, Ethereum expectations going forward, especially not consensus.
01:03:59.240 - 01:04:49.024, Speaker A: Even the Ethereum foundation, I don't think does either, because as I was discussing before, we have a very client diverse ecosystem that, and a lot of them, or most of them aren't funded by the Ethereum foundation. So taking all that on board and taking all that into account. Yeah, I wouldn't say there's any central entity that drives the expectations. It's more of a community coming together and driving them all together. All right, one here from RH who asks, can you explain me V's role in the crypto, entire crypto space to us like we are five? I know MeV censorship and relays gets covered regularly on the refuels, but I am still lacking complete understanding of all these MEV elements and significance. So MEV stands for minor or maximally extractable value. And what this means is basically that miners in proof of work and validators in proof of stake have the ability to order transactions.
01:04:49.024 - 01:05:33.656, Speaker A: Now, what do I mean by that? Well, basically, when you send your transactions to the network, they go into something called a mempool. And then in that mempool, transactions are sorted by default, or they traditionally have sorted by default by the fee that they pay. So it's like a kind of auction system where the higher fee you pay the, you skip the, to the front of the line. If you pay the highest fee, you're at the front of the line. If you have to pay the lowest fee, you're at the bottom of the line, so to speak. Right now, Mev's role is basically, if you can control the ordering of transactions, well, that means you can do things like front running. So, for example, if someone does a trade on Uniswap, you can front run that trade and potentially sell it back to them, or potentially front run that and then sell it to another liquidity pool and make a profit off of that spread.
01:05:33.656 - 01:06:07.266, Speaker A: And that's called arbitrage as well. I mean, not that there's, there's arbitrage that falls into that. There's front running, there's back running, there's sandwich attacks. Sandwich attacks are actually pretty brutal because what you can do with a sandwich attack is basically you can front run the user. So, okay, let me, let me break it down. You asked for explain like I'm five. So basically what a sandwich attack does, and this is a form of Mev, is that you can say you see a user that has a transaction that they've submitted to the mempool, that they want to buy $100 of ETH using USDC, and they're going to buy that off uniswap.
01:06:07.266 - 01:06:45.664, Speaker A: Well, you can go ahead and buy that hundred dollars of ETH, of uni sop before they do, and then sell it back to them at a higher price because you'll buy, move the price even ever so slightly, and then you can sell it back to them for that price. That is a sandwich attack. That is basically giving the user a worse, a more raw deal than they otherwise would have had. Arbitrage is different in that maybe you see that there's a price discrepancy between one liquidity pool and another. Maybe on Uniswap, the ETH USDC pool is it has a price discrepancy with the pool on sushi swap. Sushi swap. And you do an arbitrage between those and you make a little bit of profit there.
01:06:45.664 - 01:07:03.390, Speaker A: Then there is liquidations. So, say you want to be the one that liquidates someone's position on a lending market, and you earn a reward for doing that. Well, you want to front run the other people that are doing that. So you. You extract that value by using these MeV relayers and these MeV. Sorry, in the. And by send.
01:07:03.390 - 01:07:22.934, Speaker A: Sorry, by sending your bundles to these. These builders to these relayers in order to get your. I guess, to. To get your profit from that. Now, the. What. What MeV relayers are and why we even have relays to begin with is because prior to MeV boost, which is the software that powers the relayers, that came to be.
01:07:22.934 - 01:08:02.066, Speaker A: The way MeV worked, was that people would go around the protocol around the mempool, and they'd basically submit their transactions directly to miners in kind of like, backroom deals. So you wouldn't actually see the transaction in the mempool at all. You'd only see it once it had been included in a block. Whereas with MeV Boost, there is a marketplace for this now, where instead of going behind in backroom deals, there are multiple relays online, there are multiple builders and searches that all work in tandem. To be in this marketplace in order to, I guess, like, sell the service of MEV, so to speak, so that it's more transparent, it's not opaque, it's not done through backroom deals. Now, hopefully, that explains it for you. You can always ask me in the.
01:08:02.066 - 01:08:40.334, Speaker A: In the discord channel to explain further. But that is mev. That is the significance of MEV. And the reason why it is a problem long term, is because MEV has chain destabilization properties. In that, if you leave it unchecked, it can lead to things like we've seen with censorship, right? Which, I mean, censorship doesn't necessarily disable, destabilize the chain, but it does erode credible neutrality. And then also, if you just have people doing constant MeV, and then everyone's value is just getting completely extracted, there's backroom deals happening. You could lead to really nefarious things like reorgs, and these are called time banded attacks.
01:08:40.334 - 01:09:31.860, Speaker A: So the way this works is that, say you want. You have, like, a block, and, sorry, say you have a block that's been mined, and then you say, okay, well, I can go back and I can reorg this block as a validator or miner, whatever it is, and then make a profit off of that. What you would be doing is you'd be reversing the transactions. Or at least, I guess, it's called orphaning the transactions that had already been included in a block in favor of your own, and you would reorg the chain to benefit yourself. And this gets, and eventually this could lead to like minor on miner or validator on validator, or builder on build up builder violence, where it just that all they're doing is basically destabilizing the chain for their own profit, and then the users get really hurt by that. So, so, yeah, but it goes pretty deep. Mev is a very large kind of, very large ecosystem.
01:09:31.860 - 01:10:13.416, Speaker A: It's not something that you can really explain like your five, but there's plenty of resources online for you to check out. Flashbots has a lot of great resources. The creators of Mevboost. You can check out their blog, but hopefully that answers your question there. All right, next question here comes from Ahack, who asks, can you talk a bit about the KZG ceremony for ERP 4844, a TLDR on what it does and why it's necessary when it's happening, and how to participate? So the KZG ceremony is something that's required for proto dank sharding, or ERP 4844. Now why is that the case? Well, I have the KZG website up in front of me, and I'm just gonna read what they have here, because it does a really great job of explaining what it is. So the cases you ceremony is what's called a trusted setup.
01:10:13.416 - 01:11:25.474, Speaker A: And why do we need this trusted setup for 4844 to work? Well, we need it because it is a preparatory preparation setup, sorry, preparation step required for certain certain cryptographic schemes, such as the KZG polynomial commitment scheme, to be used in proto dank sharding. In our case, the trust assumption is that one contributor needs to be successful, needs to successfully conceal their secret for the result to be secure. So basically it like, it's pretty like technical, right? And it's a bit, it's a bit of a mouthful there, but yeah, the number one reason why we need it and why it's necessary is because without it, pro dunk sharding can't work, because we can't have those polynomial commitment schemes that we need for pro dank sharding to work there. And as I said, the, the cool thing about this is that even though it's called a trusted setup, you only need one honest participant. So when the KZG ceremony begins, that you're going to be doing a bit of computation on your computer. If you participate in the ceremony in order to generate a secret and then successfully conceal that secret. And then if there's 10,000 people that are doing that and there's only one honest party, or in that 10,000, let's assume the rest of them are dishonest.
01:11:25.474 - 01:12:02.352, Speaker A: The scheme is still considered secure, which is, and the reason why it's called a trusted setup is because you would still obviously need to trust that there is at least one person or one entity that is not lying, that is actually being truthful. And the really cool thing about that is that if you're participating in the ceremony and you know that you're being truthful, well then you only need to trust yourself. So hopefully that explains that. But yeah, you asked also when it's happening, I don't think there's a date yet on when it's happening. I think that they're getting very close. But yeah, I don't, I don't think there's a date yet. And in terms of how to participate, well, I'm pretty sure it's going to be hosted at the ceremony dot ethereum.org
01:12:02.352 - 01:12:50.266, Speaker A: website and you'll be able to participate there and there'll be instructions on how to do that. So hopefully that answers your question. R hack alright, next up we have a question from 182 who says, what are your thoughts on the different l two s as far as being EVM equivalent versus something like fuel Vm, which supposedly optimizes for throughput and dev experience? Is there merit to both approaches? Will they be used for different applications? Are there centralization concerns with the more bespoke ones? I think that it's amazing that we're going to be able to experiment with different architectures on L2 because it means that we don't have to change anything about layer one ethereum. We don't have to create new blockchains. We can literally just create a L2, inherit Ethereum's security, decentralization and consensus, and then just focus on building out new and novel systems at these higher layers. Now do I, I think there's merit here. Of course there's plenty of merit here.
01:12:50.266 - 01:13:37.412, Speaker A: I think this is an amazing thing to be doing. And I'm really glad that we have things like free fuel and, and Stocknet and other non EVM approaches in the wild right now and being developed right now. And that will be used for different applications. There will be ones that be specialized, like for example, aztec network being a specialized private network with their own architecture. You have starknet having their own specialization that they want to focus maybe on more things like games, which seems to be that a lot of their focus right now. And then, you know, are there centralization concerns? I mean, I think the centralization concerns are pretty much probably the same as they are for EVM ones, like the training wheels that we've seen, like admin keys on bridges and admin keys on upgrades and all that sorts of stuff. Those are the same sort of concerns.
01:13:37.412 - 01:14:14.490, Speaker A: But also, if they're using new cryptography or if they're using something that's like a new architecture, that's not EVM, maybe it's less secure and maybe it can be more centralizing, but I don't think the concerns are too great there. But yeah, hopefully that answers your question. That was a short one, but definitely think there's a lot of merit to, to that approach there. All right, so the HD sync has another question here where they say, I would like to hear your thoughts around the following analogy of Ethereum structure with regards to modern construct of separation of powers. The Ethereum research teams equals the legislative legislative power. The Ethereum core dev teams equals the executive power. Code in action equals judicial power.
01:14:14.490 - 01:14:53.342, Speaker A: If we think above is relatively accurate analogy, how do we make sure each of these powers is neutral and fair, especially legislative and executive ones? Oh man, I'm messing up pronunciation of words tonight. When we want these two powers in action, it comes to a budget. Currently, the Ethereum foundation is the budget creator and owner. How do we make sure the decisions are neutral and fair? So I'll answer the last thing first. The Ethereum foundation is not the budget creator and owner. Most of the teams and most of the Ethereum core devs and researchers are not funded by the Ethereum foundation right now. They may receive grants or kind of like some, some portion of funding, but the majority of their funding does not come from the Ethereum foundation.
01:14:53.342 - 01:15:32.070, Speaker A: If you look at all the teams and people involved there. So that's, that's, that's that kind of like, question answered there. But in terms of your analogies here, I think that they're rather accurate. And in terms of what keeps these powers neutral and fair and in check, it's the social a, it's the community that keeps them in check. So to give an example, what happens if the core dev and research teams come together and say, hey, like we want to implement this into the Ethereum network, but it's actually a bad idea. So there was actually like a case that was, I wouldn't say it was like a case that was gonna, it was something like that. All the core devs and researchers wanted, but it was something that people wanted and that got rejected in the end.
01:15:32.070 - 01:16:14.796, Speaker A: That was something called progpal, which is this new mechanism for a proof of work on Ethereum called prog, standing for programmatic, which was basically meant to kick off asics off the network, or ASIC miners off the Ethereum network. Now this was quite, I guess, like a lengthy and drawn out battle to get this thing rejected from the network. And the reason it was, was because the community made their voice known and basically said to the Ethereum core devs and researchers, hey, we don't want this in the network. Right? So it never reaches the code in action phase here. And that is the check and balance on, on those powers. And that is actually what makes a blockchain decentralized. At the end of the day, that check and power on the people who write the, the code for these chains and implement those new rules.
01:16:14.796 - 01:17:02.212, Speaker A: But in saying that, no one is forced to run that code either. So if there is a change that has been accepted into the network and put into the network, the users can basically say, well, I don't want to run this. I won't run this on my full node, and I won't run this on my, on my full node, and then I won't connect my validator to a full node that runs this new, new code that I disagree with, which would obviously lead to a fork in the chain if there was a large number of people doing that. But, but, yeah, the overall answer to your question is that the community keeps those powers in check. All right, so next question here comes from D. Fernandez, who says, what do you think about a merger and acquisition strategy for Ethereum? For example, the EF could acquire Tezos tokens and use their on chain governance to turn Tezos into an l two on Eigen layer similar for other Alt L1 s, even if they don't have on chain governance. Same question for Polygon, Starkware, etc.
01:17:02.212 - 01:17:41.212, Speaker A: Acquiring other chains and making l three threes. I mean, I don't think that it's worth acquiring the chain itself. I feel like that's really inefficient, capital wise, and really murky, I guess, social governance wise. I feel like the better approach would just be to fork that chain if you wanted to create it on, on Ethereum, right, fork it and create an l two out of it. So, for example, fork tezos, make it into an l two on Ethereum and then, you know, build an ecosystem from there, or fork one of these other chains and do, and do that there. I don't think it would be worth buying governance tokens and then trying to push through a vote. And then, I don't know.
01:17:41.212 - 01:18:32.050, Speaker A: Like, I didn't think it would work, because then what you would have is say you did it for tasers. You would still have the original tezos as a layer one, and then you would probably just have, like, a fork as a L2. So really, you're better off just forking the code base, rejigging it so that it fits in to be used as an Ethereum l two, rather than trying to do mergers and acquisitions or hostile takeovers, all these other chains. All right, so one question here from ss, who says, given the absolute shell shellacking of the entire industry, so many scams, leverage, pump and dump, so much loss of trust money by retail institutions and smart money, incoming tough regulations, do you expect ETH crypto to ever recover to new highs? And if so, when yes means the short answer. These are all you're saying, literally all the same things that were said in 2018 and 2014, like, word for word. Basically, yes. Even crypto.
01:18:32.050 - 01:18:51.466, Speaker A: I mean, I'm confident ETH crypto more broadly, I don't know which other cryptos will recover. Right, on an individual basis. But as an ecosystem, it's gonna be fine, right? At least in my opinion. And in terms of new highs, no idea. I, like, honestly, I could be next year. I put that, like, honestly, I don't think it's gonna be next year, but it could be. Could be the year after.
01:18:51.466 - 01:19:26.454, Speaker A: I don't know, to be honest. Like, I'm more of like a decades thinker. I think, like decades out. I don't think, like the next couple of years, next few years. I guess, like, the shortest timeframe I may think in right now is like a five year timeframe, but definitely more of a decades long thinker. So, yeah, I expect a theorem ETH crypto generally as an industry, to be fine and to recover new highs, anyone's guess at this point. And then you had another question, sS, where you said, what are your thoughts on ETH been classified or not? As a security, where do you use ETH being at? Where do you use ETH being? Since the era of cheap money is over, how does crypto ever recover from this? I mean, I might.
01:19:26.454 - 01:19:56.304, Speaker A: I'll just answer your first question, because the other two really are answered by the, your other question that you just asked. What are your thoughts on ETH classified or not? As a security? I've given my thoughts a lot on this, on the refuel and in the Discord channel. So I'm not going to rehash all of it. The TRDR is that I don't think there's really any chance of ETH being labeled a security at like, really at all. It would make no sense. And I'm actually, there's actually another question from someone else asking about this that I'm going to answer and go into more detail, but I'm not concerned. I don't think it's something to be concerned about, to be honest.
01:19:56.304 - 01:21:00.128, Speaker A: All right, a question here from Noah Stahl, who says, as a developer looking to get into the crypto industry, I'm curious what advice you'd have currently for going about that. For instance, does contributing to open source crypto projects as a first step make more sense than trying to directly apply for roles as a noob? How to evaluate projects and companies, especially with an eye toward how legit they are? Any useful resources out there for learning the ropes well enough to contribute? So I would say you would have more of a chance if you were actually building things and had like, a GitHub profile that you could show a project and show that you're contributing to open source. Then if you weren't doing anything, I definitely think you'd have much more of a chance doing that. And I think that's rather obvious, to be honest, because it's like, that is your resume, so to speak, and that is something that you can show that, hey, like, this is the code I've done is what I've worked on. These are the projects that I've contributed to, rather than coming into a job interview with a team and being like them, asking, you know, what have you done? And you being like, oh, I haven't really done anything. I'm kind of a noob right now, right. That, I mean, I'm not to say that that can't work because there are teams that like taking on juniors and noobs, but I think obviously much better off contributing to open source.
01:21:00.128 - 01:21:41.048, Speaker A: You know, building your own projects and showing code and showing these projects that you actually can write code and, and then you can actually build things, and that just increases your chances there in terms of evaluating projects and companies, especially with how legit they are. I mean, there's a bunch of different things you can do. I know saying, like, the vibe you get from the project is like maybe a bit of a cop out, but for me, it really is the vibe. Like, I can actually, like, when I look at a project, I just quickly, at first glance, I get a vibe from it and I look at it and I'm like, okay, this doesn't seem very good. First red flag for me. So I'll go through the red flags I look at with projects. First red flag, does it have a community that's really rabid? Right.
01:21:41.048 - 01:22:35.268, Speaker A: And that's really shilly that every time they talk about the project, they put the, they, they talk about the ticker of the coin behind the project. Right. That's number one, red flag. Number two, do they ship very often or not? If they don't ship very often and they don't actually have many products out there and don't have much product market fit, another red flag there, what does their discord channel look like? Are they actually, really, are really active in there? Are they answering people's questions? Is it full of moon boys or is it full of actual builders in there? Right. That's another one. What, what is like, is their project actually like sustainable or is it just a ponzi? Are they using like really aggressive liquidity mining techniques just to garner some interests? Are they doing like really dodgy marketing, promotions, all that sorts of stuff? So as I said, it's like, it's like a vibe of all those things put together to, to kind of like get to gauge the legitimacy of, of different projects. And then you also asked like, is there resources about learning the ropes? There are, there's plenty of resources.
01:22:35.268 - 01:23:02.128, Speaker A: Go to a theorem.org. There's developer resources there. Terms of finding jobs, cryptocurrency jobs. The cryptocurrency Jobs website is a very great resource of finding jobs, but ethereum.org is definitely somewhere to get started as a developer for sure. All right, next question here comes from Christy Cloudy, who says, hi, Anthony, I would like to ask about your opinion on Defi protocols resilience. Recently there was a situation with Aave and Aaves Aaves shorting of CRV, which should cause a bad debt in Aave.
01:23:02.128 - 01:23:43.274, Speaker A: What kind of prevention should lending and maybe also other DeFi protocols have to prevent this? I know their insurance fund consisting of their own tokens isn't the best idea because it makes the project even more vulnerable when such an attack situation occurs. So I would say the insurance fund is, is a good idea. But yeah, as you said, like in their own tokens, not the best idea. So an insurance fund in like USD stable coins for example, or an ETH, probably a better idea. But in terms of something else they could do for lending protocols, just don't onboard shitty collateral, right. And don't have kind of collateral on there that has low liquidity, that has centralized supply that is easily, easily manipulated. That is like number one thing you can do to prevent this in terms of controls.
01:23:43.274 - 01:24:07.644, Speaker A: And I think AAvE is decent at doing this. There are other protocols that do this differently. Have like isolated markets, so there's no contagion as well. It does lead to some trade offs where isolated markets means that it's harder to scale up the system, but it's safer. So maybe just have like isolated markets of a long tail of assets and then have markets that have like a lot of liquidity, a lot of, um. Like, like ETH, for example. Uh, not isolated from certain other markets.
01:24:07.644 - 01:25:14.974, Speaker A: But yeah, that's, that's kind of the two things that I would, I would look at for sure. All right, we have a question here from Kiwi Dog four, who says, do you think this bear market, in this bear market that builders will be able to replicate the full centralized experience, uh, centralized exchange experience, but in defi auto DCA with stables, good limit orders, other autotypes, and an easy to use experiment experience, especially all in one app, do you think with Thanksgiving, l two s may actually be cheaper to use and then centralized exchanges? Yes, it's going to take dank sharding. I don't think it can be done now because while they are two fees are cheap, they're not cheap enough. But in saying that you can build a valid I'm, which obviously is not a roll up, which is what dy DX did, and have something that is extremely cheap to use and mirrors the experience of a centralized exchange, you could already do that, but in terms of doing it on a roll up, dank shining will be required here. But I do think that they can, we can actually replicate the full centralized exchange experience in Defi with those cheap fees, with the, the speed of, of the transaction speed, I should say, sorry. And the scalability there. But obviously it's going to take L2s and dank sharding for us to get there.
01:25:14.974 - 01:26:11.974, Speaker A: All right, so a norseman has a question here about ETH as a security, and it's quite long, so I'm really just going to focus on the meat of it about, you know, like, they go on about like, there's a lot of fud about it and things like that, but they, they say, you know, what would it look like if your ETH was labeled as security? And they say, you know, there are two possible outcomes if the boomers screw it up and label it as security. It's labeled a security in the short to medium term, and eventually it's labeled a commodity. Later it's labeled as a security and bureaucracy gets in the way and they're never able to circle back and label as a commodity. Obviously number one will be better than number two, but do you think there are any notable differences between the two possible outcomes? What do you think will happen to Ethereum, the network versus ether, the currency and the price in the two outcomes? I know you don't care for the price that much, but this could be exceptionally dramatic events. I'm more concerned about the network than the price here, but I would surely see opportunity if it gets hella cheap. So I would say that in both options, my answers will be the same. So I think I'm just going to answer for both of them here.
01:26:11.974 - 01:26:50.866, Speaker A: I, for one, don't think there's really any chance of ETH being labeled a security. For two, it would make no sense because there's no central party that, for example, the SEC could go to to demand financial reports from. So for example, the Ethereum foundation is not a centralized company that controls a theorem or ETH. No one controls ethereum or ETH. So no one can produce quarterly reports, no one can produce investor documentation, no one can produce the things that the SEC would require for their, for them to kind of, I guess, adhere to being labeled a security. So it's just unworkable. It makes absolutely no sense.
01:26:50.866 - 01:27:07.684, Speaker A: That's why it makes more sense that ETH be a commodity. I mean, that's one of the reasons why it makes more sense for ETH to be a commodity than a security. But like, just generally, ETH does not look like a security to me at all. ETH looks much more like a commodity. It is used as a commodity. It's a commodity. Money, in my, in my view, not a security.
01:27:07.684 - 01:28:10.690, Speaker A: But the second thing also is that for something to be labeled as a security, what would have to happen is that the SEC would have to either prove it in court and I don't know who that would take to court. They'd probably have to take like, or try to take the Ethereum foundation to court, but the Ethereum foundation has to. I mean, then the SSA would have to prove that the Ethereum foundation has essential control over a theorem, which they do not, right? So they have to win in court, or they have to get a settlement from the, I guess, like central entity that controls ethereum, of which there isn't one. So when you actually walk through the logical steps here, there is no way for the SEC or for any securities regulator to actually buy, from my interpretation of the law, label ETH a security. And if they did, if they went and found some way to do it, there wouldn't be no way for the Ethereum network to produce what is required of a, I guess, like over a company, so to speak, that has an asset that is a security to produce. Right. So those are the reasons why I think it's a very low chance of happening.
01:28:10.690 - 01:28:54.502, Speaker A: But if it did happen, obviously it's going to be really bad for the price of ETH. Like, obviously, I mean, not just from the fact that people are going to sell it out of panic, but also because, like, legally the exchanges would have to delist ETH because they're not registered to trade securities. Right. So that would be a huge blow to ETH, and the price would be, would be, would be, would take a very huge hit for sure. Like, I'm not going to sugarcoat it and say it wouldn't take a hit, but for all the reasons I outlined before about why I don't think it's going to be labeled as security in terms of the chance being basically 0% applies to that as well. So honestly, for me, it's not something that I think about really at all. I only ever think about it when bitcoin maximalists love to just use it as a FUD piece or when people ask me about it, I don't think about it at all.
01:28:54.502 - 01:29:38.214, Speaker A: And I don't worry about it. I more worry about, if I'm being honest, like crypto in general and these crypto networks being sanctioned by OFAC, for example. Like, what's to stop OFAC from sanctioning the entire ethereum network? Like they showed that they can just sanction tone eta cash and there's no kind of repercussions there for them doing that. So what's to stop them from sanctioning the Ethereum network? What's to stop them from sanctioning the bitcoin network? Right. So I'm much more worried about that than I am about ETH being labeled as security, if that kind of puts it into context for you. And, yeah, hopefully that answers your question there and gives you a bit more color on how I think about these things. All right, getting on to the last question here, one from Christy Cloudy, again, who says this time my question is about angel investing.
01:29:38.214 - 01:30:13.782, Speaker A: What is a typical time horizon for exiting from a company as an angel investor invested in? Well, I don't think there actually has been a typical time it can vary quite wildly. So sometimes I'll invest in a project and they'll do a token launch, like a few months later, and sometimes I'll invest in a project and they won't even have, like a token launch on the horizon. They obviously haven't gone public. So there's no equity, so there's no stocks or shares that I've gotten. And I, my oldest angel investment or one of my oldest angel investments is actually Zappa. So. Zappa, the, the tool that I'm sure a lot of you use, I invested in that on.
01:30:13.782 - 01:30:27.126, Speaker A: What is it? I'm just looking at my, my sheet here, August 2020. So it's been over two years. And, yeah, there's, they're not public. There's no token. There's no, they're not public. You know, there's no shares or anything like that. You know, some of my oldest actually don't have any.
01:30:27.126 - 01:30:44.586, Speaker A: Like, there's, there's dune analytics here, which was September, September 2020. Same deal with them. Right. I'm just going through my list of ones that aren't, don't have a token or shares yet. Slingshots. There's arbitrum. These were done in mid 2021.
01:30:44.586 - 01:31:07.646, Speaker A: So, yeah, I would say that there's no kind of, I guess, average. And it can vary based on the project, definitely. And it can vary based on the round, too. So, like, if it's a seed or a pre seed, it's going to be a lot longer. If it's a series b, it's going to be a lot shorter. Like I was in the optimism series B, not in their seed round, and their token launched shortly after that, I think. Let's have a look at optimism.
01:31:07.646 - 01:31:38.420, Speaker A: I invested on, yeah, in January of 2022, and their token went live, I believe, in, in April or May. So not too long after I invested in it. So, yeah, it definitely does vary on what kind of round I get into, but also varies based on the project as well. All right, so I think that's all the questions I've got for today. So hopefully you all enjoyed it and hopefully I answered the questions to your satisfaction. But, yeah, thank you all for listening and watching. The next AMA will happen in probably two weeks from now, actually.
01:31:38.420 - 01:31:58.444, Speaker A: Probably not, because that's like Christmas time. So in the new year, so maybe three to four weeks from now. But definitely go ask your questions in the AMA series channel on Discord if you have any within the next three to four weeks, and I'll get them answered on the next AMA series. But on that note, don't forget to subscribe to the channel. Give the video a thumbs up, and I'll catch you all on the refuel tomorrow. So thanks, everyone.
