00:00:00.280 - 00:00:51.310, Speaker A: If you've been paying attention to blast, then you already know the thing that is on everyone's mind is blast gold. And since blast has launched, the biggest artificial headwind that's been holding back the ecosystem from growing is the fact that you don't earn anything for holding blast native tokens or nfts. But today, that all changes with blast introducing the blast jackpot, which enables blast tokens and NFT holders to earn blast gold. The starting pot for this jackpot is 1 million blast gold, and that number continues to increase every second. And every blast token and NFT is eligible to win in the jackpot. But certain assets have more weight. So how does it work? Basically, you're going to create a deck consisting up to eight different blast tokens and or nfts.
00:00:51.310 - 00:01:26.690, Speaker A: And for every block that is produced on on blast, there is a small chance that a token or NFT will win the jackpot. If you have the winning token or NFT in your deck, you'll be able to earn gold based on your balance. Now, there is a little bit of strategy to this. In general, tokens are going to have better odds than nfts just based on how the system is designed. But different tokens and nfts will have different weights. So here are the factors that are being taken into account. Perhaps the most important one is the number of holders who have added the asset to their deck.
00:01:26.690 - 00:02:24.664, Speaker A: The more the better, especially when it comes to the odds of winning. In addition to that, blast is taking into account the number of holders, your holder, distribution, community engagement, community growth, social signals and strength across multiple apps, including district one, Twitter discord, et cetera, market cap and liquidity. How new a token or NFT is, and for nfts, they are taking into consideration just the general effort around the collection and the quality of the collection. We also know that the same token or NFT can win the jackpot multiple times. So when you take all of that into consideration, it's pretty obvious why tokens like Pacmoon are just super well positioned to get gold. Full disclosure, I do have a bag of pacmoons. So on top of all of that, once you set your deck with both tokens and nfts, you'll be able to access two jackpot multipliers that are available.
00:02:24.664 - 00:03:27.196, Speaker A: The other multiplier that was released alongside the jackpot was the Socialfi multiplier, which can be accessed through apps like District one, Fantasy Top, Spacebar and others. And in case you're a little bit confused on the whole multiplier news basically what Blast has done is they've actually added point multipliers for utilizing different dapps within the blast ecosystem. So if you go to your blast dashboard, you're going to see a multiplier tab, and if you click there, you'll see the different multipliers that are available and you can see what apps you can interact with to score those multipliers. This is definitely something that you're going to want to do because it does change the rate in which you are able to earn blast points. So that's the big news that blast dropped today. And I think the general consensus is that the blast token generation event, or TGE, is actually going to be much closer to the end of the month, if not just at the end of the month. So things are really heating up, and blast is truly turning the month of May into a legitimate movie.
00:03:27.196 - 00:03:40.824, Speaker A: It's an exciting time to be in the space, and it's definitely a time to lock in. That's all for this one, guys. I hope you found this helpful. And until the next one, as always, bearish or bullish, keep farming, keep building.
