00:00:01.290 - 00:00:05.790, Speaker A: Okay. So should we get started then, Erin?
00:00:06.930 - 00:00:07.534, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:00:07.652 - 00:00:38.210, Speaker A: Okay, great. Okay, great. Thanks, everyone, for being here. Today is the last lecture of our Defi class this semester. And thanks, everyone, for being with us for the whole semester. And I hope everyone has really enjoyed the class and have really learned a lot. And we are really fortunate to have this special format for the class where we have students from Berkeley as well as students online from all over the world, from over 30 countries.
00:00:38.210 - 00:01:36.566, Speaker A: So it's been a really amazing experience. So in DFI, in the class, we've covered many different topics. But however, as I mentioned at the beginning of the class, regulation is a really important topic in Defi. And so for this class, we are really honored to have our guest speaker, Erin Wright, to give the last lecture of the class, regulatory issues with Defi. So, Erin is a professor of Cardisol Law, and he's also the co founder of Openlaw, a commercial operating system for blockchain. Aaron also has a lot of experience with Daos, and he has also created his own Dao with the Flamingo Dow. So we are really excited to have him here today as an expert in regulation and law to tell us more about the regulatory issues with DeFi.
00:01:36.566 - 00:01:37.580, Speaker A: Thank you.
00:01:38.670 - 00:01:41.802, Speaker B: Thanks so much, don. Should I kick it off now?
00:01:41.936 - 00:01:42.474, Speaker A: Yes, please.
00:01:42.512 - 00:01:57.460, Speaker B: Turn to me. All right. Wonderful. It's nice to meet everybody. I heard this was a wonderful class from dawn, and I feel like I wish I took it in part, too. So I hope everybody had a great semester. Let me just share my screen real quick.
00:01:57.460 - 00:02:44.412, Speaker B: Could somebody with host privileges give me access to do that? Okay, great. I think they did. So I'm going to run through regulatory issues with Defi. I also thought I'd throw in if we have time at the end, to just talk about some regulatory issues with Daos, because they intersect, and I imagine you've talked about that during the past couple weeks. So just to set the table, and please, if there's any questions, just hop in. I'm happy to kind of take this any direction people want to go. I'm sure you've heard quite a bit about decentralized finance and how it's a fast growing sector in the blockchain economy, an ecosystem at the core.
00:02:44.412 - 00:03:41.360, Speaker B: And I think that this is what's the most interesting thing about DeFi, is that we're trying to use these smart, contract based systems to create financial services or other products that are non custodial nature. But I think we all know that that's the aspirational desire. But in practice, many of these services still do rely on different intermediaries, and that's usually where regulation is going to attach. So kind of my mental model for DeFi looks something like this, where we have kind of the core based blockchains and there's regulatory issues related to that. There's all these DeFi protocols that are emerging on top, and that's kind of the core protocols themselves. There's different assets that are being created, whether that's governance tokens or stablecoins or some form of a wrapped asset. And then we're seeing kind of this emergence of an aggregation layer between Dex aggregators, asset managers, yield aggregators like Wi Fi, et cetera.
00:03:41.360 - 00:04:46.010, Speaker B: Then there's obviously integration tools, whether that's an oracle service, to kind of extend what the protocol can do, crypto to fiat gateways that may be incorporated in order to onboard new users. And although not many platforms do, I imagine over time we'll see KYC and identity solutions starting to get layered in, along with just kind of core token factories which are used to either bootstrap or create an asset or interact in some way with the protocol. So, regulatory considerations. When you think about regulatory risks, many of these DeFi protocols aim to thin the need for centralized custodians or other central actors. And that, at a high level, creates regulatory challenges in the US and in Europe and in most parts of the industrial world. When you think about financial regulation and applying regulation, the law is constructed such that the regulation applies to various different intermediaries in the system. So that could be a bank, that could be a custodian, that could be a broker or dealer that's dealing in a lot of business.
00:04:46.010 - 00:06:02.096, Speaker B: There's a whole host of regulations that apply to different intermediaries depending on what the financial service is provided. Same thing if you're a fund of some sort and become quite large, like you start managing a lot of assets, different rules will kick into effect at different points in time. And so DeFi kind of stands in opposition to lots of these regulatory approaches where they're looking to thin the need for these actors, right? So since our regulations are looking to these types of central intermediaries to apply regulations, and because DeFi is trying to get rid of all those folks, it just likely is going to require a different approach. And that's the friction that you may be hearing if you're paying attention to some of the regulatory conversations. I don't think anybody yet has a really clear grasp on how to regulate DeFi and where the regulation should fall. But I'm hoping just to unpack that a little bit more. But to the extent that DEFI applications implicate a requirement or prohibition under the Commodity Exchange act or a whole bunch of other related regulations, which, you know, these laws are still going to apply, the core question is really this, if something goes wrong with one of these DeFi protocols and somebody gets hurt, who should be liable? Right.
00:06:02.096 - 00:06:50.684, Speaker B: And we've seen the SEC and the CFTC, which is responsible for the commodities markets or parts of the commodities markets, begin to grapple with these questions in different contexts already. One notable example here is the SEC's 21 A report. So this is a non binding report that the SEC put out where it kind of looked at the Dow, one of the original experiments on Ethereum. So there's lots of regulatory concern around. You know, there's a couple things that the SEC is currently calling out. And so this came from some statements from Commissioner Crenshaw, who talked about DeFi a couple of weeks back. But the two areas where she was at least the most concerned was around a lack of transparency and pseudonymity.
00:06:50.684 - 00:07:39.408, Speaker B: So it was a little bit of a head scratcher to me, how blockchains, which are public and pseudonymous, could be called out for not being transparent. But I think the concern, at least as she summarized it, is that for many DeFi projects, it creates a two tier market in which you're having professional investors and insiders reap outsized returns, while retail investors take more risks and get worse pricing and are less likely to succeed over time. So that's something that the SEC is worried about. How do we make sure that the marketplaces here are fair? It's not just dominated by professional investors. Query how different that is from Wall street today. Right. If you're a professional investor, Wall street or Wall street styled investor, you probably have better access to yield or return than a retail investor necessarily would.
00:07:39.408 - 00:08:41.072, Speaker B: They also called out just risks with know. This is a concern not just from the SEC, but other regulators in the US, whether that's the Department of Justice, treasury, the know. The fact that we may not know the identities of certain traders or people that are participating in these markets or the owners of smart contracts. It makes it difficult to ascribe liability if there is liability to ascribe, and it also makes it difficult to know if the asset prices and trading volumes are organic or some. So, you know, the SEC is a very complex organization, but at its core, it's trying to build fair marketplaces. Same thing for the CFTC. Other regulators like the treasury and the Department of Justice are really concerned about implementing certain controls that the US have in terms of sanctions or other type of bad activity that they are hoping to dissuade through know your customer, other banking regulations.
00:08:41.072 - 00:09:56.620, Speaker B: But the universe of what financial laws get implicated by a DeFi protocol, and this is a sliver of it, it's vast, right? So even know developers and creators of Defi projects or other core blockchain technology are able to convince the SEC that the assets that they may have related to their project are not securities. There's still a whole host of laws that get implicated in the commodities bucket, including whether or not a project is an unregistered FCM or DCM sef. There's anti fraud provisions, anti manipulation provisions, commodity pool and commodity trading advisor requirements, there's unregistered dcos, and then there's supervision type issues. If it falls into the securities bucket, there's obviously lots of issues that come up, including selling unregistered securities, the trading of securities. If you're interacting with securities or custodying them, there's lots of questions there. And then there's other requirements which fall into more compliance buckets. That includes the Bank Secrecy act, which is used to implement certain controls related to who we're able to interact with globally.
00:09:56.620 - 00:10:46.140, Speaker B: There's OFAC requirements, there's state money transmission laws, there's the bit license, which is specific to New York. And then there's also just tax and accounting and other types of questions. So it's a big mess and people don't really have the answer. So the purpose for the next couple of minutes is really to just think through some buckets of where liability can attach, and hopefully that can inform either something you're developing or something you're interested in. So one area and one vector where regulation may attach is by imputing direct liability against developers. So as decentralized finance grows, it may be difficult to impute liability on the creators of decentralized protocols, but it's not off the table. So in the US, software development, at least via courts that have looked at it, they're often a protected activity under the First Amendment.
00:10:46.140 - 00:11:34.424, Speaker B: So if you develop software and you publish it, you're protected to do that, right? Just like if you're an academic and you were going to create and publish something, the first Amendment gives you the ability to do that. There's some limiting factors there. If there's no lawful purpose for the software, I. E. Whatever is getting implemented can only be used to violate the law, then you lose that First Amendment protection. We've seen this happen in the past? For example, in the late 1990s, I think that was the 90s, early 1990s, there was a case in the 9th Circuit, which is the courts that cover California and other parts of the western part of the United States. They looked at these types of questions in a case involving betting software that was being transmitted on floppy disk drives.
00:11:34.424 - 00:12:24.684, Speaker B: So really fun little fact pattern there for folks that have been developing for quite some time. And there was criminal charges brought against the craters of the software. They raised the First Amendment defense and the circuit court in the 9th Circuit, which is the higher court. So a court that reviews lower court decisions looked at it and said here, because the software had no lawful purpose in the US, I had to facilitate gambling. The First Amendment couldn't be used as a defense. So there are questions here, if you are developing DeFi projects, whether or not you'd face some sort of liability, particularly if it's going into an area that is highly regulated to begin with. Obviously, bringing enforcement actions against developers creates challenges, and that's something regulators look to when they're thinking about where to apply enforcement or where rules should apply.
00:12:24.684 - 00:13:53.076, Speaker B: As I'm sure everybody in this class knows, once a smart contract based protocol is deployed, it's difficult to remove it or shut it down due to the tamper resistant nature of a blockchain. So if people want to interact with it, and if it's available on a blockchain like Ethereum or another kind of open, public and permissionless blockchain, it's going to be hard to prevent people from interacting with it, even if you hold the developers liable. The government in the US is fully aware of this. So the former commissioner of the CFTC, Commissioner Quintens, he noted this way back in 2018 during a speech where he said enforcing CFTC regulations against smart contract developers does not immediately stop the activity from occurring because individual users can continue to use the software. And due to these challenges, the commissioner at the time noted that liability if the CFTC or SEC was going to explore know, in his view, should only attach if developers could reasonably foresee at the time they created code that would be likely to be used by us persons in a manner that would violate the CFTC regulations. So he was proposing and exploring whether or not it'd be possible to apply liability against developers if they create and implement software, if they could reasonably foresee that it would be used by us persons in a manner violative of CFTC regulations. So that could be a direction that the US moves.
00:13:53.076 - 00:15:12.672, Speaker B: I personally hope that that's not the case I think it's a slippery slope when you start holding developers liable, but I'm not fully convinced that our current regulators agree with that. Another example here is recent guidance from Fadif, which is an international organization that's really a collection of different departments of treasury or equivalents in different jurisdictions. They passed rules related to KYC requirements, and it wasn't that far off from what commissioner Quintens is saying here, that pretty much you are obligated if states that are part of fatif implement those rules to implement KYC or other AML requirements if it was reasonable that the product or service that you created would require that in a more traditional context. So this is an area that I think folks, if you are developers, should be thinking about and just need to be really careful about it. There's other activities adjacent to developing a DeFi protocol that also can create liability. So maybe you create the core smart contracts and maybe even a third party deploys them so you're not responsible for actually bringing kind of the protocol to life. You may face liability if you're maintaining the interface to the underlying smart contracts of the DAP or the front end.
00:15:12.672 - 00:16:12.304, Speaker B: If you're maintaining some centralized control over some core mechanic related to how the service operates, potentially, as noted before, even deploying the smart contract itself could create liability. And obviously, if you're selling some token related to the protocol or project, or giving away some token related to the project or system, you may face some sort of securities related issues. So let me just highlight a couple cases where the SEC has kind of weighed in here already. One is this matter, it's called in the matter of Zachary Coburn. Zachary put together a early Dex called Delta exchange, and he was found liable and penalized for a whole bunch of different reasons. But the core ones, if you kind of read the decision, was that he deployed the underlying smart contract. He maintained the website that users access to interact with the smart contracts.
00:16:12.304 - 00:16:55.410, Speaker B: And then he basically was running a list of which assets could trade through the service and just those little points of control. So deploying the contracts, maintaining the front end, and selecting the tokens available for trading resulted in liability. And that's a big deal, right? If you're found liable for violating securities laws, it's going to be a huge pain in the butt. You're going to have to hire lawyers, you're going to have to provide information. You can face penalties. And in the most extreme example, and it's not often used, you could also face some criminal liability. That's what's being alleged against one of the developers, the CTO of Bitmax, if folks are familiar with that project.
00:16:55.410 - 00:17:30.472, Speaker B: The SEC has also weighed in on DeFi recently, so this came down in August in a case called in the matter of blockchain credit partners. They held a money market DeFi platform, which was referred to as DMM and its founders liable for offering and selling unregistered securities, I. E. Governance token and fraud. So in many ways, this is similar to some of the issues we saw with an ICO. The developers, in this instance, paid digital asset trading platforms to list their tokens. They bought and sold their tokens on these platforms.
00:17:30.472 - 00:18:16.380, Speaker B: They solicited prospective investors by describing the DFI project as a profitable business backed by real world assets. They touted the DFI protocol as a way for investors to earn consistent return or yield of 6.2%. They did a sale of tokens and raised something like $17.7 million, and subsequently misrepresented how the raised funds were used. And then they didn't limit the purchases of these tokens to accredited investors or perform KYC. And I don't know the folks behind DMM, but it didn't seem like trying to do things above board. So this kind of mix of activity gives you a sense of what regulators are unhappy about.
00:18:16.380 - 00:19:37.856, Speaker B: So if your defi project has a token in some sort of way, you could run into issues if you're selling them, distributing them in some capacity, and it didn't matter. And this is expressed in the cease and desist order that came out of the SEC. SEC regulators, they don't care what label you put on it. If you call it a governance token, you called it a duck token. They don't really care what it's called, as long as it is presented to the public as an investment making scheme in some capacity that's going to raise securities laws issues, and then obviously actively participating and supporting these platforms by trying to list it as something that's tradable, by participating the markets, by pilfering funds, those are things that reasonable folks inside the government are not going to like. So the SEC has not yet weighed in further when it comes to DFI projects, although my understanding is that there's about 60 plus requests for information to various different DFI projects in the US and there's investigations that are ongoing. So I think what we'll see at the end of the day is more color around governance tokens and in what instances they can be distributed and possibly sold.
00:19:37.856 - 00:20:46.376, Speaker B: I also think we'll get more color as to what the direct liability will be for developers if they've deployed smart contract based systems. So in addition to direct liability, other things to be concerned about are theories of secondary liability. So what this means is even if you weren't directly a developer, if you're somehow participating in some sort of way or interacting with some of these DeFi protocols, it may raise some liability for you, and there may be ways for the government or government regulators to hold other participants. So outside of the software developers, the individuals or teams that are doing that, liable for secondary or vicarious liability. And there's a couple of legal theories that they can do this under. One is aiding and abetting liability, and then a second one is controlling person liability. So here's an example from the Commodity Exchange act where it makes it possible for somebody to get in trouble if that person commits or willfully aids, abets, counsels, commands, induces or procures the commission of any violation of any provision or chapter in the rules.
00:20:46.376 - 00:21:35.592, Speaker B: So it's super broad. And so that means that if you're in some way interacting with various different DeFi projects, you could run into some issues, and I'll unpack that a little bit more. And this has been used in the past. So here's an example from the CFTC which they brought against a company called Edgefin Financial Tech. So this is not a crypto project, but it had some folks that were involved in a spoofing scam and they were held liable under these theories. So the CFTC and the SEC, they don't often enforce under these theories, but my sense is they will increasingly do that. So who does this create issues for? If you're building a DeFi aggregator, you could arguably aid in a bet on lawful transactions, let's say securities transactions or commodities transactions.
00:21:35.592 - 00:22:23.660, Speaker B: If you're providing liquidity in various different amms, that means you're directly participating and possibly disproportionately facilitating unlawful behavior. You're acting like a market maker and that could raise liability. If you have a controlling interest in a governance token, you could potentially be liable. So let's say you're an investment fund and you own 2030, 40% of a governance token or some significant amount, and can sway control over how the protocol develops. You may be liable. If you're a multi SIG holder in a DFI Dow and you're effectuating transactions, then you may have the ability to control unlawful activity. That was the thin liability that the SEC flagged with the DAO itself.
00:22:23.660 - 00:23:21.736, Speaker B: There was a small group of curators, I think that's what they were called, who just really made sure that all the information in the original DAO's application was accurate, and they were called out as being potentially liable for participating in the Dow. And then obviously you could conceivably make the argument that validators or miners could be responsible. I think those types of arguments wouldn't work, but it's at least possible. It's still unclear if government regulators will apply these theories of secondary liability. They don't really deter or stop the use of a DeFi protocol for much the same reason. Secondary liability will encourage developers to use either more advanced forms of crypto to obscure transactional records or try to make the technology even harder to regulate. And then obviously there's a lot of enforcement costs to bring secondary liability cases.
00:23:21.736 - 00:24:50.072, Speaker B: You don't have to just bring it against an individual team or a set of developers. You have to find the people that are participating and they're a bit harder to prove and a little bit more costly. And then the last piece, obviously, if you're going after a whole bunch of miners or validators or different participants in the network, you're just going to preclude people in that jurisdiction from working on these types of systems, and that could deter innovation or push innovation to other parts of the globe. All right, so one potential solution that people have been kicking around to some of these issues. So assuming that there's going to be some form of direct liability against software developers, and assuming that there will be some forms of secondary liability that kind of emerge after this enforcement wave continues, could be to develop a safe harbor of some sort. So the idea would be to give software developers or other DeFi participants some degree of flexibility to develop what they're doing if there's a lawful purpose to what they're doing, if there's no fraud, possibly if they bake in some sort of compliance. So I wouldn't be surprised if in three, four, five years, particularly in Defi, if it looks like something like this, where you're going to have to make sure it's blocking oFAC barred countries or addresses or individuals, and whatever you're developing does have at least some lawful purpose to it, like Uniswap would be a good example.
00:24:50.072 - 00:25:24.660, Speaker B: Uniswap has lawful purposes to trade a whole bunch of different tokens. Some of those tokens may be securities, some may not. If it was only used to trade securities, then it has no lawful purpose. And maybe it's an exchange that should have been registered or something along those lines. I also think to go back to making sure that the markets are fair and safe for retail customers and consumers. I wouldn't be surprised if you see some restrictions on margin trading occurring. Conceivably, this is more a future leading area of my research.
00:25:24.660 - 00:26:32.440, Speaker B: You could imagine also either CFTC or SEC software systems using code based systems to enforce some laws. That'd be pretty cool. It's a concept that I call code as law. The reason I think this may be the path is really drawing from an analogy from the copyright wars that occurred in the 1990s we saw with the first wave of the Internet. Copyright laws evolve via the common law or courts to grapple with the challenges with peer to peer music file sharing systems. What happened over a 20 year period is that we saw an expansion in theories of secondary copyright liability and the introduction of various safe harbors. So just to give you a sense of this, if you don't know this area of law, through various decisions at both the Supreme Court, the highest court in the US, and different circuit courts, kind of the tier below the Supreme Court, vicarious or secondary liability is now imputed on online platforms if they exercise requisite control over copyright infringement or they receive a financial benefit.
00:26:32.440 - 00:27:39.984, Speaker B: Requisite control has been determined to be a legal right to stop or limit directly infringing conduct, as well as the practical ability to do so. You can kind of see something like this being implemented here, right? If Uniswap, and not to pick on Uniswap, just releases smart contracts, they may not have requisite control, but the moment that they're running the front end, well, they kind of do, right? They could implement additional code to stop or limit some activity that could be concerning. So maybe they'd be liable kind of under that theory. And critically, at least in the copyright context, this type of liability attaches even if they lack knowledge of the infringement here, right? So going back to the Uniswap example, even if Uniswap didn't know directly that there were certain tokens being traded on their platform, like specifically know that was a security and specifically know that it was being traded, it wouldn't matter, they could still be found liable. There's also a second theory called contributory liability, and that's been imputed through theories of inducement. So those are situations where online platforms intentionally encourage copyright infringement. So you could see that working here too.
00:27:39.984 - 00:28:24.830, Speaker B: If you're inducing people to violate the law, some financial law, through your statements, words, actions, et cetera, then there's some logic to holding that person responsible. And so contributory liability attached to things like Groxter and some early peer to peer networks after Napster. At the same time, at least in the US, we saw a whole bunch of safe harbors get implemented via treaty and via direct action from Congress. The most notable one is the DMCA. You may be familiar with it. And this is what enables wonderful platforms like Wikipedia and larger web, two platforms like YouTube and Spotify to operate. Basically, those services are not liable if they implement this notice and takedown regime where copyright holders can ask to have their information taken down.
00:28:24.830 - 00:29:08.780, Speaker B: So I think what many lawyers and academics and other policymakers that are looking at this, they're trying to find the right kind of safe harbor for it. But I think this model kind of makes sense. If it was my ideal lies world, I would try to protect developers from any liability. I think that's unfair and would really deter innovation. Look for people that are really actively profiting or contributing to some sort of violation and then hopefully providing the well intentioned actors a bit of safe harbor so that they can do what they're doing. Yes. So that kind of just sums up, I think DeFi could be regulated using theories of secondary liability under the Commodities Exchange act and other acts.
00:29:08.780 - 00:29:46.100, Speaker B: And I think at the same time it could be used for responsible development to protect consumers'interests without necessarily limiting innovation. So hopefully we get to kind of that point. So maybe I'll stop there. I don't know if anybody has any questions or about what was just presented. Happy to stop. And then I could dive into some Dow related matters. Any questions? All right, hey, don, before I dive into, have you spoken about dows at a high level in the class?
00:29:47.830 - 00:29:54.354, Speaker A: We've talked about it at a very high level. It'll be good if you can introduce. Thank you.
00:29:54.472 - 00:30:15.420, Speaker B: Okay, great. So let's just talk about Taos for a second. I think this has been gleaned from the class, right? But many people claim that blockchains are, right, undisputed chains of truth. That's an overstatement. But I like this animated Gif. They're definitely efficient, secure. Query whether or not they're less costly, but just assume that they are, at least over time.
00:30:15.420 - 00:31:17.600, Speaker B: And they do enable different forms of digital voting. Using tokens or different information that can get stored in a blockchain or some off chain solution, you can begin to see glimmers of digital voting schemes. They may not be appropriate for things like public votes, like voting for a president or like a global or jurisdiction leader, but they can work for areas where privacy is less of a concern. And we started to see over the past year, plus in particular, just more and more activity related to kind of combining the powerful ability of blockchain and other crypto projects to pool assets, to begin to manage assets in more complex defi systems, and then adding in this digital voting component to start to erect dows. Right. And you can use as kind of an anchor for voting weight either in ERC 20, you could conceivably use like an NFT too. I think we'll see a lot more of that over the next couple of years.
00:31:17.600 - 00:32:18.820, Speaker B: But that kind of combination has kind of led to more fervor around dows. So at a high level, blockchains are not just useful to settle transactions, but they can also be used to coordinate activity. The primary way that this has manifested thus far is with daos or decentralized autonomous organizations. The concept of a Dow and the phrase Dow is a bit of a misnomer, and hopefully I can unpack that a little bit more. But at a high level, I think the idea is that blockchains and smart contracts are more efficient than what we have today. And because of these efficiencies, and because there's more information available on a blockchain and more generally over the Internet, we can hopefully create more transparent organizations and organizations that are less hierarchical in nature. So organizations that are using hard to modify software I smart contracts to prevent people from stealing pooled assets, thereby creating trust, or giving people the ability to use smart contracts or smart contract and voting based systems to begin to manage those assets in a more decentralized way.
00:32:18.820 - 00:33:10.594, Speaker B: So the idea, again, use some blockchain based voting mechanism to enable people to rapidly provide judgment, sentiment, or governance. Hopefully you can do that in a way that builds a, quote, headless organization or organization that's not run by a smaller group of people, a board, or fixed set of managers, and then maybe over the longer run, and this is more future leaning, maybe you could even imagine more algorithmic organizations. Right? So organizations where there's no humans involved, just like a core algorithm at its base. I don't think we're there yet, although there's some interesting art projects that are getting kind of close to that bottle. So one schema that I kind of use to mental model dows is a little bit like this. There's more algorithmic dows where there's kind of like a core set of code at the center. Some people have argued that bitcoin and Ethereum and other blockchain projects and protocols will be like this.
00:33:10.594 - 00:33:41.142, Speaker B: There's arguably like some very simple smart contract based systems that are Dow like, where the smart contracts are not upgradable. I think we'll see more of that. And then there's a whole nother category that people call decentralized organizations. I've been increasingly referring to them as participatory dows. So these are dows where people are weighing in to determine the future of a group or a set of smart contract based protocols. Right. And that's why we're seeing daos kind of take root in Defi.
00:33:41.142 - 00:34:44.974, Speaker B: I think a lot of projects, either due to regulatory reasons or because they just think it's a great way to manage the development of the core smart contracts that they developed, are relying on more decentralized forms of governance to manage that. And then we're also seeing kind of for profit daos. Some of the dows that I pulled together are more focused on this, and they're really trying to pool capital and make a profit kind of collectively with a group. So dows, if you're not familiar with them, there's been an evolution of them. The first kind of substantive Dow was the Dow itself, and that launched in mid 2016. It was kind of the first great experiment on Ethereum, and it was pretty much fashioned as a venture capital fund. So people pooled capital, and the idea was people could democratically vote on which projects would receive capital, and it would create a flywheel for Ethereum, right, where good projects would get identified by the community, where the members of the Dow, they would get the capital that they needed to develop things, and then hopefully that would kind of create a flywheel of innovation in the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:34:44.974 - 00:35:40.882, Speaker B: Unfortunately, due to some technical bugs and a hack attack or theft, it's still unclear exactly what happened. The Dow was a glorious failure, but at the time, I think it raised something like 150 ish million dollars worth of ether, which today would be worth an incredible amount. And then obviously, people began to get excited and interested in this core concept, and we saw the SEC weigh in on some of the regulatory requirements related to it. After the DAO, particularly in the Ethereum ecosystem, there was developers that were kicking around and trying to build more stuff. But really, the rebirth of Daos started with a set of smart contracts called the Molokdao. Smart contracts. It was a grant giving DaO that used just a simplified design and tried to address some of the shortcomings in the original Dow setup and construction, and it worked pretty well.
00:35:40.882 - 00:36:30.930, Speaker B: It pulled together a couple of million dollars worth of assets, and it was able to give grants to parties. And it seemed like it was operating pretty effectively. And since that time, and this is from even a couple of months back, I think it's crossed over several billion dollars in assets and several hundred thousand participants. We've just kind of seen an explosion in the number of people that are participating and interacting with dows. If you went back to February of last year, so February 2020, I think there was about $10 million in Dows and $10 million, let me go back February 2019. So I guess two years ago, there's about $10 million in dows, probably like 6000 users. If you go to Deepdow IO, and it's hard to get the best data on this, but it's growing really fast and showing kind of hyperbolic growth similar to Defi.
00:36:30.930 - 00:37:28.760, Speaker B: A way, if that was a little bit too high level for you that I've been thinking about, Daos is it's basically a way to arm a Reddit community with a bank account. So a way to have an online community that has a shared bank account or some shared assets, pooled assets, and they can do things together. It's not just me that's thinking about this. If you paid attention to Wall street bets, that's something that they even noted that the similar mechanics to what we saw with Wall street bets, I think lots of folks are interested with Daos. A couple other examples of this are things I've worked on, like the Lao and Flamingo, where it really is just kind of a reboot of the Dao itself, people pulling together assets and trying to make a profit. Okay, so Daos, and you know, Daos are playing a pretty outsized role when it comes to Defi for the reasons I mentioned before, developers, due to regulatory reasons, are trying to decentralize themselves. So they're trying to step away from a project and really giving control of that to the community.
00:37:28.760 - 00:38:27.078, Speaker B: Some folks are doing that because they think that limits their potential liability, either direct or secondary liability. Number one, or number two, they just think it's a smart way to run open source software, right? You should have a whole bunch of stakeholders, a whole bunch of people participating to make sure that you have a healthy ecosystem that's well supported. So in my mind, in the purest sense, I do think these Defi dows are in effect an evolution of software foundations. And they're using governance tokens again in the most optimistic view, to enable holders to vote and really weigh in on how these systems should operate. For Defi related dows, token holders often vote on key parameters that are necessary and need to be set in those systems, or they help decide how the smart contract should operate or evolve. They help handle other kind of matters. And there's lots of decision making that's occurring in these groups, and sometimes they can even be used to upgrade how the smart contract based software operates.
00:38:27.078 - 00:39:04.738, Speaker B: The piping between a vote and the actual upgrade is not that great, yet. It's often still done manually by the Defi projects original software developers, which is a bit of a concern, but I imagine over time they'll get a little bit tighter in coupling. So we've seen a whole bunch of daos emerge. Many of you may be owners of these assets and participate in these communities. So everything from compound and Aave and Uniswap and balancer maker synthetix sushi, they're all kind of leaning into using these dow based models. Plenty of practical issues with Daos today. The tooling is not that great.
00:39:04.738 - 00:39:43.306, Speaker B: Lots of work needs to be done to make it better. It's pretty expensive to still administer and really do anything as a group online or a group on chain, mostly due to cost. So recording votes, triggering smart contracts after a vote, it's still pretty costly. So there's lots of work that still needs to be done there. And then there's obviously some legal uncertainty. So let me unpack that a bit more. So what are the legal issues with dows? There's classifications of the dows themselves, like what are these things, like what channel or bucket do they fit in under existing legal regimes? And then there's always questions about the interests.
00:39:43.306 - 00:40:50.402, Speaker B: Right? So what are governance tokens if the DAO has a governance token? If it doesn't, what are the interests or whatever rights that a member may have in the DAO itself? The headline and something to take away. You can call yourself a DAO, but legally, if you're aiming to make a profit of some sort, you're likely going to be classified in the US and most of Europe and frankly most of the globe as a general partnership. So the way that that law works is you don't have to do anything. And due to various different statutes that have been applied that have been enacted, your activity can be characterized as in a partnership, even if you didn't file any paperwork, even if you took no further steps. And there's plenty of areas of law where things are implied onto you. And so if you're trying to make a profit and working with other people together, you're likely to run into these partnership related questions. And if you don't, formalize that relationship in some sort of way through a contract or an operating agreement or some written document, then these default rules apply, and they have some gnarly side effects.
00:40:50.402 - 00:41:32.702, Speaker B: One is whatever you do inside of a partnership, you are liable for. So if something goes wrong, let's say the SEC fined a dow a hundred million dollars. Each member would individually be liable for that $100 million. So if you're a deep pocket, you have a lot of funds, you may be on the hook to pay that entire penalty, and then you'll have to turn to your other dow members in order to recover assets. So it can run into some really difficult problems. If something goes bad for people that have deep pockets. And that's why we've created things like corporations and llcs.
00:41:32.702 - 00:42:06.442, Speaker B: They provide a limitation of liability in most instances. And your liability is limited to any assets that you've contributed to that organization, your stock. Or if you've actively contributed assets, then it would be limited to the assets you contributed. And that's a good thing. That enables us to kind of segregate risk and take bigger risks. So partnerships are wonderful in many ways, but this lack of limitation of liability creates some challenges for larger folks to participate in dows. There's a second concept in the law called the fiduciary duty.
00:42:06.442 - 00:42:41.514, Speaker B: Fiduciary duty is a fancy legal term for some super special rights, so some additional rights. So if you're a member of a DAO that's characterized as a general partnership, you pretty much owe all the other members of the DAO fiduciary duties, I. E. Special rights. And what that means is that you can't do things to hurt the other people. You can't potentially use information for your own benefit or try to usurp opportunities for the DAO. There's lots of implied duties that come when you're a fiduciary, and that may be implied in a DAO itself.
00:42:41.514 - 00:43:37.446, Speaker B: What does that mean in practice? Again, if something goes bad and you're in a DAO and you did something that may been a little unsavory, well, you may have violated your fiduciary duties, and you could be liable to the other members of the Dow, which would be problematic. And because of the lack of limitation of liability and because of these implied fiduciary duties, there's lots of rights that members have against other members that could just lead to really nasty, naughty situations. So people have been thinking about this for quite some time. Even before Ethereum launched, there were some events that I was fortunate enough to participate in at MIT and other places where we were starting to think about this, like, oh, probably want some sort of limited liability. Some of those issues that I just described were probably not the best. Is there any solution? Right? Any way that we could fix this? And so one concept that's getting operationalized is potentially housing a DAO in a limited liability entity or an LLC. That's why in part, we called the LAO.
00:43:37.446 - 00:44:17.938, Speaker B: The LAO, we were experimenting with it. If you kind of anchor a Dow in a limited liability entity like an LLC, you can waive these fiduciary duties, you can define how the DAO will operate and legally defer to these code based systems. And by doing that, you just avoid some of these issues and kind of manage the operational risk. You make it a little bit safer for larger enterprises to participate. This approach has gained some headwind in different states in the US. Vermont kind of took this approach several years back when they implemented the BB LLC or the blockchain based LLC. Wyoming recently acknowledged that you could set up an entity called a DAO as a subpart of the LLC act, which just makes it a little bit cheaper.
00:44:17.938 - 00:45:09.130, Speaker B: If you're going through this wrapped LLC approach to set one of these things up. It is not a perfect solution and probably doesn't work all that well for DeFi daos, but it's a start. Another potential solution, this is something I've also implemented through a project called Museo is an unincorporated not for profit. So if you really do view a DeFi project or a DAO related to a DeFi project as a modern riff on a software foundation, well, it may not have a for profit purpose. It may actually be like a software foundation, right? Just a way for people to convene and weigh in on governance and possibly collect enough funds to begin to support development of the ecosystem, et cetera. This is a structure that's unique to the US. It's pretty much the converse of a partnership.
00:45:09.130 - 00:45:56.070, Speaker B: If you're not trying to make a profit and you haven't filed any paperwork, you can be characterized as an unincorporated not for profit. The nice thing about an unincorporated not for profit is you don't have to file anything with the state in order to become one. And you can use this structure to waive fiduciary duties, potentially with a separate contract, limit liability, and it also contemplates transferable governance rights. So it feels like a promising structure for DeFi dows. If they're not intending to distribute assets back to token holders, they really only have a token that's a governance token in some sort of way. And then there's the other issue, which is always, what the heck are these dow interests? Right. This is again similar to issues with icos in the matter I described previously.
00:45:56.070 - 00:46:40.710, Speaker B: If you have a DeFi project and you have a governance token, and that governance token gives you the right to participate in a DAO, what the heck is that thing? Right. Why are people acquiring it? How is it acquired? And that's going to be governed by a test in the US called the Howie test, primarily. So this is a three or four part test. You may have heard of it. It involves the investment of money in a common enterprise, which relies on the efforts of others with an expectation of profit. So one concept, and this is why I think we've seen DeFi projects move towards dows, is they're trying to basically say if a token is introduced, that people are not relying on the efforts of the software developers that created it. Instead, they're relying on their own efforts or the efforts of a kind of distributed, decentralized network.
00:46:40.710 - 00:47:34.950, Speaker B: Unclear what the boundaries are of that thought exercise. That's possibly going to be something that people agree with in regulatory bodies, although I'm a little less convinced. And then obviously the expectation of profit piece is really calibrated by how you're presenting this token to the market. If you're selling it, if you're promising that it's going to be a profitable enterprise and the token is going to go up in value, then likely the SEC is going to consider that a security. So lots of gray areas with daos and what their interests are. There's an argument that if the interest in a DAO is more like a member managed partnership interest, or an interest in a not for profit where each member has control over the Dow, ownership is evenly distributed and information is freely available, it probably shouldn't be considered a security, at least in my view. But ultimately that's up to the courts.
00:47:34.950 - 00:48:29.240, Speaker B: And there's arguments that these interests are not securities, and there is a raft of case law to support this or cases that support this position, but there's nothing like firm and binding, something what lawyers would call dispositive. So I think we'll see a little bit more conversations around that. Also, because Daos, Defi's nfts, they're all kind of blending together. There's also gray areas. If there's an initial sale of nfts and it evolves into a Dow in some sort of way, or let's say a protocol is launched and then the nfts are either nfts are airdropped onto different people for governance purposes, or tokens are. Whether that's going to be considered a security in some sort of way. See, your question, Matt, let me just finish this up, because I think this is the end.
00:48:29.240 - 00:49:40.240, Speaker B: Yeah, and I think the headline, and then I'll turn over to a couple of questions, is really there's a lot of gray area when it comes to defi and regulation, but there's enough people that are somehow supporting, interacting, developing these systems that clever regulators will be able to find liability if they feel like somebody's been hurt. And that's probably a good thing, right? Like if somebody's a real fraudster huckster, somebody that's not well intentioned and is hurting people, we probably want to hold them responsible. The tricky part is how do you calibrate this in the right way so that you don't hurt the well intentioned actors that are just trying to build new, lower cost, more autonomous systems that hopefully would improve the lives of others? So that is what I was hoping to cover. Maybe I'll open it up to some questions. Matthew, I see your question attempts. So Matt's question, if you haven't seen it, is, aren't attempts to regulate defi sort of just pushing it back towards a centralized finance world? Isn't an intrinsic part of defi that it's unregulated? I mean, it is regulated. Whether or not the regulation is enforced is a separate question.
00:49:40.240 - 00:50:35.090, Speaker B: I think that that's like a nice tweet to say that defi is not regulated. But in practice, the law doesn't evaporate just because you've sprinkled magic blockchain words onto whatever you're doing. If your activity falls into a regulated area, then you need to be regulated. Right? Whether or not the government or private party chooses to enforce is a whole separate question. But I do think it's a good point, Matt, or know if they start implementing similar rules to what are applied today, you're just going to recreate the same system, right? You're going to force centralization around exchanges, you're going to force centralization around different products or services. And it's going to look pretty much the same as what we have today. And a lot of the efficiencies that people have already achieved or are aspiring to achieve may not be recognized or realized, which would be unfortunate.
00:50:35.090 - 00:50:40.180, Speaker B: Anybody else have any questions? I know we went through a whole bunch of different things.
00:50:43.750 - 00:50:52.680, Speaker A: Yes. Erin, thank you so much for an amazing lecture. Okay, so someone else posted another question here.
00:50:53.850 - 00:51:41.030, Speaker B: Let me just go back. How can existing round incorporation be expected? So Dow members, I mean, they're not anonymous, right? So everybody's a pseudonym. And I think, and I don't know if you've covered this in the class, I'm assuming so, but through transaction graph analysis or other kind of data analytics tools, you're able to identify people and increasingly do that. So the possibility that you'd have like a purely anonymous group of people in dows, it's conceivable, right. We've seen great projects like Tornado Cash and other kind of more advanced, smart, contract based, zero knowledge based privacy solutions emerge. They're still pretty clunky and costly, and they're not perfect, but maybe they get better over time. So it's more anonymous.
00:51:41.030 - 00:52:41.210, Speaker B: So I just question almost the premise there in part. Right. You're not going to be able to hide your tracks fully in Delaware, at least if you're setting up like a rap DaO, you need as an entity to keep track of who the members are. If there's a question from law enforcement, the way that we've handled that in the Lau and Flamingo, and I think nine other dows that we've created, a company that I run, tribute labs, we serve as a service provider. So the DAO members provide us with the information and then we're obligated not to share that with other members of the DAO. So people can operate as pseudonyms. So in like the Lao Flamingo, Neptune, the whole host of the other daos we built, we have people that operate as know, nobody goes on video, on calls and people go by handles, and only if they want to kind of reveal themselves or dox themselves, they're able to do that.
00:52:41.210 - 00:53:22.034, Speaker B: So I do think you will see Daos where they're pseudonyms that are able to participate, at least in Delaware. That presents some challenges. If you want to do wrapdao, if you're going in other states, it may not be required, although it could be sensible to do that. And then obviously, if you're just doing like a more open ended, defi based Dao, plenty of people are synonymous or are able to use enough privacy preserving technology to basically become anonymous. And there's not much you can do about that. It becomes really an enforcement question. Okay, another question from anonymous attendee, who obviously wants to operate as a pseudonym.
00:53:22.034 - 00:54:03.742, Speaker B: If a smart contract is popular, but its operator is not known and does something bad to its users in certain cases, would regulation deal with something like that? Yeah, I mean, well, first query whether or not the operator couldn't be identified. So let's just. Not to pick on sushi, but let's say sushi swap was purportedly created by a pseudonym. I'm not fully convinced if you put a little law enforcement efforts that they couldn't identify who that person was, especially if they were working with some of these analytics companies. But let's assume that they are not able to do that. What likely will happen is anybody that is still supporting that project in some sort of way could face some liability. Right.
00:54:03.742 - 00:54:37.726, Speaker B: So if you're one of the core contributors to it, if you're really participating heavily in building the market and marketplaces around sushi, then you may face some sort of liability. Those are harder cases. It's hard to know what people would do. But the headline, I think I'd say is there's always, like a little bit of a hook that people that want to go after a project can find if they're creative enough. Hopefully that answered that, Mr. Anonymous or miss Anonymous, or however you want to. Right.
00:54:37.726 - 00:55:18.086, Speaker B: Andrew, do you have any insight into what makes a healthy Dao decision making process? Maybe concepts from political science, like being predictable, making decisions in public through deliberation, et cetera? That's a great question. I can only tell you about what we are doing in some of the dows that we support. So we support nine dows. There's been about $200 million worth of ether contributed to the dows. They're really focused on making investments decisions together. So you can kind of lump them in the fund of like a venture capital or hedge type fund. And what we're seeing work really well is operating via rough consensus as opposed to quorum based voting.
00:55:18.086 - 00:55:50.886, Speaker B: I think a lot of defi dows are not as effective as they can be because they rely on quorum based business decisions. They require certain thresholds to propose things. They need certain thresholds to be met for something to get implemented. And what happens is that those thresholds are oftentimes not reached and nothing happens. We've taken a different approach in our daos, where we operate via rough consensus, and this is really inspired by the design of the Malik Dao smart contract system. The way it works there is that if there's a proposal, somebody else can sponsor it. So you kind of have a second.
00:55:50.886 - 00:56:35.118, Speaker B: So it's a little bit like a parliamentary system, and then once it's sponsored, it goes up for vote and a window of time opens up in the Malik dao. It's a default seven day period, although it can be calibrated. And if during that period there's more yes votes than no votes, then it passes and then the assets will be moved, or they could be claimed by a third party, or you could trigger a smart contract after that voting period, et cetera. And what's notable about that is that it just operates with a very subtle difference. It's not saying enough people need to weigh in. Just the people that are paying attention during that period of time weigh in, and there's kind of a default to action that occurs from that. And that seemed to work really well across those nine dows.
00:56:35.118 - 00:57:14.958, Speaker B: I think we've deployed well over $100 million in capital backed 100 plus projects purchased, like several thousand nfts. So you can move pretty quick with this rough consensus model. I think that's pretty interesting. The other thing that we've learned through the dows is you probably need some support just to kind of push things along, like almost like a whip in Congress or a mod on a subreddit. Right. Somebody to just kind of clean the streets, push things forward if there's something that needs to be done and handle a bit of the scutt and grunt work. Just doing that I think has been helpful to kind of make governance a little bit easier and have a healthy decision making process.
00:57:14.958 - 00:57:49.258, Speaker B: Lots of dows will do like some soft polling or straw polling before they put something up for formal vote, just to see if there's rough consensus. We definitely do that. I think lots of defi dows do that. Makes a bunch of sense. So those are our early lessons from it, like how to make a healthy dow decision making process. I think the last piece that we do in our dows is people congregate in different channels that can include, like, discord. But we also have weekly calls that people can just join and just either shoot the breeze or talk through whatever topics people want to talk through.
00:57:49.258 - 00:58:30.650, Speaker B: And that's been really helpful to kind of build some soft cohesion and get a group of people that are kind of focused to push things along. Other people are experimenting with kind of creating subcommittees or like streams or pods or smaller groups. I'm a little skeptical about that, both from a regulatory reason. I think if you're part of like a smaller group, you're probably opening yourself up to liability, number one. And number two, I'm just not fully convinced that will work that well, but time will tell. I guess it depends on the scope of the dow. But I think what I find most exciting about dows at a high level is it really is like a petri dish to explore these new concepts.
00:58:30.650 - 00:59:32.714, Speaker B: And I think that that is exciting. And because we have these new efficient tools, I smart contracts and blockchain technology, we can start to play around. Right? And people have really been theorizing and coming up with really interesting voting mechanics and concepts, from delegated voting to conviction voting, to different waiting on voting to make decisions. And my sense is, at the end of the day, probably you're going to see a mix of different DaO decision making processes depending on the process. So I'll give an example there. We run a defi dao called Neptune, where we have a bucket of ether that's allocated for fast moving opportunities where it goes forward if nobody vetoes it, and then there's slower buckets to do things like what we would call like a beta strategy or deploying it into a fair amount of ether, into let's say like compound or aave or something like that. So I think you're going to have kind of blended decision making processes, I guess.
00:59:32.714 - 01:00:04.600, Speaker B: Last thing on that point, I do think these multi token models are pretty interesting and something we'll hear a lot more about where you can begin to introduce kind of separation of powers like we see in Congress, where you may have different groups that have broader input, but you need two groups to kind of weigh in on things. And maybe that's a way to kind of achieve decentralized governance, but also move things along a little bit more, a little bit more forward. So lots of different really exciting things. I think that's definitely next frontier. Great question.
01:00:06.410 - 01:00:34.894, Speaker A: Thanks a lot for the great answers to these questions. So maybe I can ask another question. I think when I talk about the legal issues, a lot of it is like SEC and other more us, I would say focused aspect. So can you also talk about more from an international perspective, the regulatory, you.
01:00:34.932 - 01:01:22.958, Speaker B: Know, for better or worse? I definitely think many other jurisdictions are waiting to see how the US handles things before they act. So we haven't seen a tremendous amount of enforcement actions from jurisdictions outside the US. I don't know exactly why that's the case. We have seen some clarification during the token boom of 2016 to 18 about the classification of tokens. So one example is in Switzerland, SIFMA, which is the swiss equivalent of the SEC, issued fairly clear guidance just outlining under what circumstances they'll consider a token to be a security, in what instances it will not be considered a security that was largely know. Frankly, it's hard to parse through. But in the US, there's a couple differences around the edges, but at its, uh.
01:01:22.958 - 01:02:01.070, Speaker B: The way it landed in Switzerland was if you're selling a token and marketing it as an investment, or it has a right to some sort of profit or stream of income, it's going to be a security, right? It looks like a financial product. If it's a utility token that's used for governance or used as a license or access or something else like that, at least in Switzerland, it's not going to be considered a security. And then there's always assets, because developers are fun, that blend together different things, or they kind of mutate. So they said that those should be handled on a case by case basis. In many ways, that's where the US landed too. It just used a lot more words to get there. But I don't think it's that dissimilar here.
01:02:01.070 - 01:02:41.830, Speaker B: Maybe I'm wrong and maybe that could change over the next quarter or so. Singapore has also weighed in and largely mirrored what Switzerland did. I'd say that those are probably the furthest along in terms of thinking and thought processes. The fadif, which is this international group, again, don, they've weighed in when it comes to AML and know your customer requirements, that's probably the most coordinated response that we've seen. They just came out with proposed rules in June. It's very broadly spoken, the language is very broad, so it's unclear who is going to be subject to some of those requirements. It's a little bit too broad for my purposes.
01:02:41.830 - 01:03:17.586, Speaker B: I do think that they want to hold developers responsible and I just think that's a bad idea. But that's a little bit outside of my pay grade, unfortunately. Other things, just to note, tax is different in different jurisdictions than in the US. If you are developing a project, you're going to spend some time. If you get funding and are trying to develop it with lots of lawyers and including tax lawyers, to kind of manage those risks. It's tricky because if you're going to a jurisdiction for tax reasons like Panama or a caribbean island, it sounds pretty good. And maybe you're saving money, but wearing like a regulator's hat.
01:03:17.586 - 01:03:45.806, Speaker B: And this should be plain. If I tell you that you're operating some business in Panama or some Seychelles or some random jurisdiction, it kind of makes you look a little bit like not a good faith broker. So I think that's why you see like, uniswap and a lot of us defi projects, especially in this wave, just sticking in the US. Right. They're not trying to avoid anything. They're standing up tall and just trying to figure out the right answers, which may be a right approach. In other jurisdictions, though, they've clarified it.
01:03:45.806 - 01:04:05.522, Speaker B: Like in Switzerland if you're a swiss citizen. It's amazing. Crypto to, crypto transactions are not taxed. Like, how amazing is that? So huge advantage. Singapore and other jurisdictions have clarified on the tax side and they're using that as a arbitrage opportunity. So lots of really interesting tax stuff. Some people geek out on the tax game.
01:04:05.522 - 01:04:17.180, Speaker B: That is not my specialty, but that's another area where there's a bit of a difference. And I haven't seen any jurisdiction rate on defi yet. Don, outside of icos and token sales, I may miss something.
01:04:19.550 - 01:04:26.214, Speaker A: Great. Thank you so much. If there are no more other questions. Thank you so much, Erin.
01:04:26.342 - 01:04:29.114, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks so much for having me, Don. Really appreciate it.
01:04:29.312 - 01:04:51.602, Speaker A: And thanks, everyone, for being with us for the class this semester. And also, I think for students who are doing class projects to write the class project reports. See you soon. And also, as we mentioned, we'll be issuing an NFT for completion of the project. So we'll be releasing information about the NFT shortly as well.
01:04:51.736 - 01:04:53.780, Speaker B: That's awesome. I think that's great.
01:04:54.470 - 01:04:55.540, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone.
01:04:56.390 - 01:04:58.194, Speaker B: Thank you. Thank you.
01:04:58.312 - 01:04:59.870, Speaker A: Thank you. Thanks, Aaron.
