00:00:00.440 - 00:00:56.649, Speaker A: I'm so confused. How are there more Rust Youtubers than actual Rust job positions? With so many YouTube channels to pick from, it's time somebody organized them into a tier list. And as the most based Rust channel, that's exactly what I'm going to do in today's video. Starting off with no boilerplate. A channel that lives up to its name by producing fast paced technical videos using a combination of catchy video titles and engaging storytelling, no boilerplate has been able to produce one viral hit after another. I like to think of noboilerplay as the fireship for Rust developers, but instead of teaching people how to be Normie JavaScript devs, NoBoilerPlay uses his sexy British accent to seduce unsuspecting developers into the Rust cult, earning him a spot in the cult leader tier faster than Lime. A prominent figure in the Rust community, well known for his in depth exploratory blog posts, but he also makes great YouTube videos explaining how computers work at a fundamental level in an engaging and understandable way.
00:00:56.649 - 00:01:37.665, Speaker A: Rustation Tier John Jenset the pinnacle of Rust education. Starting his channel back in 2018, he's well known for his live coding videos where he does intermediate to advanced Rust deep dives, specifically the Crust of Rust series where he brilliantly explains some of Rust's hardest concepts. This man is a certified Rust expert. As part of his PhD thesis, he implemented a database system designed for read heavy web applications in Rust. He's the author of Rust for Rust Stations, a must read book for anyone who wants to be proficient in Rust, and he's worked on Rust's build infrastructure at aws. Putting him in the Rustation tier with other mere mortals would be an insult. It's only right that I put him in the King Crab tier.
00:01:37.665 - 00:02:45.093, Speaker A: Jeremy Choan the hidden gem of rust YouTubers with great educational content ranging from short tips and tricks like how to structure your Rust code base to long form content like his two part full length Axum tutorial which not only teaches you the Axum framework, but also teaches you how to make your Rust server production ready. As an added bonus, Jeremy's charming French accent will make you fall in love with Rust even faster. Rustation tier Ucode Things Known for his enthusiastic speaking style, engaging animations and clear explanations, Ucode Things was making Rust videos before it was cool. Unfortunately, he decided to stop posting and sell out by getting a real job instead of being a broke rust YouTuber, which earns him a spot in the shadow realm of the corporate office. Logan Smith a new Rust YouTuber who creates elegant breakdowns of specific and unique Rust topics. His high quality videos are quickly gaining him a cult following, so I'm going to put him in the cult Leader tier as a junior cult leader. Code to the Moon A channel that produces videos ranging from Rust tutorials, Rust powered tools like the Helix code editor, and inferior technologies like the V programming language.
00:02:45.093 - 00:03:55.403, Speaker A: He also creates ergonomic keyboard content which comes in handy when you're trying to prevent carpal tunnel from rewriting your entire code base in Rust Rustation Tier Low Level Learning Besides producing gray Rust content, this channel is known for entertaining and educational low level programming videos. Everything from assembly tutorials to reverse engineering to bare metal programming to videos about how hackers can exploit low level code. This channel offers a unique perspective on writing code because low level learning is a security researcher, earning him a spot in the hacker tier. Chris Biscardi Besides general Rust tutorials, this this is one of the only Rust channels that has a dedicated series to building games in Rust using the Bevy engine. Rust Station Tier the Primagen the pinnacle of tech entertainment, this channel has everything memes, mustaches, meth. With a unique ability to mix tech and entertainment and do it all in real time, the Primagen has created a lane of his own, loved by his dedicated fanbase and other tech YouTubers alike. Putting him in the King Crab tier would be a no brainer, but he did have some choice words to say when reacting to one of my videos.
00:03:55.403 - 00:04:00.747, Speaker A: Before I ever learned Rust, I was a web and mobile developer for about five years.
00:04:00.851 - 00:04:04.683, Speaker B: He could just said he was a soy boy for five years. Like that's all he got.
00:04:04.739 - 00:04:44.655, Speaker A: Clearly the primogen wants beef so he's going in the smoke tier. Let's Get Rusty in my completely unbiased opinion, this is by far the greatest rust channel on YouTube. It has the best channel, name the highest quality Rust videos and the host is a certified Tech Chad. Smart, handsome, charismatic and has an extremely large DIT scored server where he helps fellow rustaceans. Lastly, unlike the other channels I've mentioned, this is the only Rust channel that's officially supported by the Rust Foundation, A true gift to the Rust community. Let's Get Rusty has earned its place in the Heaven Tier. Before you go, make sure to get your free Rust cheat sheet@letsgetrusty.com
00:04:44.655 - 00:04:52.485, Speaker A: cheatsheet let me know in the comments section what you think about these Rust channels and if there are any channels I missed. Hope you've enjoyed the video and remember to stay rusty.
