00:00:19.820 - 00:00:20.416, Speaker A: Okay, we're good.
00:00:20.438 - 00:00:43.548, Speaker B: The stream is up. Awesome. Well said before. Thank you to everyone in the room today for joining us. Thank you to Juan. I know we're all excited to sort of see how this goes, but I'll give you a second to introduce yourself if you want to take it away. This is the official hackaths brainstorming session.
00:00:43.548 - 00:01:11.524, Speaker B: Yeah. Awesome. Well, hey, it's really great to be here with everybody. I think we ran one of these brainstorming sessions a year ago, so really excited to generate a bunch of ideas together. It's fantastic to have another hacker fest. So what I'm going to do today is we're just going to spend most of the time in this kind of generative session, just brainstorming ideas. And in order to do that, we'll look at a bunch of other ideas from the past.
00:01:11.524 - 00:01:37.344, Speaker B: We'll actually pull up the old document that we generated that a lot of us generated a year ago with a bunch of cool ideas. And we'll add a lot more and hopefully that will help kind of percolate some interesting opportunities for yeah. By the way, Luke, I don't know if you wanted to cover anything else. You told me to introduce myself and I didn't introduce myself. I started jumping in. So let me know if you want. No, that's okay.
00:01:37.344 - 00:02:03.110, Speaker B: Cool. So let's see. I will share my screen. The goal of the session is to kind of make it super interactive. And I'm going to go through a few things first. Let's see. Let me know if you can see that.
00:02:03.110 - 00:02:32.832, Speaker B: Which screen can you see? You can see both right now. So I've got your desktop and the slides. Let's see. 1 second. So you can see this with the browser, right? That's correct. Great. Awesome.
00:02:32.832 - 00:03:16.848, Speaker B: So I'll just quickly go through a few slides just to kind of like set the set context a little bit. Um, cool. So I'm just going to kick off with a bit of inspiration. I'll try to give a lot of tips for the hackers. And I want to talk a bit about something I get a lot of questions about, which is how to start up in Web Three. This is just going to be a super quick summary of another talk I've given at another global summit called, I think, Web Three Weekend. And so it's just kind of a plug for that.
00:03:16.848 - 00:04:03.576, Speaker B: You can kind of watch that talk to for the full version. But there's a few nuggets here that keep coming up again when I talk to people. And then we're going to spend most of the time in this kind of open ended brainstorming session. Cool. So just quick inspiration. It's really useful to when you're setting off to build something and kind of entering one of these hackathons, I find it really nice and useful to kind of step back and think through why web three matters and we're all here building what we're building and kind of how to use your superpowers as a builder, as a developer, as a designer, as a product maker, as a speaker and so on, to kind of make an impact. And so I really see Web Three as the next generation of the Internet.
00:04:03.576 - 00:05:11.990, Speaker B: So the Internet has been coming in multiple waves over time and Web Three is this big, big kind of next wave and it's kind of breathtaking. But in about 80 years, computing has completely changed our species. What we can do nowadays with our superpowers, with our supercomputers and our pockets and this massive connectivity that brings us all together is just fundamentally very different than what our ancestors were able to do. And you don't even have to kind of think back 500 years or 1000 years or 2000 years to just kind of just even 80 years before the rise of computing. People operated very differently. And so you as a human today have just vastly more capabilities because you have this kind of set of superpowers that are delivered to you through this computational medium. And what I find most exciting about this system is that you get to contribute to it too.
00:05:11.990 - 00:06:40.876, Speaker B: So you can think of humanity today as not just you can think of humanity today as like, living through this integrated system with trillions of computers. So you can think of everything that billions of humans can do plus their leveraged, well applied efforts mediated by trillions of computers living and working together in this sort of massive integrated system. And every single facet of what we do as humans tends to be now affected in one way or another by computing, even if not directly, just indirectly, through the effect of computing in our systems, in our economies, in our larger kind of intersubjective systems. And at the end of the day, all of what computing gives us is this super open platform through which you can craft a superpower and deliver it to the world. So you can think of the Internet and the Web as this superpower crafting machine where you get to create a spell, use kind of like this arcane language, use this magic, craft a spell, and then form a superpower and deliver it to billions of people worldwide at near zero cost. It's not zero, but it's near zero cost. And that's just absolutely breathtaking in terms of our capabilities as a species.
00:06:40.876 - 00:07:42.868, Speaker B: And so that means that over the last 20 years, we've been kind of radically improving ourselves through systems like this with all kinds of super powerful components. And the really amazing thing, the thing that I find most promising and optimistic about this entire outlook is that this is super open for innovation. It is very easy for an individual or even a small group of people to put their efforts into making a thing and deploying it to the world. And if it's something that a lot of other people resonate with and want to use and so on. Then it'll get traction and grow and so on. And so just even in this slide you can probably see a lot of different kinds of systems that have radically changed how you operate and so on. I think the collaboration tools are just this phenomenal set of superpowers that you can use to kind of do all kinds of things.
00:07:42.868 - 00:08:18.320, Speaker B: I'd love to see a bunch of these things. So even in the screen, most of the stuff, not all of it, but most of it is web two stuff. And I would love to be able to over time, just kind of start swapping out all of this for web three powered, powered things. And I think we're fairly close to that. It's also worth mentioning for everybody here that computing has a lot of other kind of revolutions that are coming ahead and some of them in parallel and so on. There's many new kinds of interfaces that are coming. So AR and VR brain machine interfaces and different kind of AI systems.
00:08:18.320 - 00:09:18.710, Speaker B: So when you think about sort of the computing timeline 80 years back and 80 years in the future, it's really unclear what's going to happen over this trajectory. So really encourage you to stay at the forefront of computing and stay kind of aim for good futures. A lot of this technology, you have to remember that technology has this great powerful capability and that means that people can use it for good or for bad. And even bad is kind of like hard to define because what's good for one group can be bad for others and so on. But I think that there are a lot of things that interest objectively for most people on the planet could be things you can aim for good or bad things. And so really the powers in your hands as builders to craft the future that you want to craft a really good future. So over time use hackathons like these to help chip at building the future that you want to live in.
00:09:18.710 - 00:10:34.476, Speaker B: So now in web three, I think it's really important for folks to think through the values of web three. So we come from the read, write, interactive web, sort of like the web two world and we've been adding kind of verifiability and trustlessness and so on to web three. And I tend to think of this as this kind of set of values of being able to kind of create these notions of rights and bake them into the network. I'm starting to see sort of the blockchain systems as a jurisdiction within the internet and that's a totally different kind of thing. You can think of blockchains as this kind of legal system in a box and web three is really changing every single industry that you can look at. There's all kinds of systems that are being developed. A lot of our products and applications haven't really permitted the mainstream and so Web Three is sort of kind of slower than other revolutions kind of spread so I think mobile and social networks ended up being way faster but every single industry segment is getting radically changed by Web Three.
00:10:34.476 - 00:11:44.500, Speaker B: By the way, the reason why I think all this stuff is low is that the infrastructure Web Three is fundamentally very different and we've had to do a ton of infrastructure build out. Plus, what tends to happen is that a lot of teams end up getting distracted by a lot of teams that set out to build really high quality consumer products end up being distracted and sucked into some important infrastructure project or into some financial project. And so that means that a lot of the things that end up getting built out of Web Three are either infrastructure or financial products. And I think it would be fantastic if you go and hack on something that is consumer product, really stick with it, really help because at the end of the day most people use these superpowers through some end user consumer product that has some nice interface that people can use and whatnot. So all of that will get better only if you as a team stick through things like that and build those kinds of components. One thing that I'd love for you to keep in mind with all of this is that software is eating mechanism design. So that's kind of what all of Web Three is really about.
00:11:44.500 - 00:13:16.370, Speaker B: It's just that you can create incentive structures and deploy them out into the world if they make sense and they can scale and so on then all kinds of things will change through it. And just to convince you of the power of these mechanisms the bitcoin network is a good example and always a stark reminder of just how powerful mechanisms are. This enormous amount of hash rate and all of the bitcoin mining efforts in the world are yielded by a few mechanisms. The falco network is another good example of this where just a few mechanisms deployed into the network can cause one of the largest storage networks on the planet to emerge in a really short time. So Falcon isn't even a year old yet in terms of when minute launch happened and already it's one of the largest storage systems on the planet and the capacity of PowerPoint now is just about even this graph every time I look at this graph I have to get a new snapshot. We can now just to put into context how much eight x bytes is when we hit ten x divides. This is an estimate of the size of a bunch of different kinds of data sets and how big they might be.
00:13:16.370 - 00:14:17.460, Speaker B: And this estimate was on using publicly available data and then kind of estimating the growth rate and kind of looking at what that might look like. But all the things kind of highlighted in blue could just entirely fit in this kind of storage. Cool. So I think let me make it through. I had the slides here because how I approached the question of web three and kind of changing the network was I looked at a lot of the pieces that I thought were kind of broken about the internet and kind of tried creating some projects to help with them. So one of them was kind of around networking and said hey, building things with peer to peer networks is really difficult. It'd be really amazing to kind of create a composable framework for being able to kind of write peer to peer systems.
00:14:17.460 - 00:15:14.852, Speaker B: We kind of emphasize that as a hacker, if you build something that's composable and that a lot of people can build on and that is open and open source in the first place, then a lot of people might end up using it. And with things like IPFS and Filcoin, it's about changing the nature of how data moves and putting people's control first and foremost in the distribution of data. Cool. So some quick tips for hackers. Not a lot of people know this, but I started off building a lot of things through hackathons. So in fact I started my first set of projects by working through hackathons. I always kind of was really excited about building things and getting to hang out with a lot of other people and being able to talk about what I was building and what I was interested in and so on.
00:15:14.852 - 00:16:11.480, Speaker B: And I just learned a ton through it. So I think my first tip is use hackathons as a great excuse to build something that is going to teach you a lot and through it kind of explore some domain, explore some area of things. And so don't be shy about building a thing. Even if you don't see kind of like a long term future for it, you might learn a ton and all of what you learn there might feed into something else. Tip number two is sometimes one of those projects that you'll build in a hackathon does have a ton of potential to grow from there. And so as you build things and you participate in hackathons over time, kind of time it and maybe one of those things might be really compelling and sometimes it's not even a project that you started. Sometimes you'll find a project that somebody else started out of a hackathon and you'll get really excited about it and you'll be like oh wow, that's actually really cool and maybe you can join that team and go take it somewhere.
00:16:11.480 - 00:17:19.784, Speaker B: Another thing that I think is really important for hackathons is keep things small and simple. So it's always kind of really exciting to when you're building something new to just think of adding a lot of different kinds of things and making the thing you're making solve every problem. And the number one thing to remember is you have a very limited amount of time. Even a month is a long time, but it goes by really fast and your limited time is going to be best spent by getting the core functionality of a thing working well enough and just kind of polish that piece. So kind of like the typical YC advice is just make something that a few people love and that's way better than making something that a lot of people might like a little bit. And so really kind of like focus on solving one problem for somebody and then that small simple thing can then grow from there. One really cool thing about Web Three that you can lean into is the composability of the Web Three stack.
00:17:19.784 - 00:18:14.992, Speaker B: It means that you can create simple things that are just kind of some composable piece of software or some composable set of contracts on a chain or something like that and then that in and of itself can then be built on by a lot of other people. You don't have to build a lot of very complex things. Sometimes the more complex platforms and systems don't succeed and it's the simpler, more composable primitives that end up taking off. I think the recent successes of DeFi and NFTs are a great example of this. Like the platforms that aim for simpler, more composable things ended up having a much larger impact than I think platforms that sort of sought to kind of encapsulate everything. And yeah, I think throughout the hackathon just kind of ask questions, lean on the folks. There's a ton of material and content out there that you can look at.
00:18:14.992 - 00:19:04.736, Speaker B: A ton of stuff on the web, a ton of stuff on chat, really kind of don't get blocked by struggling through something you can lean on, asking for help or searching for resources and stuff like that. Cool. So a few thoughts on starting up in Web Three. A lot of people come to hackathons and build things and eventually kind of want to take one of their hacks and turn those into kind of a high impact project. And for those people, a lot of people tend to ask me what it's like to start things up in this ecosystem and so on. I kind of want to boil it down to three points and this is something that I expanded on another talk and so you can find it online. So I'll just very quickly give a summary of it here.
00:19:04.736 - 00:19:48.480, Speaker B: But you can watch that talk for a more expanded version. So point number one is that the opportunities in Web Three are truly massive. Point number two is that building Web Three is quite challenging or can be, it's getting easier every year, but it can be pretty challenging. And point number three is that we're here to help. So a lot of groups are super friendly, super collaborative, super able to kind of help save you time and are really excited to do it because people have helped them in the past and so everybody's sort of paying it forward. So it's a super collaborative community. So kind of remember that kind of like in terms of the opportunities being massive, remember software is getting law and in terms of the challenges, there's a ton of complexity.
00:19:48.480 - 00:20:46.200, Speaker B: And also the spacing is extremely fast. So if you kind of stop paying attention quickly, the world moves really fast. All kinds of challenges. And yeah, we're here to help. So a lot of communities putting there's a ton of resources that I'm sure you've encountered in the past, a lot of platforms that make it easier to get started, and there's a ton of orgs that are explicitly devoting a lot of resources to helping others get started and kind of build things in the world of Web Three. Really kind of want to make sure that over time you feel super able to kind of reach out for help for the folks that want to go and take the projects that they build. Just sort of like my recommended pathway.
00:20:46.200 - 00:21:55.180, Speaker B: Try building things through hackathons until you feel like you have the kernel or something that could be fairly large because there's a lot of hackathons going on all the time, so you can probably kind of try and experiment with them over time. And then once you have something that you feel like it can grow fairly large, there's actually a lot of funding available in the Web Three ecosystem to get started. So there's things like prices that come through hackathons, there's next step grants, there's accelerators and then investments in grants beyond that. So there's a whole funding funnel that's been set up that once you feel like you have something pretty promising, you're able to find funding, either grants or investments that can help you be able to kind of work on your projects full time, or help you hire other people so they can help you work on it and so on. And highly recommend taking a look at how Web Three is changing teams. So a lot of different groups are now, instead of kind of forming companies and so on, building dows and building other kinds of internet native or crypto native team structures. And those are super interesting.
00:21:55.180 - 00:22:58.204, Speaker B: Super exciting. And, yeah, I would say the other component is a lot of groups offer at least a lot of people at PL, but I think a lot of other folks in other organizations are starting to do it, too. A lot of people offer office hours, so that kind of stuff can be super helpful where if you're stuck with product questions or technical questions or you're trying to think of some kind of economic flow model or mechanism design or something like that, office hours can be a phenomenal way to kind of get some hands on help. Thinking through some of these problems, So if that's something that would be interesting, this is something that folks from DL and from other orgs can probably help do. And there's a lot of workshops that will happen over the whole Hack FS set of sessions, so definitely lean into those. But I think office hours can always be useful to kind of plug into kind of direct help for what you're working on. Cool.
00:22:58.204 - 00:23:56.710, Speaker B: So great. Let's get to hackathon ideas. So what we're going to do is we're going to open a shared document that we used together last year. And this comes from a session. I'm going to send the link to everybody, see? So you just open that link and you'll hop into this chat together sorry, into this chat through documents. And this is the brainstorm session document from a year ago, like almost to the day. I guess a little bit over a year ago.
00:23:56.710 - 00:24:49.050, Speaker B: Yeah, I guess a month. And I'm going to go over the rules a little bit in a moment of kind of what the session is going to be about. And then we're going to go through kind of this whole we're going to have some time to kind of put in a lot of ideas and so on as a group. And then we'll take some time going through each of these sections, kind of adding and looking at some of these ideas. And the whole goal is to kind of treat this as a super generative discussion. And now that I've spent like 30 minutes, like blathering at you, the goal is to kind of make this super interactive and kind of work through a bunch of these categories to just generate more ideas. And so the goal is to kind of, over time, build this really nice idea base.
00:24:49.050 - 00:25:34.932, Speaker B: And it's really cool that a bunch of the things here from last year ended up getting built. Some of them turned into full on projects that are live now and some of them have a ton of users and so on. So it's pretty amazing to see that growth and a lot of these ideas remain super viable today. So pretty interesting that we started hitting on a bunch of the audio and video stuff that NFTs weren't as much of a thing. It was like a little bit of a thing, but definitely not the big boom hadn't really hit yet. But yeah, we'll get to that in a moment. Actually, if folks are around, if you can turn your video on, that'd be cool.
00:25:34.932 - 00:26:09.356, Speaker B: It'd help us all see each other and actually participate and whatnot. Cool. How's it going? Great to see you. Sweet. I am not just speaking into the ether and speaking to people. Cool. I want to go through the rules.
00:26:09.356 - 00:26:19.350, Speaker B: So first off, yes. And who can explain the yes and rule of brainstorming? Anyone want to give it a go?
00:26:19.720 - 00:26:33.876, Speaker C: Well, anything you hear, you first say yes without doing any judgment and then add on to that what else we can do that's a standard in the improv type of scenario.
00:26:34.068 - 00:26:42.396, Speaker B: Exactly. Awesome. Very well put. And why is it important to say yes and and be generative again, you.
00:26:42.418 - 00:26:47.340, Speaker C: Don'T want to block that thought. You won't let it percolate.
00:26:52.160 - 00:27:45.964, Speaker B: Yes. And it turns out that in highly technical settings, it tends to be that a lot of the sort of engineering mindset tends to be more constraining. It tends to want to figure out why certain things are not going to work. So a lot of people that build software and so on tend to come into discussions and brainstorm with a sort of bias towards figuring out why it won't work. And right away, a lot of people kind of race, when they hear a suggestion, race into thinking about why that thing isn't going to work and they tend to say, no, that won't work because of X. But what happens is that when somebody says no to a thing, when somebody proposes something, they suggest an idea. It's kind of like a leap of faith and in a room or a document with a lot of people, that suggestion, when you hear a no, that sort of like shuts down the creativity.
00:27:45.964 - 00:28:31.870, Speaker B: And so hearing no from other people and so on tends to be like a creativity killer. So if any of you have I love that you mentioned improv. And this is where the rule comes from. If you haven't done improv, highly recommend you do. And in this setting, usually improv classes will show you an amazing example of what happens when in a scene, people reject each other's ideas and say no. It just completely becomes dead and not interesting and so on. So likewise in brainstorming sessions with a lot of groups, very much be yes, end oriented, be generative, come up with more things, copy, remix, look at other things.
00:28:31.870 - 00:29:16.670, Speaker B: And then if you can think of something that's slightly different but has an interesting twist, write it down and so on. Who knows, maybe you doing that will bring attention to somebody else and they'll make something cool. Great. So before we jump into this set of ideas and we'll kind of go through them, I want to flash some images at you that I've been collecting for a while. The last time I presented these was at a hackathon on ECC a few weeks ago. I guess last week feels like forever. And here I plugged the hack effects list from a long time ago.
00:29:16.670 - 00:30:30.340, Speaker B: So in this list I talked a bit about storage markets, data and computation infrastructure and there was a lot of interest in NFTs, so I had a bunch of stuff on NFT stack, so I'll just go through those pretty quickly. So think of being able to have storage markets with a lot of kind of asks and bids on both sides and auctions and live orders and so on. Think of a there's a thing called sort of like the dataverse that people are coming up with, which is being able to kind of add smart contracts and Oracles with data that's large and starting to kind of compute over the data that's stored in storage networks. There's a bunch of different kinds of markets that could be involved in the storage of data. So things like auction houses and marketplaces and so on, there's connections and bridges to other networks and other chains. Think of a marketplace like Airbnb, but imagine if this was showing you not a place you're going to stay, but a place where your data is going to stay. So imagine kind of like a marketplace with pictures of all of the different facilities that storage providers might be offering.
00:30:30.340 - 00:31:51.372, Speaker B: This one I'll kind of talk a little bit more about because it's probably my favorite idea and I think something that I think could be super valuable. So it turns out that right now Filecoin has this really unique incentive structure that creates a condition by which you can drop the price to zero or turn it negative. And I think there's folks already at Texas, I don't know if they talked about it yet, but I think they're seeing this in action. So it turns out that if you auction because there's a lot more capacity than storage, the block reward of Five Point is incentivizing, a lot of capacity build out and the clients are sort of starting to take off, but the amount of stored data is lower than the capacity. While that's true, and that can be true for a while, it could be many months or years while that's true, it means that you can turn data storage, you can make it free or potentially do negative storage pricing. So you could cause storage providers to offer storage either for free or paying some of the clients. And that's a phenomenal, super interesting incentive structure that's available.
00:31:51.372 - 00:32:58.944, Speaker B: And my sense of what's missing to be able to really kind of do that in earnest is the tooling for auctions exists. Now, I think Textile has been building it and the tooling for auctions and NFTs exists because there's a lot of NFT auction houses. What doesn't exist yet is something that puts these things together and says what would happen if you kind of auction some very large scale deal that was really valuable? Imagine kind of like some really important data set, like this weather forecast data that might be extremely useful for a lot of people that might be really big. And then some organization came to sell the right to store that data to the Falco network, to miners in the falco network. And Falco miners kind of applied to bid on that deal, decreasing the price until kind of like it goes negative and then suddenly kind of inverting the flow and suddenly paying for the right to store that data. So I think this is possible. And so there's kind of like one really high quality auction.
00:32:58.944 - 00:34:27.104, Speaker B: House away from just this kind of incentive structure that might make a lot of organizations that have super valuable, precious data that the world really wants to store be able to get funded by the value of the data they generate, which is super interesting. So I would love to see kind of like if there's like one thing that I would love to see out of this hackathon is storage auction houses and you can think of coupling to that like all kinds of requirements that clients might have around certification for the storage or something like that. There's another interesting idea around data dows, which is if you have dows, could you create the stewarding of a data set through a dow and kind of over time collaborate and decide on what you keep, what you store and so on. Kind of curate data sets through on chain governance. I think a few people are experimenting with that, but I don't think it has emerged yet. And you can think of also coupling this with a lot of the governance tooling that is emerging in the network. Think also of really nice end user products, things like Slate, which is kind of a tool for gathering a lot of content from the web and being able to display it.
00:34:27.104 - 00:34:51.300, Speaker B: Think of a ton of photo archives. You can now store all of this kind of stuff in IPFS and cloudcoin through things like Web Three storage and whatnot. Think of social apps. I think you can finally build these things. This has been one of the grails of Web Three for a long time. Like being able to kind of build social media type applications in Web Three. There's a few out there that are kind of getting going but have always kind of struggled.
00:34:51.300 - 00:36:00.806, Speaker B: Now that you can store all of this data for free or potentially being paid for it, I think this stuff is much more viable. You can think of stock photo or video archives, think of open access science platforms where all the data could be backed up and replicated for free and so on. And then you can get into interesting kind of uses of computation alongside the data so you can start building things that enable you to attach some computation close to the data. So think of kind of passing adding since a lot of falco managers out there have a bunch of storage plus a lot of GPUs. So imagine being able to kind of sell some of the computation, sell some computation over the data that people are storing. There's some hard problems here around making it verifiable but I think that even at the beginning there's all kinds of use cases where you can ride for a while on kind of reputation systems. Something useful is also kind of like think of your favorite set of applications.
00:36:00.806 - 00:36:40.578, Speaker B: Think is there like a good Web Three alternative and go through how hard would it be to build something like that on web Three. And then as developers, if you're really into kind of developer tooling, think of all kinds of things that you might be able to, might want to store or replicate or distribute through systems like this. So package managers, containers, VMs, all of this kind of stuff could now be stored this way. Potentially this stuff could couple well with NFTs. I don't know if people have done that, but package managers where each package is an NFT, I don't know, I don't know if that's a good idea. Cool. So some interesting thoughts about NFTs.
00:36:40.578 - 00:37:34.454, Speaker B: So I think one of the things that hasn't really happened yet is that NFTs are not yet a productive asset and that's because NFTs don't give the rights of the art. And so owners of an NFT can't really kind of use the art. But the thing is it's kind of like a misalignment of incentives. I think if people made NFT rights transferred with the NFTs, then that would kind of put the onus on the holder to make that art productive. And because of the NFT payment flows, the artists would also get compensated. So I think something like that would be potentially really valuable. It would sort of make a lot of the NFT artwork much more likely to be productive.
00:37:34.454 - 00:38:21.142, Speaker B: And so that means that the value of these assets might go up also. I think we're starting to see dynamic NFCs, but the stuff is pretty basic still. I think over time we're going to get kind of like full kind of like 3D environments as NFTs themselves. So a lot of people are already building 3D style worlds. But what if you could create composable rooms? So imagine if you could build a 3D room as an NFT itself and potentially that could be a gallery in which you host other NFTs and then you would be able to kind of compose those rooms with other rooms. And so you can start kind of building the metaverse over time in pieces. I think the metaverse has begun already.
00:38:21.142 - 00:39:17.078, Speaker B: It's just kind of all in pieces and it'll be sort of put together room by room and then stitched together into galleries and museums and then houses and so on. Yeah, think of like level editors and whatnot and think of thinking of that composition as itself as an NFT. There's also video. Now you can do video and media other kind of media things as NFTs. The folks at VideoCoin have made this really cool video NFT structure where you can now do all of the transcoding to deliver really high quality web video through VideoCoin and blockcoin. And they've kind of done a prototype auction house too, which is super cool. And so imagine being able to use that stuff for all kinds of video style apps.
00:39:17.078 - 00:40:15.958, Speaker B: So think of like TikTok or vine or things like that and make them kind of web Three native. You could also do kind of like pay per view media. This is also something that a lot of folks are working on already but I think there's still a lot of open possibilities there. And also think of all kinds of social video applications where you can maybe store the video or edit the video in some way or transcode it or translate it or that kind of stuff. By the way, plug on Huddle huddle was a hack effect team so that's where they got the it's pretty pretty awesome. One area that I'm super excited for is science NFTs. So a lot of scientists are starting to kind of think about NFTs as well and kind of it's beginning with selling the artifacts of science as art, but I'm more excited about treating the actual individual pieces of science.
00:40:15.958 - 00:41:21.650, Speaker B: Like the actual things like the experiments or the figures or the papers and so on as actual artifacts on chain that you can reason about and you can sort of start propagating value flows through. So propagating value flows. So the Mirror team created a thing called Splits that you can use to kind of split the value that goes into one NFT, which means that you can start forming networks of Splits. And there's a project called Split. Stream that's focused on science and NFTs where you can kind of think of funding the contribution graph through kind of splits like this, which I think could be really cool. And just think of all of the different artifacts that are part of the scientific process as something that could be put together into a network and then if you start putting together these contribution networks over time and in the larger scale you can think of kind of attribution over larger and larger components. So things like source grant and so on could be involved.
00:41:21.650 - 00:42:25.240, Speaker B: So think of like the NFT. I think there's not enough tooling right now for all this NFT stuff. It would be really cool to be able to kind of create distribution graphs for all of the parties involved with production of an asset or maintenance of an asset and kind of be able to reward them as that asset trades hands. So think of not just one artist but all of the art school that helped that artist get started or if it's a scientific work, all of the authors or the citations that they make and so on. And yeah, I think Certificates of Impact is also a really interesting idea that I think is now doable through NFTs. This is one of the things that I think could have the highest impact out of the entire NFT market right now. I think if somebody did like a really high quality implementation of a Certificate of Impact as NFTs and made it like a really valuable market it would allow the kind of funding in the future of super valuable, super valuable work.
00:42:25.240 - 00:43:17.414, Speaker B: This is kind of like a use crypto for good type of idea. And then, of course, with NFTs, all kinds of games are viable now that you have a lot of storage, you can create entire environments. You can look at all sorts of open source games that are out there that have a ton of assets and add them to things like IPFS and Falcon, and then address them to be able to kind of use them in a Web Three game. Or think of kind of creating you can create a virtual world, so there's a few around, but I think if you think of the world of games and the world of games in Web three, the Web Three games are very few still, there's a ton of possibilities that are super wide open. So if you like games, definitely like a time to play with all of this stuff. And so I think really kind of like metaverse type things are going to be super interesting. Cool.
00:43:17.414 - 00:44:17.860, Speaker B: So hopefully that was jostled some ideas. Netslit, let's go through this talk together. I'll just kind of scroll through this briefly and then we'll give like five minutes for you to kind of find an area that you find interesting and just write a few ideas out there. And as you drop something and you see some other people kind of working through this, feel free to comment on things or plus one things or add hearts if you find it valuable. I think comments could be really useful because then other people might get ideas or come back to it'll, flag an idea for them. I'm hearing some questions. So possible to get access to this presentation by chance? Yeah, I will send the keynote files afterwards.
00:44:17.860 - 00:45:09.252, Speaker B: Somebody looking for a team? Yeah, I think other folks probably on chat might find you. Can I elaborate on the certificates of impact from implementation perspective? Yeah, totally. So certificates of impact are this idea from a few years ago from the effective outsource community that says that you can create a imagine that you do something good for the world and you create a certificate of you having done that good thing for the world. And imagine that you now sell that certificate in a market to sell the credit of having done that good thing. What that means is that you can now fund, retroactively fund good works. So usually good works can only be funded ahead of time. So think of grants or kind of like charities and so on.
00:45:09.252 - 00:46:07.364, Speaker B: All of that kind of stuff is a way of funding good works ahead of time before they happen. But sometimes you don't quite know what will be good or really valuable until after it happens. And so it would be really useful to be able to kind of fund and reward good works in the world after they happen. And so certificates of impact are an idea for being able to do that, which is imagine being able to kind of create an NFT that addresses some kind of impact. And then the idea is that the person who did that good work describes that good work in a certificate and then kind of sells it. Now, this kind of raises all kinds of questions around verifiability, like spam, like what happens with kind of a lot of bogus good works? Like, how do you know that it really happened? And so on. For really big things, it might be pretty obvious, and the spam problem might not be high, and in some areas it might be verifiable.
00:46:07.364 - 00:46:47.460, Speaker B: So, for example, if people sell certificates of impact for planting trees as an example, that might be something that people could go and verify. So it's kind of like carbon credits. You can think of carbon credits as like a specific implementation of a Certificate of Impact, and a Certificate of Impact being a much larger, more broad kind of thing. But if there was kind of like a very large market for things like this, then this would be a way of kind of using economic tools for achieving a lot of good in the world. In terms of implementation. I really think what's missing here is a super high quality auction house. Again.
00:46:47.460 - 00:47:36.516, Speaker B: So if you look at things like foundation and so on, I think what made NFTs work is that you had this kind of really high quality experience in a product that you could go look at and say, like, oh, wow. This is really awesome. And you can share it around and propagate it to other people, and especially people being able to look at this in mobile and then people being able to kind of see the bid. History and so on, then this might be kind of like a newsworthy thing. In the sense that if you see this and you're like, oh wow, I can't believe somebody is going to pay 2.4 E for this. You might tweet this out.
00:47:36.516 - 00:48:16.336, Speaker B: And so then that attracts a lot of people and whatnot. So I think there's something about making the art visible and maybe making the auction itself very visible in a high quality way that made the NFT market work that was interesting. In the same way, I think what kind of certificates of impact need is something like that, that makes these kind of things visible. I also think it's probably the case that a profile that collects the certificates of impact that you've generated or hold and so on might be really valuable the same way. Again, I think the NFT auction houses are doing this for art, but certificates of impact might do it for good works. Cool.
00:48:16.518 - 00:48:18.400, Speaker C: Thank you. That's really helpful.
00:48:20.340 - 00:48:28.310, Speaker B: Yeah. Somebody, Alejandro, asks, can we talk to it? Alejandro, do you want to talk? Yeah, go.
00:48:28.920 - 00:48:55.432, Speaker D: It's okay. So actually, I think Luke will understand why. So it's like I totally spawned what I was going to be doing. So I'm a rookie. I'm very green at all things. Dev but didn't want to take the risk after reading an article that he kindly shared about tips and recommendations, what to do. Although I didn't write a line of code for my last idea, I figure just leave that one aside.
00:48:55.432 - 00:49:39.052, Speaker D: And what else can I do with what's in this one? I was blown away between the sora also from last year. I just discovered earlier today, like the poly wrap. And I was just like, wow, that's awesome. Because I was already thinking how to not to be very ambitious, but I may be able to do something even more ambitious just because that's already set up. But what I mean with that is I was thinking live here, like live auctions. So it's like have a live auction of the artist. I'm a Degenerate I lover, not in art, but in just unlocking and having the payment system.
00:49:39.052 - 00:49:53.010, Speaker D: Like with Superfluid, I was going to do it alone. It's my second hackathon. I'm kind of like, oh, I want to build something, but will you recommend that I do it with a team? What's best?
00:49:54.100 - 00:50:46.432, Speaker B: It's really up to you. I think you can have a lot of impact by either building something sooner with a team that is more skilled and kind of building a thing, or by taking the time to learn. Don't shy away from learning. So you can take one hackathon to build a thing for yourself, by yourself, learn a lot through it and then the next time around, or when you start a new project or whatever, you'll be that much closer to being able to do it. So it really sort of depends on kind of what you want out of it. If your goal is to kind of towards the end of the hackathon have something that's working as a product for people to use and so on, then yeah, we probably recommend working with a team. But if the goal is to learn, then just do it by yourself or kind of share what you're doing.
00:50:46.432 - 00:51:02.790, Speaker B: Write about it. I think that people learn a lot is as they're working on things and they encounter challenges, sometimes they kind of like write down their own notes either for themselves or as blog posts and that helps them process and distill learnings from that.
00:51:05.960 - 00:51:18.344, Speaker D: Thank you for that. So it's like, yeah, I want to learn because for me right now it's like, okay, I want to at least do that front end back. If I don't get to the back end, at least if I do front end development, I'll be like, oh yeah, how can I did it?
00:51:18.542 - 00:51:54.516, Speaker B: Yeah, totally. And think of all of the artifacts that you make as really valuable, right? So think of the design of the front end that you do as just like a mockup as interesting and valuable. Think of the translation of that into code and CSS and so on as valuable. Think of the connectivity as valuable. And so if all of that stuff you kind of post out there, then other people can build on it and then it might make it into a thing or you might return to it later and so on. And you're learning from it, other people are learning from it, and it's more likely that people will that you or somebody else might build something like that over time.
00:51:54.698 - 00:52:04.650, Speaker D: So thank you. Luke and I haven't slept much because I had to be thinking and learning all the others. But thank you for the article and thank you for the advice as well.
00:52:09.340 - 00:53:03.990, Speaker B: Cool. So, other questions? Any thoughts on AR filters using NFTs, a platform where you can create, trade and use AR filters using NFTs? That's super interesting. Yeah, probably add that to the list somewhere. Where might there be cool stuff around AR? Yeah, I don't know if AR is in here. It so cool. I just added somewhere cool. So let's go through some of these.
00:53:03.990 - 00:53:36.560, Speaker B: Yeah, let's start from the bottom this year. So hey, social media. And by the way, let me know if this is too I should increase the font size. Probably should increase social media. Apps are always like super interesting for people. And by the way, this meant to be super interactive. So as you come up with thoughts or ideas, don't be shy and jump in and talk through it.
00:53:36.560 - 00:54:19.032, Speaker B: We're all working in through this together. Marketplace is decentralized app store. Yeah, that would be super awesome. So I think right now it's hard to distribute web three and crypto oriented stuff to users because there's no kind of like proper Web Three App Store. It'd be really cool to have a decentralized App Store. It also might be really valuable long term because today the world is sort of controlled by two app stores. So all of the superpowers that you might think of deploying to the world have to be agreeable to two companies in some specific jurisdictions and if they don't like it, too bad.
00:54:19.032 - 00:54:52.706, Speaker B: And that really sucks. So might be great to have a decentralized App Store and you could do all of the distribution of the content like the assets, the binaries and so on through Popcoin. NFT for art on IPFS and Dexmont. NFT to provide ownership to file. Yeah, super cool. Discovery is a gamified collaborative platform. NFTs to trace and document real world assets.
00:54:52.706 - 00:55:20.760, Speaker B: Example use case would be cars, vehicles and so on. Yeah, totally. I think there are a few things like this. I haven't seen any that have really taken off yet. I think another one that is probably going to be really valuable is real estate. So like NFTs for real estate markets. When will be the first NFT auction for houses and stuff like that? I don't know, maybe that happened already and I missed it.
00:55:20.760 - 00:56:10.842, Speaker B: By the way, real estate markets. I think it's going to be a huge thing for Web Three I think this is an area where it's super not developed yet and it's super open for a lot of people to develop stuff. And there's a lot of countries in the world that really need better real estate markets where crypto might be super, super helpful. Data storage, random things offline. First, medical data. Yes. It turns out that medical data can be pretty big.
00:56:10.842 - 00:56:19.938, Speaker B: You just have to make sure that you encrypt it really well because medical data is super private and personal and so on. So make sure that you get the description right.
00:56:20.024 - 00:56:32.790, Speaker E: Is this an open discussion? Sorry, the medical data was my thing 100%. All right, cool. I actually have like a small PowerPoint, but I'm just going to not go through it for you too much.
00:56:32.860 - 00:56:39.210, Speaker B: Thank you. Post it in the chat somewhere for people and added us link. So you can added us a link here.
00:56:39.280 - 00:57:13.074, Speaker E: Oh yeah, I need to upload it then. But yeah. So basically I've been self taught and I work with data scientists and look at radiology images. Basically, the infrastructure in medicine is really fragmented. It's different from, let's say, the West Coast. California has its own internal system compared to Chicago or New York. And this has a lot of problems for, let's say you develop AI because I worked with data scientists.
00:57:13.074 - 00:58:23.066, Speaker E: They want to develop machine learning for computer vision images. Data version control was a big problem for us. They used Google Drive to upload images and then images were missing from the CT scan. So there's like basically for a year I hacked in other challenges where I'm trying to develop a platform of open source microservices to just handle uploading data for users. Or like a healthcare system could pay into the platform to upload data in a microservices structure. But storage is really a big problem, is that a medical image every year could be just hundreds of terabytes and the cost is really high and there isn't like, I would say, like a pipeline of developers really building that infrastructure out. I focus on the infrastructure part a lot, but the idea itself is just like, really I'm writing some JavaScript in Python to query data and put it into web three and that's it really.
00:58:23.066 - 00:58:30.606, Speaker E: So that should just be the simplest idea, but yeah, I don't know. It's open discussion if you want to say yes and to something.
00:58:30.708 - 00:59:05.850, Speaker B: Yeah, so I would say very much yes. And this is some of the most important and valuable data that people have. And right now the platforms around it all kind of suck in that super hidden from users and so on. And this varies a lot by country because there's different regulations into kind of like what healthcare systems and healthcare providers should do with data. In some countries, it's like the patients don't have access to it and only the hospitals do. In other jurisdictions, it's the opposite. Like users have control and whatnot I think this is a perfect use case for web three.
00:59:05.850 - 01:00:00.700, Speaker B: It makes the storage of that data verifiable and you can decide who to share with and so on, encrypt everything at rest and whatnot. But it is kind of like a hard project to get right. I would strongly encourage folks to think about doing the stuff in pieces and make it composable. So I think one thing that's different from web three to web two is that in web two kind of like big platforms were more successful and if your platform did more and so on, you ended up kind of growing faster and winning and whatnot. My observation of web three is the opposite. It's that if things are small and composable and can be coupled together with others, then those things end up being more successful and grow over time. And so if you get like a robust component that other people can build on because it's all kind of like everyone's building Legos and so on.
01:00:00.700 - 01:00:18.580, Speaker B: Highly encourage you to kind of think through not like a full platform, but think of some core component that could be useful and valuable. Especially if you can unlock some economic mechanism there that might be super interesting because economic mechanisms is you get access to that in web three.
01:00:21.030 - 01:00:39.640, Speaker E: Yeah, that's why I want to do a composable docker image and just keep it simple as possible and then throw the MIT license so people can pick up and go because to, let's say, read HL seven data or DICOM files in the medical system. It's too much.
01:00:42.570 - 01:01:06.110, Speaker B: One interesting idea might just be thinking about the certifications associated with medical data and make those accessible in web three through NFDS or other kinds of verifiable claim tools because all that stuff is stuck in paperwork. And it'd be amazing if you made that computable and you can turn that into oracles and turn that into things that people can work with in smart contracts.
01:01:07.350 - 01:01:18.850, Speaker E: I don't know any certificates. So if anyone here knows what that's about, talk to me. I'll try to help you program it. Yeah, that's all I got. That's medicine.
01:01:24.790 - 01:01:28.770, Speaker A: Hey Johan. Can I jump?
01:01:29.770 - 01:01:30.134, Speaker B: Yeah.
01:01:30.172 - 01:02:01.394, Speaker A: I am PRC. I am a big fan of you. So pleased to finally talk with you online. I don't know if you remember, I built dsound a few years ago. It was the first sound platform using IPFS. And I am here to build the new data layer for dsound. I picked a small chunk, as we said.
01:02:01.394 - 01:02:28.620, Speaker A: And I want to build something to any social media. So it's like a small protocol to enable people to just build social media for web three. I didn't want to talk about my project because it's not the goal here. I would like to talk about NFTs for intellectual property.
01:02:29.070 - 01:02:29.530, Speaker B: Yeah.
01:02:29.600 - 01:03:53.240, Speaker A: Because I really think it's very important and it's out of the scope for this echaton. But if no one takes it maybe next year I will be here developing that. I think it's really important for the market to have something that musicians can rely on and they can receive the values that they are owed by music, by the music they produce. And from my experience in the music industry, which is a little bit, I really think that NFTs are being used the wrong way for music. NFTs should not be the music. The way I am planning to do that with this sound is music is common for everyone. Anyone can listen, anyone can do whatever and rights to use that music in other products or publishing or synchronizing with video or using that music in a bar or something like that, that's the monetizable thing.
01:03:53.240 - 01:04:49.240, Speaker A: Or merchandise like a CD. A CD is like something that you collect, right? So that's the collectible, not the music itself. And that's something that I want to bring here because there are a lot of people, creative people around this call and if I can bring this idea further and someone picks it up, it would be really cool. And I would use it on this because I really think it's very important that people stop using NFTs and art as the integral part of the NFT. No, NFTs are collectibles and they are used to monetize fan bases, not to monetize the content itself.
01:04:49.850 - 01:04:50.600, Speaker B: Okay.
01:04:52.510 - 01:04:59.190, Speaker A: I wanted to learn about your thoughts around this topic.
01:04:59.350 - 01:06:19.950, Speaker B: Yeah, this is sort of like what I was getting at with the NFTs. As productive assets, you need to be able to kind of pass along the right of using that piece of work and ideally, kind of have a royalty structure where, again, if the thing is used in a lot of other works, then kind of like the royalties flow. So here's a few ideas, right? So one is if you create a tool on the web where you can kind of upload samples and all of these samples are NFTs like audio samples and someone kind of like remixes a sample there using those NFTs mints that as an NFT but you preserve the connectivity there. You can start building networks of value flows and royalties with that artwork. Right? So imagine kind of like making the first composable audio NFTs that could be where you can remix the audio and trace the contributions over time. And I think that's how we build these kind of economic flows across all of these things. I probably also add that this might be relevant also in the visual NFCs too.
01:06:19.950 - 01:07:21.202, Speaker B: Think of being able to create the thing that I was describing around creating a room with art inside of it, either 2D or 3D art that's kind of similar. So think of like an audio track that includes a bunch of samples so similar to a room that includes a bunch of free objects. And these kind of trace have the NFT graphs as well and kind of trace the royalties. And over time build these networks of collaboration. And I think part of what's going to get there is kind of like establishing that you do move the rights alongside and so doing some of the legal work of figuring out what license should that be. And Mark some NFTs as not just providing this collectible associated with the art, but actually providing the rights associated with the license and doing the work to figure out what that would look like. And maybe creating a platform where you can remix audio NFTs.
01:07:21.202 - 01:08:02.306, Speaker B: And imagine having a playground where you have a bunch of samples and you can use one of the many open source tools out there for remixing audio. And then you say publish and you publish back to the platform and that kind of mints an Ft for you with the audio and the modified audio and then tracks the contribution graph. I think that would be super cool. Like an entire kind of authoring and publishing structure with all this royalty structure built in. Could I add something really quick? Yeah, go for it. Hey, so yeah, PRC I actually was DMing you in the discord about this. So I guess good to meet you.
01:08:02.306 - 01:08:32.960, Speaker B: But this is actually what I'm working on for this hackathon. I was telling you all about it. So I mean if anyone is interested, I'm still looking for people to work with on the kind of NFT IP like music IP idea. So definitely reach out to me. I can drop my discord in the chat and yeah, would love to. Maybe any react developers, any designers that are still looking for a team or anything like that would be awesome.
01:08:34.770 - 01:08:57.320, Speaker A: Yeah max and as I told you, if you want some input from me, just go ahead and ping me because that's something that really interests me and I am willing to help. If not, I cannot join your team because I'm doing something else. But of course I can get some inputs from my experience.
01:08:58.490 - 01:09:14.570, Speaker B: Great. Yeah, awesome. So yeah, I'll drop my discord for anyone else looking for a team still, I think I see a few hands so I think I'll keep a stack. So Huxwell, Shannon and then Jose. So huxwell.
01:09:15.810 - 01:10:19.582, Speaker F: Yeah. So you went a bit through our ID earlier. It's discovery. So we had this idea where we would build a platform that answers to the question you get a lot of the time that is where do I start my web free journey or as a user, where do I start my crypto journey? And so we thought about a platform where projects can collaborate with content creators to create courses. But as you mentioned that it would be best to have something composable and build small pieces. Our first step is building this collaborative platform where the official members of a protocol can review content from a content creator. So I came up with this idea of using GitBook and creating a GitHub action that uploads all the content of the course to filecoin.
01:10:19.582 - 01:11:01.120, Speaker F: And also I'm generating an NFT based on those files plus the commit. And then the plan is to reward the contributors of a pull request and also the reviewer, let's say. So I'd like to have a bit of feedback regarding that if we should more focus on this specific part for the hackathon. As I see that collaborative tools are having a lot of interest or rather focusing on the end user app.
01:11:02.530 - 01:12:28.490, Speaker B: I think these kinds of tools are super useful. I think you'll probably find users in both sides. I would maybe prioritize getting to a core simple product that you think people can use end to end and kind of ship that and whether that's kind of like more on the collaboration side or not, it's kind of like up to you to sort of figure out. And I think the idea of kind of rewarding writing contributions I think could be super useful. Also think of like the idea of hypertext for the web came even long before the web, many decades before the web through Pen Nelson Sanadu and even before that, like the mimics all of that was about text and tracing the relationships between citations and text. So it came from weaving somebody's writing, referencing somebody else's writing and kind of figuring out the graph of attribution and being able to kind of jump from one document to another kind of through some computational medium and that's what gave us hypertext and then the web and so on. So think of like yeah, that kind of stuff is still there's still a lot of ideas there that I think could be super interesting and valuable.
01:12:28.490 - 01:12:42.654, Speaker B: Yeah, I think especially if you have find really good ways of rewarding contributions to creative works. I think that kind of stuff is like there's a lot there not only.
01:12:42.692 - 01:12:57.730, Speaker F: It could work for a GitBook repo but any code repo basically because we are just grabbing the files and generating an NFT based on the file so it could reward any open source projects.
01:12:58.390 - 01:13:15.500, Speaker B: Yep, sounds good. So thanks a lot. Can I go for the next person? I think Shannon shannon was asking about is anyone working on contribution graphs? Do you want to say more?
01:13:19.230 - 01:13:50.698, Speaker D: Hey, sorry, I mean not too much more context than that. I was just curious. I came in late to the call and heard that being referenced. My team's working on a Dow discord bot that's trying to help communities identify and manage information that's relevant to good governance and obviously reputation lies behind that. So I was just curious if other people are thinking about that's.
01:13:50.814 - 01:14:28.414, Speaker B: Yeah, that's awesome. I think this is super timely. I think there's a lot of projects or there's a lot of ideas, a few projects in this kind of area. But I think a lot of it is still kind of tinkering around. Nothing has become super widely used think I don't know how many other folks in Hackafest are working on this stuff, but I'll mention a few projects around contribution graphs. One of them is Sourcecred, which is a project for helping communities measure and work value. So think of being able to track a lot of contributions through a bunch of different kinds of things.
01:14:28.414 - 01:15:17.370, Speaker B: So think like GitHub and discord and so on. And there's a lot of tools that the Sourcecript community has built over time to kind of ingest the contributions from all these different sources and then kind of come up with some scoring. And then they also have kind of ideas around being able to kind of construct value flows over those contribution graphs and measuring them over time and so on. It's a super rich community with a lot of ideas that you can kind of look at. And another group, I think the Mirror community is doing a lot of really cool experimentation on this. You can go to dev Mirror XYZ I think is the website and you can see a lot of the stuff that they're doing with the public. And this is kind of like a publishing platform plus NFT auctions, plus writing.
01:15:17.370 - 01:16:31.538, Speaker B: It's sort of integrated to help make it easy to use, but a lot of really interesting components and so on are coming out. Those should all be kind of usable more broadly than Mirror, I hope. But things like splits are just a simple structure that allows that kind of contribution graph split stream is kind of cascading splits through kind of the scientific publication graphs and so on. What I really sort of want to get to is whenever people are minting NFPs with creator addresses and so on, that should really be pointing to some large distribution of work, some large distribution of all of the groups that have been kind of involved with creating that thing. Yeah, I think with a lot of this would recommend, again building kind of composable primitives that maybe like just a simple tool where you can describe kind of like a group of people, a collaboration and kind of like who all the collaborators and make that a composable thing that people can weave into other contracts. That's super cool, I think. Awesome.
01:16:31.538 - 01:16:42.140, Speaker B: I think the next one was Jose 1 second I need to ask the next one can go because I got a little.
01:16:46.530 - 01:17:27.210, Speaker C: Yeah. Hi Juan. So with respect to IPFS filecoin accessing directly, is there any way some extension or anybody working on it from the browser? I know that we can access through Flick or the textile or other bridges that they have, but in terms of onboarding and making that dumping that content in the IPFS file can be smooth. Is there some extension from the browser side or we need to build a proxy server and do some kind of authentication.
01:17:31.150 - 01:17:59.460, Speaker B: At so IPFS was designed to be able to be run within browser so if you go to JS. So, first of all, I'm running Brave, which ships with Goipfs node in it. So if you are running Brave, you can look at content. So I can go to I think this should work. Let's test it. Yeah. Do you see the address here? The address is like.
01:18:02.630 - 01:18:03.266, Speaker C: Did you put.
01:18:03.288 - 01:18:04.174, Speaker B: It in the chat?
01:18:04.302 - 01:18:06.630, Speaker C: All right, I got you, IPNs.
01:18:07.210 - 01:18:18.874, Speaker B: Yeah. And so that's working. So this is pulling from an IPFS address. Let's see. So it says use a local node or use mobile gateway. So let's use a local node. Installing let's see how it goes.
01:18:18.874 - 01:18:49.220, Speaker B: We're doing it live. This is a different oh, no, bug. Let's try using a public gateway. I'm running like, a different profile, so maybe it's a profile issue. Yeah. So I think this is using a public web gateway, but it's kind of like, resolve the link, see if I can open a different window and try one more time.
01:18:50.710 - 01:19:09.450, Speaker C: But once I post it, I can view it. But I'm saying to be able to post first, right? This is to be able to view the content which is already there. But I want to talk about I'm talking about just being able to post it into the IPFS.
01:19:10.110 - 01:19:54.054, Speaker B: Yes. I think you get to use an and by the way, you can go to by the way, it worked the second time, so great. If you go to this website, this is like the full implementation of IPFS in JavaScript. And so this works within the browser. And so here, this is like using JavaScript to kind of run some of this content. And so I can say, like, hello, hackathon, I run that and that gives me a different hash, and then I should be able to look at it on the web. And this is supposed to connect to my browser.
01:19:54.054 - 01:20:42.902, Speaker B: Sometimes if I'm behind in that, it won't work that well. Yeah, I think it's not connecting, but the company discovery is like a super annoying problem. And that's plaguing a lot of the applications that's getting better over time. But this is using IPFS within the browser tab, and you get to kind of construct all the objects here and then kind of push them to the world. I recommend taking a look at proto school, which kind of goes into proto school. Cool. And you can look at the tutorials that have to do with Iplde and IPFS.
01:20:42.902 - 01:20:53.500, Speaker B: And these will tell you these are all built with IPFS directly on JavaScript. And so you can change stuff directly on the web.
01:20:55.250 - 01:21:03.214, Speaker C: Yeah, I think somebody also commented slit also enables uploading from browser. Yeah, that's true. Okay, thank you.
01:21:03.252 - 01:21:11.486, Speaker B: Cool. Awesome. All right, Jose, are you ready now? Sure. Yeah. It's a perfect timing. Yeah. Thank you, Juan.
01:21:11.486 - 01:22:27.782, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. So I'm currently working on trying to tackle the angle of social media, and right now the challenge that I'm currently having is whether I should be just using something like Smart contract to index the contact directly or whether it might make sense to use something like IPFS. And the challenge on using something like IPFS for particular content comes know what layer should I interact with? Right? So should I use something directly like an IPFS public gateway or maybe leveraging some of the existing projects or doing something with ceramic? There's textile, there's web storage, right? So it's hard to identify what is the best base layer on interacting with an IPFS. So any particular recommendations based on your experience of what you have seen in previous hackathons? I would say that a lot of these tools are so a lot of these tools have active developer teams and so they're building them now and improving them. And so I would say if I was familiar with any them, they've probably changed quite a bit by now and improved. So I encourage you to kind of try them, look at the demos that people are showing and then try using them and then see how they go. And it maybe depends on what you're trying to do, right? So for example, NFC storage is kind of tuned for helping you store NFTs.
01:22:27.782 - 01:23:47.220, Speaker B: And so if you're going to store a bunch of NFTs, NCO storage might be like the easiest way for you to do it and that's kind of tuned for NFT apps and platforms and so on. If you are going to store simple files and application data and you want the simplest possible API to use it, storage might be a good fit. And that launched, now launched this week for hack FS. And then I think things like ceramic can be really useful when you also start wanting to create documents that will be kind of like shared with other folks and you want to carry identity and be able to kind of reason about who's editing what. Also want to plug textile threads for this kind of use case as well. Textile has a ton of really awesome tooling for doing this as well and there's kind of like some amount of integration between these in the lower level data structures. So I would just encourage you to kind of experiment with a few, try them out, and then kind of see what's easiest for your service and for your application and then kind of use that and stay nimble in that the space will evolve over time and you can kind of refactor things over time.
01:23:47.220 - 01:23:58.854, Speaker B: And that's why you have a whole bunch of others that I'm not mentioning there's, I think Fission and Fleek and many others. Right, awesome. Perfect. Thank you.
01:23:58.892 - 01:24:03.462, Speaker F: Juan, can I bounce on that?
01:24:03.596 - 01:24:04.086, Speaker B: Yeah, go.
01:24:04.108 - 01:25:03.290, Speaker F: For like in our example, what we are planning to do is for the files of the courses, let's say the videos that last more than 1 hour or something. We are planning to upload them through web three storage. But then we are going to compose an object that contains just the URLs for door files and we're going to store that object on NFT storage. And then we have kind of our main data storage layer where we structure things and we use ceramic for that. At least that's what we're planning to do now. But I feel like there's still kind of a layer missing that would make the link between some entities, like having some relationship or something like that. But I guess that's something we need to figure out along while we're building those tools.
01:25:05.390 - 01:25:14.382, Speaker B: Yeah, that sounds good to me. I have a few hands, so let's see. Shatindra, I think. Yeah. Hi.
01:25:14.436 - 01:25:20.560, Speaker G: One. Really nice to meet you here. I just want to discuss something that you can you hear?
01:25:23.090 - 01:25:24.530, Speaker B: Yep. Yeah. Okay.
01:25:24.600 - 01:26:30.200, Speaker G: So I just just coming back on the original rule that you said about yes. And I just want to get your opinion on the usage of NFTs. I mean, there have been people talking about the right way of using NFTs and there are certain ways where you have to have build, metaverses and asset to a particular song or something. So the inherent idea of NFT being that this will be sold or this will be monetized in some way or when we are just my idea is something on creating some kind of a review so that you could give a review about a website, the kind of content it has, or any kind of software, something like on that, on a decentralized network. Posting that as an NFT. So do you really feel that this publishing anything as an NFT is a good way to proceed with things and then tinker out how this pans out in the end? Or do you feel like it's an overcomplicated way to record some valuable data just because you can create an FP? Should you really do it in that way? There are multiple ways to kind of.
01:26:33.690 - 01:27:02.260, Speaker B: I mean, I think I think a lot of it sort of I think it probably depends on the approach that you want to take. I don't know. It's a lot of kind of like product specific. So if somebody else kind of has a good idea, like a good response, happy to take it. I would think of approaching it in a few different directions. Sorry, my brain is not being super useful for you right now.
01:27:04.710 - 01:27:25.494, Speaker G: I mean, just trying to get a hold of there are certain use cases where NFTs are the best use case, but are there certain use case that you've come across which don't seem like the best way of usage of NFTs? Are there any that you've come across that we should avoid while we are designing our solutions?
01:27:25.622 - 01:28:33.146, Speaker B: No. Look, I think at the end of the day, all an NFT is is an unchained record or like a certificate of something on the chain. Think of it as like internet native property. Right? It's like the way of defining some piece of property on the web and there's a little bit of information that describes the property and that's it. And NFTs only have value as long as people agree that they have value similar to kind of property in the physical world, right? The idea that somebody owns land is really just kind of like a convention that people have come up with and agreed upon and written down into legal agreements and it's enforced by laws but physics has nothing to do with that and so similar with NFTs, it's just a record and a certificate on chain that represents something. So they're super flexible and they're super usable for all kinds of things. I think the thing you want to be wary of is right now chain scalability isn't amazing yet people are working on this avidly.
01:28:33.146 - 01:29:26.622, Speaker B: There's a lot of groups working on helping the chain scale and be a lot cheaper to deploy content to. So I think a lot of the really exciting NFT use cases will appear once chains scale. Much better when you can just publish trillions of NFTs and kind of record assets for all kinds of things, and you can weave them into all kinds of components, but I don't think there's any kind of necessarily wrong way of using them. I would just say it's a certificate like any other and it kind of matters what you put into the certificate like what are you kind of really certifying? So for most art NFTs right now it's a collectible that you get to kind of have but it doesn't confer any rights. I think this will change over time. Similar to how when you buy a painting, you don't buy an image of the painting. You buy the actual physical object.
01:29:26.622 - 01:29:42.520, Speaker B: And by buying the physical object, that means that you get to display it in a gallery or give it to a museum or move it around or something like that. And I think that'll happen with digital NFDS as well. It'll just take some time.
01:29:43.450 - 01:30:33.810, Speaker G: Awesome. Just a really quick answer I would like to have on I think there is one more use case where they're talking about archiving content, the web two content just like websites or any asset which is on the web two, web three like they could have like archive.org or something like that. So I just wanted to know when you are archiving this in an automatic fashion also using a browser extension of some sort, we are also trying to do the same thing. Are there certain ways or certain checklists that we should be careful of like uploading archiving something which is authenticated or maybe something which is owned by a particular user and then now it's been public to or you have something archived, something which was behind a paywall and now it's open to everyone we should avoid.
01:30:34.230 - 01:31:03.120, Speaker B: So you should be careful with content licensing. Yeah, great that you bring that up so a lot of content on the Web is open access, and you can move it around as you want. Some content on the Web has specific licenses that regulate how you're able to make copies and so on. And so I would just be careful around content like that. And so check the licenses associated with the content that you're looking at. Not all content is clear and obvious. A lot of it sort of depends on the platform.
01:31:03.120 - 01:31:45.258, Speaker B: But there's a ton of content out there that is totally open access. So we just kind of recommend. So first of all, reward openness by building your apps over open content and encourage a lot of kind of that distribution of content. But also you can use non open content or like content with different licenses. And you may want to think about representing that as NFTs. And so, you know, you can think of creating NFT templates for the different kind of licenses associated with this or creating platforms that respect those or something like that. I would say be careful with anything that is super sensitive private information.
01:31:45.258 - 01:32:14.680, Speaker B: So a lot of the Web three content, because the chains are so public and it's such an open environment, a lot of libraries and so on are not tuned for super private content. So if you're going to handle super sensitive private data, just make sure you get the encryption of that right. Or do your demo without kind of like anyone with synthetic data, not with anybody's actual data, until you get that audited super carefully, because you don't want to accidentally publish somebody's super private information and then make it really difficult to take down.
01:32:15.770 - 01:32:18.280, Speaker G: Makes sense. Thanks.
01:32:21.790 - 01:32:23.370, Speaker B: Cool. Now Morgan.
01:32:24.750 - 01:32:40.560, Speaker H: Hey, how's it going? Just want to really a big fan of what you're doing. Juan Code Magician over there and running these sessions. I align a lot with the values that you assess the rest and just want to say really happy to be here.
01:32:41.410 - 01:32:48.400, Speaker B: Thanks a lot and thank you for being here and thank all of us are Code Magicians, so build a future.
01:32:49.430 - 01:32:57.650, Speaker H: Building the future altogether. Yeah, I posted an idea, a concept that I was exploring in the page.
01:32:57.720 - 01:32:59.220, Speaker B: There under.
01:33:03.130 - 01:33:06.278, Speaker H: I guess for the starting point, what you were mentioning related to.
01:33:06.284 - 01:33:09.686, Speaker B: The sorry, I missed what thing you.
01:33:09.708 - 01:33:55.286, Speaker H: Were yeah, I put it under DApps and then DApps for legal jurisdiction or ritual for legal jurisdiction. I don't know if that's the right place to put it, but I guess at the start just wanted to say the concept of these auction houses providing negative payments to people is like a really cool concept up to a certain point. Just curious if you had any examples or an easy way for that to occur. Whether it's just like a straight NFT transfer and then all those that own it as partial owners can then sort of start assets or funds being flowed to them. I guess that's just like the sort.
01:33:55.308 - 01:35:17.322, Speaker B: Of at the moment and by the way sorry, can you mute because I think I'm getting some background noise from you. No worries. So the idea here is because right now the filecoin network's capacity and the sort of verifiable storage that's in it have a large gap between them, it means that you can kind of flow negative pricing. And so I think that this could be used to fund all kinds of organizations that do really valuable work protecting safeguarding data. So I would almost like the fact that we know that this is possible means that we can go and create a product that maybe tunes for giving this super valuable resource to groups that really need it. So think of creating some platform for helping fund groups that collect and safeguard data that has important value to communities and think of that negative pricing as a way to fund the active maintenance of that data and follow the people that usually do a lot of this work and tragically underpaid. Right, so tons of important valuable data commons work just goes unrewarded.
01:35:17.322 - 01:35:28.050, Speaker B: And so think of this negative pricing as a way of like at least for now while this structure exists be able to flow some of the python block reward over to those users.
01:35:29.590 - 01:36:52.782, Speaker H: Yeah, that's really cool. The concept that I'm exploring is a little bit of an experiment, not so much deal but from personal experiences. I've found that doing types of meditative or ritual experiences as it relates to using frequencies as a sort of sound path or a way to, let's say, align a person's mental well being is something that I'm looking to explore. And the concept is trying to, I guess, build like a really small use case, almost like you can think of it like flashcards for gestures that people can contribute to and all kind of start to align around, I guess, the same type of rhythms and sort of technospiritual representations all aligning together, possibly all connected using brain machine interfaces. And I'm wondering if using this would be like a good use case for the auction house example where, let's say you have a starting point of people begin as a sort of starting ground and then as they start to invite other people. You can then start aggregating people together in a way that then can sort of facilitate free storage of whether it's just, like, brain computer interface data flows or, I guess, just like, snapshots of people altogether. For example, all of us together on this call.
01:36:52.782 - 01:37:01.378, Speaker H: It's like taking a snapshot at certain points and then selling that as proof of participation on the polygon network or something like that.
01:37:01.544 - 01:37:52.046, Speaker B: Yeah, I think there's a lot in what you described. I would encourage you to either create some kind of prototype that makes it I don't fully kind of rock what you're describing. I would encourage you to kind of make a prototype or something like that through the hack or think of some components. It could be that some of the components could be done. So, for example, you could think of creating a 3D environment where you place a set of people together and you're able to kind of have some shared experiences over the network. So right now, I think most experiences on the Web are split between kind of like 2D interaction, mostly through text and a little bit of video or fully Immersive games. And there's kind of like no in between, and there's no good way of hanging out with people online in kind of like a 3D environment.
01:37:52.046 - 01:38:52.782, Speaker B: And it could be that NFTs plus a 3D environment that you can decorate, plus really high quality multiplayer audio streams is all you need. And once you kind of allow people to create, for example, here's another idea. It'd be really cool to be able to kind of design a 3D room and get some NFTs and decorate my space with those digital artifacts and then be able to kind of invite people to hang out in that physical space. So think of kind of like Spatial plus highly decorative environments. I think a lot of the platforms out there that have done a lot of this AR VR kind of work have struggled to make really high quality environments because they just don't have the approach that game studios have of crafting super high quality experiences. And yet the NFT world has managed to produce some extremely high quality art because it kind of rewards art better. And so maybe these things can be coupled.
01:38:52.782 - 01:39:31.998, Speaker B: Like, imagine having an environment. I think Spatial is probably already doing this with letting you decorate the spaces with NFTs, or if they're not, they should totally be doing it. But I think still, Spatial is kind of like a full platform. It's kind of difficult to get into. And whatnot I would love to be able to kind of create a link, mess around, kind of some voxels, and construct a room and then add some objects into it, mint that as an NFT, and then be able to invite people to go hang out and experience that environment together. I think that'd be super cool. And once you have that as a composable primitive, you can then start coupling rooms together with portals and doorways and whatnot.
01:39:31.998 - 01:39:34.994, Speaker B: You can build a metaverse that way.
01:39:35.192 - 01:40:00.860, Speaker H: I think that's really cool. I actually wanted to use the Connect Xbox One vigil camera as, like, a starting point as a proof of concept for just, like, an actual virtual or physical space and go that route, as opposed to going from the metaverse sort of like starting physical, then going to the metaverse, as opposed to going from metaverse into the yeah, that was a thought.
01:40:01.630 - 01:40:07.342, Speaker B: Super cool. Yeah. Good luck with the hack. Cool. Thank you very much, Constantin. Yeah. Thank you.
01:40:07.396 - 01:41:11.422, Speaker I: Yeah, thank you, John, from my side. And you got. Pretty accurate on the description of what we are planning to do for this hackathon personally. So we are exactly trying to bridge this gap of the art galleries of the physical world and artists of NFTs. And what we see as a potential opportunity is that there are a lot of art places physically in the world which would love to extend their galleries to the VR exhibition, for example, but they have the lack of know how or the lack of technology or both sometimes. So that we already developing quite a huge push within the NFT art itself, but it's not exposed to the majority of people. And we want to enable the art galleries to create something on their own through our platform, either creating as a VR space or even as you had a great idea of providing also the VR space as a minted 3D object, which sounds super great and we'll explore it on that topic.
01:41:11.422 - 01:41:35.386, Speaker I: But what I wanted to ask is, is there anything else that comes to your mind when we are speaking about VR and web three distributed networks? Is there something missing? Because I see there might be a lot of potential on also distributed storage as 3D spaces might wait a lot or is there something else as a topic that we can look at?
01:41:35.488 - 01:42:31.020, Speaker B: Yeah, this is kind of why we built NFT storage and web three storage because it's kind of like a useful aggregator service that's tuned for NFTs and can do all of the heavy lifting of backing all of it up and kind of storing it in backlink and whatnot. And that gives you I think right now it's 32GB per NFT and if you run into problems with that size, I think talk to the team. I think that they 30GB is a lot. Right. I don't think that's kind of like enough for full length movies and high resolution and so on. So that should be more than you need for 3D spaces unless you're minting a massive world. So you can probably do whole minecraft levels in that size.
01:42:31.020 - 01:42:49.550, Speaker B: By the way, minecraft in crypto Moxley is a really cool idea. I would love to see kind of even more composable versions of that start constructing, make it super easy, construct objects with Moxles mint that is an NFT and then piece those together into larger and larger and larger environments.
01:42:54.870 - 01:43:20.380, Speaker I: Yeah, thank you for the take on just one more question. Do you think we are on the stage where we are on the level of development, where we should enable everyone to create their own visual spaces for the galleries? Or it should be more of like an art direction where someone takes it as a leading role for the designer and then we give it as a full solution to the customer of a gallery, for example.
01:43:21.390 - 01:44:26.878, Speaker B: I think right now the space is evolving so quickly and a lot of things are being tried. I would encourage you to kind of have a good end to end solution quickly and put it out there to see what people make out of it and make it composable. So whatever you do, make it something that it's not like necessarily a full platform, but it's something that other people can use to build on and I think that's going to make it more likely to be part of something larger. So, for example, if you can construct a gallery, you can separate the components of designing the physical space and creating the kind of, like, 3d environment and make that like a tool or a product and then a different tool and product, uses a 3d space and allows people to show up into that 3d space together and have a shared experience. Because art is a lot about experience and experiencing that art together with other people. And so creating that in the web doesn't quite work yet. And I think it'd be super cool to do it in a VR pointed way or something like that.
01:44:26.878 - 01:45:49.238, Speaker B: And you can think of that as a separate application or product that kind of like you compose the you can plug in the specific rooms and whatnot. And then you can think of being able to hold a public event at this gallery that has been composed and being able to charge admission for that public event and use that admission price to reward all of the parties that have provided that put art in that gallery. So imagine you have a bunch of NFTs being displayed in 2D art or 3D art in a 3D gallery space that you can view together. You create an event and you can charge admission and you can then move the economic flow of all of that to reward the creator of the space, the creator of all the art and all the holders of those NFDS. And so you can create those kind of flows and I think you can go from those galleries into full scale museums and then you can have a full experience of kind of gathering and experiencing art together online and rewarding that creation of art over time. And also the curators that are going to select which art piece is going to what pieces. And by the way, one big part of art is installations.
01:45:49.238 - 01:46:21.570, Speaker B: So it's not just about the 2D piece or the 3D piece, but it's how that's composed with other pieces of art and how that room plays into it. So imagine rewarding that part of the art process as well. So all of those components, I think, are but again, I would encourage you to think of pieces and make all of these composable things that you can do separately because you don't know what's going to really take off and what's going to be composed with something else. And the space is just moving so fast that I encourage you to do something smaller and simpler. Put it out there, make it usable and then build the next one. Perfect.
01:46:21.640 - 01:46:37.802, Speaker I: Thank you a lot for that. Just a small request for advice. If we already see that there are solutions that create this visual galleries, should we go with them for the first time or should we also try to replicate it as the solution is not open source, or I cannot use it.
01:46:37.936 - 01:47:11.042, Speaker B: As a yeah, it's a good question. I mean, it really depends on the specific group. Like, if it's not open source, that's kind of frustrating. It depends on how much work it is to replicate. I tend to be very strongly for using kind of open source software and so on, because that makes it much more composable with other things, software that's kind of licensed in a way that where when the thing you make can't quite be used with other things, that kind of harms your software. So I would just be careful about that. It really is a trade off.
01:47:11.042 - 01:47:19.270, Speaker B: It depends on how much time you have. Maybe start using it, if that's easier for you, and then later on think about replacing it. Perfect.
01:47:19.340 - 01:47:20.950, Speaker I: Thank you a lot for the insights.
01:47:21.370 - 01:47:22.310, Speaker B: Thank you.
01:47:22.460 - 01:47:28.890, Speaker A: And don't forget about the music. As a DJ is a very important part of an art gallery.
01:47:29.630 - 01:47:56.578, Speaker B: Absolutely. Well, thank you to Juan, and I want to thank everyone else for joining us today. This has been an excellent session. I want to encourage everyone to continue the conversation in the discord, but we're running up on time right now. Be respectful of everyone's time and good luck taking these these ideas and putting them into practice. I know I can speak for all of us and that we're really excited to see how things are going to be built this time around. So thank you again to everyone.
01:47:56.578 - 01:48:04.960, Speaker B: We're going to be closing the stream here again. Thank you, Juan. Thank you everyone. Thanks for sharing your ideas and thoughts with.
