00:00:05.400 - 00:00:23.385, Speaker A: Okay, apologies about the slides issue. I'm just going to do it without the slides and then you can appreciate the logos in the meanwhile. Thank you guys very much. So Jason here from Solaire. Right. So I'm going to cover the most puzzling topic that's happening in crypto right now and that is restaking. Right.
00:00:23.385 - 00:01:10.985, Speaker A: A lot of you might be wondering what is restaking and what's the value of rethinking? How do I even get yield and are there sufficient yield? Are there enough AVS's to pay for the yield right now on the market? So that's the questions you guys are wondering. But because I only have five minutes, I think like three or five minutes left, three or four minutes left. Right now I can't cover them all. So I'll save that for the next episode if I have the opportunity. But one argument I would like to make is that imagine restaking is a thing, where would it happen? And I would argue they will only happen on Solana. And the reason is because base chain. What's the significance of the base chain to a restaking network? It's the stake movement, the underlying chain.
00:01:10.985 - 00:02:04.683, Speaker A: In this case, Solana is moving all the stake from the restaking layer. And in that situation, the application builder wants to have a chain that's cheaper, that's faster, because they don't want to pay for all the costs at the underlying chain. You don't want to pay on Ethereum, $5 today and $10 tomorrow. With your smart contract, maybe $20 whenever a user moves a stake. So if you think from that perspective, restaking has to happen on Solana and how we structure restaking is for Solana native at Solayer Restaking, if you think about from the Eigen layer perspective, it's about securing off chain applications. And there is also another component that we've added because we're Solana native, which is securing on chain applications. If you try to understand the word restaking, it's about using stake in other forms other than the native POS sort of yield.
00:02:04.683 - 00:03:30.781, Speaker A: So how do we secure on chain applications? And that's by providing stake weighted quality of service. And the second thing about having anything that you bury in the native form is its liquidity. And Solaire has come up with an innovative mechanism where we have pooled liquidity for the asset. So even if your AVS token only has $1 in issuance, you're able to get the same liquidity as everything issued on Solaire combined. So that's the innovation that we have when it comes to solving the liquidity problem for AVS tokens, when you secure applications on Solana by having their AVS token by sort of holding their AVS token, which automatically translates to stakeholder quality of service for that particular application. And then the second thing we have is very similar to Eigen layer in terms of securing off chain applications, but the only difference is there, you know, is what I said, being faster, cheaper and you have almost instant finality and users don't really know a thing when they're actually using a risk taking network because application builders is also our end customers. And now the third thing I want to mention is that as you think about restaking assets in general, you're thinking about what can I do? Like what should I restake? What do applications want to restake? They want to have their own tokens restaked because that's in their economic interest.
00:03:30.781 - 00:04:27.585, Speaker A: And therefore Solar Protocol does allow you to have your own token to be part of the restaking asset for your own protocol application. But we're also thinking about what else do we want to add to the basket. And because everything is volatile, as long as you're a token, you are not a stable asset. So we're also thinking about adding stable assets to the basket. And therefore today I don't have the slides here, but we're announcing Solaire USD which is a yield bearing token that's backed by RWA assets in collaboration with Open Eden. It's another really good friend for a long time they have been pushing RWA assets to Ethereum for a long time over hundreds of millions of dollars in their treasury right now. And we're working together to bring yield bearing stablecoins that's restaking back to Solana and we've termed it susdc.
00:04:27.585 - 00:05:23.601, Speaker A: And there are a few interesting properties with this. There has been no sell free basing assets on Solana and we've done a lot of homework to make it sell free basing. So for this particular asset, you see susdc, the yield does not cause the price to increase. So for anything even so right now the price will increase against sol. That's how the value accrual works. But right now we have adopted the token 22 standards with IB extension interest bearing extension such that the token price would always be kept at $1 but the amount will reflect the increase accrual of the value in the token. So I think that is a very first on Solana and we hope to see more interest bearing assets or interest bearing extensions to be used to allow easier accounting and also it's a much better user interface.
00:05:23.601 - 00:05:43.765, Speaker A: So we'd like to say that we are announcing SUSD today, which is USDC restaking and you guys will be able to see it in one to two weeks time. And with that I'll conclude my presentation here today. Thank you everyone for your attention. And check out Solaire, a lot of new stuff coming out very soon. Thank you.
