00:00:00.760 - 00:00:26.720, Speaker A: What is up, guys? Taki here. So different setups here today for some of you may know that I moved cross country from California to New York. And now that I'm actually settled down, I can actually make a video. And a lot has happened since I left California. We saw, you know, a pretty strong bounce in our markets across the board. And then, you know, yesterday, with the CPI coming in hotter than expected, we just saw every single market capitulate. And I think what happened was that a lot of people were positioned for, for a good CPI print.
00:00:26.720 - 00:00:50.740, Speaker A: And now that didn't really come into fruition. People just puked their positions just to reevaluate. That's definitely in the camp I'm in. And I'll talk about the bull case that I laid out in the past couple of weeks later in the video. But before that, I just want to focus on the merge and the likelihood of the flippening, the flippening narrative. Definitely none of this financial advice. Of course, I have no idea what I'm doing.
00:00:50.740 - 00:01:15.012, Speaker A: Obviously, the ETH, Maxis and the etheads have been arguing for flippening. And don't get me wrong, I mean, I run a defi channel. I'm trying to get into nfts more, and I definitely believe in the flipping. But the thing is, what is the timing of the flipping, and what is the path of the flipping going to look like? And what I like to look at is the bitcoin to eat market cap ratio. So this is what you're seeing now. So right now it's roughly at two. So the market cap of bitcoin is twice that of ether.
00:01:15.012 - 00:01:45.004, Speaker A: And obviously the flipping is going to happen when it gets below one. In the 2018 peak mania phase, we saw this ratio gets like roughly 1.5. And I'm not really trying to do ta on this, right. I'm just trying to just paint this picture because I think that this chart kind of paints the psychology for the average market participant. And if you think about the people in crypto right now, they're not really like retail, like trying to make fast money. Get out. A lot of those tourists have already left.
00:01:45.004 - 00:02:15.964, Speaker A: So people in crypto right now, we're natives. And I think, no, the majority of people obviously have a bullish ether relative to the coin. And the trend is your friend. And I think it's reasonable to expect it to continue. But if you believe in the flipping, what kind of path do you think this will take? Do you actually think that it's going to look like this? Where this market this ratio goes directly below one in late 2022 or sometime in 2023. I don't necessarily think so. I think with.
00:02:15.964 - 00:02:54.280, Speaker A: I mean, yeah, of course I believe in the flipping, right? But given the state of Ethereum right now and the ecosystem, and given the state of the Ethereum roadmap, right. We're still in the merge phase, right? Like, I mean, I mean, of course, like, depending on when you're watching this, this might have already happened. But, you know, even after the merge, there has to be the surge, diverge, the purge and the splurge. I feel like you can't really argue for opening until, you know, at least half of the roadmap has, has taken into effect. And Vitalik, near the top in 2017, said this on Twitter. Right. Have we really earned it right when the crypto market hit half a trillion? Obviously the answer was no.
00:02:54.280 - 00:03:27.394, Speaker A: And I can ask a similar question. Have the Ethereum community, has the Ethereum ecosystem earned the flippity over bitcoin? I don't necessarily think so. I think the flipping can only occur once Defi and NFTs have found better product market fit. And of course I believe that they found product market fit, but, you know, that's not really a common view. Right. If you think about just people walking across, walking the streets, I think it can only happen once it becomes near consensus that, yes, like Ethereum, it's an ecosystem that makes sense. Defi is thriving, NFts are thriving.
00:03:27.394 - 00:04:07.262, Speaker A: And I think, and as proof of stake arguments, right, the better environmental narratives take into effect over time. I think that's when the flipping can occur in the short term. I don't really think so. So the, I mean, the, the argument I'm trying to paint here is that, yes, I think ether can continue to outperform bitcoin in the short term, you know, and the merge might be a bit of news, given how people are positioned. However, I don't really expect people, you know, I don't really expect a straight line. And I think, you know, when this ratio gets below here, if it gets below there, I think people will start to get nervous about, you know, this possibility of flipping. I think people will start to question the likelihood of it, and I think people will get nervous.
00:04:07.262 - 00:04:41.196, Speaker A: And if we get to 1.61.5, I think people will just naturally rotate. They're either into stable coins or BTC. Bitcoin has underperformed significantly and, like, not for bad reasons, but you can't really have a crypto bull market if bitcoin isn't going up. And, you know, I don't really expect the 2018 2019 fractal to repeat because the fundamentals of the entire ecosystem has changed. I. But I think the more likely path for this ratio is something like this, where, yeah, it might outperform post merge a couple weeks after staking rates being high, eth might be deflationary for a couple of weeks.
00:04:41.196 - 00:05:06.208, Speaker A: And then as people get nervous, people might rotate it back into bitcoin. And then maybe at some point, as more builders come, the fundamentals improve. Maybe we see something like this where maybe in 2025, 2024. I'm not really making a prediction on timing, but I'm just making a prediction of the rough shape that this will take. And I think it's gonna look more like this instead of straight down. That's the argument that I'm making, and I don't. Yeah.
00:05:06.208 - 00:05:27.616, Speaker A: And I also don't really have a strong view on whether this thing is gonna be a solid news or not. If the markets were rallying into this right, in a straight line, then, yeah, I'm pretty sure it would have been solid news, because in my lifetime in crypto and defi, almost everything is a solid news. Right. Like Unizv three in May of 2021. Right. Like popsicle finance, like, you know, Defi kingdom chain. Like, everything is solid news.
00:05:27.616 - 00:06:06.650, Speaker A: I think people in cryptos get way too excited about certain announcements and product launches and everything just, like, buys. Everyone buys beforehand, and when the event actually happens, there's, like, no one left to buy. Right. There's only people, like, left to sell. And two months ago, I mentioned that I think bitcoin, or two to three months ago, I mentioned that I think bitcoin is likely to underperform tricrypto and GLP on, like, a risk adjusted return basis. And that mainly came into fruition. But given the recent surge in the E to BTC ratio, I think, you know, into year end, into Q one, I am most slightly, incrementally more bullish for crypto and GLP over spot ether.
00:06:06.650 - 00:06:45.300, Speaker A: Of course, I'm open to changing my mind. I sold some ether or a bunch of ether into tricrypto, like, you know, partly de risk, but also, you know, essentially, like, I'm not really bearish ether, but I'm just expressing my view that, yes, it was reasonable to expect ether to outperform into the merge, but now that that outperformance has already happened, I don't really have one strong viewpoint one way or the other. So you know what? I'm just going to hold Tri crypto. It's a volatility muted position. I'm running transaction fees, I'm running CVX and CRV emissions. I'm just happy holding that and just right through the volatility. And it also gives me some flexibility.
00:06:45.300 - 00:07:17.110, Speaker A: So let's talk about some other merge implications that people aren't really thinking of. I feel like a lot of the focus around the merge has been around this proof of work coin airdrop. And, of course, if you're holding, if you're planning to hold ether throughout the merge as a long term bank, then, yeah, you might as well just hold ether on your mainnet and receive this perfect coin airdrop likelihood of. I mean, right now it's being priced in at like, roughly $23. So if you hold one ether, you're gonna get $23, essentially. Right. But the thing is, it's gonna be a pain in the ass, right.
00:07:17.110 - 00:07:45.440, Speaker A: Like, frankly, to sell this thing on the purple work chain, everyone's gonna be trying to sell this, like, immediately, cash it out, and, you know, maybe your orders won't come through. It's gonna be stressful. Maybe you're trying to, like, maybe you're gonna try to bridge it to, like, a centralized exchange that will accept it, but, you know, that's also gonna be stressful. There's gonna be a bunch of volatility. And I think that people are people that are trying to focus on, like, you know, shorting, like, you know, doing some delta neutral stuff to, like, maximize, you know, this etherwork. Ethere. Sorry, proof of work.
00:07:45.440 - 00:08:22.550, Speaker A: Eat coin, airdrop. I feel like they're focusing on the wrong things. I feel like there are other things that people should think about that are more actionable and have merit even after the merge. So let's kind of go over those things. And one thing I was thinking about is, like, all total ones and the value of all total ones. So I've been pretty bearish all the ones in the past couple of months, probably because there's not that much block space demand on mainnet and alternative l ones can only really work, right. Can only really catch narrative if mainnet fees are high.
00:08:22.550 - 00:09:14.594, Speaker A: But given that a bunch of people left the industry, gas is like between ten and 20, so there's not really a reason to use all to ones. And also, if you think about it, a lot of people are bridging either to mainnet from auto once to receive this proof of work coin airdrop. You even see this on money markets where on Aave you can lend out your ether for a 70% rate because a bunch of people are trying to maybe use bitcoin as collateral, borrow ether and they're paying roughly 200% to do so. And of course after the merge it's going to essentially collapse. But this is also happening on other money markets. I mentioned this before too, but maybe you can have a USDC as collateral on Aave. On avalanche, you can borrow ether, bridge it back, receive this reward coin airdrop, and then, you know, bridge it back and then repay your loan.
00:09:14.594 - 00:09:45.892, Speaker A: But also you're gonna be paying like bridge fees and whatnot. So I'm not even sure if that's gonna be worth it. But anyways, the point is people are gonna be bridging back, bridging eth back to Mainnet. But think about like what's their incentive to bridge it back, right? Like I bridged some ether from avalanche to ethereum, right, to try crypto and whatnot. But I don't really have a reason to bridge it back. The only reason I use avalanche right now is because of GMx. And maybe I can use USDC as collateral, borrow avax and short the hell out of that thing by buying GLP.
00:09:45.892 - 00:10:21.110, Speaker A: But that's really the only use case. If GMx didn't really exist on avalanche, I don't really have an incentive to be there. And this can be set for other chains like Phantom, Solana, near whatever. In the short term, I just feel like people are just going to bridge Tvl away from alt l ones into mainnet and then people will reevaluate what they want to do after that. But I don't necessarily think that the incentive is going to be there. You can argue the same for arbitrum because I'm more like more bullish arbitrum than other alto ones. But I do think that there is an incentive because I'll talk about this later.
00:10:21.110 - 00:11:05.508, Speaker A: But if Odyssey resumes, I feel like that's going to be an incentive alone for people to want to bridge back to arbitrum, you know, if they bridge back to mainnet and, you know, actually use a chain. So similarly, I am bearish alto one. Still relative to Tricrypto and GLP, I don't have a view like relative to the us dollar, right? Because if the markets bounce, like, you know, alto ones will bounce. But relative to tricrypto, GLP and you know, mainly ether, I just feel still bearish on alto ones. And if you want to do pair trades, right, like short avax, long ether, I still think that, you know, those kinds of plays will outperform, you know? Yeah, those plays will outperform. And the second point I want to talk about is this point about liquidity on DeFi and NFTs. There's no precedence for this type of event.
00:11:05.508 - 00:11:50.240, Speaker A: So I don't really have a strong conviction in this, but I just want to bring it to your attention because I don't really see people talking about it. So what I've observed in the past couple of weeks leading up to the merge was that a lot of liquidity on Defi has dried up. And Ike, and I think this is happening because people are trying to pull ether away from Defi just so they can hold it in their wallet to receive the e two w coin. And if you look at Univ. Two sushiswap liquidity, a bunch of eth pairs just have collapsed in liquidity, which also have led to increased volatility in altcoin pairs. And also, you know, if you're lp'ing for altcoin eth pair and you pull it out, right, you're not really earning yield on this altcoin anymore. So maybe have more incentive to dump this alto coin into ether.
00:11:50.240 - 00:12:25.868, Speaker A: So I think that's what's happening right now and also with nfts. Right. Why buy nfts now when you can hold it in your wallet, receive this ew coin, and then after merge, you can buy whatever nft you want? I mean, I don't really expect an NFT market to go up only anytime soon, but incrementally, I do think that post merge Defi and NFT activity can ramp up. Right. Relative to the first two weeks of September. Right. I think the latter two halves, the last two weeks of September, is gonna have more on chain activity than the first two weeks of September just because of this effect.
00:12:25.868 - 00:12:47.964, Speaker A: And maybe this means that, you know, defi might catch a bid, maybe nfts catch a bit. In this environment. I don't necessarily think that it's gonna be a sustained. Right. I don't really expect gas to get back to, like, 100, right? Definitely. Definitely not. But this is a little bit of opium for me where I say, you know, what? Like, altcoins have, I guess, Defi and NFT significantly under form for a good reason.
00:12:47.964 - 00:13:25.466, Speaker A: But maybe after the merge, people will have more incentive to just not hold ether in their wallet and redeploy back into Defi and nfts, and maybe we can actually see the fundamentals for certain projects play out. Okay, so I've shared this before, too, but this is the median fee per transaction for ether. And generally any sustained bull run is catalyzed by a bottoming process. Right. I'm not sure if you can see my mouse because I don't know. How do you work obs with, like, this, this wallet? Right. I don't have my usual setup, but essentially every time the median fee on either bottoms out and goes up, that's usually catalyzed by positive price action.
00:13:25.466 - 00:14:01.162, Speaker A: So it's bouncing right now. But this is mostly due to prices just being down bad yesterday, and people are trying to get, like, avoid getting liquidated. So I don't really trust this bounce in the median fee on Ethereum. But if we can see this go up after the merge, then you can actually potentially see some outperformance of defi coins or nfts relative to ether. Because right now, ether is just like outperforming majority of tokens right now. But maybe we can see a trend shift after the merge. Not that high conviction for me, but it could be a change in market structure, a change in trend that might come into friction.
00:14:01.162 - 00:14:25.136, Speaker A: Right. Might actually happen. And also, teams are more likely to delay product updates and announcements post merge. So I think altcoin catalysts are likely to come in q four. So obviously, GMX is probably, like, one of the stronger fundamental plays right now. And with yesterday's volatility, it was able to put in all time highs and fees on arbitrum. And I think this is a big deal, not just for GMX, but for arbitrum.
00:14:25.136 - 00:15:14.838, Speaker A: If you think about arbitrum, odyssey, I think arbitrum has a catalyst for it because people expect the arbitrum token to happen at some point sometime in q four, q one. And people are just like, you know, using the chain and, you know, seeing if they can be eligible for the airdrop, if it's going to even be in airdrop, even goP, right? Like, you know, these rates are amazing, right? I mean, 39% holding glP, like, wow, right? It's a volatility position. It's amazing. And the reason they paused Odyssey back in June was because so many people tried to use GMX back in June, and arbitrum fees exceeded that of mainnet fees, I believe. And then the team was like, you know what? Like, arbitrum is not ready. We're gonna pause Odyssey and wait until nitro. And I think yesterday, the volatility, people trading on GMX, bunch of activity happening on chain.
00:15:14.838 - 00:15:41.938, Speaker A: I think that was a good stress test for arbitram. Nitro and arbitram worked flawlessly. Right? I mean, it worked seamlessly. So I think that's gonna give the arbitram team a nudge to be say, you know what? Like, we feel like arbitrum metro is ready, the metrics are good. We're going to resume odyssey, let's say sometime in October. And I feel like if you're looking for Defi outperformance, I still think that arbitram is the place to look. I don't really expect the token until q four or q one of next year.
00:15:41.938 - 00:16:06.324, Speaker A: But you're not really. I mean, I guess people use a chain for the airdrop, too. But if you also think about the incentive for developers, I've observed that the majority of new product launches and new, I guess, teams like launching on defi products on chain, they're choosing it to be on arbitrum, right. Because that's where most of the attention is. You follow the incentive and I'll show you the outcome. Right. So, you know, arbitrum, I'm still positive.
00:16:06.324 - 00:16:49.872, Speaker A: GMX, obviously the strongest fundamental coin out there, but I also expect teams to continue their product or improve their product and more products to launch on arbitrum, and that's where I'm looking into. So GMX proved that on chain perks work, right? I mean, you know, like, look at these metrics, right? Really good. I think on chain options, this has to find a product market fit. I think on chain A, mems make sense. The problem with Dopex, I think, right now, is that it requires individual people to write options and then people to buy those options. But that's not really a scalable model. I think the more scalable model is something like an on chain AmM for options, where this pure supply and demand dynamics can accurately price options.
00:16:49.872 - 00:17:32.465, Speaker A: On chain, I think amms are going to be like the future of how on chain products are going to be priced. I think it's a far more efficient model, at least on blockchains. But besides that, let's keep going. Obviously, one of the bulk case for the merge is, um, reduced issuance and potentially ETH being deflationary. And obviously, you know, inflation going down is like, obviously going to be bullish, right? Um, a bunch of money, or I guess a bunch of ETh were paid out to miners and they had to sell those to cover their costs. But after the merge, those, you know, structural sellers are going to be gone. So, yes, medium to long term, obviously, the ETh, obviously the merge is going to be bullish.
00:17:32.465 - 00:18:17.730, Speaker A: Right. Um, but is ETh going to be deflationary? I don't necessarily think so. The rough point, or I guess the cutoff point for it being deflationary is roughly 15 GUI. But if you've been checking etherscan and I guess like the average gas fees in the past couple of months, I feel like the average gas fee is definitely below 15. Of course, when there's volatility, eggs goes up, but generally when there's nothing really going on, there's not that much people using the chain. So, yes, like, obviously, reduced issuance is going to be good for the token price, but I don't really expect eth to be deflationary after the merge. And, you know, I mean, I like the bankless guys, right, and I respect them and whatnot.
00:18:17.730 - 00:18:59.972, Speaker A: But, you know, whenever these people say, you know, according to the past six months of data, or according to the past twelve months of data, it will be deflationary. The staking rates are going to be this. I should, you shouldn't really trust these data points just because in early 2022, people are still using a chain, right. Gas fees are pretty high, and it's not really a good indicator for future performance. I think a good indicator for what gas is going to be, let's say, for the rest of the year is going to be the state of gas markets. Now, Jordy Alexander also went on bankless, also wrote a piece on the Bankless newsletter. He also mentioned that people are trying to hype up this eat staking rate to be, you know, six to 8%.
00:18:59.972 - 00:19:37.546, Speaker A: And after the merge it might be, you know, in that range. But obviously, if the eat staking fee is so high, then there's gonna be more demand to, you know, stake Eth. Most peripheral stake assets like Avalanche London and near the staking rate is roughly 60% to 80%. So, you know, if ETh gets to that level, then, you know, the ETH staking rates are gonna be like, roughly 2%, which is still good, right? Which is still, like, really, really good. And, you know, it's nothing to laugh at and. But, you know, this argument about ETH being deflationary, EtH being this Internet bond, right? Like on chain yield and whatnot. Like, maybe that narrative is a little too hyped up and maybe people will get disappointed after the merge actually happens.
00:19:37.546 - 00:20:21.686, Speaker A: So, you know, I guess for this reason with the gas markets and also the BTC to ETH market cap ratio. Yes, I definitely can see a scenario where ether just continues to upcorp and post merge. But, you know, if the market cap gets too close to each other, I think people will start to get nervous and I think people will start to look at the actual fundamentals of, you know, is it actually deflationary? Right? Like what? Like what are the actual staking rates for ether? Maybe that's going to be a catalyst for bitcoin to finally outperform. I know the bitcoin maxis have been waiting for bitcoin dominance, like run to like, you know, start at some point. And I do agree that it has to happen at some point, right. You can't really have a healthy market if bitcoin isn't really participating. And right now, the narrative around bitcoin is kind of weak right now.
00:20:21.686 - 00:20:54.592, Speaker A: But maybe as people start to de risk either in the BTC, maybe we can have a couple weeks of BTC out performance. I'm not really saying that bitcoin has to outperform for like six months or whatever. Right. But maybe even like a couple weeks into year end, like this ratio can come up. And then once people are more comfortable with the markets, maybe this can come back down. Actually enter the flipping range sometime in 2024, 2025, maybe even 2026. Who knows? I mean, this, this, this roadmap is probably take many years.
00:20:54.592 - 00:21:08.456, Speaker A: So. Yeah, I don't really have strong points there. Let's go back to the slide deck. Yeah. So how long is this video? Right? 21 minutes. Okay, so last thing I want to talk about. Talk about is revisiting the bottom call.
00:21:08.456 - 00:21:46.146, Speaker A: So I essentially laid out three reasons on why I think the markets have bottomed for crypto. And. Yeah, so basically my reasoning was I think crypto capitulation has already happened in June, you know, three ac going bust, Celsius going bust, which also led to a bunch of big firms going bust. I think that level of foreselling is going to be really, really difficult to see until. Unless there's like some financial collapse in like the stock market or like, you know, the legacy markets, which I'm not saying there's a 0% chance, but I don't necessarily think it's that likely. Right. So there's that.
00:21:46.146 - 00:22:23.780, Speaker A: So I said that if the stock market can stabilize and just like, not, like, not nuke, I think no crypto can outperform just because crypto sold off a lot harder. And in addition to that, I was talking about market breadth metrics that has kind of deteriorated recently. So, you know, that used to be a checklist, but now it's kind of a yellow flag. Sentiment is still as bearish now as people were during the financial crisis. I still think, don't think that really makes any sense. But the third reason I was more bullish the markets was peak inflation and you can't. So I don't know why it's not showing.
00:22:23.780 - 00:23:00.350, Speaker A: Let me just do this. So this is what happens when I don't have my setup, right. I'm just making changes to the slight egg. So anyways, so obviously I was tracking the leading indicators of CPI, and we've seen commodities come down and oil was down month over month, roughly, roughly 5%. And I thought that oil, because it touches the supply chain, it basically touches most things, like most commodities, right. Because oil touches everything. So I thought that oil coming down as well as other leading indicators coming down would be positive for CPI headline.
00:23:00.350 - 00:23:22.270, Speaker A: And I mean, CPI did come down to 8.5, to 8.3, but it was a lot higher than expected. And core inflation also came in hotter than expected. And, you know, my bold case was that, you know, inflation tends to go up in a straight line and come down almost in a straight line. And whenever there's peak inflation, it also tends to coincide with stock market bottoms. So the two red boxes you see here overly, like outlayed with the stock market is going to look like this.
00:23:22.270 - 00:23:52.124, Speaker A: So, you know, I was like, you know what? Like if we saw peak inflation, which I still think we saw peak inflation, but I'm not really sure what. But, you know, I expected, I guess like a faster deceleration of inflation than expected. So that narrative is definitely has weakened. Right. So I'm not going to be like, you know, blindly bullish because I was bullish, like, you know, a couple weeks ago. When the data changes, I have to, you know, change also my stance. So, you know, again, I don't necessarily think the bullcase is dead.
00:23:52.124 - 00:24:19.032, Speaker A: I don't necessarily think that we have to revisit those lows because, you know, the level of selling we saw in June. Right. Was, I don't like using the term, but unprecedented. Right. Unprecedented level of selling. And, you know, so, you know, this was in 1974, Q 419 74 and Q one of 1980. But if you actually look at the CPI prints for 1974 and 1980, hopefully you can see this.
00:24:19.032 - 00:24:44.136, Speaker A: But, you know, sure, it kind of looks like it came down in a straight line, right. Inflation. But, you know, inflation was kind of sticky in Q four of 1974, it was twelve point 212.311, eleven point 811.2. It definitely didn't come in a straight line, but the markets were able to climb a wall of worry and, you know, put in, I mean, not all time highs but you know, this rally off of the bottom and also in 1980 we saw 14.8, right. That was like crazy high inflation then.
00:24:44.136 - 00:25:37.680, Speaker A: 14.714 point 414.413.1. So even if we saw peak inflation, it doesn't really, it's a little sticky, right. For a couple of months and then it tends to come down and then the markets can look past that and then you know, put in all the mis because if you look at 1980, you know, we essentially saw all time highs. Even though we revisited those levels in 1983, you know, the markets were still able to climb wall worry. So, you know, definitely a punch in the go go for the bulls and you know, I'll gladly admit I was wrong on that one. But you know, so obviously, you know, with the changing data points, obviously changing views and as accordingly, you know, I took some risk off before and after this CPI print, you know, selling some ether into tricrypto and you know, there's various other things.
00:25:37.680 - 00:26:25.424, Speaker A: So yeah, thank you. Those are my thoughts there. So, and also I guess I talk about the fundamentals. I just like get a bunch of like, like messages and like, like DM's and whatnot saying, hey, hey, like, you know, have you sold heavy, sold like ultimately, like I don't think it really matters like whether I sell or not. But I will say that like whenever I make a video where I publicly back a particular project. So if you think about the three projects that I've publicly talked about, right, saying that I'm bullish, it's GMX, FXs and Xmon, right, those three projects. And like when I make these videos, obviously I'm making these hour long videos and you know, it's, I hope it only attracts like people that, you know, actually care about these things but, or care about the fundamentals.
00:26:25.424 - 00:27:15.882, Speaker A: But, you know, when I make these videos, I internally commit to, you know, not sell these coins, you know, like in the short term, right? Like I mentioned this before, but yes, the macro is murky. Yes the market environment is pretty rough, but I'm not going to stop looking at the fundamentals. And I do think that there are mispricing in various areas of the market. So to answer the question of like whether I sold or not any of these coins, like, the answer is no. And it's very, very unlikely that I will sell anytime soon just because, you know, I don't want to be the type of influencer that like, you know, this makes these like bullish videos and then like sells it like two days later, right. Definitely not trying to take that approach, and I think, you know, like, that kind of content is missing the space. So, you know, like, I'm just basically saying that, hey, like, I'm not trying to dump on people, right? Like, I'm, like, if I make a bullish video, like, you know, I, like, like, a dedicated video, like, I'm gonna.
00:27:15.882 - 00:27:40.798, Speaker A: I'm gonna hold on to that because I believe in it, right? And I'm not gonna, you know, just have weekends, I guess. Of course, you know, in a couple of months, if the fundamentals are, like, real bad, and then, you know, like, it's pretty consensus that, you know, it's bad. Right. And then everyone sells, then. Yeah, like, maybe also at that point, because, like, at that point, if I sell, I'm not gonna hurt anyone, but, you know, that's just my stance there. So. No, let's.
00:27:40.798 - 00:28:16.702, Speaker A: Let's talk about the fundamentals. Because, yes, when there's volatility, like, fundamentals only matter. Everything trades, you know, like, everything trades the same, right? But, you know, I. One of the few people, I think it's a space that, you know, still looks at the fundamentals and that still cares about the fundamentals. Of course, in a bear market, right, I just keep getting punched in the face, right? And, you know, I get punched in the face, I'm like, you're like, you know, come at me again, right? Like, I'm just like, you know, like, I'm definitely taking a beating and, you know, I'm. But, you know, like, my pain tolerance is pretty high. I mean, it's not like I'm taking, like, crazy amounts of risk, right.
00:28:16.702 - 00:29:04.172, Speaker A: I do have, like, risk management practices in place, but, you know, I just wanted to share a few tweets from Coby because maybe it has more impact coming from him because people respect him as one of the ogs in the space. But, you know, I guess near the GMX top, he was kind of bull posting about GMX, and he wasn't sharing the ticker because he doesn't want people to, like, you know, buy GMX because of this. But, you know, essentially, if you look at the bottom, right, he essentially said that, you know, he's been buying GMX on the dip and he doesn't really understand, like, why people aren't looking at the fundamentals, right. He says, I don't know, like, being able to buy the valuable stuff rather than being index exposed seems useful. Crypto market is so small that you can find mispriced stuff. Isn't that what we're supposed to be doing. Right? So this is referring to GMX.
00:29:04.172 - 00:29:31.144, Speaker A: And he also said that, you know, all the air got sucked out of the room, right? Even still and over valuations were destroyed. And yes, you can argue that some, some things are still overvalued. Right? I can't. I can definitely get behind that. But if some things are still overvalued, then there must be things that are undervalued. Of course, we might not see immediate pumps and we might not see instant gratification, but I'm not really in the markets right now hoping for instant gratification. Right? Like, you know, like, we have to get rid of the dopamine addiction, right? Like, this is not a place for dopamine deduction.
00:29:31.144 - 00:30:15.372, Speaker A: This is trying to position yourself for the future and, you know, asking myself, okay, like, what would future Taki want me to do right now? Right? Like, how would he want me to position his portfolio going forward? And, you know, he's saying that people that actually thought for themselves simply found stuff that was undervalued and bought it, like what we're supposed to do. And I definitely agree. And I think, you know, the immediate fundamental play that, you know is already there. Like, you know, that's already playing out is J Maxx, right? Like all time volume in fees. Sorry, like not all time volume, but all time trading fees. In the bear market when prices were nuking, that means that even in the faces of volatility, people were using on chain perps. Of course it's got a long ways to go to compete with the likes of binance, FTX, etcetera.
00:30:15.372 - 00:30:41.602, Speaker A: But there's definitely product market fit there. The tokenomics of GMX is great. So yes, markets are scary, but GMX, good coin, not financial advice, in my opinion. Good coin and I will continue farming. GOP and I shared earlier GLP paying 40% in either on Arbitrum. Why wouldn't you want to put your funds there? It's a volatility position as well. Obviously there's smart contract risk team is a non theory, research and whatnot.
00:30:41.602 - 00:31:25.254, Speaker A: But I do think fundamentals still matter. Market's bearish, but I still think it's worth looking at the fundamentals because that's what's going to end up mattering going forward. I think we're in this market where people actually care about revenues and revenue versus cost of inflation. Any project can say that high revenue, whatever, but if the amount of inflation is higher than the actual revenue itself, then it's not really a profitable business. I think over time the crypto markets are going to get smarter. You can't really expect the same narrative in the past to play out because people learn from their mistakes or learn from past experiences. I think people generally think that, oh, yeah, crypto is so stupid.
00:31:25.254 - 00:32:17.160, Speaker A: There's things like pump and like whatnot, right? And maybe that that's true for, like, the latter half, the latter half of the bull market. But for the initial phase of the bull market, whenever that is, I think that the strongest fundamental coins will start to outperform. And that's gonna lead and Pat, that's gonna pave a way, right, for other projects to, you know, follow in their footsteps and, you know, eventually lead us into the next bull run once there's more product market fit. And I mean, this is my opium, right, as this defi guy. But hopefully, like, we're in this market where fundamentals do matter, right? Maybe it doesn't. Maybe I'm just wasting my time, but I do think it does matter. And, you know, if Chainlink, right, Chainlink outperformed in the bear market, right? And this is link USD for 2018 to 2021, right? It was one of the few coins that literally went up only in a bear market.
00:32:17.160 - 00:32:54.638, Speaker A: And this was when, like, no one was using ether, basically. No one really used on chain. So if link can go up in a bear market when the fundamentals of ether were, or, you know, just blockchain general was kind of murky, then why can't the same happen now when the fundamentals are better, right. When the industry is more mature, I'm sure that there are going to be various coins in various sectors that will decouple and outperform the markets. And my job that I'm trying to do, right, the key we're trying is to look for those things. So obviously, Link was one of the. One of them in 2018, 2019.
00:32:54.638 - 00:33:33.360, Speaker A: And I do expect in the next, let's say, six to twelve months, I'm sure we'll see, like, over a dozen projects just outperform bitcoin, outperform ether. Even if bitcoin ether are just going sideways, I fundamentally do believe that. So, you know, there's no telling if I can actually find those things and if I have a strong enough conviction to hold through everything and whatnot. In the case of GMX FXS X one, I definitely do have the conviction and I will try to hold through all the volatility because I'm trying to think about where this space is headed or where this industry is headed. And I'm trying to position myself accordingly, of course. I don't want people copy trading me. I could always be wrong.
00:33:33.360 - 00:33:52.640, Speaker A: And I have my share of good trades, bad trades, good research, bad research. So, you know, that being said, I think this is. Yeah, that's gonna be end of the video. So thank you guys for watching. Let's see how long this video is. Okay, not too bad. I just noticed that my face is.
00:33:52.640 - 00:34:08.670, Speaker A: This is what happens when I don't have my setup right. Like, I just like, have no idea what I'm doing. Right. But hopefully, and my hair is all messed up, but hopefully this is useful. Let me just back up. So like the, the lighting is better. Hopefully this was a little bit useful.
00:34:08.670 - 00:34:48.620, Speaker A: Yeah. So I guess TLdr short term eT BTC outperforming, definitely expected. But, you know, if it outperforms too much, I think people will get to like, start to get nervous about this entire e two BTC ratio and, you know, there's going to be some deleveraging that happens in the bitcoin. I do think bitcoin dominance has to go on at least a multi week run in order for to markets to, you know, be at a more healthier state. So that's what I'm looking for. But obviously I believe in the flipping, obviously more bullish either over bitcoin, but, you know, if you are tits long either. I do, I just want to, wanted to raise this point because I do think it ends up mattering.
00:34:48.620 - 00:35:15.152, Speaker A: I do think a bunch of crypto people, if we get to like, you know, this ratio going like 1.5 and whatnot, I think people will just start getting nervous. So even if the eventual path is, you know, this, like in the flipping area, I do think that, you know, it's not going to be a straight line. So thank you guys watching and have a format out there and, you know, just, yeah, just yeah, just yeah, I'll, I'll see you on the, see you on the other side. Bye.
