00:00:00.200 - 00:00:19.726, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gray Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and it's a sign of today's the 5 October 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So a simple tweet from Tim Bico today, but one that I think holds a lot of meaning behind it. He said kind of wild. Ethereum is now just running proof of stake in the background. Like it's no biggie.
00:00:19.726 - 00:00:51.520, Speaker A: And I mean, as I said, like there's a lot to unpack when you look at this tweet. It's a simple tweet, but there's a lot in the background here. And it is wild that, I mean, I mentioned this after the merge that basically like the merge happened, it went through so smoothly that no one really talks about it anymore. Right. Theorem is just running on proof of stake. We obviously have a lot of stuff happening in the background with regards to proof of stake, and I've seen rocket pool actually grow a lot recently, which is really, really cool. And yeah, there's plenty of stuff happening around that, but the actual transition itself, I mean there's no reason for us to talk about it anymore since it's done.
00:00:51.520 - 00:01:20.092, Speaker A: But it's just funny how like such a big thing, something that was talked about so often, and like I talk about it almost every day on my show. Leading up to it, uh, it just happened, went smoothly and now it, we're just running Ethereum on proof of stake. Just awesome. And you know, I don't know if it would have been talked about more if it was like a bull market. I don't really think that it wouldn't matter that much. Maybe people would have been like, oh look, you know, the reduction in supply led to ETH pumping, blah blah, but in real like immediately pumping. But in reality it probably was just bull market things.
00:01:20.092 - 00:02:06.542, Speaker A: It's always hard to know what you, you know, what correlates with what and everything. I mean if it was that easy, everyone would be able to tell where the price was going to go, right. But yeah, I just thought it was something simple that Tim put out today that has a lot behind it. And I've been doing a bit of reflecting over the last couple days actually about the merge and proof of stake and everything surrounding it, because there's a thread actually from Burt Miller from flashbots and I'm going to read out, but I've been thinking about it in the context of mev, in the context of obviously these mev boost relays and things like that, and how we can. Well, how I can personally help with, with kind of strengthening the network from that point of view. So that got me just thinking a lot about the fact that Ethereum is now on proof of stake and going through all the motions there. So, yeah, just a great little tweet from Tim today that I wanted to quickly highlight on the refuel.
00:02:06.542 - 00:02:50.734, Speaker A: And speaking of proof of stake and the beacon chain, Michael Sproul from the Sigma prime team here, who built the lighthouse consensus layer, client kind of put out a tweet where he said, update on the Beacon chain archive node efforts. Here's a formally three terabyte plus lighthouse archive node in 272 73gb. So the performance improvements that are coming to clients are immense. I mean, as I mentioned, I believe on the refuel previously, all the focus on the clients was obviously getting the merge done. But now that that's done and there are, I mean, there are other upgrades coming, but those are still obviously in flight. We don't know exactly which ones are going to go into the network and things like that. Team members of these, of these client teams can work on optimizations, which is obviously what we want, what we want to see for a number of different reasons.
00:02:50.734 - 00:03:22.486, Speaker A: One of the big reasons actually, is that the more optimizations there are, more profitable a client will be over another client. So that's obviously an incentive. But also things like this where we're getting like a lighthouse archive. No, no. Down from three terabytes or over three terabytes to just 273gb, which isn't very much at all. So just great to see this, great to see that optimizations have still been continued to be worked on and kind of ramping up here. And Michael reckons that we can shave another 50 gigabyte off the block storage using another optimization that he tweeted about a few weeks ago.
00:03:22.486 - 00:03:48.022, Speaker A: So the total should be less than 250gb for at least a few more months. So very cool effort. Great job here. To Michael and whoever else worked on this. Love to see it. All right, so John Becker here from transpose data put out a tweet today saying ethereum data is about to be easier to access than ever. And there's a screenshot here of basically a transpose SQL playground of accessing Ethereum data.
00:03:48.022 - 00:04:39.554, Speaker A: And I've highlighted a bunch of these services before on the refuel. I think they're extremely important for a number of reasons. And I think the, the best thing about this is that this actually fits into a. I guess I don't know if I, if the thesis is the right word, but it fits into something that I spoke about yesterday, about how there's going to be third party services that store certain data, and data in the sense of state, and things like call data in place of them actually being stored on the Ethereum layer one chain. And the example I used yesterday was proto dank sharding how that call data is only going to persist for one month on the Ethereum layer one chain, and then after that it expires. And then, you know, if you haven't downloaded it yourself, then if no one's downloaded it, the data is technically lost. But the thing is, you don't need that data for, to verify that it was correct, to verify the state of the L2s.
00:04:39.554 - 00:05:38.436, Speaker A: What you need it for is things like accounting, things like querying balances at a certain period of time. And that's something that may, some of you may not know, is that the main difference between an archive node and a full node on Ethereum is, is that an archive node will give you everything that ever happened on the chain, every state diff. So state difference. So what I mean by that is, say you wanna look up the balance of an account at block such and such, right, some block one year ago or something, and you wanna look at what their balance was, what their ETH balance was, what their token balances were, all that sorts of stuff, right? To do that, you would need an archive node, right? You can't do that with a full node. But the thing is, is that an archive node and a full node, they'll give you the same security guarantees. And it's just that a full node is obviously much easier to run, it's much smaller in size. But the only reason that you would need the data from the archive node is for historical accounting purposes, right? And obviously that is a service that is needed by a lot of people, probably most people, but we have third parties that offer that.
00:05:38.436 - 00:06:23.990, Speaker A: Like, I don't query my own archive node to get that information. I go to Etherscan, right? I go to other block explorers. Now, is there centralization concerns with that? I mean, sure, but the thing is, it's not like it's centralization concerns in the sense of a theorem being centralized. It's more centralized as your concerns around the availability of that data. And obviously, as I said, that data is not unneeded, but it is not needed for the chain for you to run a full node in order to make sure that the chain is a secure, sorry to audit the chain to make sure everything's as it should be. Right? But as I said, like transpose data here is just one, or it's called transpose is just one tool in the toolbout. There's plenty of others out there that are going to be doing this sorts of stuff that are going to be storing this, because as I said, there is a business opportunity here for these companies.
00:06:23.990 - 00:06:59.264, Speaker A: They can offer this and for maybe a subscription fee or maybe a one off fee or anything like that. And there's also going to be people who just store all this stuff for free and offer it to people for free as well. So we're going to have a spectrum there of different solutions, but obviously that's better than just leaving everything on Ethereum layer one and making. And the cost basically gets borne by the network. So it's not free. Like every time you do something on the Ethereum layer, one network that has to be stored has to be stored by the people running full nodes, the people validating the network. Obviously if you want to be a validator on the network, you have to run a full node.
00:06:59.264 - 00:07:43.140, Speaker A: So if the chain just gets too bloated and too big because you're just storing everything, well then it becomes more and more expensive to run a full node. Less people do it and then it centralizes things, right? It very much centralizes things. And that's why we're against monolithic blockchains in the Ethereum, in the Ethereum ecosystem. So I've talked about this before, so I won't rant on about that too much. But cool to see another solution that I hadn't seen before pop up with regards to querying the chain for data. Alright, so Terence from the prior labs team has written down some consensus client implementers thoughts on EIP 4844, which you guys, you guys know is proto Dank sharding. So these are just his thoughts around what would be required to be changed on the beacon chain and what things to be considered on the beacon chain.
00:07:43.140 - 00:08:19.780, Speaker A: So on the consensus layer side of things, there's a great number of things here. I suggest giving this a rating. It's pretty cool to get into the mind of a consensus layer, core consensus, a layout core developer, and see what they're thinking about, because these are all things that need to be considered. And as I've said before, 4844, proto Dank sharding. Even though it's way less complex than full dank sharding, it's still got its own complexities, it's still got its own open questions, its own things. They need to be smoothed out, need to be worked out before we can actually implement it into the network. That's why I've said previously that we may get a standalone fork for just withdrawals instead of with, for bigger chain withdrawals instead of just big and chain instead of beacon chain withdrawals.
00:08:19.780 - 00:08:59.304, Speaker A: And for 48 44, it just depends on how fast we can get 48, four to 48 44, to a point that the execution layer and consensus layer core developers are happy with. And I don't, we're obviously not at that point yet, but they're working on it. I mean, as I, as I've said multiple times now, I thought they were going to take a break, the core devs, but they're not. They're just working on this stuff, which is awesome to see, but also I hope they're like, at least taking a bit of a break from time to time to make sure they recharge, to make sure they're not just kind of overworking themselves and burning themselves out. But I'll link this in the YouTube description. You can go check it out. All right, so I mentioned this thread before from Burt Miller talking about Flashbots mev Boost.
00:08:59.304 - 00:09:25.882, Speaker A: Flashbots is currently centralized infrastructure and competition. This is a great thread. I really, really highly recommend going giving it a read, especially given everything that's been happening over the last few months around flashbots mev boost, the OFAC sanctions, censoring, all that sorts of stuff. Stuff there. Bert doesn't explicitly mention OFAC alternator cash in his Twitter thread. I think that's for obvious reasons. The flashboxes legal team probably said, do not explicitly mention it.
00:09:25.882 - 00:10:14.700, Speaker A: But I mean, you read between the lines. It's all there. So he basically puts this thread together, saying that flashbots was created as a, to be a public good, as to steer a theorem, the theorem MeV ecosystem, towards a place that actually isn't parasitic to the network. All that sorts of stuff that I spoke and I've spoken about in the past as well. And I mean, I still think they're doing that, right? And some people have actually asked me, or come at me privately and said, hey, you know, you should draw more attention to the fact that flashbots is relayer senses transactions, censors the O five transactions. And I'm like, okay, well, I have drawn attention to it multiple times in the past, but there's kind of a delicate balance here for me personally. I don't want to, like, for lack of a better term, shit all over the flashbots team and then cause them to turn inward and we stop getting all the amazing stuff from them that we have been getting.
00:10:14.700 - 00:10:57.452, Speaker A: I know what they're doing with their relay is shitty, right? And I think. But the thing is, is that I, with the censoring, I think they actually made up for that by open sourcing the mev boost code very, very quickly after that happened. I don't think these guys at flashbots, the guys and girls, the team at flashbots, are malicious actors at all. I think they're good actors. I think they're in a very, very rock and a hard place right now because of the fact that they're us based o fax sanctions are extremely serious, and you don't want to be seen even hinting at breaking them. And as I've said in the past, I do believe they're over complying. But for them, it's probably worth it to over comply rather than risk massive fines, you know, jail time, all these other stuff that could happen to them personally.
00:10:57.452 - 00:11:26.880, Speaker A: So I do not expect anyone to be a martyr here when it comes to this sorts of stuff. But one thing I will say is that the criticism that they kind of get is definitely justified for this. And there has been a lot of. A lot of open questions around. Should they even be running a relayer if they aren't, aren't able to offer a relayer that doesn't censor? I'm torn on this. Like, in one hand, I understand the arguments for them shutting it down, but then I understand the arguments for them running it as well. Like, there's.
00:11:26.880 - 00:12:18.462, Speaker A: There's good arguments on either side here. I think the best argument for them shutting it down is obviously that they can't offer a censorship resistant relayer. So if they want, if they actually care about Ethereum, they should just shut it down and let the other ones get the market share. But then the argument for keeping it live is that the flashbots relay, from what I know, is the most mature, is the best relay available today. It's the most stable, it's the most reliable. And we know, I mean, there's trust involved here, but we do know that the flashbots team works in Ethereum's best interest on the technical side of things, obviously, on the social side of things, where the team, as I just explained, with the sanctions, stuff like that, the criticism is definitely warranted. But as I've said, as I said before, I don't think we should just be shitting all over them constantly and basically forcing them to turn inward, which means that we get less cool stuff out of them.
00:12:18.462 - 00:12:29.790, Speaker A: I think that they're doing what they can. They're producing what they can. They're building what they can. And the fact that they open sourced it so the other relayers can come online is amazing. Now it's just up to the market to work. It's. Work it out.
00:12:29.790 - 00:12:51.012, Speaker A: Now it's up to you, if you're running a validator, not to use the flashbots relay. If you care about censorship, resistance on ethereum, if you care about Ethereum's credible neutrality, you would use a non censoring relay. And to be fair, it's not just flashbots that is censoring here. There is. Some of the other relayers are censoring as well. I mean, blocks. Rat has a censoring one, block native does, and Eden does.
00:12:51.012 - 00:13:19.612, Speaker A: I think that manifold is the only one that doesn't right now. But, I mean, you can't guarantee that won't always be the case. And obviously, we're working on all these other technical solutions that I've spoken about plenty of times in the past, but this is in the context of flashbots as a team, I think. Yeah, it doesn't do any good constantly berating them about this. They're aware of this. It's not like we have to keep reminding them. What we should be doing is berating the people running the validators, where they be people, institutions, companies.
00:13:19.612 - 00:14:06.122, Speaker A: To not use that relay, that's fair game, to me, at least. I think that that that's fine. But on top of that, as well, we should also be very, very conscious of the fact that flashbots relay isn't the only one that's censoring. So we should direct people towards the ones that are best for the network, so to speak. So, yeah, just wanted to give some context around that. And one last thing I wanted to explain, actually, now that I remembered, is you're hearing me use all these terms, and you're probably confused by them. So what I want to say is, Flashbots is a company, right? They develop the MevBoost software, which is a piece of software that is considered like a sidecar or an optional piece of software you can run alongside your beacon chain validator.
00:14:06.122 - 00:14:42.254, Speaker A: Right? Or validators. So, flashbots company, MeV boost software, then the relays are also this kind of, like, software that's run. That relays the transactions. Relays the bundles. And the bundles are basically mev transactions in the bundles. And then there's, like, a marketplace that sorts out which ones get included in blocks and stuff like that, and then there's other companies like Block native, like Manifold, like Eden, like blocks route, that offer their own relays. But they use the MeV boost software and marketplace as well, right? They just have a different relay that does not censor in some cases.
00:14:42.254 - 00:15:12.064, Speaker A: In some cases it still senses those OFAC transactions, right? So those are the delineations to be made there. So when you're hearing people talk about flashbots, they're most likely talking about the company MeV boost software, the relays software as well. Right? Mev Boost, the software is the same across all the relays, just the real, the relay implementations are different depending on if they're censoring or not. And I mean other things as well, right? There are, there are other things, other variables in that, too. But that's the last thing on that one. Go give this photo read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:15:12.064 - 00:15:52.886, Speaker A: All right, so the block is out with some news today that fidelity has revealed an Ethereum index fund with $5 million in initial sales so far in a new filing. So this filing is with the SEC. And as I said, it showed the fund has, has adjust over $5 million worth of sales already. Obviously, a really, really small number. $5 million isn't really anything to scoff at, but it's cool to see that these bigger institutions are still kind of getting more involved in crypto and launching, you know, a new Ethereum index fund, which provides its clients exposures to ETH, of course. And they launched it on September 26. I, look, I think I've mentioned this in the past, Tradfi is going to keep launching these things.
00:15:52.886 - 00:16:43.580, Speaker A: They're going to keep wrapping it up in product, in different types of products. There is going to be staking products and other products out there, and then these institutions are going to take their own fee and everything, and it's going to be a nice little cash cow for them. Uh, but given it's a bear market, given that, I mean, September has been the, probably the worst, well, one of the worst months of the bear market so far, I don't expect the, um, the, uh, five, I don't expect it to be much more than the $5 million that's been quoted so far. But as the market eats back up again, there's obviously going to be more sales here. So you want to be launching these products in a bear market so that you're ready for when the bull market comes around. That's actually a pretty sound business, I guess strategy is launching things in a bear market, growing them getting those initial customers in, making sure that the product has at least some sort of product market fit. And then when the bull market rolls around again, you reap all the benefits.
00:16:43.580 - 00:17:38.764, Speaker A: And that's what happened to a lot of things within the crypto ecosystem during the last bull market, and I expect that to happen again in the next one. All right, so Lens Protocol has announced today that they've partnered with ENS to allow lens data to be queried via ENS resolution. So lens lens data such as display name, profile, photo, cover image and address can now be queried as ENS resource records using ERP 3668 off chain resolution, the lens protocol core team is operating a resolver via Star lens XYZ. However, all code will be open source so that anyone can create their own off chain resolver serving lens data. Data stores like Lens need secure authority of means of lookup, and there is no better partner in this space than ens. Look out for some more lens x ens news soon. This is awesome to see two of my favorite non financial products in the ecosystem kind of coming together to offer this, this really cool user experience to people.
00:17:38.764 - 00:18:08.796, Speaker A: Lens protocol came under fire for not integrating with EnS originally, but the reason is because EnS isn't live on the polygon pos chain, and that's where lens is right now. So I don't think it was so because lens created their own naming system because of that limitation there. But that doesn't mean they can't integrate with EnS. Doesn't mean they can't integrate ens when Ens comes to the polygon pos chain. And it's great to see that the teams are still working together. Right? Like, it's not like they're hostile with each other or they like, oh, no, screw you. You didn't support us.
00:18:08.796 - 00:18:23.392, Speaker A: No, that's not how we do it in Ethereum. We work together. It's all open source anyway. It's all able to be, um, to be worked on in an open way. And that's what's really amazing about this and lens protocol. I've talked about a little bit on the refill, but not that much. But I've been keeping an eye on it.
00:18:23.392 - 00:18:53.594, Speaker A: It seems to be gaining some pretty good traction, which is really cool to see. There are definitely signs of early adoption, but it's like very, very early still. It's definitely not anything that's going to replace Twitter anytime soon, but we may end up needing it more and more as time goes on because of the fact, I mean, Elon Musk has to buy Twitter now. I'm sure you guys saw the news today. Um, he can't get out of his contract. I'm simultaneously, like, excited and scared about that. Like, excited because Twitter has been kind of meh for a while.
00:18:53.594 - 00:19:31.730, Speaker A: They haven't really done much. Uh, and maybe Elon Musk can give him a kick up the ass, but also scared that I don't think he's going to be able to do that because he has so much other stuff going on. The fact that he didn't actually want to buy the company in the end. Yeah, I don't know what's going to happen to Twitter, right? And sometimes I think about this and I'm like, okay, well, I have a massive social graph on Twitter. What if they just screw it all up? Like, what happens then? What if everyone just leaves and goes somewhere else? I can't bring my Twitter profile with me, right? I can tweet and basically say, hey, come follow me on this. But it's not the same. So when you have something like a lens protocol that's a decentralized social graph, you basically don't rely or aren't at the mercy of a front end.
00:19:31.730 - 00:20:09.432, Speaker A: It's a decentralized protocol that you can take your data with you wherever you go, to different front ends. It's the same concept within Defi and other things on chain, but I think that's going to be very, very powerful for social graphs, for digital identity, especially in the age where these web two companies just get more and more centralized more and more, I guess, like, they censor things more and more. And they're pretty aimless as well, like that. As I said, Twitter, the front end hasn't really innovated at all in a long time. I mean, they've done bits and pieces here and there, like NFT integrations. They're doing an edit button, but I mean, and edit, but it come on. Like, that was due ages ago.
00:20:09.432 - 00:20:33.460, Speaker A: Was that supposed to be a huge innovation? No, I mean, and it's not just Twitter. It's a lot of these web, two social media platforms, and they're also not great in terms of the algorithms, too. The algorithms are completely opaque. We have no idea how they're serving us things. I mean, I haven't noticed it so much on Twitter, but on YouTube, the algorithm is just whack on there. It's suggesting me shit that I have absolutely no interested interest in. I don't know why it's suggesting it to me.
00:20:33.460 - 00:21:17.992, Speaker A: And I say, I'm not interested in it, and it keeps suggesting it to me. So obviously I have no insight into that at all. No idea why they're, they're suggesting that to me, and I hate that because it's like, are they trying to force a particular thing on me? Are they trying to force a particular view on me, um, as part of some internal trial that they're doing? I don't know how many of you aware of this, but Facebook has actually done many, many trials of their algorithm and forcibly suggested content to people to see how it affected them, their mood, see how it affected their behavior on Facebook. And it was really, really bad. At one point, I think they did a study where they showed people just bad news exclusively in their news feed, and they wanted to see if they could see if people, if people's mood changed materially because of that. And they did. Of course it fucking did.
00:21:17.992 - 00:21:52.948, Speaker A: If you get exposed to bad news all the time, then you're going to start feeling really shit. And that's a major problem with the Internet today, is that we're all so connected and these algorithms just control our mood. So with decentralized protocols, we can choose these algorithms, we can choose which ones we want to use, which ones we don't want to use, and. And I think it's, over. The longer term, hopefully going to be a better solution than what we have today. Because today we just have this completely opaque system where we're at the mercy of these massive centralized companies that monitor everything we do, sell our data to the highest bidder, manipulate us via algorithms. You know, something's got to give eventually.
00:21:52.948 - 00:22:20.960, Speaker A: And I think that lens protocol is just one of those things that can help us get to a more decentralized social future. All right, so Horizon today announced a $40 million funding round in a series. A funding round, I should say. Now, disclosure, I participated in this funding round as you probably would have assumed by now. I. I know I say that a lot about a lot of things, but I like disclosing these things. And for those of you who don't know who horizon is, well, they're the parent company behind a few different things.
00:22:20.960 - 00:23:16.904, Speaker A: Skywaveer, which is a trading card game using nfTs, obviously, and things like that sequence, which is a smart wallet and a developer platform, and Nifty Swap, which is a marketplace for swapping sfts or semi fungible tokens. So they're building a bunch of different things here. And this $40 million round had participation from a bunch of different investors that you can see listed here as well as a bunch, a bunch of different angels. So I personally chose to invest in them because I think what they're doing is building not only, you know, obviously a game, but they're building this game. And they're probably seen at some point, hey, we're like, we need to build tools to attract more builders to the platform, to track more developers, to track more users. So they went and built sequence, which I don't know how many of you have used sequence, but it's a pretty cool little developer platform and smart wallet that they've been working on for quite a while here. And then obviously, as I said, they're also building nifty swap, which is for a marketplace of sfts.
00:23:16.904 - 00:23:46.602, Speaker A: So they're building things like on top of things that they've already built, so to speak. So they're, they're obviously identifying problems and being like, okay, well, no one's on a solution for this yet. We're going to be the solution here. And I saw kind of the, the metrics, the statistics around this and I was like, wow, okay, this is growing. This is actually, this is actually being used. These are things that people are really interested in interacting with. I'd love to kind of back these guys when obviously the opportunity came up here and you can check out the sequence website for more information about what that does.
00:23:46.602 - 00:24:21.064, Speaker A: Obviously the Skyweaver game is self explanatory. It's an NFT trading card game like gods Unchained, which I'm sure a lot of you have heard of before. But you can check out sequence and check out all the information on their website here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But yeah, congrats to them on this massive series a funding round. Really great to see more of these legit teams building really cool stuff get funded. And obviously I'm a proud angel investor in them. All right, so Uniswap put out this tweet today saying that Uniswap v three on arbitrum has just hit an all time high of 78 market share.
00:24:21.064 - 00:24:55.182, Speaker A: Now, it's been one year since v three has been live on arbitrum here and you can see that Unisov three is just absolutely dominating. I mean, it wasn't at the start, right, but it is now. It's just killing everything else. And I've explained before that I think this is in large part due to just brand awareness and, you know, marketing generally, everyone trusts Uniswap instead of other things out there. And obviously it's a, it's a bear market as well. So people are probably less inclined to try new things, new amms, things like that. But if I actually had this before, had this up before, but if I actually load Uniswap dot in for, hopefully this works for me.
00:24:55.182 - 00:25:22.168, Speaker A: It's a site that tracks the different metrics of Uniswap across different chains here. This is a theorem layer one. We don't really care about that right now. Let's look, actually, let's look at the polygon Pos chain. So 24 hours volume on the Polygon Pos chain is about what it can range from. It's about 100, 150 million, depending on the day, obviously. So it can range from anywhere from 50 to 150 million, which during the bear market as well, which is obviously some great growth there.
00:25:22.168 - 00:25:51.684, Speaker A: Optimism. You've got 24 hours, you got 50 to 100 million. I mean, it varies wildly here, but what, anywhere between 30 and 90 million or so. And then arbitrum, you can see here as well, if I'm going to bring up the 24 hours stats. Yeah, it's actually gone up a lot recently, but it's just kind of between, I guess, 50 and 100 million, depending on the day. And before that, it was more in line, I guess, with optimism. But arbitrams had a big, had a big September that was for sure.
00:25:51.684 - 00:26:11.420, Speaker A: Now we can look at some other chains here. Actually, there's one other chain here, sallow or Chalo, which is a layer one that I always thought was kind of like completely pointless. I didn't really get the point of it. I was looking at this before. The total monthly volume they had monthly, not daily, for September, was $2.29 million. Like basically nothing.
00:26:11.420 - 00:26:27.108, Speaker A: It's a rounding error. So I don't even know why they're live there. But if you compare these to Ethereum layer one in terms of daily volume, Ethereum layer one, I think. I don't know if this is a theorem. Layer one, daily volume here. I think this is wrong. These stats on Ethereum layer one, it's showing like 20, 30 million.
00:26:27.108 - 00:26:59.484, Speaker A: No, that's definitely wrong. I think Ethereum layer one, daily volume is more than that, but I don't have it handy right now. But still cool to see it growing, obviously, as I said, arbitrary had a big September, and Uniswap had a big September on arbitrum as well. And the market share has obviously gone up because of that. But it's been trending up since June here. So it's not like it's a recent thing, but still cool to see Uniswap dominating for Uniswap sake. But also I do like to see competition when it comes to these things, but Uniswap's brand awareness and dominance is just proving to be too much, I think.
00:26:59.484 - 00:27:39.072, Speaker A: All right, so Zappa announced today that you can now explore nfts on optimism using the Zappa platform. So if you're looking to explore the optimism ecosystem, you can check out this thread from Zappa to give a bit of a highlight here. But yeah, you can basically look at all your nfts on the optimism chain via your Zappa dashboard, which you can just go do if you go to Zappa's website. I'm sure you've probably already seen this if you are really into nfts on optimism. So great to see this supported here. Alright, so defi Saver, I missed this the other day, but they're excited to introduce their latest and most complete integration yet, which is compound v three. So you can go to defi sorry app dot de fisaver.com
00:27:39.072 - 00:28:23.414, Speaker A: compounds to get dedicated dashboard automation, support notifications, loan shifting, and a recipe creator. So I've spoken about defisaver a bunch of times on the refuel before, but these guys are great. This platform is really great. It supports a bunch of different things within deFi, and now they're supporting compound v three, which is great to see. And I'm sure some of you have used this, especially during the bull market when maybe you were taking on some leverage. Defi Saver is pretty famous for allowing you to essentially set up these kind of insurance policy, not a literal insurance policy, but like a automated backstop, so that if your liquidation price gets near, it automatically tops up your collateral, pays back your debt, or things like that. But they've also got a bunch of other integrations that you should check out as well.
00:28:23.414 - 00:29:02.714, Speaker A: They're basically trying to do defi management, but in like a more advanced way than what you would get from the native front ends. So definitely go check them out and check out this compound integration. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Alright, last up here we have a new dashboard from Defi Llama, which is which has been soft launch, which is funding rounds in crypto. So this dashboard will show you information around funding rounds within the crypto ecosystem, who the lead investor was, what sector. They're a part of the round details, and obviously a source as well. So you can see that horizon is listed here, of course, as I spoke about before, but there's a bunch of others as well, and you can keep scrolling down and it just goes further and further back.
00:29:02.714 - 00:29:26.816, Speaker A: Obviously, this won't have everything yet. This is, this is a soft launch of this, but I'm sure they'll be adding more and more as time goes on. So if you're interested in seeing all the recent fundraisers over the last couple of years, actually, well, the ones that they currently got listed here, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up.
00:29:26.816 - 00:29:30.544, Speaker A: Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
