00:00:04.200 - 00:00:06.110, Speaker A: Hey, everyone, my name is Cindy.
00:00:06.222 - 00:00:07.038, Speaker B: And I'm David.
00:00:07.126 - 00:00:52.692, Speaker A: And we're the co founders of Drift Protocol. Drift is the largest perpetual dex on Solana, and we're focused on building a derivative exchange that rivals the experience of centralized exchanges. Today, I'm going to talk a little bit about what perps are, how big the market currently is in crypto, and what are the unique capabilities that enable us to bring DeFi to the center stage of crypto. So we'll start with a bit of context on what perpetual features are. I'm not sure how familiar you guys are, but please raise your hand if you've ever traded perps before. Great. We have some traders in the audience.
00:00:52.692 - 00:01:59.384, Speaker A: For those of you who are not as familiar, perp futures are essentially a synthetic contract built for crypto native assets that allow you to bet with leverage on the direction of any market in crypto. And the difference with regular futures is that perpetual futures never expire. So you don't have to worry about if your futures are going to expire or roll over to the next contract, making it super easy to to bet on an underlying price action. You essentially just open a long position in a synthetic contract that mirrors the underlying price of, let's say, Sol or bitcoin. Anyone who was long sold on our platform over the last week must have been very happy. And then, in terms of the total market size of perps right now, we're seeing over 100 billion daily volume across in total perps volume, and it's ten x bigger than spot today. So it's one of the markets with the biggest product market fit in crypto.
00:01:59.384 - 00:03:02.744, Speaker A: So let's zoom out a little bit and talk about DeFi perps. If you've been in the space for a while, you'll see that that's been a big narrative over the last year, Defi perps have grown a lot from essentially zero two years ago. Today, we're closer to about 1% of how much C five perps trade today. So the big question for us is, how do we bridge this gap between one to 100? And why do we need to care going into why our major thesis of why we're building drift and why this is going to grow is that fundamentally, Defi perps are a better product and fit for the ethos of crypto. Because ultimately, if what we're trading is meant to be permissionless money, the ways that we trade it also need to be permissionless. With centralized exchanges blowing up over the last year, as well as all the properties that make a centralized exchange what it is. It's opaque.
00:03:02.744 - 00:03:50.538, Speaker A: It prevents people from different regions to trade permissionlessly. It has a single point of failure, requires Kyc AmL. Ultimately, we think that DeFi perp solved this problem, and as a whole, what we need to get there is a product experience that allows users to benefit from the properties of DeFi, but not compromise on what makes the trading experience good. So let's finally talk about what drift is today. Drift is the largest perpetual platform on Solana. We've been live since 2021. We currently are on our v two version, which includes an order book, amm, just in time liquidity marketplace.
00:03:50.538 - 00:05:01.894, Speaker A: And our goal here is to build an exchange with liquidity and the experience, as deep as it is in centralized exchanges, to quickly go over what we've done so far. We've traded over $11 billion in volume since inception. We have 25 million tvl today with a solar pump over the last week. Biggest perp DeX in Solana by far, 5 million OA, which is the total value of positions on the exchange, over 10,000 users. And we're also the highest revenue protocol in Solana to date, with 5 million traits being done so far. So to round it off in terms of the competitive space, we currently have 95% market share in Solana perps. And a lot of the kind of the rest of the presentation we're going to go into is how did we get here? How did we go from zero to essentially top here right now, and where we're going to go next? So we're not stopping at just building, building the biggest x on Solana.
00:05:01.894 - 00:05:27.794, Speaker A: We want to not only build the biggest perp Dex across all chains, including EVM, but also take over the centralized exchange market. So in terms of the pace, we're currently growing over 200% week over week, 80% growth in daily active users over the last quarter. So, extrapolating from here, we're on a really good track to being the biggest perp Dex in crypto.
00:05:29.574 - 00:06:06.808, Speaker B: So let's talk a little about how we did it and some of the principles that we adhere to at drift. In web3. We lack product market fit immediately, and I think this is particularly the case in Defi. So when we think about building on Defi, a lot of it comes down to rapid experimentation, things that we think can either work really well or won't. But we want to do that really fast, and I want to go through two examples of how we've managed to do that. The first I want to touch on is super stake Sol. This is a product that many of you may have seen following the resurgence of liquid staking on Solana.
00:06:06.808 - 00:06:42.180, Speaker B: And it came at a very interesting time where we wanted to experiment with different colors. As you see here, the super steaksol user interface is very different to that with drift. I think when we think Solana, we think dark colors, purple, greens, neons. And whilst that's been something that we all like, I'm a personal fan of it. We also wanted to experiment with something lighter, more refreshing. And this is where superstay console came in. We thought, what could we do as an experiment that would be something different for users to experience, but still something that was simple and effective and had a very clear mission.
00:06:42.180 - 00:07:18.682, Speaker B: And the mission for SSS is very clear. It's a one click recursive stake, and it's something, remarkably that hadn't existed on Solana Defi at all. So we thought, why not give this a go? We ran this experiment in three weeks, and the results were phenomenal. Over 8 hours, we were immediately at capacity. 100,000 sols staked capped out. And what was most interesting was 60% of these users had never actually interacted with the drift contract, which meant there were suddenly all these other users that our protocol wasn't touching. And it gave us unique insights into how these users behaved.
00:07:18.682 - 00:07:54.742, Speaker B: Users came to drift, not just to trade, but also just to stake, to look for other sources of yield. And we realized that it was a very underserved market that we previously weren't tapping. So an experiment like superstake opened it up for us. The second thing I want to talk about, which is more recent, is Driftdraw draw for us, is our version of a taker program, and it's designed to encourage traders to trade more. It's a very simple design. Traders trade, they pay fees, we take the fees, but instead of the fee going directly to the protocol, we set that aside into what we call a drift pool. And this pool is an ever growing pool.
00:07:54.742 - 00:08:36.524, Speaker B: For every dollar traded, the trader gets ten tickets. But what is exciting about this is that this pool is ever growing. So if you think about it, it's a positive feedback loop where every dollar is added to the pool, the pool grows, and the pool size encourages traders to trade more, because all of a sudden, the jackpot is bigger. So with this very simple mechanism, we've managed to increase trading volume by over 300% with 1000 more users. And it just goes to show that the audience in crypto is still very much gambling centric. And looking for that dopamine here right now, this pool sits at $30,000, despite launching only three weeks ago. So when we think about profitability, it's something that looks very well for the protocol.
00:08:36.524 - 00:09:14.024, Speaker B: Now, moving to what's beyond where we are currently, the future of drift is very bright. We're not looking to stop at DeFi. We want to eat CFI slunch, and here's how we're going to do it. I'm extremely excited to announce that Drift has raised a series A of 23.5 million, taking out entire funding today to 27.3, with polychain capital leading our round. And most importantly, as you see, having the backing of Anatoly and Raj from Solana, what we want to do with this funding is to scale drift beyond DeFi and take it to a CFI level.
00:09:14.024 - 00:09:32.004, Speaker B: Right now, CFI services a lot more users, but we believe the total addressable market for DeFi is significantly bigger. But there's a long way to go to get there. First, I'll let Cindy talk through training accessibility, while I'll go through the optimizations that are only possible in Solana.
00:09:32.904 - 00:10:54.420, Speaker A: So going to the theme of how we're actually going to eat Cefi's lunch, one of the biggest things that DeFi does not solve right now is the problem of UX. And as David was talking about, a lot of our experiments and growth so far has come from giving traders the improvements on UX in terms of what and how they're actually going to reach the protocol. If everybody needs to download a wallet, set up a transfer from a centralized exchange into the DeFi exchange, it creates so many extra steps on what users actually need to do. So in terms of what we've shipped so far to increase this distribution and accessibility to different users, and basically we call it bring the product to the user, not the other way around. One of the major focuses for us this year has been working with metamask snaps directly to bring the vision of drift and the speed of drift to non solana users. So anybody who has a metamask wallet, with their user base of 30 million users, are now able to connect directly to drift without needing to, to download a separate wallet. So we've seen immediate results with traders coming in bridging into the Solana ecosystem via this ship just this year.
00:10:54.420 - 00:11:59.470, Speaker A: So it's been a very successful experiment in bringing more people just as a distribution channel. The second thing that we're very happy to announce that we're launching here at breakpoint is working with Circle. So Circle has recently launched their cross chain transfer protocol that allows you to migrate your USCC natively from one chain to another without needing to go through any centralized exchange or decentralized bridge. So what this does is if you have USCC on Ethereum, within a couple of seconds, you'll be able to mint and burn and re mint the USCC on the Solana chain, which helps to cut down the bridging time by over 1020 minutes. Nobody wants to wait for 20 confirmations to get your funds on one chain. So what this does is it eliminates the need for us to be working with centralized exchanges to bring USCC into an exchange. And the other thing I want to touch on is mobile.
00:11:59.470 - 00:13:17.308, Speaker A: So I mean, if you guys trade perps, you know that high leverage is difficult to do because you're just sitting at your desk waiting for your positions to either make money or get liquidated. So one of the big problems that DeFi has not solved prior to this is how do you bring that experience with you on the go? If you sometimes look in train stations, I do see people trading and charting on their phones. And what we want to do is bring our experience of trading on drift closer to wherever people are on their daily lives. So our thesis is that because web3 lacks a native mobile interface, that prevents a lot of native traders from coming and using the platform. So if you can see, there are so many people who've asked us when mobile, so the answer is it's coming and we are experimenting and have experiments, experimented with building a world class UI for mobile that helps anybody be able to open and close positions on the fly. We launched a beta earlier this year of using mobile, partnering with Saga to bring this closer to where users are trading. And the stats have been amazing so far.
00:13:17.308 - 00:13:39.964, Speaker A: Right now, over 35% of our user sessions come from mobile. Even after shipping this just this year, we have over a 250% increase in a quarterly usage of mobile sessions. So overall, what we're seeing is that as we increase these funnels to get users in, the UX needs to improve as well and go where the users are going.
00:13:42.344 - 00:14:22.842, Speaker B: So talking through the next section, how do we reach centralized speeds and product parity? This is a big question we get asked all the time by our users. How can we go faster? How can we reduce the amount of confirmations? How do we get rid of signing? And these are all questions that we think about. We want to try and replicate an experience that feels like a centralized exchange, but is inherently immutable and transparent. So let's talk through some of the things that we've done the trading order. Confirm with Fantom and with any wallet has been the most highly requested feature. Right now. On a centralized exchange, you can close a position with a single click and you can change it, add leverage, take off position, all with a single click.
00:14:22.842 - 00:15:11.012, Speaker B: Unfortunately on defi this is not the case right now. The majority, until recently of transactions had to be manually signed, often through a three, sometimes four click transaction where you have to sign the transaction, approve the transaction, and only then does your order go through. Now, during times of volatility, when you think about how the price moves, you want to be in and out immediately. Now, going through a three four step confirmation process is often too long, and for a lot of traders this isn't good enough. So we partner up with Fantom to introduce auto confirm for us. What auto confirm allows users to do, while still focusing on security is that you can set an auto confirm session time. The default is an hour where if you're trading, if you're trading for the duration of the hour, all transactions are automatically confirmed.
00:15:11.012 - 00:15:54.830, Speaker B: So what was previously a three four click process is now a single click, and I think that's very important for the user experience. As for traders who are wanting to get in and out of positions, trying to trade in short time intervals, this is exactly what they need to feel like they're getting the same experience that they get on a centralized platform. Now this is something that we're working on currently with the squads protocol. Another ecosystem partner is the introduction of institutional grade multi signature wallets. When you trade on a centralized platform, you have what is called a funding wallet. A funding wallet is where a manager or fund delegate deposits funds into an account. The funding account then is able to distribute different pots of money to what is known as trading accounts.
00:15:54.830 - 00:16:45.532, Speaker B: Right now, when you trade on drift, all you see is a trading account. There is no two FA additional security involved, but what we're looking to include is this funding account, which allows additional security to be existent on chain. This allows managers to allocate more funds on chain with the comfort that everything is secured by two FAA. And we hope that this brings a lot of institutional capital on board, which traditionally has struggled to make its way on chain due to a lot of the security risks. Now, finally, I want to talk about the future of what's only possible on Solana. A lot of the centralized experience has always been about speed, low latency and reduced fees, and we think that a lot of this architecture is very much possible to replicate on Solana. Some of the work that's been done so far includes parallel execution.
00:16:45.532 - 00:17:23.464, Speaker B: These are some things that exist already, but one thing I want to talk through is how do we reduce user confirmation times? Can you get this decentralized experience just as fast as something as you might see on binance or Kex? And the answer is yes. Some of the research that we've done so far involve working with highly staked validators, setting up an RPC near that, so you can actually reduce the time on that 400 millisecond transaction speed and drastically make it feel alike a lot less. So what this means for the user is that trades go through faster, they settle close in ways that weren't possible before. And we think that this is very unique and possible in Solana.
00:17:23.764 - 00:18:33.108, Speaker A: So finally, going back to why we believe that decentralization is the way to go, the big thing is that we don't think that decentralization for decentralization's sake makes sense at the end of the day. We believe that using and leveraging the nature of decentralization as an engine of growth is the way to go for us. And that's our fundamental philosophy in what we're building. And one of the core tenets of informing our product strategy is actually how do we reach and allow the community to own different parts of the protocol. So one of the big things, essentialized exchanges and why people still continue to trade there is a presence of liquidity. So larger market makers who are able to quote and order books, basically allow users to take larger and larger positions. But is there a way to do this in a decentralized way without relying on the presence of larger market makers? Our solution to this, which we launched earlier this year, is what we call DLP drift liquidity provider.
00:18:33.108 - 00:20:07.294, Speaker A: And what Drif liquidity provider allows you to do is with one click, essentially provide liquidity on different markets, on drift, that allows takers to come in and take against them. So what this does is it allows users to own that market making flow that previously only people like Wintermute GSR had access to. And you can do this without needing to set up an onerous amounts of infrastructure, being a quant trader yourself, and earn yields up to 500% by providing liquidity to traders on the exchange. So a lot of our core philosophy, again comes down to how do we get users to basically participate in as many forms as possible in as many different parts of the exchange with a single click? The second thing that we launched this year was our insurance fund staking module, where if you think about a traditional insurance fund, it helps to essentially protect the exchange from any liquidations, bankruptcies that occur. What we want to do, and the reason that we open source is allowing anybody to stick into the insurance fund is a similar reason. We wanted to have people who wanted to believe in the underlying protocol to be able to earn yields from trading while also, while also securing the fundamental security of the exchange. You're putting up your dollars that will ultimately potentially be clocked back if there's bankruptcies that occur.
00:20:07.294 - 00:20:33.364, Speaker A: So you're placing your trust in the security models of the exchange in exchange for a percentage of trading fees, liquidation fees. And this is very similar to validator staking, except you're staking in the insurance fundamental exchange that ultimately has reached pretty high percentage APR. So believe that the market is well compensated for the securing the health of drift.
00:20:35.504 - 00:21:24.966, Speaker B: So the biggest question that we, alongside probably every other Solana project have gotten is when redacted, I think this when redacted, and I will say this here, token is a critical part of a protocols growth and decentralization. I want to emphasize that all the growth we've done to date is completely unincentivized. No token, no rewards program, nothing. I think when we think about decentralization, the experiments that we've run within drift focus on user driven liquidity. The two points that Cindy talked to, DLP insurance fund, 95% of that comes from our users, with only 5% of that being protocol owned. So it's critical to us that ultimately the vision for drift is it's not one that the protocol owns and manages, it's actually one that's owned by the community. And naturally a token is the right way to do that.
00:21:24.966 - 00:22:03.680, Speaker B: But there's a long way to go before we get there. When we think about governance, governance is typically based off a function of corporate governance, which has worked for hundreds of years. And I think when we think about it, there's a long journey to get there. So a lot of the things that we've done to date are just steps to get there. Our fundraising as well is to set up and bootstrap a Dow treasury so that the decisions ultimately get made by the people and the users of drift. If the fees are too high, the community can vote and change that. If they're not happy with the liquidation ratios, that's something that can be proposed and hopefully changed as well.
00:22:03.680 - 00:22:46.496, Speaker B: So ultimately, we think that the stickiness of any protocol comes from the users. It must be users own. And I think that's what we're all building towards in web3, and it's what's going to be sticky and sets us aside from the centralized exchanges. I think ultimately the total addressable market is simply a lot bigger when you have users owning a protocol versus a single entity. So when we think about drift and our future plans, it's not just us, it's a lot more. The ecosystem that we've been building in has allowed us to get to where we've gotten to. When we think about infrastructure, we work with top tier projects like Judo, Helios for our rpcs, pit for data feeds, phantom and squads for wallets.
00:22:46.496 - 00:23:26.834, Speaker B: All these things we don't do, these are all done by external parties. And I think that's also what allows us to do what we do best. We focus on the trading, giving users the best trading experience. While our partners give us the best rpcs, they give us the fastest speeds of confirmation, the best wireless experiences with no hacks. And similarly, on the composability side, drift is at this stage, the top derivatives X on Solana. But when we think about trading, it's not just derivatives, there's a complete other side of that which involves spot trading. And fortunately, we have partners like Phoenix and Openbook, as well as Jupiter that does the aggregation layer.
00:23:26.834 - 00:24:17.674, Speaker B: And then on top of drift, we have a lot of protocols building on top of us, such as circuit building, market making vaults on top of our protocol, so that again, liquidity can arrive on our platform in a smart way. We work with bridges like wormhole, mayan in conjunction with Metamask and Circle to think about bringing the user experience on Solana to the hundreds and thousands outside. Ethereum users, cosmos users, arbitrum users should all be able to interact with drift in a single click. I've talked about single click a lot throughout this presentation, because frankly, that's what we want. We want a simple and intuitive experience that is easy to use and there's no confusion. So I want to invite everyone here to join us on our mission to build not just the best decentralized exchange, but the best exchange. Thank you.
