00:00:00.160 - 00:00:34.478, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Delgregate refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and there's a sign on Thursday, 5 May 2023. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So something funny happened today that I didn't think was happened happened as quickly as it did. But I'm sure you guys saw some of the drama around Gitcoin. Now, there is a currently a Gitcoin grants round going on, and there was a bonus round announced called the DEI Round or diversity equity and inclusion round. Now, this riled a fair few people up and I'm not going to speak too exactly, you know, the exact issue here.
00:00:34.478 - 00:01:03.426, Speaker A: I want to use it as a springboard for a different discussion. But the reason why people were riled up is because in order to have been eligible for this grant round, 50% of the project's team must reflect the diversity of the community they serve, with a particular emphasis on women, black, indigenous, people of color, individuals with disabilities, and members of the LGBTQ community. So, as I said, people, people got riled up about this. You can see, you know, there's 370 quote tweets. You can go read those if you want. I'm not going to debate the debate. This.
00:01:03.426 - 00:01:43.278, Speaker A: This point. What I want to say is something that Jimmy Ragosa said here in his quote tweet. He said, and that, people, is why we burn the EIP 1559 base fees instead of funding public goods with them. And I saw this, I was like, oh, wow. I spoke about this like two days ago and we've already seen it play out, you know, in the kind of like real world here. Now, what I guess, like Jimmy is basically saying here is the same thing I said a couple of days ago. Where could you imagine if the 1559 burn went to some community pool that people had governance control over and could spread it out to whatever they wanted? It would get extremely murky very, very quickly and the money would just get looted, to be honest.
00:01:43.278 - 00:02:50.564, Speaker A: Right. And this is just one of those things that shows that because at the end of the day, humans have emotions, humans are subjective creatures, and it would compromise the credible neutrality of Ethereum if. If we allowed these funds to be controlled by any one party. And that's exactly why the 1559 base fee is burned. As I explained the other day, and one other point that I wanted to mention here before I move on, because I'm not going to rehash all my other points from the other day, was that I think it's funny how certain things, you know, are important to some people, certain things are important to other people, and that's just the way of life, right? Like, not everyone cares about everything, and there are some things that people don't care about at all. I mean, there are people that are single issue voters, and there are people that are many issue voters when it comes to politics and things like that. But I think at the heart of it all is the fact that because of that, because humans have different wants, different desires to each other, because they have different views, different opinions and everything, it really hits home the fact that if you want to fund things like public goods, it needs to be done outside of, I guess, like the core protocol itself, right? Outside of Ethereum itself, because of all that subjectivity, because of all that murkiness.
00:02:50.564 - 00:03:42.546, Speaker A: And essentially, if you were to do it at the core protocol, you would erode not only Ethereum's credible neutrality, as I, as I mentioned before, you would just erode what a theorem is altogether, because it, what would happen is that every conversation would be dominated by what happens to that money. Like, seriously, it's a lot of money. It's billions of dollars and in perpetuity, because the, the fee burn goes forever. So literally, you'd be getting, you know, millions of dollars a day into this fund. And then every single day, you would be having arguments, as in the community, about what to do at this money, who gets this money, how to control it, and who would even have governance over it. Right? Like, who would have the right to spend that money? Would it be some kind of dow with, like, another token attached to it? Or would it be like, ETH holders that were able to vote on where it goes. Well, then you just have the largest ETH holders voting to give, probably give themselves more money or give things that they care about more money.
00:03:42.546 - 00:04:08.746, Speaker A: It's not necessarily in a public good, then. It's really just like a kind of like, treasury that just gets looted by private interest, so to speak. Right? So it's, it's not good, no matter which way you slice it. I don't think, think I personally can see a workable solution for, for that. And I'm very, very glad that we just burned the base fee. That is the most credible, neutral way, I think, to, to do it. And I'm glad there are plans as well for things like Mev burn, too.
00:04:08.746 - 00:04:54.984, Speaker A: I think that I mentioned it maybe yesterday and I mentioned it before, but this was basically a proposal that was put out by Domothy, who is a pretty active person in the daily grade discord channel networks at the Ethereum foundation. But he put out this proposal, and Justin Drake and him and I think a few others have been working on this. And basically the concept is to do to the gas fees what to do to, sorry, mev, what we do to gas fees. Essentially burn it, right? Make the searchers and the builders compete for that MeV. And then essentially burn most of it, really, at the end of the day, which is a more kind of like neutral, incredibly neutral way of doing things. So that's another thing obviously, to keep an eye on. But just figured this was worth mentioning to, I guess, like reiterate my points over that I brought up a couple of days ago.
00:04:54.984 - 00:05:51.600, Speaker A: All right, so Preston van Loon from the prior labs team here has put out a tweet today saying the inflow of validators greatly exceeds the mass exodus of validators that some people claimed would immediately follow the capella Shanghai upgrade. The activation queue is over two weeks long, while the exit queue is less than four days. I've said it before, many times, and I'll say it again, it's still hilarious to me just how wrong people were about Chappelle and how wrong people were about there being this mass exit of exit of stake. But honestly, like, it's pretty funny how, how the, the activation queue is so long. Because what this tells me is that I think a lot of people that were exiting before are now re entering. And this includes people that had been forced, exited from staking services like Kraken. This includes people shuffling their ETH from another service to solo staking or to another, you know, a different service than they were with.
00:05:51.600 - 00:06:27.712, Speaker A: And I think that's what we've seen here. I don't know exactly how many like net new stakers there are. It'd be quite hard to track this. Um, and what I mean by net new is basically people who weren't staking before, right? Who aren't just coming from another service and, and changing to a different service and exiting or entering. I'm talking like net new ETH stakers that are entering for the first time. I'm sure there's plenty of those as well, obviously, because I, I've said many times that I believe Chappella was a massive de risking event, uh, for the, uh, for kind of like ethereum staking. Um, but it's just great to see that we've basically, we've basically, um, restarted the up, only that we were before with eat staking.
00:06:27.712 - 00:06:57.050, Speaker A: And I don't foresee this slowing down anytime soon. To be honest, I foresee it going up to 30 million ETH staked, at least. I think that I've explained the reasons before why I think that it wouldn't go. I don't think it can get to like 70, 80 million staked ETH anytime soon. But we have services like Eigen layer going live soon. There's more staking protocols going live, more LSD is going live. All these sorts of stuff happening in the background that's just going to add to that, I guess, like a stake pressure that we're seeing on the network.
00:06:57.050 - 00:07:31.476, Speaker A: But yeah, just thought this was something cool to speak to. Thanks to Preston for putting this tweet out. All right, so trend fan EPs shared something today that apparently the core devs are rethinking EIP numbering. So for those of you who don't know, the way EIP numbering works right now is it's based on the GitHub pull request number. So essentially there'll be a number associated with a GitHub pull request. And no matter what it is, that's, that's kind of like how it follows. So for example, ERP 1559 was the 1550 9th pull request on the Ethereum GitHub repository here.
00:07:31.476 - 00:08:13.774, Speaker A: Now, obviously this numbering system isn't ideal. It leaves a lot of dead numbers around because there's a lot of eips that, that just kind of gets submitted. Sorry, a lot of pull requests that kind of get submitted that aren't ERP things like that as well. So Danny Ryan here is actually proposing to change this. So he recommends one of the two following options from the latest EIP assigned, start assigning purely sequentially plus one from there. So if there is the latest EIP is ERP 10,000, we would go to EIP 10,001 instead of if there's another EIP, you know, created later and it jumps to EIP 10,050 because there were like 49 pull requests that weren't EIPs. You see how that would be a better system there.
00:08:13.774 - 00:08:53.126, Speaker A: And then the second proposed change would be to go back and fill in all of the gaps leading up to the latest EIP assigned. But this hurts the meaningfulness of the time relationship between ips, but it's a nice use of a scarce resource. I think that like the first option is the one that really makes the most sense here. Obviously this is not something that the community is going to be involved with or it's not going to be a community governance process. It really is just something that the core devs and researchers and people close to that circle would, would kind of have an opinion on. And it doesn't really affect anything out of just making it easier for people to track the EIP process, which obviously is a huge deal. But not unless you're like working on this stuff day to day.
00:08:53.126 - 00:09:29.232, Speaker A: You're probably not going to notice anything here, but you can check out the discussion thread for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so Tony here from the Mevboost Pix website has shared a new kind of infographic today, or I guess like new visualization today. So this one shows block builders racing to land blocks on chain and as the competition, competition heats up over time. So this is a time lapse from, I believe it starts at the first of the first 2023. So it starts at the beginning of this year and then goes to basically, I think, three days ago. And you can kind of see over the course of the video if I click watch again.
00:09:29.232 - 00:09:52.172, Speaker A: No, that's not going to work. Maybe if I refresh the page. I kind of bugged out Twitter's video. Yeah, if you kind of refresh the video here, you can see how the builder landscape has changed over time. So at the top here, we have built Beaver build flashbots and builder Xerox 69. But I think that changed quite, quite dramatically. So you can kind of see that they're the top three right now.
00:09:52.172 - 00:10:34.820, Speaker A: And if I skip ahead on the video, they're still the top three, actually. Yeah, I guess because this is cumulative blocks built here, but I think like the smaller ones, you know, the ones that aren't in the top three moved around quite a bit. But you can see here that, you know, flashbots, I think beaver build and flashbots started off neck and neck here. And then over time, basically there wasn't really much change between the top three, whereas the rest of it changed quite frequently, as you can see from the, for me, just scrolling through the video here. But you can go give the video a view for yourself if you would like to. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But yeah, I mean, it's always good to see healthy competition among these sorts of things, especially because the MEV ecosystem is, or the MeV boost ecosystem is so competitive.
00:10:34.820 - 00:11:05.740, Speaker A: It's great to see that new entrants can come along and actually eat into the older entrance market share. And it doesn't seem to be a static thing outside of the top three. And I guess like the top three, it really just speaks to them being the, you know, the most, I guess, what's the word? I'm looking for the. The most sophisticated builders on the network, and that doesn't mean that they're always going to be there, but they have held their kind of like lead for quite a while now, so we're going to have to see how that evolves over time. But anyway, I'll link this tweet in the YouTube description below. You can go check it out for yourself. All right.
00:11:05.740 - 00:11:59.734, Speaker A: Speaking of Mev, Frankie from Paradigm has announced that they, that paradigm is open sourcing Artemis, which is a framework for writing mev bots in rust. They built Artemis to make it easy as possible to get started with searching and designed the library to be as simple, modular and fast. So I've mentioned before how paradigm have built their own execution layer clients in rust called Reth. Well, now they have their own framework for writing Mev bots called Artemis built in rust. Obviously these things are supposed to go hand in hand here. Now, I was just talking about how more competition in the mev boost ecosystem is very much welcome, while stuff like Artemis allows for this competition to actually thrive and flourish and allows people to get started making kind of mev bots much faster than they would have in the past. And you can read more details about this in Frankie's thread here, as well as the blog post, which is, I think, a four part kind of blog post here.
00:11:59.734 - 00:12:30.494, Speaker A: No, no, it's just. That's just the content. So there's like a, you know, they go over why they built this, what is Artemis, Artemis's architecture and next steps. And you can actually visit the project repro for yourself at the GitHub, the GitHub page here if you want to check that out. But this may be something that you're interested in, if you've thought, ever thought to yourself where, I wish I could write an MEV, but, you know, I want to take that. I want to take advantage of all that potential money I could be having from being a builder or something like that. This may be something that you're interested in, so I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out.
00:12:30.494 - 00:13:02.490, Speaker A: All right, so it is the 6th anniversary of the launch of ENS today. Well, yeah, still today. Well, I guess, like it was May 4 for ens, it was May 5 for me. But yeah. So it's. It's awesome to see that ENS has been going so strong for so long now, like six years, and they are one of the strongest apps on Ethereum obviously non speculative by nature because you're just kind of registering names. Obviously people can trade the names, but it's supposed to be something of a utility for the Ethereum network, a public good for the Ethereum network here.
00:13:02.490 - 00:13:37.778, Speaker A: So you can actually collect a special edition pop at anniversary dot ens dot domains. You would need have to have set an ENS name, your primary name, and an avatar in order to do that. But those things are pretty stock standard. And I think it's actually good that they did this because it encourages people to use the ENS interface and see how, just how easy it is to set these things. So you can go check that out for yourself there. And Nick, one of the founders of ENS and the current lead developer, has put together a thread about Ens as well, so you can go give that a read for yourself. Now, before I move on, I wanted to give a few of my extra thoughts around ens.
00:13:37.778 - 00:14:24.690, Speaker A: I think that ENS has been such a beacon in the ethereum kind of ecosystem because as I said, it is not speculative by nature. Yes, people can speculate on names and they can buy and sell them on, on NFT marketplaces because the names themselves are nfts. But generally when you have an Ens name, you have an identity attached to your Ethereum address. So for me, sassle ETH, I can go to anyone and say, hey, you know, if they need to send me money or if they want to send me an NFT or they want to donate to me, whatever they want to do, I can say, yeah, just cecil ETH, right? I don't have to go and copy paste my address because there's no way in hell I would ever remember an address, right? They don't have to double check anything. They can check it for themselves in either scan if they want, but it's not like they have to be very careful about the characters and things like that. They can simply just know, okay, Cecil dot ETH. Yeah.
00:14:24.690 - 00:14:43.450, Speaker A: And then, then it's become my identity as well, because it is my Twitter name. I don't even have my real name on Twitter. Like on my profile here, you can see Cecil dot ETH with the, the bats, the, the bat signal and the speaker emoji for the ultrasound money. That's all I've got. I have no Anthony. I don't have Anthony Cisano there. I used to, but then I thought, you know what? I don't think that's relevant.
00:14:43.450 - 00:15:22.360, Speaker A: Sassle eight is who I am, it's my identity. And I have a profile picture attached to that ans name as well. I use it all the time and it's just a really cool way for people to know, you know, about me. And especially when it comes like governance, things like all my op and Arb tokens on Cecil ETH are delegated to various delegates in those respective, in those respective daos. And then people can follow that and say, oh, okay, well, sassle ETH, you know, or sassle kind of like delegated his tokens to this delegate. I'm going to look into them as well because I, you know, maybe they trust me, they trust my judgment on these things. So those sorts of things I think are really, really cool and it's had a whole ecosystem built up around it.
00:15:22.360 - 00:15:57.868, Speaker A: So, yeah, I just wanted to give a few thoughts there. But kudos to ens on their 6th anniversary or 6th birthday, technically. Really, really great to see that. All right, last thing, actually, on Ens, Nifty chat has said that on Nifty chat, all usernames are ens names or wallet addresses. But unfortunately, Ens names cost money, meaning 66% of their 12,000 community members don't have one. But starting today, anyone can claim a free ens username on Nifty chat. So if you have not claimed this yet, you can, there are, there are two ways to get one.
00:15:57.868 - 00:16:27.006, Speaker A: You can claim one in an active giveaway in their lounge here, and you can ask by sending a message to Nifty chat ETH. Now, this is a not an EnS name where it's like, you know your name ETH, it is a subdomain. So it's basically your name, Nifty ETH. Yeah, but still, it's free, right? And we all like free things here. And I should disclose, actually, I'm in a, an investor in Nifty chat, for those of you who don't know there. But, but yeah, you can go claim this for yourself. You can go click these links in the YouTube.
00:16:27.006 - 00:16:54.994, Speaker A: The thread will be linked in the YouTube description below for you to do. So I think this is another cool thing that I didn't mention, like the fact that there's a subnet domains here. So you could basically have a name that's on Nifty chat and people can know you by that name on Nifty chart and they can interact with you on there and, and you can get it for free. Right. There's no need to, to basically spend gas fees or spend fees on this. You can get this gasless from Nifty chat. So you can go check this out I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:16:54.994 - 00:17:31.630, Speaker A: All right, so a major announcement out of aztec. So I basically discussed, I think it was maybe a couple months now that Aztec was shutting down their aztec connect app because they were going to go all in on this new ZK roll up that they were building. This L2, obviously. ZK roll up that they were building for privacy. Well, that's not the only thing that they are doing. So they announced today their roadmap for what they're building here. And apparently they are building something that they're calling a hybrid ZK roll up, enabling both public and private smart contract execution in one, one environment.
00:17:31.630 - 00:18:01.542, Speaker A: And they're saying it's ethereum encrypted. So not only are they making a privacy layout, they are also doing it in a, doing it in a non EVM compatible way because it's not a ZK EVM. So they're building this, this from the ground up. Right. They're not building it as an EVM, like, like arbitrary optimism. And all the zkvms are, they say here, Aztec is a zero knowledge execution environment. It is not a ZK EVM because they believe that the EVM is not privacy compatible.
00:18:01.542 - 00:18:28.694, Speaker A: It is not. It doesn't do enough for privacy, which I've heard from multiple people before for. And they're, they give more kind of like in details in this thread here. And they've also got a roadmap. So they say here that users and developers can expect to access a fully fledged public testnet by early 2024, and developers can have a local test net by the third quarter of 2023. But here's the, the kind of roadmap here to that. I don't think there's any main nets.
00:18:28.694 - 00:18:57.504, Speaker A: Yeah, there's no main net on this roadmap. It's basically all the testnet stuff with milestones, but that isn't too far away for a fully kind of private ZK roll up that is not EVM, that he's not a ZkVM. And they're doing something totally different here. And Pauline Paulinaya actually had a tweet about this, basically summarizing exactly what they're building here. Let me see if I can bring it up over here quickly because it's hard for me to find. One sec. I'm just bringing it up on my other, other tab here.
00:18:57.504 - 00:19:39.166, Speaker A: So, yeah. Paulinaya says Aztec is the most ambitious, the most technologically advanced blockchain ever attempted, getting you programmability, economic security and encryption all at once. And then Napoleon says, whether it'll gain adoption, I don't know, but talk about shooting for the stars. This is it. And I agree here from, from my reading of this, this is one of the most ambitious undertakings that I have seen, if not the most ambitious undertakings I have seen in the Ethereum L2 space here. And I should disclose that I am an investor in Aztec as well. But I'm a very, very proud investor because you guys know the two things that I care most about is scaling and privacy within the Ethereum ecosystem outside of Ethereum core protocol stuff, and Aztec is doing both.
00:19:39.166 - 00:20:09.914, Speaker A: So of course I want to be as involved with this project as possible. And they've just blown me away with this new announcement today and what they're building. So you can read the Twitter thread, you can read the blog post to get more info on this. The blog post is quite lengthy as well. It's got a bunch of details in there for you to check out, but I'm super excited to see these be built out because Ethereum really does need a fully private layer where people can transit act without having to worry about doxing themselves. So good luck to Aztec on this. I think if any team can do it, it's definitely them.
00:20:09.914 - 00:21:10.084, Speaker A: All right, speaking of news in the L2 ecosystem, Op Labs announced today a major milestone for decentralized identity in the optimism ecosystem. The attestation station, which I have talked about in the past, I think I've talked about a couple months ago, has been upgraded to the Ethereum attestation service standard, giving developers one common standard for issuing and reading attestations that interoperate across the ecosystems. Now I have talked about eas or Ethereum attestation station before. I've, I've said that I'm a really big fan of what they're building there. I'm, I said that it's a public good and I was hoping that it would become a standard. Well, it seems like it's well on the path to becoming an attestation standard here because op labs are putting their weight behind it and changing from their own implementation, which was attestation station, to the Ethereum attestation service is a huge vote of confidence for EAS, and I'm super excited to see two of my favorite teams teaming up to do this. So you can read more about this in the blog post and Twitter thread here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below.
00:21:10.084 - 00:21:51.680, Speaker A: But if you aren't following along with, I guess, eas or attestations and all that stuff in that kind of, like, in that ecosystem, I suggest doing so because it is another one of those non speculative use cases that has real world impact as well. Because attestations, at the end of the day are all around us, right? In the real world, the governments, the. That we are kind of like under. So, for example, you know, I'm australian, but the australian government is my government. They attest to many different things about me. They attest to my identity, right? They're the one who issues me a passport, basically saying, you know, that we attest that Anthony Cisano is this person. He, you know, this is his date of birth.
00:21:51.680 - 00:22:12.686, Speaker A: This is his, you know, all of his names. This is. And this passport is valid until such and such date whatever. So basically attesting to my identity, to the rest of the world. And obviously, other examples include driver's licenses. Other examples include, like, credit scores, right, which come from private companies, of course. And it depends where you are in the world, but it can't come from private and public there.
00:22:12.686 - 00:22:46.154, Speaker A: But just, they're all around us, right? We're all. And even just like around us in an informal capacity where you have friends that basically attest to you, to other. To their other friends say you're meeting one of their other friends and they introduce you and they say, you know, you're awesome, or something like that. Well, they're attesting to your awesomeness. So I know it gets a little bit funny when, when thinking about things like that, but that is really what it, what it's like. So how can we bring all of that on chain? Well, we do that with an attestation standard. And right now, the Ethereum attestation service is by far the front runner on this, on this front.
00:22:46.154 - 00:23:40.748, Speaker A: And I actually think they understand the team behind it, understand that an attestation service needs to be a public good. It can't be something that is kind of, I guess, like a profit maximalist thing that wants to suck as much money out of the ecosystem as possible and needs to be a credibly neutral public good that can team up with all the various kind of projects within the ecosystem that need attestations, which is pretty much every project, I think, because it ties into identity and stuff like that. And that's exactly what they are providing. So I am looking forward to eas continuing to get more adoption, and I'm very glad to see that optimism has decided to adopt the standard here. All right, so Zappa has a big feature released today. So their on chain activity feed is now here you can build your own Ethereum feed at Zappa XYZ, and here are the features in their Twitter thread here. So basically what this is it pretty self explanatory, and it's an activity feed.
00:23:40.748 - 00:24:18.122, Speaker A: It shows you what's happening on chains. You can see things like who, you know, who sent USDC to who, who minted this NFT, who sent this NFT here, who registered this Ens name, blah blah. Right? And there are different kind of bundles that you can have as well and accounts that you can follow. So there are curated lists here where, you know, some of them are called CT personalities or founders or Ethereum OGs or defi whales. And you can kind of track all their activity right in your Zappa dashboard. And Zappa has also partnered with Degenscore to create a custom curated list as well because dj and score builds reputation systems to identify and reward on chain native. So.
00:24:18.122 - 00:24:46.354, Speaker A: And the list services the top 25 degen, so you can go see what they're up to. So this is available, I believe, to everyone at Zappa XYZ. A lot of you are probably already Zappa users, so you've probably already seen this by now. But if you haven't yet, go check it out. I think these activity feeds are pretty cool. But at the same time, the funny thing is, is that these activity feeds are cool. But what happens when we get to, like a fully private ethereum layer? Like, for example, what happens if Aztec is like, super successful? A lot of people move there.
00:24:46.354 - 00:25:07.938, Speaker A: Well, you couldn't have something like this on Aztec because there'd be no activity to monitor to see, really. You would. You would get maybe like a muted version of it. For example, you would get something with its metadata removed. Basically, you would be able to see something like this address sent funds to this address. But in an ideal world, you wouldn't be able to see the amount of funds sent. You probably would be able to see what the funds were, but you wouldn't be able to see the recipient.
00:25:07.938 - 00:25:26.604, Speaker A: There's the sender and recipients identity, any of that sort of stuff there. So in that world, it's a bit different. But I guess, like right now, in most of the worlds, everything is pretty much public. So an activity feed works very well here. So you can go check this out for yourself. It's just that Zappa Xyz. And I'll also link the announcement thread in the YouTube description below.
00:25:26.604 - 00:26:08.688, Speaker A: All right, to round us up here for this week. Actually, it's Friday. I just realized Pauline had another tweet that I wanted to go over where they said there's absolutely zero evidence that crypto assets are some new paradigm. The basic realities of demand and supply apply exactly like any market over millennia. If there isn't a clear economic sustainability model or plan, you, the token holder, are subsidizing the project. So I think this is a really strong statement that I think a lot of people get confused about and aren't paying attention to, essentially putting Polynar's tweet through a tweet in a different way. What they're saying is that in crypto, people tend to think that because something pumps really hard, really fast.
00:26:08.688 - 00:26:28.846, Speaker A: So, for example, there's this pepe meme coin that's been pumping lately, but people kind of see this and they're like, oh, wow, you know, new paradigm. What's going on here? This coin went from like zero to a billion dollars market cap in like a few weeks. This is crazy. I'm gonna get involved with this. I'm gonna jump on the train. This is never gonna, you know, go down. This is up only when the reality is, is that's not the case.
00:26:28.846 - 00:27:05.940, Speaker A: Right. And we've seen this time and time again, and some of you out there who have been around for a long time will understand this better than people who haven't been around for very long. But essentially, things can, can go up in value very, very quickly, but they can also go down in value very, very quickly. So we see this all the time, and we, and I think the perfect example is what happened, you know, 2021, where the second half of 2021, everything went absolutely nuts. There were craziness happening in like, the NFT space and the layer one kind of tokens going nuts. And there was just a lot of meme coins popping up and popping off and things like that. And then in 2022, all these shit went down like 90 plus percent.
00:27:05.940 - 00:27:34.838, Speaker A: Right? And it went down in basically the first half of 2022. So the basic rules of supply and demand still exist. If there's a lot of demand coming in and the supply is very little, because in a bull market, the supply is still there. This is what some people don't, don't, don't understand. The supply in a bull market is still there. Right. The fact is that there's more demand, and then what ends up happening is that because there's more demand and because prices are going up, no one wants to sell, right? So it becomes a.
00:27:34.838 - 00:27:54.854, Speaker A: The supply actually goes down, the available supply to buy goes down. But this is a temporary thing. Eventually the prices get so crazy. And people have made so much paper gains that they want to start locking in profits. And then when that starts happening in a large way, the. And then demand naturally will go down because there's only so much demand that can. That can kind of flood into something.
00:27:54.854 - 00:28:12.494, Speaker A: You have that kind of tipping point where something tops out and then it just goes down. Right. We had this with ETH. When ETH went to 4400 and went down to 1700 very quickly, then it went back up to 4900. Then it went down to, like, 880, you know, quite, quite quickly from there. Right. I think that did it in, like seven or eight months or something.
00:28:12.494 - 00:28:28.136, Speaker A: So it was. It was a. Quite a quick turnaround there, and it felt really bad when it was happening. Right. But this is the thing that people need to understand, is that supply and demand always matter, and they've influenced by a million different things. But at the heart of it all, to be a good investor, not. Not a trader.
00:28:28.136 - 00:29:01.884, Speaker A: I mean, traders, different ballgames, but to be a good long term investor, all you really need to do, and I know I'm kind of watering this down a lot, where this is not something that can be learned overnight. It's not a skill that's going to come to you within a day of doing research, but what you really need to understand is just supply and demand dynamics and what feeds into each of them. You're never going to sell the top. Right? You're never going to buy the bottom. It's very hard. Like, I'm talking, like, the exact top and the exact bottoms. But if you're trying to, like, sell when the market's kind of really hot and you think that it's worth taking profits and you're trying to buy, when the market's really quiet and people are really fearful and you feel like there's way too much.
00:29:01.884 - 00:29:19.688, Speaker A: Sorry. The supply side is kind of being exhausted. The sell side's been exhausted, and you feel like there's a lot of pent up demand out there and you want to get in before that demand comes, that's what you do. But it works both ways. There is no kind of magic sauce just because it's crypto. All assets work in the same way. It is always supply and demand.
00:29:19.688 - 00:29:51.758, Speaker A: And yes, there can be certain things that manipulate the price of these assets. For example, in the property market in Australia, people will say that it's manipulated because the government subsidizes a lot of it. I mean, that's. That's. That's fair to say, right? It's not a truly free market, but you'll be hard pressed to find many truly free markets in the world. You could say that trading crypto meme coins is a truly free market, but, I mean, is it? It may be free from government influence to an extent. It may be free from, um, from nation state influence, but it is definitely not free from private interests.
00:29:51.758 - 00:30:17.326, Speaker A: For example, a lot of these meme coins are started up by groups who are just trying to pump and dump a coin. There are. For every one, Pepe, there are thousands of ones that failed and didn't go anywhere. So there is definitely a lot of manipulation that goes on as well. But still, the same tactic of supply and demand matters. Doesn't matter how manipulated it is. You just need to realize what size manipulated and when and when that kind of stops being the case and what other factors play into things.
00:30:17.326 - 00:30:47.908, Speaker A: And no one has unlimited money to manipulate it and for a limited amount of time, except maybe a nation state. And even they don't have unlimited money. They can print as much money as they want, but eventually it reaches a tipping point. Now, as we've seen in certain nations around the world, where they enter kind of like hyperinflation, that that's the tipping point that's very hard to come back from. And when your current and not everyone loses faith in your currency. Right? But anyway, I'm going to leave it at that, because if I keep going, I'm going to go on forever about this because there's a lot to talk about there. But hopefully that gives you a bit of extra color on Polly Nar's tweet.
00:30:47.908 - 00:30:57.364, Speaker A: But that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If we haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone.
