00:00:10.960 - 00:00:57.744, Speaker A: Hey, everybody, and welcome to the first content based riptide hackathon stream. Today we have an exciting topic and two extremely intelligent folks to talk about it. We have Max from mango markets and Sebastian from Solana Labs. We're going to be talking all things daos today and taking a look at what were sort of what we would be really excited to see coming out of the hackathon. Maybe share some updates on SPL governance and some great work Sebastian and Max and the community has been doing, and then give chat some room for questions. Max, Sebastian, you want to say hello?
00:00:58.924 - 00:00:59.704, Speaker B: Hello.
00:01:01.084 - 00:01:03.464, Speaker C: Hey, how are you doing?
00:01:04.324 - 00:01:43.484, Speaker A: So I think last hackathon we chatted, I actually was looking at this video before or earlier yesterday, governance UI and what we know as realms today was in its early days. And so I'd love to hear from both of you about sort of what the progress has been in terms of governance UI and the work that the community's been doing, and also what you see as the near term roadmap and maybe some updates since the last hackathon in terms of daos on Solana and the landscape today.
00:01:47.444 - 00:02:41.394, Speaker B: Okay, sure. So, yeah, I can go first? Yeah. So I don't remember what stage we were when it was last hackathon, but definitely there has been like a lot of changes to the UI prior value. We are working on building the UI on top of the SPL governance version one, and the UI mostly reflects the features that are available in the UI. But I'm sorry, in the contract, but we've been focusing on general purpose experience for different dials. And then when you look at the Rams today, you can see like $150 right now and different types. And we have protocol dials like mango, we have NFT collectors dolls, we have some charity dials.
00:02:41.394 - 00:04:03.124, Speaker B: So essentially I think that the ecosystem is growing and we have, at the moment we have like this common framework on top of which you can build, I would say, any type of daos, because that's the idea behind the contract. And SPL governance is designed in asset type and dao type agnostic way, which means that you should be able to build any type of DAo using that. And then really the difference between those different dials is mostly on the UI, like what kind of decision you are making, what assets you own, and what kind of governance structures you use. And this is what I expect, like, most of the area of most innovation is actually in the UI, where I think that after this like diverging phase, what we had so far, where we're trying to accommodate as many different possible dials as using single experience for users. Now, I think that this is the time for the converging phase where actually we can raise a focus on particular type of daos and build the UI for those particular use cases. So you can think like say, NFT collectors daos. Yes, you can do it right now, but then it's not that straightforward.
00:04:03.124 - 00:05:14.750, Speaker B: You can trade from the, you can buy nfts and have nfts on your treasury account, but we would need more around the UI. So let's say you can directly from the UI, you can place an order for your NFT, so you can buy them, or even earlier something. You can create a dao for your mint and that will own candy machine and have control everything for the whole process, which also should help with potential riposte. At any point of time, nobody would have ownership of their tokens or mini or whatever you own. So that kind of, I think this is where the opportunities are for the hackathons participants to, to actually build those unique experiences for particular types of daos. And then I think the contract should handle most of that. But then I also expect in some cases we might need some, like I call like satellite contracts that can target specific use cases.
00:05:14.750 - 00:06:16.934, Speaker B: Now we are just about to release version two of SPL governance. And the major change that it allows us to do is now to externalize the governance power to an external contract. Which means that at this point, only your imagination and rust, your capability of writing rust is really the limit. And then whenever there is any governance structure you can define and encode, you can use it. So that can be like what we are releasing with v two is the manga locker, which is a contract that allows you to lock your mango and then get more governance powers based on the period you log. But I mean, it actually does more than that. It allows you, it allows the mangodao to give grants and possibility to close them back if people don't do the job, what they are supposed to be doing, and then different times or strategies, you can look for your tokens, but that's just an example.
00:06:16.934 - 00:07:03.750, Speaker B: But I expect this like lots of those kind of plugins to be created because the manga one is entirely reusable. It means any dao that wants to use the same governance structure can just use it as it is, because it would just like a plugin into SAP governance. But I expect that we will have more. And obvious thing is NFT based voting, right? I think this is what everybody wants that you can have. Essentially your NFT gives you governance power in your dao and then any kind of combination. Because in fact the mango locker allows you to use multiple tokens. So you can vote with mango, but you can also define another token that you can use for voting.
00:07:03.750 - 00:07:46.314, Speaker B: You can combine the powers of multiple tokens, multi governance, and this is why you can really be creative with those structures, so you can create a dialogue. You have NFT, which is like your primary voting power, but then maybe you have some reputation score or some analog economic tokens, then that can be non transferable. So I think all those different structures, I feel like most of the daos are still in the exploration phase and trying to find what's the perfect way to structure your governance. And it's really now it's open for the innovation. And this is where I expect most of the focus that can be ui side for focusing on the different type of dials and then the plugins for different governance structures.
00:07:49.014 - 00:08:31.694, Speaker C: Yeah, I would agree with that. It's probably like the bare minimum we started with and then also opened up the discussion because of basically the amount of possibilities that we have now in terms of fine tuning what it means to have the token, how much voting power is associated with it. I know we had these really funky conversations where people couldn't really agree on the number of years they should lock up and how much voting weight they would receive in return. There were a few people who wanted 100 years of lockup. A lot of people disagreed with that.
00:08:33.923 - 00:08:37.103, Speaker B: I mean, they know something that, I don't know, they expect to leave that long.
00:08:39.843 - 00:09:24.390, Speaker C: Very optimistic about technology in general. Right. But yeah, the hundred year Dao, it's maybe an experiment that will be done outside of mango. I'm still very keen on it. But yeah, I think it's having, the possibility is, probably is going to raise a lot of questions, is going to bring, I think, a new mix. I remember we were torn between just taking the four year vested curve kind of model and starting with that. But then we thought, hey, probably there's more fine tuning here because there really seems to be no good reason why four years is a fixed number, why it would work.
00:09:24.390 - 00:10:16.612, Speaker C: And particularly though also there was like, I think a lot of discomfort in the community about giving someone that locks for 200 weeks to 100 times the voting power of someone that locks for one week. So I think these like kind of like social and community issues every community needs to figure out by themselves. And yeah, it's usually like the first step is probably really, really hard and then a lot of people will just copy what works. But I think we're actually at a point where we can still be a bit more wild and experiment a bit further. And I think there will be a couple of daos having different models going forward. And so it's really, really great that what Sebastian build is so flexible and configurable. Yeah.
00:10:16.612 - 00:11:19.394, Speaker C: There's also, I think, like, when I look back, I remember it was like the first ones would who tried it, and, okay, we tried in production because it's the only way to try. You can't really have a Dao in Devnet. It's not the same thing. And so I think there is like, now that we've seen that it's possible. I feel it's like one of Solana's most attractive features, just being able to have a fully functioning voting Dao. As decentralized as your community is, I think we're more limited maybe by the size of the community now than by the ability of the technology. And so I'm really excited to see some of the larger Daos, like the Maki Dao, onboard this stuff, and figure out ways how they want to run the project and make decisions together in a trustless way.
00:11:21.934 - 00:12:07.794, Speaker A: Max, I'm going to focus in a little bit more on the mango side of things, and I know you prepared a couple ideas in some of the hackathon requests specifically for mango. If you had a short list of projects that fast forward two months ahead, and you saw these projects be released in the hackathon, and they reach out to you on Discord, and they link you to the GitHub repo, and the work is all done and it's done well. What are some of those things that you would be really excited to see in terms of tooling, tooling support specifically on the mango Dao side or what you're all working on?
00:12:09.454 - 00:13:18.580, Speaker C: Yeah, I think we had a solid two weeks of discussion about the upcoming hackathon, mainly because people became aware, hey, we want to do something with the treasury. There are a lot of funds in there, and people have been evaluating different ways to use it. And I think there is to some extent, we want to have meaningful collaborations and provide liquidity to some of the teams that are building on top of mangoes. So anything that allows us to deploy capital, should it be through just depositing maybe in a program as a user, becoming a user of our integrations, to maybe owning some of the governance tokens, owning a lot of soul in order to run our own validators. These kinds of things, I think really, really matter actually going forward. So we hope that by the end of the hackathon, all these treasury management options will be there. This was one.
00:13:18.580 - 00:14:27.084, Speaker C: Why not? So that idea why we reached out to Matti and we're like, hey, we should have a dedicated track on this because there's so many possibilities. We know a bunch of daos that want to do something with their treasury but simply can't. And the fun part is it's actually not difficult. It's more like a whole lot of very parallel integration work with the different protocols. And we know that UXD protocol, for instance, already started doing some of those things on their side, which only came up because we asked them if they want to be integrated, like, hey, why don't you like, what's the idea? Can we mint from the governance? And they were like, yeah, that would be a great idea. By the way, we're already adding all these features and they're like, oh, we weren't aware. So I think it will be a good moment for the whole community to get together, plan what we do with these massive Dow treasuries and how we use them, especially for the newcomers like the new projects, in order to bootstrap liquidity in their protocols and make sure they're usable from day one.
00:14:27.084 - 00:15:24.044, Speaker C: So I'll be really glad if we can use the funds directly from the governance without having to send them to a contributors wallet or something like that in the future. And that mostly relates, I think, to actually becoming users of other Defi protocols ourselves. So, yeah, very concrete. I think people proposed we want to be able to, I think from our risk perspective, we really want to focus on stablecoins. So we have a lot of stable coins. We need a lot of stable coins because we think of the treasury as something that we need to use when there's maybe a bug in the program or the markets. We're moving so quickly that we need to bail out our users.
00:15:24.044 - 00:16:16.734, Speaker C: So usually it's less speculative than the average crypto user, I think. And that's also where the maybe not every defect protocol is maybe the right one for us. But we definitely think about just ways to generate yield and also support with the liquidity other protocols, making them generate more yield with it and enhance, earn revenues. That's I think is the core focus. And yeah, luckily one contributor prepared a huge document of like what they want to see and what we want to work on. And it's quite surprising to see how we have like our first community born CFO go forward here and like come up with a strategy. So that's from Mango's side, I think.
00:16:16.734 - 00:16:23.784, Speaker C: I know, Sebastian, you've also been like, working on like investment daos and things like that, right?
00:16:24.164 - 00:16:26.184, Speaker A: Yeah, I was going to ask the same question.
00:16:27.404 - 00:17:05.630, Speaker B: It's really about any type of dolls, right? Like, my favorite examples is that you can create something like personal dolls, like a family locker doll, where you put your treasure for your family or just for yourself. The doll. First of all, that mitigates the risk that if you lose your keys, then your family cannot get it. Or, you know, when you can for yourself, you can. You can use the, like multiple keys that. So let's say if you use three keys for your. For your, for your personal locker dial, then you can lose one and you can still unlock the rest.
00:17:05.630 - 00:18:10.710, Speaker B: And then anybody who like to steal from you would have to, you know, gain at least access to two, right? So that has extra security. But also, this is something that also, like idea for hackathon to. For those personal doors to create something which is called social recovery, that if you lose all your keys, that nothing is not all gone. So because you can, you can dedicate like a group of people, your friends, your family, that you can create like, let's say once a year recovery proposal, that those people can, if they vote, they say yes, that you will get back your access to your funds, right? So and then if we. If you think about this way, then really everybody who can create this personal locker, family locker, can also would like to have access to those treasury management, right? Because the same way as you don't put your money in the bank, of course you can just. Well, in the bank, when you put it, you have interest rates, sometimes negative, which is not good, right? But. But at least you can have interest rates or you can have some longer deposits to get some yield.
00:18:10.710 - 00:19:39.284, Speaker B: The same way I expect that really anybody in this category of this personal daos can actually would like to do the same. Let's say I create my local for myself and my family, and then I would put something on, like a yield account on mango to get some yield. And then, so that's like the basic stuff. But then if you have some appetite for more risk, then DaO can be integrated with some fund managers, I think, let's say investing, where you can dedicate part of your treasury to a fund manager who will be actively managing that part of the DAO. And I see this is a really huge opportunity for. For really for anybody to use it, because I see this enormous value for anybody first, is that the security and the second is that you can have a safe way to allocate part of your tokens that you own to some investment managers. That follows the strategy of investing, that you can put all your chips in one basket if you'd say, put like 20% in high risk, because there's always a contract risk and counterparty risk, right? So whenever you do something for your treasury and delegate this to somebody there, there's always a risk, right? But if you don't use all of that and it's also part of it, then you can just do that.
00:19:39.284 - 00:20:51.014, Speaker B: And then, of course, I think that those guys, I think that is investing or the other ones that allow you to structure the strategies and your appetite for risk. And that kind of integration, that help for, like, average user, I think would be great. And then the social recovery, because I see, like, lots of, like, people who are not crypto native, they are just scared when they hear all the wallets, making sure that your key is private. They like asking my auntie and she said, all I want is like, a credit card, that if I lose it, I can call my bank and I will get it back, because she was scared to death that if she lose that credit card, it's gone forever. And that essentially is the situation with private keys. But the idea of this personal locker essentially gives you that flexibility of recovering your credit card through this decentralized crypto native way. I think this is a huge opportunity because that can, if we get it right, that can enable, like, I think, more people than just crypto natives to join the ecosystem and use it in a safe way, because that's very important.
00:20:51.014 - 00:21:31.778, Speaker B: And I really like the Daos to really drive the frontier of safe crypto. The same that what I was talking about, the example with the NFT memes, usually the artists are really at the mercy of the developers. And if the developers go wrong, they can pull the rug and then everybody else loses. But if, you know, if you just start the mint from the Dao, you create the artists, everybody involved, and investment. You start with the Dao, and then the Dao creates the mint. The dao owns the candy machine. The Dao gets the proceeds from the mint and proceeds from the secondary sales and all the royalties.
00:21:31.778 - 00:22:20.402, Speaker B: Then it's never like in possession of a single person. So you eliminate the risk of somebody pulling the rug. And I think this is like multiple examples where we can use the structure of this multi seq, because the most simplest Dao is essentially a multistic. So you have five people, everybody has one vote, and let's say majority of those have to say yes before you can touch your front. So multistick is the simplest dial and I think there's lots of, lots of use cases for that. And definitely I really encourage like even every team on Solana which starts the project, start with their multi seqdao. Put your contract, your, maybe your grants or whatever you have in that multi seq wallet in the multi segao, and then you can grow from that.
00:22:20.402 - 00:23:05.052, Speaker B: And the way SPL governance is structured or is designed, it allows you to grow and have essentially that path. So you can start as your project, as a startup with a multi seq dao, with just your team. And this is what we call the council in a dao, and then grow. And then once you are ready, once you build your product, you build your community. You can actually decentralize, you decentralize and you can give the governance power to the community, but you can still keep the council as a safety net. But then let's say the community engages, everybody votes, everything goes smoothly, then the final stage is you move the council and it's just the community fully decentralized. So this is like the life cycle of the DAO.
00:23:05.052 - 00:23:45.984, Speaker B: It's really important. Dow is like a spectrum, it's not like one thing. So you, the simplest one is the multisig. And on the other extreme, you have fully decentralized community own, right? And then every DaO probably will be somewhere on the spectrum, right? And this is why the, the Dawa tooling, spl governance and the realms are really designed to allow you to join and become a DaO at any point on this on the spectrum. But my perception is that everybody will start at the beginning. Mango started at the extreme, right. And that was like a leap of faith, I think.
00:23:45.984 - 00:24:51.340, Speaker B: But as you said, that was really the option and we thought that that was the right choice and I think that was the right choice. Right. But then I think most of the dials actually, we start at the beginning as simple as a group of people having the multi seq control over the assets of the programs, and then it will grow trying to reach the new bundle of decentralization and community driven Dao. And one more thing that I want to not comment is that everything that we do is on chain. And this is really a huge difference for Solana where like, you can see there's a lot of similarities between realms, Ui and snapshot where you can do this kind of the same vaulting, but there's huge difference because snapshot is just off chain. So you're essentially asking people for opinions and what they think, right? While for us, even if it looks the same, is everything you change. So whenever there's a proposal and the proposal has executable actions and the proposal is voted on, that becomes the law.
00:24:51.340 - 00:25:18.912, Speaker B: Nobody can stop that. And that's executable. Of course. Now actually in version two, we added an option, so you can just create a poll style proposals as well. So you are not attaching any executable actions and you can ask what's your opinion? Option ABCD. And it's still possible, but still it's on chain. And the advantage is you can measure the quality of your daO.
00:25:18.912 - 00:26:16.070, Speaker B: I think that probably we are still not there yet, but I expect, and that can be also a hackathon project to actually have a tool to measure the quality of the DAo, how strong the DAO is. And that can be how many active users are, how many people are participating in votes, how many votes, and then how much they have in the treasury. So what the income outcome flows. And I see probably don't have enough daos right now to have those tools. But in the long term, definitely, like DAO analytics tool will be very, very useful because then they will allow us to. Because what you can measure, you can improve. If you cannot measure, you don't kind of know what you're building, but creating those measurements, like in a normal, let's say, website, measuring monthly, daily active users, and you can do the same for daos and then estimate the health of them.
00:26:16.070 - 00:26:18.754, Speaker B: So that can be also interesting project, I think.
00:26:21.774 - 00:27:25.458, Speaker C: Yeah, I personally really like to see that. It's sometimes in the discussions that we have off chain, there seem to be just a few actors talking really, really loud. But then once it goes to vote, actually, you see more people have opinions and ask around and maybe even getting second opinions from different people. So this whole workflow where we make it really binding, I think increases the seriousness of the discussion. Also, I remember we did a not so lucky Twitter vote on which market to list on mango, and a lot of people got upset about it and had like, really, really big opinions about it. And in the end, I think the only way to close the discussion was to say, hey, let's vote on chain. And then, and then somehow that, like, also brought the discussion to another level because it's not maybe so selfish anymore, but more about the greater good.
00:27:25.458 - 00:28:47.824, Speaker C: Like, people really start to think, hey, what is the right decision here? Independent of, like, hey, I would really like this outcome for myself. So a bit more of I think responsibility through transparency, maybe also because it is visible what you do and how you vote. Yeah, I think those, yeah, to some extent, you can't really like civil, attack it, or come with a fake identity, or bring all your friends that are really loud on a forum and talk about something, but you actually need to have the tokens to make the decision. I think there's like we thought in the beginning there will probably be enough and people would be really excited about it. But I think now that we have the foundation in place with the second version of the governance and full control of the vote count, we also have the possibility to integrate way more tightly with the governance. So it'd also be very curious to see people building these projects. Maybe similar to how curve is working on Ethereum, where your lock tokens directly have an impact on your revenue you generate from the platform.
00:28:47.824 - 00:30:33.070, Speaker C: There's a clear steering committee for where liquidity incentives are directed and actually people have an influence. And I think that to some extent made the project extremely popular and cemented it as a cornerstone in the DeFi landscape, is because every other Dao can influence it, actually. So it's like this, working together with different daos and having part of the protocol, actually decision making process that is tied into the governance token. We're starting to have these discussions now inside mango, and I think it's very healthy and actually brings forward things that normally on Ethereum would be reserved to very, very big wallets, because if you want to do any kind of on chain locking or something like that, it quickly becomes very economically infeasible. This kind of stuff will, I think, work really, really well in Solana, where, hey, I have maybe just a very small stake in this project, but I still want to direct some of the things towards my benefits. Less like binary yes or no decisions or controls, but actual ratios where there is a continuum of, of outcome in the decision. And so similar to the, I think we're seeing now the multiple choice voting, which was one thing that we heavily requested also because there were always too many choices what to list basically on mango, but then the technical limitations of what we could list and similar.
00:30:33.070 - 00:32:13.614, Speaker C: I think going forward there will be more continuous decisions that are less hard, yes or no, to directly go into the design of the protocol. I think people were asking about having fee reductions on the exchange based on your voting power in the DAO, or having referral credits based on their contribution to the DAO. So it's like suddenly this variable becomes measurable for every user of the product and then it makes you think, hey, well, what do we want to do with it? And I think in the end, it directly impacts also how much likely people want to own a certain token. I think we have seen that with curve very strongly that Dow treasuries love holding curve. They love it because they know they can direct liquidity in a way that their protocol gets more use and fundamentally remove barriers of entry for other protocols to use their protocol against. It's like, I think, a very interesting path, and I'm really excited that all these use cases are supported. So kind of looking also at the Defi track where people will come up there, probably they will build the basic protocol first, but then at the end of the hackathon, we'll be probably have another call like this and figure out, hey, now, how do we bring it back? How do we tie it in? Thanks, Max.
00:32:13.654 - 00:32:17.754, Speaker A: Thanks, Sebastian. Those are some great discussion points there.
00:32:19.174 - 00:32:19.954, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:32:20.294 - 00:33:02.654, Speaker A: Not very many questions coming from the chat. I think we can sort of start to wrap up here, but I wanted to pose one question again to you both. If we dream big about this year, I know we're just in the start of February. I don't know how January went by so fast, but if everything goes well, I'd be interested to hear if you could paint a picture of where we are in 2023 with daos potentially on Solana. And if we dream big and things go well this year, where would you love to see us this time next year?
00:33:08.634 - 00:33:09.130, Speaker C: Ashton?
00:33:09.162 - 00:33:10.254, Speaker A: Want to give it a shot?
00:33:13.514 - 00:34:15.218, Speaker B: Well, I really have been thinking about this a lot, and I think I want to make sure that when we don't only create lots of daos, but we create successful daos. And this is really what I want to make sure is going to happen. It's not just about the number of dollars, but I don't want daos are created. And then even if you see this on rounds, that lots of those daos is just ghost towns, but not really nothing, they are created, maybe a few votes, and then nothing happens. Right. So that's something we have to work hard to make sure that the daos are successful. And I think for me, I think the strategy is to have maybe more focused approach on some of these blue chip dolls, because I see this, like, with mango.
00:34:15.218 - 00:35:16.870, Speaker B: Mango is like, has this has a strong gravitational pull that, you know, they, they leaving the park and others just trying to follow them because they're just looking up to them and trying to, first of all, you first, you try to replicate, right when you see somebody that is doing something good, you're just trying to replicate, maybe do better. Right? So I really would like to see some more, really not maybe that many, but few, few very successful daos that can be like, you know, poster child that can, I think, set us for. They will create this gravitational pull for others, you know, to join and understand that what Dao can do, because I think there is still, like, a lot of misconceptions what Daos are. Everybody. When you ask about Dao, you kind of get different answers. Some people think about Daos as a trading Daos protocol Daos, or maybe NFT collectors Daos, or gaming guilds Daos. I think there's so many different types of daos and people trying to experiment with that.
00:35:16.870 - 00:35:35.914, Speaker B: So I think for us, the success will be if we be able to create those specific type of daos which are successful, which essentially we pave the road for others Dao to see how things can be done. And then everybody could just follow the playbook that they will create.
00:35:38.604 - 00:36:46.594, Speaker C: Max, what do you think? Yeah, I think that's definitely a fair point. And it's also the reason why sometimes things take longer, because we're aware of the pressure and the amount of discussions we're having after we do something and justifying it and explaining people if it's the right choice for them as well. I think for me, the difference probably is, will be, I think, a flagship product of the Solana ecosystem, just Dao tooling. I think there are a few applications that really make sense on a blockchain right now. We see people build lots of crazy ideas and good ideas, and probably I'll be wrong and they'll be right in the end. But one piece I'm 100% sure in is this will be a compelling use to use Solana. For me, it's just similar to we need a really good exchange, we really need good governance.
00:36:46.594 - 00:38:00.364, Speaker C: It's just the idea of that we can decide something together, and it's fully audited and verifiable on chain, and we can encode those structures of who has how much decision and just set them in stone without going to a governor and putting it in the books, going with a lawyer, et cetera. It's just such a dramatic increase in, I'd say, accessibility cost, and at the same time, it just levels the playing field. People who can't afford a lawyer can make these contracts now, and they can enforce them. And I think it's just like a general tool that a lot of projects will be using. And so for me, I feel like when I look at, for instance, kenosis save, they're very concerned right now of thinking about L2 and how they can create a strategy that works on L2 and layer one. And this is just like one of the things I really like about Solana is we don't think like that. We just build stuff and it runs on a layer one and it's great.
00:38:00.364 - 00:38:19.724, Speaker C: That usually makes you run faster when you don't have to think about this very complex execution and trust systems. And so my prediction for 23 is actually that there is really no reason to have your Dao anywhere else and probably this will be the default choice.
00:38:25.164 - 00:38:41.744, Speaker B: Yeah, I think we do have foundation for that, definitely. And yeah, and I think if we can pave the road and show others how that can be done, I'm sure that many will follow and that's cool.
00:38:42.204 - 00:38:44.024, Speaker C: Yep, I agree.
00:38:44.364 - 00:39:19.596, Speaker A: Well, hey, thanks to you both Sebastian and Max for joining today. I think we have some great ideas. Again, shameless plug, but it's why we're here. Solana.com Riptide be sure to register and get connected with a team to build on some of these fantastic ideas that Sebastian and Max talked about today. There's also a ideas page on the Riptide mini site, so be sure to check out some of the other ideas there. If daos are not exactly your thing, there's all sorts of ideas.
00:39:19.596 - 00:39:35.144, Speaker A: With nfts, payments, defi and gaming as well, you can go crazy. Thanks again guys. I really appreciate your time. And yeah, we'll have another stream relatively soon.
00:39:35.724 - 00:39:38.324, Speaker B: Thanks and happy cutting.
