00:00:16.630 - 00:01:05.782, Speaker A: Good afternoon. Bonjour. Tough act to follow, but very important. And I like to think some of the things that I've learned, we've learned with Phone Bank in my current company can be impactful across emerging market in all types of use cases, whether it's providing basic sort of telecommunications infrastructure as well as addressing humanitarian crises. But today we talk about sort of a few frameworks that we've developed to help drive adoption of web Three across emerging economies. Again, I'm Chris Dovis. I'm the founder of Phone Bank.
00:01:05.782 - 00:02:01.974, Speaker A: I'm an experienced financial technology and wireless entrepreneur. And so I've been at this a long time and sort of been thinking about the application of new technologies as used by people. And one of the big issues we see today across many countries is sort of lack of public institutions in the trust. And what I mean by that is it's not that there aren't sort of banks or governments or services, it's just that they're not widely accessible or available, or people don't trust them. As evidenced by the last speaker. If you are the minority in this country, you're not getting serviced in a particular, you know. And another great example of that is like money remittance.
00:02:01.974 - 00:03:37.930, Speaker A: These are the types of things we take for granted in the west, like sending money to Europe or to the US. Well, if you were to send it to many emerging markets, it might get there in a couple of days and then you even getting it might depend on when the bank's open or if the banker likes you or not. And so hence not leading to any trust and sort of availability of these institutions. And while there are these next generation of players like again, using sort of the remittance example, there's transfer wise, but it's predicated on the old existing sort of banking infrastructure you realize today. Even today, the fastest way to send a dollar to the other side of the world is an airplane, right? And it's because when you send a dollar, there's these intermediary banks that it has to go through and to finally arrive at sort of the bank in country. And because these sort of web Two entities are baked on top of these old institutions, you don't know what you're going to get and you don't even know what they're going to do with the information that they have about you. Well, what you've seen in many emerging economies where they leapfrog in terms of telecommunications going from no phone leapfrogging wired directly into mobile.
00:03:37.930 - 00:04:50.994, Speaker A: The same is true in what we're seeing around banking, in that if you don't have a bank account, which is, in many respects the vast majority of people on this planet, it's actually better to have a stable coin. As long as you can have liquidity on the back end of it in a software wallet distributed on your mobile phone. Right. That's the bank of the 22nd century and you're going to see a similar type of leap from no financial services directly into DFI. Like if I wanted to set up some type of financial account for a refugee, that's how I'm going to do it. And while we have this great conference going on and there's all these sort of DeFi applications, the UX is still very broken. I mean, imagine giving my mother, let alone someone who may not be formally educated in any way, a crypto key and tell them to do something with it.
00:04:50.994 - 00:06:24.366, Speaker A: Doesn't matter if it's a satoshi or a billion dollars worth of bitcoin, it might be not relevant to this, but the groundwork is laid. That's a good news. And so what we're talking about today is, in our sort of experience, we've put together sort of a simple set of frameworks that some of the things we consider are like ease of use, accessibility, how do we reduce friction cost, and many, many more apply. And so as we lay this out, this is just a high level some examples of the type of institutions and sort of where they might fall out in a simple two by two around ease of use and accessibility, where you look at and I'll share a little bit more about what we do at phone bank. But companies and products like P to P exchanges from like Paxful or finance or local Bitcoins, they're actually easy to use and very accessible, right? And they circumvent. Like you may or may not be aware. Like in places like Nigeria, banks are actually precluded from funding crypto exchanges, which is one of the reasons why the PDP exchanges has grown so fast or adoption has grown so fast there or even in markets where crypto is not available at all through traditional financial or funding.
00:06:24.366 - 00:08:04.242, Speaker A: Crypto is not traditionally available with financial institutions. And then you look at new applications like the Axio infinity and what they enabled in rural Philippines in terms of driving economic inclusion to people that may never have been connected to the Internet before, and definitely not Web Three before, but now it's driving a big part of their livelihood. So going back to crypto adoption in sub Saharan Africa, and I could say this is sort of on the border of ease of use and accessibility, but as compared to traditional sort of money remittance, this is the fastest growing crypto markets in the world. And a lot of it's driven by the fact that the whole money remittance type institution is broken. And if you want to participate in global trade, you have to use cryptocurrency and so it's accessible. And then once you sort of develop the behaviors around how to use it, it's relatively easy to use and you can do it 24 7365 and you don't need to ask your banker. And again, I mentioned sort of Axio infinity in the context of money remittance and even sort of this sort of alternative financing mechanism that they call scholarships because some of these the land costs got so expensive that the average player couldn't afford to buy into the game.
00:08:04.242 - 00:09:53.502, Speaker A: So they got a scholarship, which is a type of leasing or learn to earn type program for skilled players. But it was a clever mechanism to make it more accessible and the type of thing that you can code into the blockchain via mobile. And one of the applications that we even tested out last year was a type of micro tasking where we could pay out people in our native token that they could then redeem for prepaid airtime. And these are tasks in terms of like data cleaning, labeling, that most of us wouldn't do the action type work, but in places like Kenya or Nigeria or Mozambique, on and on, that could top up your mobile uganda, that could top up your mobile bill for the day. And again, this goes to this accessibility with the P to P exchanges. It's a great way to onboard in markets where you might have restrictions or direct integration with there's no direct integration with the financial institutions and now phone bank. We are a type of on ramp targeting mobile first cash based economies where we use prepaid airtime as a medium of exchange into crypto.
00:09:53.502 - 00:11:12.302, Speaker A: And the significance of that is literally there's 8 billion prepaid mobile phones globally or prepaid SIM cards globally. And they all act as a type of simple store value account. And as such, that value can be transacted and traded and we facilitate that in our marketplace. But where we are unique and differentiated in terms of onboarding and in terms of reducing friction and accessibility is we have a very simple KYC process. We actually piggyback off the process from the carriers and provide a ton of filters in the front of our wallet so that people don't have to register a ton of information to access it. This works anywhere on the planet where you have a GSM prepaid phone. And then finally, as we think about sort of this sort of continuum from web one to web three, the significance now being sort of ownership and sort of why I sort of left our company to last is what we really do is we create.
00:11:12.302 - 00:11:42.640, Speaker A: And the opportunity for us here is to create this bridge from this less than 1% of the world that has crypto to the nearly 100% of the world in our case, that has access to mobile telephony. But we need to build more bridges to these real world applications. And I think that's sort of the opportunity we have now in this new cycle and how we get Ethereum and web three adopted in real lives to help people. Thank you.
