00:00:10.400 - 00:01:14.345, Speaker A: Hello everyone, my name is Sylvan, I am the founder of Parasail. And then today I want to just, you know, share some thoughts and share some things that we recently discovered when we were working with like you know, many deep in many top tier deep in projects in terms of how do we build trust and drive adoption for all these networks. And then we also want to kind of share a bit about how we want to do it, which is through staking or restaking, whatever you want to call it. Because staking is not a native mechanism in most Deepin. So what is Paracel? So Paracel is a modular stack that enables any Deepin protocols to build and deploy service staking layer and then unlock all the staking and defi use cases for their network in a very easy and also cost efficient way. We're one of the fastest growing protocols in Deepin. We're integrated with many great deep and we're working with a lot of them to actually like implement and integrate.
00:01:14.345 - 00:02:03.979, Speaker A: And we're backed by some of the leading investors in the Deepin space. So today I want to just, you know, quickly go through three items. First is like what are the challenges that we generally see when people are trying to scale like Deepin? Second is what is our approach, how do we you know, help people like build trust for Deepin through a staking mechanism and then also what are the utility and additional liquidity that we provide or we unlock for all these like deep in assets. Now let's jump to the first topic, Deepin. I don't need to emphasize the importance of this. I think that's the big reason why all of you are here. But if we take a look at the typical Deepin structure, you can see that it's actually quite different from a normal like or a regular blockchain.
00:02:03.979 - 00:03:08.189, Speaker A: Right? Of course you have the consensus, you have the execution, you have the dap, the smart contract layers, but you also have the hardware and the services that's actually being provided to users. Right? I think that is the core value proposition for Deepin. So you are providing some services to someone like in a decentralized way, right? It's not like say you cannot treat like Deepin as a normal blockchain, that is facilitate transactions and then you know, transact all the tokens. So that's why it's very challenging to scale deep in. It's because it's very hard to provide trust or build a trust relationship on the services you provide in a very decentralized way. Essentially none of user probably know who is exactly providing those services. They're just trusting this protocol and saying that, hey, I want to trust my data with your network, I want to trust my compute job with your network.
00:03:08.189 - 00:03:51.573, Speaker A: And that is very hard. That's something that takes lots of user education and lots of meetups, lots of events to really educate people about that. So that's really, really challenging. I think this is still a big hurdle or blocker that's stopping us from like mass adoption, but I think we're getting there. Yeah, it's difficult to build trust among users. It's just because they don't know who's actually providing the services and then whether they can trust those people or not. And if they experience service failures, it's also very hard for them to complain to anyone other than just posting some complaint posts on Twitter.
00:03:51.573 - 00:04:48.363, Speaker A: But eventually it's very hard to keep them satisfied if they actually experience some service failure. And the final thing is just like in terms of growing deepening demand, growing revenue, if you don't have all the trust, you don't have the SLA requirements, it's very hard to attract additional capital into this ecosystem or into the deepening network that's ultimately going to help people scale their network. So I just talked about all the challenges in scaling dp, right? You have all these people, the machines and also the money. They don't know if they should trust any network. And then we want to turn something into this. You want a permissionless, you want decentralized and also trustless DP network where user can just come in and say, hey, I know that the providers are trustworthy. They don't have the or they are not by design.
00:04:48.363 - 00:05:42.969, Speaker A: They should not have the malicious intention to ruin my data, to ruin my compute jobs. I can just trust them with it. And then if I experience service failures, I can also be compensated or I can make sure that I don't lose financially. So let's look at some of the existing deeping projects and, and then what are some of their approaches? So like filecoin, which is one of the biggest DP networks, they require a provider collateral. They implemented a provider collateral mechanism for their storage services. And then basically, if you want to mine filecoin or if you want to provide storage to the filecoin network, you need to put up some collateral to, to provide some guaranteed good services. And then in case of faults, there will be slashing.
00:05:42.969 - 00:06:41.759, Speaker A: So let's say you pull the fault assembly, decide, hey, I'm not going to provide services to the filecoin network anymore. And then you get slashed or if you have a power outage and then your nodes are offline for one or two days and then you also get slashed because from the network's perspective I need to make sure that you know all the data that's stored on this network is like properly stored. And then you need to prove that you are storing those data because that's what like builds out the ultimate trust among the users. And that's what get the decentralized storage services adopted among like more users. And then you can see that there's actually, I mean Filecoin has been there for many years. There's about 600 million worth of token that's currently staked on the Filecoin network to guarantee their services. And then I think the highest about 1 to 2 billion dollar worth of tokens.
00:06:41.759 - 00:07:47.701, Speaker A: So that's actually a huge amount of stake that's being put out by all the providers to guarantee the services they're providing. Fluence, which is also like organizer of this deeping day, which thank you so much for organizing this. They also require something that user needs to put up flt stakes to all the committed capacities that's coming to the fluence network. And then that is also a way to kind of implement like a decentralized trust system to tell the users that hey, all these people have put up stakes on this network to guarantee the services that they're providing. And then if in any case all these people suddenly decide they don't want to provide service or they fail to provide service, they will get slashed. So this will be the best scenario. Which is I think something also quite similar to the approaches of filecoin which is essentially holding all these providers accountable for the services that are provided.
00:07:47.701 - 00:08:45.903, Speaker A: So then from an economic and also governance standpoint, you're creating an incentive for people to be reliable, be committed to this network. Then basically what Parasail is trying to do is to generalize this structure and then make it work for all deep end service networks. We created a stack which is a solution that works like this. Essentially it's like an abstraction of you know, the token collateral or like the SLA guarantee, whatever you want to call it. And then we put that to work for more deepen networks. So you have the stakers who are putting up money, they could also be the providers to like delegation pools and then you have delegation pools that's delegated all the money to like service providers. And then we have operators and validators to check on provider SLAs based on their proof of work.
00:08:45.903 - 00:10:00.725, Speaker A: Metrics and then we execute all the staking rewards and slashing payouts based on the results of the SLA checks. So that's essentially creating a way to track performances, reliability, service availability of all these providers to make sure that these protocols are more reliable and they're more stable. Yeah, so this is essentially what I just said, but this is kind of like how we aim to address the challenge of scaling deeping as I stated previously. So on top of that, I think the mechanism that we're trying to bring to deeping also can unlock additional utility and liquidity for stake deepen assets. So I want to bring up a case study for filecoin. So filecoin is one of the first projects that we work with and then we created a liquid staking filecoin for them based on the structure that was described just now. And then basically you have something very similar to a STE or like a liquid staking token for POS network, but for a deepin network.
00:10:00.725 - 00:11:04.317, Speaker A: And then we also have a pretty robust staking tokenomics. This works very differently from LIDO or a typical liquid staking for POS network, but it works pretty well for a deep network that usually has a longer lockup and a higher slashing rate. But from a user's perspective it's very similar to what stes or a liquid staking protocol would give them. And also we integrated with many deep in phi use cases. I mean it's like defi, but it's like DEFI for deep in phi, such as if you want to swap it for some other tokens on other networks like cross chain swaps, lst back borrowing like some deep in base return you can also we working with, we know some hedge funds are trying to create some delta neutral trading strategy with a liquid staking token. But. But in general it gives people more opportunity to stay committed to this network and also earn.
00:11:04.317 - 00:11:56.863, Speaker A: This is especially for people who do not have a machine or are not capable of being the actual node providers. This is another way that they can contribute. And then also we are trying to engineer something that goes just beyond a staking layer for a dpins which is we're trying to do like restaking. Right. I think this a bit advanced but this is actually something that we're trying to work on which is using the economic guarantee or the economic security for a more established asset and then use that to secure some deep in projects that are just emerging and then trying to bootstrap. So I guess that will give people, you know, additional comfort, additional like no trust for them to participate in some of the, you know, the newer and more emerging deep in services. Yeah, so that's my presentation.
00:11:56.863 - 00:12:17.425, Speaker A: I hope this informative contact us. We do have a booth over there and you know, like we can. We can chat about it after this. Thank you, Sa.
