00:00:00.600 - 00:01:07.886, Speaker A: Welcome back to Crypto 101, your comprehensive guide to learning everything about crypto from start to finish. Now, if you've ever thought about making your DeFi positions or investments easier to manage, you might have thought about automating them. If only there was a way to automatically move your crypto around to ensure the best returns, right? Well, there is, and that's why today we're covering DeFi automations, where smart contracts and decentralized protocols can automate complex financial operations, making them faster, safer, and more reliable. The best place to borrow and earn in DeFi? More on them in a second. So what is DeFi automation? DeFi automation refers to the use of smart contracts and automated protocols to execute transactions and operations without any human intervention. This can include everything from automated trading strategies and yield farming to even liquidation management and transaction scheduling. In essence, Defi automation brings efficiency, speed, and reliability to decentralized finance, making it more accessible and functional.
00:01:07.886 - 00:02:01.526, Speaker A: As to why automation matters, automation in DeFi is crucial because it reduces the need for manual intervention, which can be slow, error prone, and even costly. By leveraging smart contracts, DeFi platforms can ensure that operations are executed precisely the way they were programmed to work in advance. This leads to more consistent and reliable outcomes. Now, before we see how DeFi automations work with some real life examples, a very quick word from summify makes DeFi accessible to all. How a curated experience for DeFi's highest quality protocols so you never have to second guess security. Easiest way to manage your exposure in one click so you can make the most of every market. Condition risk management on autopilot with Defi's most advanced and trusted automations so you can relax, go to summify, and start enjoying your DeFi experience.
00:02:01.526 - 00:02:44.454, Speaker A: So how does DeFi automation work? At the core of DeFi automation are smart contracts. These are self executing contracts where the terms of the agreement are directly written into the code. This allows for automated and trustless transactions. In other words, I tell the smart contract what to do in advance, and it simply executes when the conditions I indicated are methadone. Oracles are another crucial element of deFi automation because they provide real world data to the smart contracts. This enables the smart contracts to make informed decisions based on current market conditions when automating DeFi trades, so we know what DeFi automations are and how they work. Let's see four examples of DeFi automation.
00:02:44.454 - 00:03:54.170, Speaker A: First, we have automated market makers, or amms. Platforms like Uniswap use amms to facilitate trading without the need for a traditional order book prices are automatically adjusted based on supply and demand using a mathematical formula where liquidity pools are similarly balanced automatically. Two yield aggregators, tools like yearn finance, automate the process of moving funds between different yield farming opportunities to maximize returns. Three automated trading bots and automated strategies can execute trades based on predefined conditions, optimizing for factors such as price changes and liquidity, and for automated defi position management. Using automations also enables predetermined stop losses, automatic limit order buys, and take profits to be executed when price targets are met. This set and forget approach both removes the emotional involvement out of managing your DeFi positions and makes sure target prices aren't missed because the user was asleep or away. Overall, we can see from these four examples of defi automation that they serve to reduce human error and make systems more efficient and reliable.
00:03:54.170 - 00:04:57.996, Speaker A: So what are some interesting real world applications? Platforms like Gelato network and summify provide examples for DeFi automation. Gelato Network, for instance, offers tools for automating various DeFi tasks, from liquidity management to automated trading strategies. Examples like furukombo utilize automations to allow users to simplify the process of setting up multistage transactions, all from a single dashboard, which can save time and reduce human error. Summify, on the other hand, continuously monitors different liquidity pools and yield farming opportunities for users, such that it can automatically move a user's assets to the most profitable pools based on real time data. This not only simplifies the user experience, but it also maximizes returns while enhancing security. Essentially, by leveraging smart contracts, advanced algorithms, and real time data, summify ensures that users can effortlessly and efficiently participate in defi activities like yield farming without constantly monitoring their accounts, assets, and wallets. So there we have it.
00:04:57.996 - 00:05:29.510, Speaker A: Defi automation can significantly improve the way we interact with financial systems by improving efficiency, accessibility, and, of course, reliability. Learning about where and how we can integrate automations into our daily deFi activities is an important step in building crypto knowledge with this series. And on that note, please remember that none of this is financial advice and is intended for solely informational and educational purposes. Always do your own research. Make sure to subscribe for more crypto 101 videos, and as always, stay defiant.
