00:01:08.500 - 00:01:40.316, Speaker A: Formation. Among your expansive rulemaking agenda items, there is not a single initiative aimed at improving access to capital or enhancing market competitiveness. Third, your efforts to choke off the digital asset ecosystem, which has created real harm for consumers in our markets, is clear to all. You said the law is clear. Clear. But your actions have created a multi year, expansive rule. Chair Gensler, you've also said your goal is consumer protection.
00:01:40.316 - 00:02:21.864, Speaker A: Yet your actions have pushed legitimate digital asset activities outside regulated financial institutions where consumers are best protected. On one hand, we've seen bipartisan votes in Congress in this committee to provide clear rules of the road and real consumer protection. And on the other, we've seen your ad hoc regulation by enforcement approach to digital assets on a losing streak in the courts. You refuse to be transparent with Congress regarding your interactions with FTX and Sam Bankman Fried. That's the investigation we started last Congress. Finally, your lack of responsiveness to this committee's legitimate oversight continues to be unacceptable. And I want to finish here.
00:02:21.864 - 00:02:50.696, Speaker A: In February, the committee made multiple requests for documents to the securities Exchange Commission. This is normal congressional oversight. Yet seven months later, the committee has not received a single non public document that was not part of a FOIA production. As I said, our patience is wearing thin. The SEC is not above the law, nor is it unique. Other financial regulators have routinely complied with congressional oversight. So let me be clear.
00:02:50.696 - 00:03:41.348, Speaker A: I do not want to be the first chairman of this committee to issue a subpoena to the securities Exchange Commission. And you should not want to be the first SEC chair to receive a congressional subpoena. Either we find a path forward where the SEC recognizes Congress is a co equal branch of government and is responsive to our oversight duties, or my option is to issue a subpoena. It's time for you to consider the lasting consequences of your action, your actions, and what that means to the securities Exchange Commission's reputation long term. While your time in this role may be temporary, the repercussions for your actions may be permanent for the agency. I yield back. All right, ranking member of the committee for four minutes for an opening statement.
00:03:41.348 - 00:04:25.056, Speaker A: Good morning. The chairman just indicated that his patience is running thin. Mine is thinner. With the opposite side of the aisle and the extreme MAGA Republicans who have taken all we are already going down this path. This is the lady who blew SB of the greatest country in the world to shut down and forcing millions of government workers, including US. Service members, protecting the economy, to work for free or not at all. Likewise, in three days, the securities and Exchange Commission, which is in charge of overseeing our $110,000,000,000,000 capital markets, will also be shuttered.
00:04:25.056 - 00:04:52.528, Speaker A: This extreme MAGA shutdown she's doing the whole budgeting stop. The government's going to shut down on the first. If we can't get the budget across. And now that this is what she's talking about has nothing to do with the SEC. But you won't hear the Republicans today express any. This is just red versus blue. This isn't even about the SEC businesses, workers or investors that may be harmed when Republicans unilaterally defund Wall Street's cop.
00:04:52.528 - 00:05:51.756, Speaker A: Chair Gensler, I know that you and your agency are likely about what will happen later this week. I too am concerned. Earlier this year, we saw Fitch downgrade the US credit rating after Republicans tried to force a default. And now Moody's is also considered downgrading the US rating if Republicans and Trump get the shutdown they so desperately want. I hope we can discuss today how undermining the SEC's mission by furloughing, 90% of your staff will affect this country and your ability to protect our markets. That said, I want you to know that you are doing exactly the job that the American people want. Under your leadership is providing hot take investors with the information they need to evaluate climate change risk.
00:05:51.756 - 00:06:58.624, Speaker A: You are reforming the stock market which failed investors during the GameStop trading event. Oh my God. Everything is politicized to exercise their votes over companies they own. I'm also pleased to see that you're finalizing rules that will bring transparency to private funds like private equity funds. And although Republicans will likely claim that the SEC is implementing too many rules too quickly, the fact is that you're moving thoughtfully and effectively. In fact, your SEC has issued fewer rules than the Trump, Obama and Bush administrations at this point in their tenure and you've provided twice as much time to comment than is required by law. The SEC is very much implementing the priorities that I and my Democratic colleagues championed when we were in charge and is shaping up to be the most pro worker, pro investor, pro small business SEC since FDR.
00:06:58.624 - 00:07:30.610, Speaker A: This is in the agency. Chair Gensler, I appreciate that you're here today even as you and your staff prepare to close the agency. I hope that if nothing else comes of this hearing, the American people will understand that this extreme migrant it's stuff like this is why Gary Gensler thinks that he can just get away with doing anything that he wants. It doesn't matter what he does, because the Democrats are just giving him a blank. Is wearing thinner than the Chairman's patient. Let's get on with it. Wow.
00:07:30.610 - 00:07:43.328, Speaker A: I yield back. The ranking member yields back. The chair recognizes Ms. Wagner, the chairman of the Subcommittee on Capital Markets, for 1 minute.
00:07:43.424 - 00:08:27.536, Speaker B: Thank you, Chairman Mccannry. Yes, let's get on with it. The SEC's mission is to protect investors, maintain fair, orderly and efficient markets, and facilitate capital formation. Unfortunately, your leadership has undermined these core objectives, sir. None of the 50 OD proposals your SEC has proposed promotes capital formation. Instead, the focus has shifted towards imposing costly regulatory and disclosure requirements. Equally troubling and potential violations of the Administrative Procedure Act, as recent SEC proposals lack a comprehensive analysis of market dynamics and their consequences, especially for SEC rules that have been changed.
00:08:27.536 - 00:08:53.390, Speaker B: Here's the way forward, sir. One, begin with a robust engagement with market participants to shape your thinking before proposing rules. Two, conduct investor testing. Three, economic analysis and looking at not just the individuals, but the cumulative. Four, do not ignore Congress when you send bipartisan letters expressing concerns about detrimental effects of the proposals market integrity, I yield back.
00:08:54.000 - 00:09:35.284, Speaker A: We'll now recognize the ranking member of the Capital Market Subcommittee, mr. Sherman of California. For 1 minute. Mr. Gensler, you've done more than anyone in government to thwart the creation of an efficient ecosystem that will allow corrupt politicians to not have to have hundreds of thousands of dollars of cash and gold bars in their home when they could be discovered by the FBI. You prevented a system where we can have anonymous, unhosted wallets providing an efficient method for the corrupt politicians of the future. You are providing additional regulations which provide clarity to market participants and protect investors.
00:09:35.284 - 00:10:06.752, Speaker A: But according to a Bloomberg study, you're actually producing fewer regulations than your predecessor recent predecessors. You're generally right. Except swing pricing. And finally, ESG is material to investors. It will affect trillions of dollars of investment decisions. That's why corporate America is trying to prevent you from getting that information to the investors who want it expired. We'll now recognize the chair of this cruise.
00:10:06.752 - 00:10:45.680, Speaker A: You don't even know what that was. Cringe good morning for five minutes for an oral presentation of his testimony. Without objection, your written statement will be made a part of the record. Chair Genzler, you're now recognized for five minutes good morning, Chair McHenry, Ranking Member Waters, and members of the committee. Thank you for inviting me here today. As his customer, I'd like to note that my views are my own as Chair of the SEC, and I am not speaking on behalf of my fellow commissioners or the SEC staff. For 90 years, the federal securities laws and our work to oversee them have played a crucial role for the public, both in good times and in stress times.
00:10:45.680 - 00:11:40.956, Speaker A: The core principles of the US securities Markets Regulation have contributed to America's economic success and geopolitical standing. At this remarkable agency, we serve investors, building for a better future and issuers, raising money to fund innovation while overseeing the 100 trillion dollar capital markets where investors and issuers meet. The essence of this captured in our three part mission protecting investors, maintaining fair, orderly, efficient markets in the middle, and facilitating capital formation. As Chair Wagner mentioned earlier, and Chair McHenry, the SEC is the cop on the beat, watching out for constituents. The dedicated staff of the agency does an extraordinary job with limited resources. America is blessed with the largest, sophisticated, most innovative capital markets in the world. But we cannot take this for granted.
00:11:40.956 - 00:12:46.276, Speaker A: Even a gold medalist must keep training. That's why we're updating our roles for the technology and business models of the 2020s. My written testimony details those efforts, and I'm sure I'll get questions on this rule or that rule, but I'd like to just point out overall a context. We're updating our rules to promote the efficiency, integrity and resiliency of the middle, the markets in the middle, and that helps capital formation on one side, investors on the other. And we do so with an eye on those investors and issuers and making sure the markets work for them, rather than issuers and investors working for Wall Street and the markets in the middle. We're working to help lower cost, increase access, and promote financial stability and each of the proposals we've made in the last two years. Further, this three part mission, given the authorities granted by Congress and our Division of Economic and Risk Analysis, provides robust economic analysis, which consider the cost and benefits, as well as effects on efficiency, competition and capital formation, as Congress mandated.
00:12:46.276 - 00:13:55.192, Speaker A: We greatly benefit also from public input regarding economics, the policies themselves, our legal authorities, and we get that feedback. And in the last two year, we've provided the public ample time to comment, with an average 70 days to comment from the time the proposal is published. And since January of last year 22, we've always had a minimum of 60 days from when it's on our website, sometimes as long as 100 days when comment periods close. We often continue to get additional comments through meetings and otherwise, which staff has considered as well, including really helpful letters from members of this committee. Based on the public feedback, the staff and the Commission consider possible adjustments to the proposals and whether it's appropriate to move forward with the final rule. This process normally takes twelve to 24 months, and we move to adopt rules only when the staff and the Commission think they are ready to be considered. We're focused on getting it right based upon the economics, the authorities promoting the mission.
00:13:55.192 - 00:14:24.592, Speaker A: Somebody's got the coinbase shield. The phone in the top right now. This is showing the coinbase shield. That's hilarious. Unified agenda. Sorry, I'm going to go back so I can see that we finalized 24 rulemakings, nearly all of which have changed from the proposals based on the public feedback, including from members of this committee. I'm grateful to work alongside a remarkable staff and fellow commissioners to promote efficiency, integrity and resiliency with the possibility of a government shutdown.
00:14:24.592 - 00:14:57.868, Speaker A: I would note as our oversight committee that we would be down to a small, skeletal staff, about seven 8% of our staff, everybody else being furloughed normal oversight of the markets, given this will not be possible in the SEC during the pendency of a shutdown. So we look forward to the day when we can get back to work, hopefully, and fulfill our mission in support of the public. Thank you. Okay, let's find this coinbase shield. There it is. Look at it right there. There's Stan with Coinbase right in the corner.
00:14:57.868 - 00:15:28.728, Speaker A: Only when the staff and the commission think they are ready. Back to going. You say that bitcoin ether litecoin and bitcoin cash are not securities. So I want to focus today on bitcoin. Why do you believe bitcoin is not a security? Thank you, Chair. And I think you're referencing remarks I made as a professor at MIT. And as I wrote in that paper at that time, it was really about something called the Howey test.
00:15:28.728 - 00:15:58.900, Speaker A: And the Supreme Court, it's the law of the land, talks about if the public is anticipating a profit based on the efforts of others. And as I think I noted in that paper back in 2018, I didn't see the shields back bitcoin, but your view on bitcoin, you've made comments on this. You believe bitcoin is not a security. Is that true? Well, I think the staff of the SEC have also ended prior. I'm just asking you this question. And this is not a got you. I thought there's going to be an easy softball into a harder question.
00:15:58.900 - 00:16:36.000, Speaker A: Nice. You think bitcoin is a security? I think I've said this in the past, that I think that I'm asking to answer my question now. This is not supposed to be hard. I know I said it does not meet the Howie test, which is the law the land about being it doesn't meet the Howey test, so therefore it's a commodity. Is that fair? I would say it's not a security. And then the test is otherwise for other laws. Well, the CFTC says they don't have the authority over bitcoin and digital commodities.
00:16:36.000 - 00:17:34.310, Speaker A: Do you think legislation is necessary to protect consumers in the world of digital assets in particular, given that gap around just bitcoin? I think, as I've testified here in this committee room four years ago as a private citizen, that for the parts of the crypto ecosystem that are not securities. Though under the Commodities Exchange Act, the CFTC has some anti fraud authorities. They don't have what's called plenary authority to write rules around that. And as I've said in the past, I've been supportive of our sister agency. If I can say that an agency that I once was honored to chair and I like quite a bit, doesn't have that plenary authority. And if Congress moved forward on that, that could help them. So the spot market lacks a regulatory paradigm and established law.
00:17:34.310 - 00:17:58.890, Speaker A: So should we take action there? I'm sorry, I'm not sure I followed the US stock market. You're talking about the securities? No. The CFTC. I'm continuing with your answer. My follow up there was because there's not a regulatory remit that Congress has given them clear regulatory remit. We should step in. So let me just move on.
00:17:58.890 - 00:18:54.184, Speaker A: I've talked about your non compliance with document requests made by this committee. You believe the commission must vote in order to produce non public information to this Committee, do you not, under the Exchange Act? I do believe that the Commission needs have you scheduled a vote necessary to provide the non public documents to this Committee? We, I think, have been working with your staff and believe in oversight of this Committee. We've provided somewhere over 40,000 pages. Yes. Nothing, as I said in my opening statement, nothing that was non public. Did you provide, in fact, you produced one of the letters that we wrote to you as responsive documents? It showed the absurdity of it. So the General Counsel's Office has indicated to my staff that after a ten week review process, these documents are ready to be transmitted.
00:18:54.184 - 00:19:32.440, Speaker A: It just needs a vote. When do you intend to schedule that vote? We continue to work with you and your staff. We've had the Commission has approved that some senior staff will be taking transcribed interviews, I think, with your staff, but that is not responsive to my document requests. This should not be the hard work of a chairman to answer these questions. You have 30 major rulemakings, but you won't even provide basic documents to us. Your unresponsiveness is non compliance and we'll have to take action. If you're not willing to comply, you have a ten week review process and you've not provided documents.
00:19:32.440 - 00:19:58.930, Speaker A: Furthermore, you haven't even done the economic analysis of your interplay of these major rulemakings that are going to affect anybody who owns a stock bond or any type of security. And so you've got serious questions to answer to the public and to Congress, and we intend to get your compliance. We can do it the easy way or the hard way. Nice. And with that, I yield back. Nice. The ranking member is now recognized for five minutes.
00:19:58.930 - 00:21:07.924, Speaker A: Thank you very much. There are a number of questions that I would like to ask, but since we started out on Bitcoms, let's go further into crypto. Chair Gensler, I've heard you often say there is mass non compliance by crypto firms in the marketplace. Today, I'm very concerned with what sounds like gross violations of the law that end in investors getting ripped off. The failures and fraud of crypto firms like Terra Luna, for example, cost investors as much as $60 billion, which was larger than the Matoff Ponzi scream in 2000. And I know that the SEC has brought enforcement actions against Sam Bankman, Fried and FTX, the failure of which cost investors $9 billion. Since we're talking about everything today, can you please describe the actions that the SEC has taken to shut down crypto firms and recover funds for harmed investors? How much in penalties have defendants paid in cases you have settled? Are crypto firms getting the message? Thank you.
00:21:07.924 - 00:22:14.140, Speaker A: All crypto firms concerns that this is a field that's rife with she's just underhanding him, manipulation and scams. And the American public is still getting hurt by the non compliance in this field in terms of the SEC's approach, it's both through policy and rulemaking and yes, in enforcement. The SEC had finalized rules with regard to special purpose broker dealers in crypto and we also addressed questions that came up about crypto exchanges, the custody of crypto in a custody rule that I imagine we'll chat a little bit about later today and even best execution. But unfortunately, as you noted, we've brought numerous cases in this field to try to protect the American public and be a cop on the beat with regard to so many of these schemes. Thank you very much. I just wanted to make sure that the opposite side of the aisle, who protects too often in too many different ways crypto firms that they know what you're doing. Let me move on.
00:22:14.140 - 00:23:15.536, Speaker A: I want to ask a few questions. So politicized the impact of the government shutdown on SEC's operation chair Gensler, approximately how many people work at the agency and what percentage will be furloughed during a government shutdown? See, this is why they're working together. See, Gary Gensler wants more money for the SEC and Democrats want to be the side that hates crypto. So we'll be down to a skeletal staff. Which divisions would most be impacted? And describe for us what these divisions do. It's really across the whole agency, but the bulk of our workforce is in examinations, in enforcement, in disclosure, review. But let me say what the public won't have, they won't have somebody really at full force overseeing the market for companies that want to go public.
00:23:15.536 - 00:23:59.192, Speaker A: We won't be able to really review the documents or what's called documents going effective. If you want to do an initial public offering which is so critical to a capital formation, we will keep open I wanted to say this for the public, we will keep open our tips, complaint and referral lines. We will keep open comment files so people can still submit comments in our rulemaking. Those won't go anywhere like but we won't really have individuals behind the scenes to follow up. Except I too am worried about public offerings. I've worked with the opposite side of the aisle to improve the ability of those who want to do IPOs. But as you explain it, this will have a negative impact, the shutdown.
00:23:59.192 - 00:24:52.850, Speaker A: These are just perfect questions that Gary Genzer wants to be asked, is that correct? I think that's just a practical reality, yes. What happens if a whistleblower comes to the commission with urgent information that could protect investors? Would there be staff to process this? No, he's going to ignore it anyway. Deploy resources in response to this information, though, we will be able to intake. There won't be the usual investigative force of individuals to follow up as readily unless it's an emergency and it's about specifically protection of property. What will happen if there's a major disruption in the capital markets, operations and infrastructure during the shutdown? Could the SEC be there to respond? It's a very good question. I mean, it's a very good question. Thank you for asking.
00:24:52.850 - 00:25:09.556, Speaker A: Senior leadership would be there. But again, we'd be down to a skeletal latest, time's expired. We'll now go to the vice chair of the full committee, mr. Hill of Arkansas, for five minutes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr.
00:25:09.556 - 00:25:57.700, Speaker A: Gensler, it's good to have you. I want to start out today and talk about equity market structure as a topic. Just yesterday, Congressman Foster and I sent you a letter signed by 16 Democrats and 16 Republicans to express our concerns about the equity market structure proposals that the Commission has initiated. The letter urges you, quite simply, to stop your rulemaking on that broad set of proposals until you finalize the trade execution data rule, the so called 605 data rule, and that that be done first so that you can rely on that data for an appropriate rulemaking. And this speaks to Mr. McHenry's point about the interplay between the rules, which, contrary to the ranking member, I think there are 50 pending proposals. Many of them interact.
00:25:57.700 - 00:26:33.900, Speaker A: They are confusing and sometimes in conflict with each other. And I think this is a classic example, and I think it's particularly true where you're failing to do a rigorous cost benefit analysis for many of the rules. For instance, the SEC's dealer proposal, which uses the word uncertain 15 times to describe its impact on efficiency and competition for the most important financial market in the world, US. Treasuries. So, Mr. Chairman, I would just say this is not MAGA Republicans that are sending you a critical letter of concern. It's a very bipartisan view.
00:26:33.900 - 00:27:23.600, Speaker A: 32 members of this body that think the SEC should reconsider. Would you wait for the rule 605 data before, I don't know, finish the other equity market some TradFi stuff? I thank you for the letter. I did read it last night around 930 when it came in, and it's part of our comment file, and we'll take it and think of it very seriously. But I would say, in terms of the equity markets, the rules have largely not been updated since 2000. That may be, but that means that we need to do it in a comprehensive way, in an interoperative way, and make sure we have the right data. So I'll take your short answer is no, that it's a comment. But I really urge you to get these equity markets proposals in order and to rely on data and not just emotion or one meme stock event to make policy.
00:27:23.600 - 00:28:09.660, Speaker A: Let me change subjects. Let me talk about my favorite kitty cat, which is the Cat consolidated audit trail for over a decade. This bad idea has been floating around the Commission since the Flash crash in 2010 to collect and store private, personal information on every American and every American with a brokerage account at every broker dealer. In my view, this is a massive overkill. This is unnecessary invasion of privacy. This is a massive new tax on the brokerage account of individual American citizens. And maybe worst of all, considering the nine years I've been here, this is another massive centralized government database that's going to be hacked like the IRS, like the CFPB, like OPM.
00:28:09.660 - 00:28:36.516, Speaker A: And so I've got real concerns about it and I continue to express those for Mary Jo White, for Mr. Clayton, and now for you. In fact, you inherited this albatross. Why don't you just bury it and say that we're not going to do the cat, though? I inherited not only from them, but I inherited from my dad a real allergy to cats. And it's real. Oh my God. Well, we don't have time for that.
00:28:36.516 - 00:28:56.540, Speaker A: I'm reclaiming my time. We can have a cat visit. We can do the kitty part later. This is our country's leadership. Do you know what that is? I'm familiar with exam letters, yeah. And do you know what a blue sheet is, sir? I'm generally familiar. I don't know where you're headed, but I'm generally familiar.
00:28:56.540 - 00:29:58.572, Speaker A: And you know that all of our markets have regular daily, interday overnight global market surveillance on trading, right? That's a general feature of all of our SROs, right? Do you agree with that? SROs are responsible to do that, sir. Yeah, I understand that and you regulate the SROs, so what I'm suggesting to you is there's no justification for capturing all these trades when you have right now market surveillance data available to Enforcement Division. And you can right now do a sweep exam through a blue sheet, which is where you go to large traders and you look at everybody who traded in Apple. You can get all the PII you want because you have a probable cause for doing that. And that's why cat, I think, exceeds what you should be doing. Why is the blue sheet targeted exam process inadequate for you to do your job? So I think you raised a good question. But the consolidated audit trail gives the self regulatory organizations and the SEC a look at those orders and matches up sometime.
00:29:58.572 - 00:30:19.640, Speaker A: They've got the ability to do that now. They don't need to capture everybody's trade in every retail brokerage account in America. Mr. Chairman, I yield back, gentlemen, yields back. We'll now recognize the ranked member of the capital markets subcommittee, mr. Sherman to California. As the Chairman points out, it's about capital formation.
00:30:19.640 - 00:31:03.620, Speaker A: You're at the nerve center of the world capitalist system where capital is deployed to operating businesses. If we have a shutdown of the government, I think it's already been pointed out by the ranking member that we stop all IPOs in their tracks. Does this also apply to companies that are already public but are issuing additional shares? And does it also apply to new bond issuances? I'm glad to follow up and have staff chat with you. It's more nuanced. It really depends on whether they have filings. I hope we get Tom emmer. So a few of them are sufficient.
00:31:03.620 - 00:31:44.470, Speaker A: Many public companies would be foreclosed from doing additional offerings. Others would be allowed. It really depends on the nature of their filings. So a huge portion of our 100 trillion dollar capital markets are not available to raise. A huge portion of the initial capital that would be raised for operating businesses would be blocked. We also, as I understand, as far as providing assurance for the honesty of markets, you'll continue to collect emails as they come in, but you won't be doing any investigations or opening any additional investigatory files. Correct.
00:31:44.470 - 00:32:19.820, Speaker A: It's really prescribed and narrow. It relates to a 19th century law called the Energy Efficiency Act. But we can protect public property. Okay, so nobody's going to be stealing your computers, but it's going to be the Wild West on Wall Street. All while we're fighting for capital with other countries and other capital market systems. And we put up a sign that says Closed. I can't think of a worse thing we could do to American capitalism.
00:32:19.820 - 00:33:07.980, Speaker A: Swing pricing, I think, doesn't achieve its purpose. We should want people to invest in mutual funds and diversify and invest in America. But the swing pricing rule you've put forward has been criticized by a letter signed by the vast majority of Democrats on the capital markets subcommittee. Many Republicans, I think the vast majority there the Consumer Federation of America. It seems to be an unfair rule in that giant players can participate in CITs rather than mutual funds, get the same benefits, not be subject to this rule. Investors will be told, you may not get your net asset value. People who live in the Pacific time zone are disadvantaged.
00:33:07.980 - 00:33:54.956, Speaker A: Any chance you'll be taking this role back to the drawing board? We've got a lot of comments. I'm very familiar with the letter that you and Representative Wagner co authored. It's really going at a core feature that when you have a mutual fund, if you redeem in that mutual fund, you should redeem at the right price so that the remaining shareholders don't get dilution. It works well in normal times, less well in stress times. But we're taking all of these into consideration. I understand. I'll simply point out that for many years, thousands of mutual funds, all competing for capital, could have adopted this rule, and not a single one of them thought, oh, this is what investors want.
00:33:54.956 - 00:34:45.560, Speaker A: This is what will seem fair to investors. You've got the safeguarding rule. I'll simply comment that I think we need a safeguarding rule for intangible assets. I would hope that if you feel that tangible assets such as real estate need a safeguarding rule, that you would write a separate rule. Is the safeguarding rule that you're writing pretty much structured around intangible assets such as crypto? No, actually, it's Genesis. That came from Congress itself, and it's part of Dodd Frank 1213 years. Ago, there was a new provision that the SEC address the custody of all customer assets by investment advisors.
00:34:45.560 - 00:35:18.200, Speaker A: So it expanded it from just funds and securities to all assets. That was the general. I would hope that the rule would have separate sections and a completely different approach for real estate on the one hand, and crypto on the other. Real estate, the title is public and the asset isn't moving anywhere, and intangible assets and crypto are very different. I believe my time has expired. It does have separate sections, but we'll take that under advisement. And it's so good to see Brad Sherman just looks like a retired.
00:35:18.200 - 00:35:46.560, Speaker A: We'll now recognize the gentleman from Oklahoma making his valiant return after tussling with a bull. Yes, sir. Happy to have you back, Frank. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and I very much appreciate that. And I would note to my colleagues what just happened. A long time since I've sat this far down in a committee hearing, but after my interaction with 1000 pound bull, I'm just happy to be here.
00:35:46.560 - 00:36:15.416, Speaker A: What is going on? What is this bull? Ask your Name is consent to restore the gentleman's time. We're happy to have you back. Thank you. And my opportunity to visit with my old friend from many encounters and many discussions. Before I begin, I'd like to Google this. I'd like to reiterate a few points made in the bipartisan letter that I sent regarding the SEC's two proposed rulemakings on security based swaps and security loans. And I'd like to enter that letter into the record.
00:36:15.416 - 00:37:06.756, Speaker A: Mr. Chairman, without objection, these proposals, I believe, could impair market liquidity while increasing risks and cost. And to avoid unintended negative consequences, the SEC should study the data for regulatory purposes before moving forward with public dissemination. This is consistent with the Dodd Frank Act and I hope the Commission will give serious consideration to this approach. Now, Chairman Gensler, I'd like to focus on the proposed rule branded as the Safeguarding Advisory client assets. The proposed rule would impose requirements that are inconsistent with the CFTC rules. And you've spent a good bit of time working on CFTC rules in the past life and would indirectly give the SEC iFARE authority over the CFTC's regulated markets.
00:37:06.756 - 00:38:01.772, Speaker A: And in addition to being outside of the SEC's, SEC's authority, this would create the significant problems, I think, across the entire financial markets. Have you consulted with the CFTC on the impact of the proposed rule? And if so, for curiosity, what was their feedback? First, Representative Lucas, it's so good to see you. And your letter with regard to securities based swaps not only gained my attention, but there are many people at the SEC. I would say this is Representative Lucas's letter. Will you please take a close look at it? Thank you. But on your topic and your question about safeguarding of assets, the staff has consulted with fellow regulators at the CFTC about that Safeguarding Rule taken their thoughts into consideration. We're some time away.
00:38:01.772 - 00:38:49.390, Speaker A: I mean, this was only proposed earlier this year and it usually takes twelve to 24 months before we even consider adoption. But I think that there are paths forward in terms of the intersection between their Rule 1.25 and these custody rules. I just think it's imperative that the SEC refrain from applying the proposal to CFTC regulated markets and I hope that you'll be able to commit to that even if it means perhaps at some point withdrawing the rule entirely. Now, second question. The Commission has also recently proposed a rule regarding the use of predictive data analytics used by broker dealers and investment advisors. The proposed rule casts a broad net over what is considered a covered technology.
00:38:49.390 - 00:40:10.420, Speaker A: And I quote directly from the rule a covered technology is defined as an analytical, technological, computational function, an algorithm, a model, a correlation matrix, or similar method of process that optimizes, predicts, guides, forecast, or directs investment related behaviors or outcomes. What a mouthful. The included economic analysis explains that the rule would require a substantial resources to comply with and would prevent smaller firms from entering the market or adopting new technology at all. So Chair Gensler, could you clarify what technologies are covered and is the intent of the rule to make it difficult for firms to employ certain kinds of technology? I hate that how there's like this other version of finance called TradFi that is also relevant here, technology neutral. And it's only about one really core thing is that I would like this to be about crypto or broker dealers interact with investors. That interaction that if they're using, as you said, a covered technology for predictive data analytics, that they continue to put the investors interest ahead of their own and they not in reverse put the investment advisor's interest ahead of the investing public. That's the core of this proposal.
00:40:10.420 - 00:40:48.960, Speaker A: I'd simply add that given the rapid advances in machine learning and generative AI, the United States should lead the way in the development of innovative technologies that would unlock new economic opportunities. And we should be careful not to be so hostile to new technologies that we stop innovation in its tracks. With that, I'll simply say thank you, Mr. Chairman and to Mr. Chairman, I spent seven weeks being calm and at home. I've not been that calm and that long at home since 1986. I'm happy to be back with all of you.
00:40:48.960 - 00:41:12.712, Speaker A: And with you, Mr. Chairman. Yield back. Well, Frank, we're happy to have you back. And as a former chair of two committee, well, current chair of one and former chair of another committee, we honored the old bulls and I missed the ranking member too. Well, now recognize talking Maxine Waters, another ranking member of full committee, mr. Meeks in New York for he obviously does not actually miss.
00:41:12.712 - 00:42:54.760, Speaker A: And thank you Tim and Ginsla for appearing before us today over the course of the last few months I've had the opportunity to both ask the SEC's Director of Can't Believe the Cardano and the Director of the Division of Investment Management about the private fund rules. In particular, I've asked about revisiting the economic analysis to ensure that it adequately considered the disparate impact on emerging minority and women owned asset management firms, minority and women owned businesses, and historically underinvested communities. Dr. Wachter assured me that the SEC shared my concerns and Director Bird Thistle testified that the economic impact analysis was expanded to look into these concerns. So my question to you is one can you confirm that the economic analysis was expanded? And if so, can you speak to the specific changes that were made in response to the findings from that expanded analysis? The rule, as other rules do, considers the effect on small businesses. And in this rule particularly, the economic analysis looked about small businesses, including those that are women owned and minority owned investment advisors running private funds. So I would like to follow up on that, but I got so many questions I want to ask you because it is really important about to get more details of what those findings were.
00:42:54.760 - 00:44:40.380, Speaker A: But I'll ask you more about that in writing and get a response because I want to shift to a related issue that I find to be disturbing. On page five, five three of the private funds rules, the commission seems to seriously suggest that smaller investment advisors who we know are likely to be predominantly minority and women owned consider reducing their assets under management to avoid registering with the SEC to help mitigate the impact of the rule to them. Mr. Chairman, we know that minority owned firms are three to four times more likely to fund minority enterprises and their portfolio companies. So wouldn't telling these firms to stifle their own growth perpetuate the lack of diverse representation in the industry and therefore decrease the amount of funding going to diverse entrepreneurs? As the economic analysis noted and you just read, there are often some firms, whether it's in a rule like this or other rules that are right at a cut off point where they might be registered and regulated and not that they might make different choices. But overall this rule is actually really helpful because it promotes competition and transparency. The biggest fund managers would have to provide greater transparency to their investors and the smaller asset managers can actually benefit from that greater transparency and competition around the side letters that they might be cutting with large asset pension funds and the like.
00:44:40.380 - 00:46:11.000, Speaker A: So it's really a balancing of these economic considerations. It was pro capital formation, it was pro investor because it promotes transparency in the middle of the market that asset managers would have transparency about their fees, their performance and these so called side letters that they enter into. Well, I just have problems with it because it seems to me again, you're telling these asset managers to not grow to not to continue to build where they can do more because of the people that they serve. So it's an issue for me of which I'll follow up on. Under your leadership, the SEC has been incredibly active, and I'll leave it to others to discuss the pace and the breadth of the commission's rulemaking. But what I wonder is whether or not the SEC considers how their proposed rules will interact with existing and draft rules during the rulemaking process, particularly when it comes to economic impact of the finalized and pending rules. And do you think there would be any value to doing a holistic analysis? We do in each economic analysis, which often runs between 100 and 250 pages.
00:46:11.000 - 00:46:28.444, Speaker A: Each of those considers other rules that may have been adopted and adjusts the baseline in each of those analyses. We'll now recognize the gentleman from Texas, Mr. Sassens, for five minutes. Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. And I appreciate the gentleman, my friend, Mr.
00:46:28.444 - 00:47:06.772, Speaker A: Meeks, for his conversation with Chairman. Chairman, welcome once again to the committee. Good to see you, sir. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, I think that there's a lot of happy talk and smiling that takes place from you and your agency as they come up here and they try and talk about two principles of listening to stakeholders and industry participation. And yet I think you're hearing across this committee a wish that we could have a better relationship with you and your entire organization.
00:47:06.772 - 00:47:54.536, Speaker A: And we have prodded them, sent letters, done everything nice that you can do. And yet we show up here and we find a way to provide feedback. We'd like to sincerely turn that around. As you know, you and I spoke a couple years ago about an issue that still is unresolved because the SEC would not even let this firm know what their problem was. And you told me it will take at least 214 days because that's how long it takes us before we're able to turn issues around. When your Fort Worth are you talking about? Already knew the answer. And I think it's this kind of action on behalf of the SEC that causes members of Congress to react the way we do.
00:47:54.536 - 00:48:20.220, Speaker A: Mr. Chairman, I'd like to turn to an issue. Last November, the SEC announced a massive increase in enforcement fines. $6.4 billion in 22, up from 3.8 billion in 21. And you have launched a regulatory crusade against the financial service industry through enforcement.
00:48:20.220 - 00:49:10.172, Speaker A: You've told us that we see this. Can you please tell me what the money from these enforcement actions, what you've done with it, and where that money goes? First, sir, if I may, I think the matter you talked to me about a week or so ago, we filed a civil litigated matter against that company. So I think that's all a matter of public record. Well, then I've learned that now. Thank you. But for the two years prior to that there was attempt to be resolution. And you even blocked that company from their counsel who was very capable from engaging in that, knowing what that was to where they could have corrected that or found a way to work with it because it put at least $50 million directly at risk.
00:49:10.172 - 00:49:33.208, Speaker A: Mr. Chairman, can you explain where the money from these enforcement penalties is winding up? I like this. There's a number of places. Much of it goes into what's called Fair funds. Congress helps set up a process where the public can actually get money back. Those that are harmed can get money back. And some of the penalties and so forth go into the US.
00:49:33.208 - 00:50:10.292, Speaker A: Treasury, some in Fair funds and back to those that have been hurt. But some, of course, also into the US treasury go into the SEC, takes the money in, follows the laws that have been established. We're funded separately, of course. We're appropriated and then we're funded by fees that are fees on transactions. Yes, sir. I just wanted to make sure that it's as a result of what Congress has established with the Fair funds about what they would do with that money. And your testimony today, is that's what you've done with the $6.4
00:50:10.292 - 00:50:45.072, Speaker A: billion? Not all of it, sir. Well, then please tell me what I add a comma and add the rest. No, we can follow up with the details because of that six I am interested in following up the details and I would ask that your staff accept, just like Congressman Lucas sends a staff and your staff knows oh, we got a letter from Congressman Lucas. Let's respond very quickly here. I'd like to send you a letter today asking for those details. Thank you. The actual breakdown, as a matter of public record we put it in our financials each year.
00:50:45.072 - 00:51:11.208, Speaker A: I just don't have it memorized. Well, that's fair. I would not either. Oh, boy. Mr. Chairman, we really, I think, would like to, on a bipartisan basis up here have better interaction with your organization. With this guy is he's asking good questions? He's just really ineffective calling on a bipartisan basis for us to do that.
00:51:11.208 - 00:51:25.644, Speaker A: We believe if we express our opinion, you should express yours back, not just delay that. I want to thank you for being here, sir. And I will engage you on this matter. Mr. Chairman, I yield back my gentleman's time has expired. Gentlemen. He tried gentlemen from Georgia, Mr.
00:51:25.644 - 00:52:33.520, Speaker A: Scott's recognized for five minutes. Thank you very much. First of all, Chair Gensler, I agree with our ranking member, Ms. Waters, I believe you're doing an excellent job excuse my cold. An excellent job at a very difficult and challenging time. Looks like he's about to fall apart, economy and especially our securities markets. On July twelveTH, my good Republican friend, Congressman Frank Lucas and I sent you a follow up letter with respect to the SEC's proposed rule regarding the impact of publicly disclosing proprietary positions in large security based swaps above certain reporting thresholds.
00:52:33.520 - 00:54:17.616, Speaker A: Specifically, Congressman Lucas and I, we raised concerns with how this move could impair market liquidity and hinder the SEC's core mission to maintain fair and orderly and efficient markets. So my question to you is first, I know you have previously said you understood the law to require some public availability of this sensitive information, but can you expand on whether widespread public access to large SBS positions could in any way impair the ability of market bro? We got places to be operate their trading business or limit their ability to hedge effectively. That was all of his time. We continue to consider at the staff level, at the Commission level, not just your comment letter with Representative Lucas, but others about this. But securities based swaps can be used to basically replicate the positions that are taken in the stock and bond markets, but particularly in the stock markets. And you might recall about two years ago, there was a family office card, Arcagos, that did that and did that in quite some size. So that's one of the reasons, not the only reason, but one of the reasons.
00:54:17.616 - 00:54:53.952, Speaker A: Just we look at this and we say, congress gave us this authority. This is one of the remaining authorities we had not addressed from DoD Frank. And so we took it up. We put a proposal out about the possible requirements to report to the Commission and then in some cases, report publicly these large either credit default swaps or total return swaps. That, of course, credit default swaps were at the center of the eight crisis, and total return swaps were at the center of this one example. This arcagos example. Yeah.
00:54:53.952 - 00:55:52.476, Speaker A: Now, let me ask you this question. Do you see any risk in allowing the public to take advantage of this information, for example, by facilitating front running and copycat trading, which could drive up the cost for all market participants? I believe we've gotten that comment from a number of commenters. It's taken up in our economic analysis. Taken up in our economic analysis. But it's an important issue of all public transparency. The markets can benefit from transparency, but it's sometimes there's somebody that had an advantage of the Opacity. So when I was on Wall Street, we used to have a saying a little bit that the firm I was at, that darkness was our friend, and it was about sometime Opacity helps make more money as a dealer.
00:55:52.476 - 00:56:32.832, Speaker A: But it's not necessarily the case that the markets themselves, economists, tend towards the transparency, helps the proper pricing in the markets, and also helps capital formation. Well, I'm delighted with your presentation. I understand with low economic and finance that I handle at times, particularly with the stock market. Keep up the good job. Don't get discouraged. We'll get out of this mess in our financial markets. Gentlemen's, time.
00:56:32.832 - 00:56:33.696, Speaker A: Thank you.
00:56:33.878 - 00:56:34.176, Speaker B: Well.
00:56:34.198 - 00:56:42.508, Speaker A: Now recognize the gentleman from Florida, mr. Posey, for five minutes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good to see you. Mr. Chairman.
00:56:42.508 - 00:57:48.500, Speaker A: Good to see you, sir. In spite of the SEC, Inspector General and Gao recommendations, SEC continues to assert that as an independent agency, the Commission is not required to do the same kind of regulatory analysis and cost benefit analysis as other agencies. Why is the agency so defiant about the suggestion to be accountable as other agencies are? Well, anyone pronounce anything in this Congress? 96 Congress put in our statute that we had to do economic analysis, and so we followed that. And then after a number of court cases in the early 20 years ago or so, we updated our guidance to ensure that we followed Congress's mandate. So we do economic analysis again, sometimes measuring in a couple hundred pages in every one of our releases. We get feedback from the public and then we adjust. We modify.
00:57:48.500 - 00:58:40.708, Speaker A: So the inspector general is wrong. You don't need to do any further analyses? Well, in fact, we do need to do analysis because Congress mandated it's called. We have to analyze the efficiency, the competition, and the effects on capital formation. And in doing so, we lay out an economic baseline and then we have to look at alternatives to the proposal, reasonable alternatives, and we look at cost and benefits. And so we do all of that. And any rules are in conformance with the Administrative Procedures Act? Yes, we do that in compliance with the Administrative Procedures Act. But also Congress added these other provisions in 1996 where's Tom Emmer I want Tom Emmer court interpretations of that in 2005, and so forth.
00:58:40.708 - 01:00:02.712, Speaker A: We updated how we did this, and we follow guidance that's been placed since 2012. So I think I'm the fourth chair that we're following the similar guidance for eleven years now. So does the Commission assess and analyze cumulative economic impacts of the rules that it makes using what and the interrelationship with other agencies? We analyze in each one a baseline, as I mentioned. So if, for instance, there was an interaction and we finalize a rule, then we necessarily update the baseline for the next consideration for the world as it exists at that point in time. In your climate disclosure rule, are you requiring that firms pursuing ESG directed investments also disclose the risk they face from favorable regulations, not materializing, or climate subsidies drying up or slowing down? The proposal is really to capture the risk that investors want to understand. The proposal was about both the opportunities and the risks. But I think you did use this word it's about materiality.
01:00:02.712 - 01:00:44.892, Speaker A: We're not a climate regulator. We're really disclosure based regulator. And thousands of investors, more than thousands, but representing tens of trillions of dollars of assets today are making investment decisions. And I'll share a statistic with you. Of the Russell 1000, the top thousand companies in the US. 81% currently make climate risk disclosures 57% disclose their greenhouse gas scope one and scope two. So what we're trying to do is just try to bring some comparability to that, in a sense for investors, but also to avoid some greenwashing frankly.
01:00:44.892 - 01:01:43.996, Speaker A: So bring some comparability to that which is already happening. Based on your strategic planning, which of your proposed rules is most vulnerable to the major questions doctrine set down in West Virginia versus EPA? We really do everything we can to stay within the laws as Congress had passed it and how courts interpret them. We're familiar with the case, the Supreme Court case. It's the law of the land that you mentioned. And we take a very close look at that to ensure that when we finalize rules, it's within the laws and how the courts interpret it. Are you trying to resolve any of those major questions at this time? Well, I would broaden it out, sir. It's like any time the Supreme Court speaks to broadly the administrative state's authorities, we take a look at that and we take a look at every comment we receive from the public to stay within our authorities.
01:01:43.996 - 01:01:54.630, Speaker A: Gentlemen's, time six. Thank you. We'll now recognize Mr. Cleaver for five minutes. Come on, Mr. Cleaver, do something exciting. Thank you, Chairman Gensler, for being here today.
01:01:54.630 - 01:02:44.020, Speaker A: I'm one of those people who believes that there is such a thing as climate change. Oh, God. And the scientists, I agree with the scientists. I guess most of the warming that we are experiencing actually took place over the last 40 years. Sir, this is a wendy's last nine years are the warmest temperatures that we've had since modern oh my God. Get your thoughts together. Weather temperatures.
01:02:44.020 - 01:03:09.244, Speaker A: And we're talking to the SEC. I'm from Kansas City, Missouri. The Missouri about climate change. Longest water system in North America. We're talking about water systems with a securities regulator, makes its way all the way through Missouri and then meets up with the Mississippi in St. Louis. It goes through seven states.
01:03:09.244 - 01:04:30.120, Speaker A: And the only reason I'm mentioning that is that we are experiencing all kinds of events along the Missouri River system. We had droughts, floodings are becoming more volatile and weather events are becoming more extreme in impacting the Missouri River. What the shit is going on? This becomes economical in the sense that the low water levels, which are reaching sometimes record lows, disrupts business. We do a lot of barch trafficking on the Missouri and Mississippi and that is being disrupted. And so the crisis puts into question our viability and long term dependability. So I was pleased. March last year, the SEC released the proposed rule to require public companies to make a variety of quantitative and qualitative disclosures regarding climate related risk.
01:04:30.120 - 01:05:48.508, Speaker A: Is there any company, any kind of economic interest in the United States that you think would be immune from climate risk as we are dealing with this? Well, we may not be dealing with powerfully as we should. But are there any exemptions that you can think of that companies or corporations would not be impacted or not being he's asking a question that's trying to lead into no. Every single company will be equally impacted by climate change and that's why it's a significant deal which is just the red versus blue debate. It's a matter of investors making investment choices. For some companies investors are getting disclosures and we're trying to bring some comparability to that disclosures. Some companies it's viewed as material and some companies it's not. That's an important distinction of course, but there's so many different sectors and so many different industries in this country and we're merit neutral, but we're not disclosure neutral.
01:05:48.508 - 01:06:32.880, Speaker A: And right now 80 plus percent of the top thousand companies are already making disclosures. It's really on our responsibility to bring some consistency and comparability for investors to get decision useful information. Yes. I'm not suggesting that you are the EPA or some kind of climatologist. I'm not suggesting that you're the EPA. I wanted to make sure that the SEC continues to this is just turning into a David Trolls Congress hearing. It's not even about Gary of what's going on dangerously with climate change and that it will all impact corporations.
01:06:32.880 - 01:07:01.396, Speaker A: I would say this, we have heard 16,000 comments. We have heard very consistently from investors that they find this information decision useful and they would benefit from more consistency and comparability in the information they're frankly already receiving. So that's what we're focused on. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen's. Time's expired that was now recognized worthless, Missouri.
01:07:01.396 - 01:07:24.560, Speaker A: The chair of the National Security Subcommittee, mr. Luca Meyer. For five minutes. Thank you Mr. Chairman, chairman Gensler, my good colleague here, Mr. Cleaver and I wrote to you in May regarding SEC's conflicts of interest, reproposed. Rule number 192, prohibition against conflicts of interest in certain circulations and our concerns about the potential treatment of mortgage insurance linked notes.
01:07:24.560 - 01:08:10.668, Speaker A: Our letter was filed under the bulk of all comment letters and the first sentence asked for you to they were requesting a clarification of the language. Okay, so the last time we did this, when was this? This was in May I think is when Gary had his last hearing, I believe, in front of this same committee. And it started off kind of like how this one started off, where it started off with crypto. McHenry came in and was like, yo, is ether security or is it not a security? And then Maxine Waters talked and it kind of ping pong between crypto and not crypto for a very long time. And sometimes you would get like someone brad Sherman talked about crypto. Then Tom Emmer came in and just grilled him. That one was more crypto than this one is.
01:08:10.668 - 01:09:00.096, Speaker A: So like it's kind of a crapshoot because every single member of the Finance Committee gets to talk about whatever they want to talk about. It sounds like this current instantiation of the Finance Committee doesn't really care to talk about crypto as much. But the thing is, you have to hold on because Tom Emmer could be next, or whoever wants to talk next could bring up crypto. We just don't know until the time comes. Private sector, in other words, there's a crapshoot for these companies to be able to allow the reduction, well, the spread of risk and then of course, the reduction of cost. The question is pretty simple. Would you support something like that? I think that if I understand the question that mortgage originators rely also on mortgage insurance, that's an important part of it that I agree.
01:09:00.096 - 01:09:53.484, Speaker A: Important part of the market. Okay. In our letter we say that the rulemaking may unintentionally prohibit private insurers from procuring reinsurance by the capital markets through these mil ends which would negatively impact homebuyers lenders and taxpayers. Are you considering changes to the rule to clarify the treatment of mortgage insurance linked notes without prejudging any adopting release? We're considering all the comments, including yours, but these individual letters you referenced congress put a mandate that we had to help ensure that underwriters and sponsors of certain mortgage securitizations not be betting against their investors. And that's what we're trying to do. Mr. Gensler, the letter should not be canned with the comment letters.
01:09:53.484 - 01:11:23.096, Speaker A: It's a request for you to clarify what you're trying to accomplish here and the letter to point out what we need clarification of. So we would appreciate a response. Thank you for that. I also sit on the Chinese Select Committee and as a result of my position there and the Chairmanship of the National Security and Illicit Financing Sub Chair here in 2022 the PCAOB inspection reports of mainland China and Hong kong accounting firms which audit US listed Chinese companies were scathing and a reminder that financial statements produced by the CCP controlled companies should never be trusted. Both reports showed unacceptable rates of Part one point a deficiencies which are deficiencies so large that PCAOB staff believe the audit firm failed to obtain sufficient audit evidence to support its work on the public company's financial statements. Essentially, the audits were useless. Is it correct that under the Holding Foreign Companies Act Accountable Act, these two firms which fail so spectacularly will not be inspected again by the PCAOB for another two to three years? I'm not familiar enough with the Pcob's rotating schedule, but it is accurate that when the PCOB goes in to inspect an auditing firm in any country, they sometimes aren't able they don't have the staff to go in on an annual basis.
01:11:23.096 - 01:11:49.056, Speaker A: Well, the premise is correct there, where they only have to do it every two or three years. And so Mr. Sherman and I have introduced a piece of bipartisan legislation that require them to have an annual audit. As we saw in 2020, there were 1000 companies on the exchange. Now it's down between 253 hundred. A lot of them are shell companies. And when we're threatening an audit, suddenly they disappeared.
01:11:49.056 - 01:12:11.736, Speaker A: The funneling of our capital to Chinese companies and the Chinese government and Communist Party has got to stop. And so we appreciate your support for something like that. And just a quick comment, yes or no? Look, I think it's really important. If somebody wants to issue stock in the US. They need to comply with their laws, especially China. That's very important. Thank you very much.
01:12:11.736 - 01:12:12.968, Speaker A: I yield back, gentlemen.
01:12:12.984 - 01:12:17.788, Speaker B: Yields back. The chair now recognizes a gentleman from Connecticut. Mr. Heims, for five minutes.
01:12:17.954 - 01:12:52.616, Speaker A: Thank you. Thanks for joining us today. Mr. Chairman, I want to talk with you for three minutes or so about my ongoing efforts to codify insider trading into law. But I do want to take a minute here, since we're on the verge of a government shutdown, to just see how that affects you and your organization. It's sort of taken for granted around here that a shutdown is going to occur because my friends on the other side of the aisle can't find the coherence to pass a rule on the floor, much less do what we know needs to be done to avoid a shutdown, which is to pass a bipartisan continuing resolution. The Senate has figured that out.
01:12:52.616 - 01:13:18.656, Speaker A: They're working on that. We'll figure that out eventually. In the meantime, to demonstrate the importance of doing that, we are going to shut down the government because of some MAGA extremists. Now, we get asked all the time about the very visible stuff. We'll be treated in the next couple of weeks to the site of 19 year old Marines and sailors lining up at food banks because they don't know that they're getting paid. SBA will be shut down. They will not be able to lend to small businesses, and those small businesses may go under.
01:13:18.656 - 01:14:15.824, Speaker A: We could go on with all the public stuff, but you lead an organization that has an awful lot of people who could be making a lot more money at a bank or at a law firm who are going to be told that they're inessential, who may be furloughed. So let me just give you a minute or so here. I'm curious, even though it's not going to make headlines, what would a shutdown do to morale and capability inside the securities Exchange Commission? It's a remarkable dedicated staff, but we're looking at probably 90% to 93% of our staff will be furloughed. So we'll be down to skeletal seven, 8% of our staff. In terms of what it would do for morale, I think that history shows, because we had one of these in 18 and 35 days at that point in time, that it's hard on people. It's hard because they're not getting a paycheck. It's hard because, as you rightly say, they can get jobs at law firms and elsewhere and go and they're just really dedicated public servants.
01:14:15.824 - 01:14:51.180, Speaker A: In terms of the markets. I would say if a company were deciding to go public or raise offerings, they'd want to go effective before Friday if they're ready to. If not, they might be in a sort of subliminal state where they can't access the markets because we can't effectively review those. Let me redirect you for a second to okay companies raising capital. But your SEC is a whipping boy. You know that. But the truth is the organization is full of people who are out there prosecuting fraud, who are stopping insider trading.
01:14:51.180 - 01:15:13.876, Speaker A: Are we going to see if there is a meaningful shutdown fraud go unprosecuted insider trading, you won't have the capacity to address these things which hurt the American public. Correct. Yeah. While somebody can still file a tip complaint and referral, somebody can file a whistleblower, there won't be the people on the other side to really review it and investigate it. Thank you. Okay. Speaking of insider trading, Mr.
01:15:13.876 - 01:16:12.408, Speaker A: Chairman, I want to just briefly discuss with you something I've worked on for seven years right now, which, as you know, is trying to define insider trading in law. It's not defined in law today, as you know. And as a result, we have court made law newman, Salman Martoma overturning each other, creating a great deal of uncertainty, prosecutions being overturned, convictions being overturned, a great deal of uncertainty. I'm a believer in this idea that if we're going to send somebody for jail, we should be very clear about why we are doing that. So I'd love to get a minute or so from you, Mr. Chairman. Where are we? Would we benefit from a Codified statute on insider trading law? Would that remove some of the uncertainty and remove some of the chance that the courts will overturn your traditional activities? I think that we've had the benefit at the agency of robust, as you said, largely court made law from the 1980s on.
01:16:12.408 - 01:16:59.992, Speaker A: And you referenced some cases, even the last six, seven years. But I think we've provided you and other members, if I remember, technical assistance on a legislative package that you had last year, if I recall, that almost made it into the NDAA, if I recall. But again, I think that we have good robust authorities. But the technical assistance, I recall supported that bill. It supported what you were trying to achieve. But ideally, and I think you gave us this technical assistance if we could preserve those authorities that are legacy authorities, if you will. But if we could, that was the key that we didn't want to in any way lose the authorities all the way up to the Supreme Court that we had.
01:16:59.992 - 01:17:27.568, Speaker A: Right, but I see you nodding. If we could codify a definition of insider trading and create reduce some of the risk of overturning of case made law that might, in the long run, simplify your task and create confidence in the markets. Great. Yeah. I think our and again, we should follow up with staff. But our major concern was that we not somehow undo some of the really good law that's in place.
01:17:27.654 - 01:18:12.668, Speaker B: Gentlemen, expired. Gentlemen, yields back. The chair now recognizes herself for five minutes. Okay, chair Gensler, while you were a professor at MIT, you spoke at length about how technology could be used to democratize finance. In fact, in a lecture quoted in a podcast entitled Paying It Forward with Fintech with Professor Gary Gensler, you stated, and I quote, what I was drawn to at MIT was this sense that maybe we can democratize capitalism. A bit more that we can use technology to make finance more inclusive and more accessible to many more millions of people in our country. And many more hundreds of millions of people around the globe.
01:18:12.668 - 01:18:55.068, Speaker B: Now, sir, as Chair of the SEC, you've put forward a predictive data analytics proposal that jeopardizes the innovation and technology that's made investing available to millions more Americans than ever before. I'm confused at which Gary Gensler, the American public, should believe the academic version, who spoke glowingly about the power of technology to help more investors participate in US and global capital markets, or the SEC version, who apparently thinks all use of any technology by broker dealers and investment advisors is inherently conflicted nice. And firms should interesting that she's not.
01:18:55.074 - 01:18:57.464, Speaker A: Using crypto, but she's definitely talking about crypto altogether.
01:18:57.592 - 01:19:02.264, Speaker B: Chair Gensler, could you please briefly explain this change in your views?
01:19:02.312 - 01:19:13.712, Speaker A: Yes, please. Thank you for the question. A clever question. It's the same Gary Genzer. It's not my identical twin brother Rob or anything. It's me. And I believe technology is so transformative.
01:19:13.712 - 01:19:35.384, Speaker A: I think artificial intelligence, machine learning is so transforming this decade and get the fuck out of here. I think Robo advisors and brokerage apps, whether they're using these new technologies or some of the older predictive data analytics, just stand by that basic concept that the investor is first, not the investment advisor is first.
01:19:35.502 - 01:20:44.472, Speaker B: That's all we agree there. And this proposal fails to acknowledge the already existing and well functioning SEC regulations, such as regulation Best Interest, reg, bi, and the fiduciary standard that protects investors. I would really urge you to withdraw this regulation as we already have this in place. And during your last appearance in front of this committee, I asked you, sir, if you were planning to rewrite regulation best interests regbi, and you said that it was not currently on your agenda. However, the Commission's proposal on conflicts of interest associated with the use of predictive data analytics effectively rewrites regbi by holding broker dealers and investment advisors to a higher standard of conduct and conflict neutralization than regbi. Were you intentionally withholding your plans to supersede regbi?
01:20:44.536 - 01:20:44.764, Speaker A: No.
01:20:44.802 - 01:20:45.892, Speaker B: With your proposal?
01:20:45.976 - 01:21:23.864, Speaker A: Robert Gensler is actually Gary's brother. Same as I did in April. I think this doesn't change regulation best interest or the fiduciary interpretation. Oh, no, this does. I did not know that. And an important area around using predictive data analytics. If a function, an optimization function, it's a little bit of a math thing, but if the math is basically putting the investment advisor's interest ahead of the investors, if it's making a recommendation or it's giving a nudge, a behavioral nudge to steer somebody somewhere, therein lies a conflict.
01:21:23.912 - 01:21:58.180, Speaker B: That's what we're trying too broad. I mean, we don't even know what technology would be applied here. And at the core, Reg Bi has a fiduciary standard, the best interest that is already there. You are now superseding that. And it's not just duplicative, it throws out potentially the fiduciary rule in Reg Bi. So I again would encourage you, and I think we have Bipartisan support to withdraw this rule just as soon as possible.
01:21:58.330 - 01:22:02.568, Speaker A: That's robert Gensler. That's not even staff because this was.
01:22:02.574 - 01:22:17.580, Speaker B: A question I sent to you that we haven't received response humbay staff with the Division of Trading and Markets and Division Investment Management and the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis were actively involved former President Price analytics proposal.
01:22:19.600 - 01:22:23.056, Speaker A: I don't have a number, but I would say that generally speaking do they.
01:22:23.078 - 01:22:26.924, Speaker B: Have advanced degrees in computer science, data science, or engineering?
01:22:26.972 - 01:22:34.080, Speaker A: Sir, a number of them have advanced degrees in economics and computer science, but I don't know how many of them do.
01:22:34.150 - 01:22:43.590, Speaker B: Well, I've sent you a list of questions. I'd love to have those answers. My time's expired. The Chair now recognizes the gentleman from Illinois, Mr. Foster, for five minutes.
01:22:44.360 - 01:23:29.280, Speaker A: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I want to thank our witness for staying up until 09:30 p.m. To accept and analyze the just in time delivery of our Bipartisan letter with 16 Republicans and 16 Dems on it. That French l, and I prepared I want to make sure that you understand what the meaning of that letter is. It is not that you should stop working on the market reforms in parallel with 605 upgrades. The intention is that you actually get the 605 done so that you have upgraded reporting of quality of order execution and so on, and have that in place so you can have a look at the robert Genzler portfolio manager at TRO Price. Looks exactly like Gary.
01:23:29.280 - 01:24:24.836, Speaker A: The quality of order execution, who the shit is. So just the meaning of the letter is to sequence those in that way, but not to cease all work on planning and so on of the market structure reform. So just please read that the end of the first paragraph carefully. One of the reasons it was late is we did a certain amount of wordsmithing to get that right. And I also want to comment a little bit on it was on your shift when we had the flash crash, right? You were running the CFTC during the flash crash. And I remember when we had a hearing maybe four days afterward, the CFTC had, the night of the flash crash, 30 people with the entire trading history on their laptops figuring out what the heck happened. And four days later, the SEC, which did not have a consolidated audit trail like structure in place, was still collecting the data to figure out what the heck happened.
01:24:24.836 - 01:25:11.648, Speaker A: And so I think that is why we should not lose sight of making the consolidated audit trail a success and really do it. And I think that's a separable discussion from the beneficial owner and cybersecurity issues there and in particular because I don't know who the hell this is. Tom Emmer made a statement. Actually, we're going to pause this because it's boring and we're going to listen to Tom Emmer who's hyping up his own incoming. I identify his own incoming. The conference chair's remarks here, Michael Cloud's remarks. But for me, it's a big day in Congress for more reasons than what we've talked about so far today, SEC Chair Gary Gensler is going to testify before the House Financial Services Committee.
01:25:11.648 - 01:25:43.712, Speaker A: And boy, does he have a lot to answer for. Under Gary Gensler's leadership, I would say failed leadership. The SEC has been an incompetent cop on the beat. Throughout his career, Gensler has been relentlessly loyal to the biggest institutions at the expense of everyday Americans. Today, he's going to face some important questions about that. Gary Gensler has worked to consolidate his own power, even though it means crushing opportunities and frankly, the financial future of this country. The strategy hasn't been successful for him.
01:25:43.712 - 01:26:31.792, Speaker A: As you note, the SEC continues to lose again and again in courts on its crusade against digital asset innovation. So it should be increasingly obvious that the crypto industry is not an industry rife with non compliance. Thank you. Rogue bureaucrats like Gary Gensler are supposed to be working for the people, not reigning over them. I for one, would like to see the SEC return to its mission and make sure that they protect opportunities for every American who wants to participate in the greatest capital markets in the world. Digital asset innovation is an important part of that, despite what Gary is getting hyped in pre gaming government of one, he is a bureaucrat who answers to Congress. And I look forward to having him before our committee today.
01:26:31.792 - 01:26:51.824, Speaker A: And now I turn it over to our beloved leader, the toughest man in Congress, Steve Scalise. Thank you, Tom Hammer. I look forward to your comments soon. Can quantify their order quality. That's what this rule says. That's right. But then you have to make sure it's an apples to apples comparison.
01:26:51.824 - 01:27:17.244, Speaker A: They will have an incentive to not quite. If there's an ambiguity, they will resolve it in favor of making their numbers look good. You're going to have to have some of your employees looking over that. Whereas if you just say, okay, find a competent entity like S three seems to have a pretty good market share of doing that already. Or FINRA this. Haven't been asked to just write one piece of software, make it public run that piece of software in the consolidated audit trail. He did the same thing.
01:27:17.244 - 01:27:44.784, Speaker A: Everyone, to understand exactly what numbers are being reported. The one thing is the consolidated audit trail does not capture and compare the orders like you bought something on a Tuesday or you put an order in and here's the actual quality. So it would be bolting more requirements, I think, onto the consolidated audrey. But we can follow up into further.
01:27:44.832 - 01:27:53.048, Speaker B: I think it actually could gentlemen's, time's expired. The chair now recognizes the gentleman from Kentucky. Mr. Barr for five minutes.
01:27:53.134 - 01:28:54.300, Speaker A: Chairman Gensler, have you ever spoken to Senator Menendez about the Security and Exchange Commission's Director of Enforcement, Gerber Gruall? No. On May 20, 2021, your public calendar notes a call with Senator Menendez. What was discussed during that call, if you can remember two years YouTube chat. How do I get past this ad paywall possible disclosure by public companies of political what's the trick for that contributions? Well, you hired Mr. Groal as the SEC's Director of Enforcement. Shortly after that May 20 call. Are you aware of the glowing statement in support that was put out by Senator Menendez praising your hire? I thank you for letting me know that, but until you told me, or until today, well, I'm deeply concerned about this, and I'll be following up with your office with additional questions and expect a written response.
01:28:54.300 - 01:29:09.810, Speaker A: Mr. Chairman, I really liked your colorful testimony. And you're right. We are blessed with the largest, most sophisticated, and most innovative capital markets in the world. But we cannot take this for granted. Oh, my God. There's two of them.
01:29:09.810 - 01:29:51.740, Speaker A: No way read a single thing on blockchain. All right, rob, what do you think? Rob rat at $20 billion funds and he's not read a single thing on the syllabus? No, I haven't even read a single thing on Blockchain. Oh, my God. I was a tech over Twitter in the was a tech and telecom investor. And it's relevant to inform my biases because I saw shit. Google wasn't the first search engine that came public that will be of little practical use. Wasn't even the top five.
01:29:51.740 - 01:30:26.940, Speaker A: It was the 6th or 7th, if I recall. Search engine that came through. And the first five didn't have a monetization case. And Google wound up figuring out the puzzle. And I saw all the things in the tech crack and the tech crash and all. What intrigues me about this is and I'm not a minimalist as to Blockchain has no economic basis. It actually yeah, that's not sound that's fine.
01:30:26.940 - 01:30:45.282, Speaker A: Okay. Sorry. We're going back here to deter investment in profitable companies. This is not doing that. With all respect, all it is is about trying to bring some comparability to disclosures being made. We're not a climate agency. I know, I've heard you say this.
01:30:45.282 - 01:30:59.960, Speaker A: We're really not. But let's be honest. We know what's going on we know what's going on. You're trying to scarlet Letter fossil energy. We're not. I know you talk about joke. Everybody knows what you're doing.
01:30:59.960 - 01:31:33.330, Speaker A: You're trying to redirect capital away. You're trying to discriminate against fossil energy. Notwithstanding your protests, most American investors find all of this scope Three emissions nonsense and immaterial. It's immaterial. I know institutional investors talk about this, but this is about an agenda to discriminate against fossil energy, which is profitable. That's not protecting investors, that's hurting investors. It's steering them into less diversified, lower performing funds.
01:31:33.330 - 01:32:23.294, Speaker A: Let me move on to the perfect storm of regulation. The NPOs has a second phase. Consulted with Vice Chair Barr about the Basel Three endgame and the interplay between what you're doing on capital markets regulation and what's happening in commercial real estate. I'm very concerned about this because Basel Three will increase the cost of credit, diminish lending capacity and undermine the role that banks play in lending and financial intermediation in commercial real estate. Have you talked to the Fed about how this interacts with conflicts of interest and Securitization rule, rule 15 C 211, private funds, custody rule and others? Because I'm really worried that basel three in game. Patrick McHenry just put this tweet out. Proposals would lead to a death by 1000 cuts for commercial real estate.
01:32:23.294 - 01:32:48.700, Speaker A: When we're looking at mature isn't boring. So we're going to watch it opening marks. Welcome back. Chairman Gensler. Last time you were before the committee, I voiced my concerns regarding your reckless approach to rulemaking, lack of capital formation agenda, crusade against the digital asset ecosystem, and unresponsiveness to Congress, so many things change. So many things remain the same. Those are the same issues on the docket today.
01:32:48.700 - 01:33:21.400, Speaker A: This means that in the last five months you've done nothing to remedy the legitimate and often bipartisan concern expressed by this committee and these committee members. That is disgraceful. So let's run through them again. Let me be clear, chairman Gensler. Our patience is wearing thin. First, the securities Exchange Commission's current approach to rulemaking jeopardizes the integrity of our financial markets and puts investors at risk. There's a critical need for comprehensive economic analysis of the rules you've proposed and their interaction with one another.
01:33:21.400 - 01:34:20.710, Speaker A: Under your leadership, the Commission has failed to adequately assess their interplay and cumulative impact. That's shoddy work for an important agency and does not adhere to the SEC's mandatory statutory authority. While the securities Exchange Commission engaged in a wide ranging regulatory agenda, you seem to have overlooked the importance of public input, resulting in bifaris and bicameral concerns. Members of both sides of the aisle have raised valid concerns regarding the MiFID relief swing, pricing hard close, as well as your equity market structure overhaul. The scurge and Exchange Commission has taken no action to address these concerns. Second, you continue to fail to prioritize capital formation among your expansive rulemaking agenda items. There is not a single initiative aimed at improving access to capital or enhancing market competitiveness.
01:34:20.710 - 01:35:13.270, Speaker A: Third, your efforts to choke off the digital asset ecosystem, which has created real harm for consumers and our markets, is clear to all. You said the law is clear, but your actions have created more confusion and lasting damage. Chair Gensler, you've also said your goal is consumer protection. Yet your actions have pushed legitimate digital asset activities outside regulated financial institutions where consumers are best protected. On one hand, we've seen bipartisan votes in Congress in this committee to provide clear rules of the road and real consumer protection. And on the other, we've seen your ad hoc regulation by enforcement approach to digital assets on a losing streak in the courts. You refuse to be transparent with Congress regarding your interactions with FTX and Sam Bankman Fried.
01:35:13.270 - 01:35:45.330, Speaker A: That's the investigation we started last Congress. Finally, your lack of responsiveness to this Committee's legitimate oversight continues to be unacceptable, and I want to finish here. In February, the committee made multiple requests for documents to the securities Exchange Commission. This is normal congressional oversight. Yet seven months later, the committee has not received a single non public document that was not part of a FOIA production. As I said, our patience is wearing thin. The SEC is not above the law, nor is it unique.
01:35:45.330 - 01:36:35.838, Speaker A: Other financial regulators have routinely complied with congressional oversight. So let me be clear. I do not want to be the first chairman of this committee to issue a subpoena to the securities Exchange Commission. And you should not want to be the first SEC chair to receive a congressional subpoena. Either we find a path forward where the SEC recognizes Congress is a co equal branch of government and is responsive to our oversight duties, or my option is to issue a subpoena. It's time for you to consider the lasting consequences of your action, your actions, and what that means to the securities Exchange Commission's reputation long term. While your time in this role may be temporary, the repercussions for your actions may be permanent for the agency.
01:36:35.838 - 01:37:36.322, Speaker A: I yield back. Yeah. Like the most exciting part of this whole entire thing. I've been watching this in the sidelines, and she's been talking about by changing the inputs for different mixes of assets, can you address the concerns or take the rest of my time to talk about this proposal so we can understand it better? Well, one thing I'd say, this hearing comes at a timely moment because the comment period is open till October 10 on this particular rule. But this rule really just has a basic concept that if you're engaging with investors, that those investors interests come before that of the investment advisor or broker dealer. If you're using predictive data analytics to determine how to nudge them or guide them, you should be not putting your interest in my downtime. I like to watch romantic comedies and watch on streaming apps.
01:37:36.322 - 01:38:15.362, Speaker A: If the streaming app figures out that I'm like a rom.com guy, which I am. And they're doing it because they make more money, because I watch the streaming app more. There you go. All right. But in finance, if you're doing it and you're nudging somebody to trade more and churn up their hard earned assets or to nudging them to margin or options trading or higher fees on a robo advisor and it's not in their interest, but it's in the investment advisor's interest, therein lies a conflict. That's what we're trying to address.
01:38:15.496 - 01:38:24.822, Speaker B: Thank you. Gentle lady yields back, and the chair now recognizes the gentleman from Texas. Mr. Williams, for five minutes, when's Tom.
01:38:24.876 - 01:38:48.106, Speaker A: Emmer the SEC's recent I don't even see climate rule proposal. Oh, there he is. He's on the right. Will now require companies to report on emissions data and climate risk management strategies. This proposed is a major concern for business owners back in my district who are worried. I'm a small business owner. Also about the SEC's recent push to implement social and political regulatory requirements.
01:38:48.106 - 01:39:32.874, Speaker A: They're not even relevant to the company. So the SEC's proposed climate requirements will cost companies millions of dollars to ensure they are properly complying with these burdensome rules. This will force business owners to hire more lawyers and compliance officers rather than investing back in their employees and operations, which would help their businesses grow and bring more in revenue. And I've seen that happen in my business. So businesses are already struggling to operate within tight margins, and an increase in compliance costs could be their tipping point. And on top of that, the scope Three emissions disclosure will direct companies to speculate on the emissions output for their suppliers and products, which require substantial information to order to get a proper estimate. So this could lead to smaller businesses being left out due to how difficult it is for them to obtain this complex information.
01:39:32.874 - 01:40:15.030, Speaker A: And the SEC crusade is extremely out of touch and exceeds their intended missions and statutory authority. So the SEC needs to stop their abuse of the rulemaking process before they cause any further damage to the industry. So, Mr. Chairman, what is the average amount of time and resources everyday companies will need to ensure they are properly complying with the excessive climate risk disclosures? And how can mandating companies to file on indirect emissions relating to their company provide consistent information for investors? Again, and Mr. Boer, sitting behind you, asked similar question. Let me just put it in context, if I may. Investors today are making investment decisions based on climate risk disclosures.
01:40:15.030 - 01:40:47.710, Speaker A: We're trying to bring some comparability. Both you and other members have raised this question about greenhouse gas emissions, so called Scope Three. And for the listening public, this is of the value chain. It's not about the company itself. It's about their suppliers or their customers. And we got a lot of comment in the public file about this, not just from members of Congress, but from small and medium sized enterprises in your district and other districts, from farmers and ranchers and the like. We're taking a very close look at this.
01:40:47.710 - 01:41:33.394, Speaker A: Our remit, our legal authority is about public companies. It's about the public companies and over half of the top thousand already making disclosures around their emissions. But we understood, even in the proposal, that so called scope three is less developed, is less used, and we got a lot of feedback. And we're taking that under consideration and looking at it very closely. Because when you make small businesses smaller because of regulations, I'm assure you, sir, and I've said this in a Senate hearing two weeks ago as well, our remit is just about those public companies. It's not the private companies in your district. My dad had a very small company, too.
01:41:33.394 - 01:42:26.834, Speaker A: That's not the remit of the SEC. All right. The SEC's rulemaking process is unprecedented, proposing over 50 rulemaking since the spring of 2021, the SEC has failed to understand the impact of these rules and how they will each affect the industry, as well as the aggregate amount or impact. It is crucial that the SEC conduct cost benefit analysis and solicit industry feedback of these proposals and what it will cost for the participants that the commission oversees. I was proud to sign onto a letter led by Chairman McHenry to you highlighting our concerns with rulemaking agenda and substantial volume. It's vital that the SEC understands the regulatory and financial burdens that they are unjustly placing on market participants, just like we talked about. So, in closing, Chair, has the SEC engaged in any roundtables field hearings or investor testing to really solicit feedback before Rulemaking again? It was good to read your letter about 08:00 p.m.
01:42:26.834 - 01:42:47.654, Speaker A: Last night. It was a good letter. But in terms of your question, we solicit feedback in the formal way through the comment period. We solicit feedback and have hundreds of meetings, sometimes on any one rule with market participants, and then we detail them in the files and we benefit. Yeah. Brian. Brian.
01:42:47.654 - 01:42:53.018, Speaker A: And the YouTube says this has been two minutes. I agree, but I think we're about.
01:42:53.024 - 01:42:57.840, Speaker B: To get Tom Emmer, gentlemen from California. Mr. Vargas, for five minutes.
01:42:58.210 - 01:43:19.906, Speaker A: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I want to thank the Chair and the rank. Tom Emmer went close to last last time, too. Oh, and that's Warren Davidson as well. So we got two people to look forward to, warren Davidson and the Red Lucas. Chairman Lucas was the chairman of the Agriculture Committee when I first came to Congress eleven years ago. He was eminently fair and a good person to work with.
01:43:19.906 - 01:43:33.522, Speaker A: And we have an 800 pound bull on our property, on our ranch. And I got to tell you, don't mess with those animals. Those are big animals. They can do a lot of damage. So it was great to see him here today. Like I said, I think everyone on this bulls are big, has great. Respect.
01:43:33.522 - 01:43:58.638, Speaker A: Thank you, Mr. Vargas. But it's great to see you here. You were asked somewhat of a Catch 22 question earlier, and that was you were supposed to produce some documents, and within those documents was a letter that was given to you by this committee. And then in that situation, it's either you disclose that that letter is in there, and they say, hi, you disclosed a letter that we sent you. How typical. Or if you didn't, you'd say, boy, you didn't even disclose a letter that we sent him.
01:43:58.638 - 01:44:48.894, Speaker A: So you were sort of caught in a Catch 22. No matter which way you answered, I'm glad you disclosed the letter. But then you were asked, I think, a very ugly and unfortunate question about a recent senator and your interactions with him because he's been indicted. I think there was an insinuation there that maybe that something you did was inappropriate or improper. Could you comment on that, please? Well, I can't comment about a criminal prosecution. No, not about the criminal prosecution, but the insinuation that you possibly did something that was inappropriate in your conversation with him on the phone. No, I mean, I didn't discuss anything with the Senator in May of 2021, except for his concerns about federal securities laws and disclosure, if I recall.
01:44:48.894 - 01:45:33.626, Speaker A: But there might have been other topics that he talked about around disclosure, around diversity by investment advisors. Yeah, I just wanted to give you an opportunity to say that, because, again, I think that was a bit of an unfair question in a role like mine, I engage with senators and members of the House of Representatives, and we benefit from those engagements. Yeah. No, I agree. But, again, thank you for being here, and thank you for answering that question. Now, I take a very different view of climate related risks, of course, on this side, and I think it is one of the biggest issues that we face as a world and certainly as a country. And the reasonable standard, again, was created by Thurgood Marshall, and that is the reasonable person, the materiality.
01:45:33.626 - 01:46:25.758, Speaker A: What would a reasonable person want to know? And it seems to me, with all the headlines that we have and all the information that we have about climate related risk, I could go through a whole bunch of headlines here, which I won't. But it seems to me that this is a gigantic issue and people want to know. And in fact, people do want to know, and companies have been disclosing this for a while. So I think you're on the right track. But you're not a climate change organization, are you? You're not the cop on the beat for that. No, we're securities regulator and disclosure based regulator, and that's what we're trying to do here, is, just as I've often said, investors are making decisions today about public companies based on their climate risk disclosures, and it's trying to ensure that it's truthful, it's accurate, it's decision useful. Yeah.
01:46:25.758 - 01:47:10.890, Speaker A: And in fact, this is what people want to know today, isn't I mean, any investor today that reads the newspaper, especially if they're invested in insurance or company like that, they know, well, why isn't my company insuring in California or along the areas in Florida that get swamped all the time with these huge hurricanes? Well, it's because of climate change. And now, interestingly, we used to have climate deniers to say no. We have the scientists that says that climate change isn't real. Now basically all the climate scientists, all the scientists agree. Now you got some knuckleheads that are column writers that know this isn't true, but it's not a scientist. Serious scientists don't dispute it anymore and it's real and it's a big deal. And I'm glad you guys are looking into it because investors want to know about this, especially long term investors.
01:47:10.890 - 01:47:48.380, Speaker A: I would say from the SEC's perspective, it's about whether investors are making investment decisions and find it material. As you mentioned the Supreme Court law of the land. That a substantial likelihood that a reasonable investor finds it significant in the total mix of information. And that's what we know to be the case today. If 80 plus percent of the top thousand companies are making some climate risk disclosures, they're not all making scope three. We had lively discussions about that. But in terms of climate risk, a lot of companies are making disclosures already.
01:47:48.380 - 01:47:59.126, Speaker A: Well, thank you again for being here. My time is up, so my last 7 seconds, I thank the chair again. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen from Minnesota. The Whip.
01:47:59.126 - 01:48:02.106, Speaker A: Mrs. Here we go. Here we go. All right. Thank you. Mr. Chair.
01:48:02.106 - 01:48:36.074, Speaker A: Chair Gensler, I have a series of questions that require a yes or no answer. And in the interest of my limited time, I'd appreciate it if you would comply with that. Mr. Gensler, is it fair to say generally that large institutions in any given industry benefit more from regulatory uncertainty than everyday market participants or smaller institutions who don't have the scale or the capital to fund expensive compliance teams? Large institutions could benefit from uncertainty? Reclaiming my time. The answer is yes, sir. Yes it is. Mr.
01:48:36.074 - 01:49:07.860, Speaker A: Gensler, you had an 18 year career at Goldman Sachs where you were partner and co head of finance, correct? Yes, sir. Thank you. And is it correct to say that you made most of your personal wealth directly through your employment at this bank, Goldman Sachs? I've done well since then too, sir. I'll take that as a yes as well. Pretty funny. You describe the SEC, under your leadership as the cop on the beat watching out for our constituents. Constituents, correct.
01:49:07.860 - 01:50:01.314, Speaker A: I think that's a mandate that Congress yeah, and I think you've said that reclaiming my time, the answer is yes, sir. If you could just comply with what I've asked, I'd appreciate it. But given your 18 year career at one of the biggest banks in the world and the personal financial fortune you amassed there, do you think it's possible for you to serve as an impartial regulator and not favor large financial intermediaries? Absolutely, sir. Well, Mr. Gensler, do you believe the vast majority of digital assets meet the investment contract test and are therefore securities operating illegally outside of the US regulatory umbrella? As I've said, many of these assets are basically the public is anticipating on the efforts of others. Is the answer then yes? Again, without prejudging anyone, I do think that the significant reclaiming my I'll take it as a yes. And to be clear, sir, this perspective has nothing to do with a concern.
01:50:01.314 - 01:51:04.198, Speaker A: You noted in a speech last year where you said, quote, over the past year, several bank executives have shared their concerns with me about the sheer number of depositors who have moved money from their bank accounts into crypto related exchanges and wallets, end quote. Right. The concern that those bank executives raised was that, again, I'm reclaiming my I've asked you to answer the questions as short as I can so I can use the time I have. And it's clear that you would like to avoid answering the questions. In my opinion, an Obama appointed judge in the Southern District of New York, a bank friendly jurisdiction where you bring most of your cases, recently found that decentralized financial technology, quote, not only removes the so called middlemen from these transactions, but it also allows users to interact through a variety of methods in an easy and efficient manner. The court also said underwriters like the ones at banks where you work, sir, are, quote, precisely the types of individual roles that decentralizes exchanges were designed to eliminate. End quote.
01:51:04.198 - 01:51:46.514, Speaker A: Mr. Gensler, can you assure this committee that your style of regulation by harassment towards digital asset innovation is to the benefit of every American and not driven by your desires to protect industry incumbents? This is a field that's rife with fraud and manipulation, and I'm looking out for the American investors who've been hurt by the crypto. I'll reclaim my time. Mr. Gensler, despite your years of rhetoric like today, I'm convinced you are not an impartial regulator. Instead, it's clear that you are working to consolidate your own power, even though it means crushing opportunities for everyday Americans and frankly, the financial future of this country. Even the federal courts are highlighting the damage you, sir, are doing to our constituents.
01:51:46.514 - 01:52:25.870, Speaker A: And they're telling you that you don't have the legal authority to accomplish your goal of squashing competition in the financial markets. Congress has been telling you that too. Now, Mr. Gensler, I believe our great financial system is the definition of freedom in this country. And congressional policies must provide room for the traditional financial system to evolve alongside the disruptive digital asset ecosystem. That said, it cannot be understated. That a common theme throughout your career, sir, is your relentless loyalty to the largest financial institutions at the clear expense of innovation, competition, and everyday Americans.
01:52:25.870 - 01:52:37.174, Speaker A: I yield back, I suspect, some large financial institutions. There's no question, sir. I've yield back my time. Thank you, Mr. Emmer. Children from New Jersey. Mr.
01:52:37.174 - 01:52:46.166, Speaker A: Godheimer is recognized for five minutes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All right. That might be Shana tova. It's good to see you, Shana Tova. May this year bring you health and happiness.
01:52:46.166 - 01:53:39.526, Speaker A: You too, sir. If I can begin. In your testimony, you said that it generally takes twelve to 24 months for the SEC to proceed from issuing a new rule proposal to adopting it as a final rule. That may seem like a long time, but I assure you as it's not a very long time for some of the smaller stakeholders that I speak to, but who are so much their time and resource running their business and trying to compete. And of know, I'm getting concerned and I wanted to get your thoughts on this as well. Are you worried that all these rules are putting smaller and medium sized businesses at a disadvantage and inadvertently benefiting the larger ones that can better handle the deluge of all the proposals? Is there an unintended consequence of actually limiting the flow of capital to smaller and medium sized businesses and favoring the larger ones? We've talked about this in your office as well. I think that we benefit hearing from those small businesses.
01:53:39.526 - 01:54:06.290, Speaker A: We often then look to adjust. Okay, so the critique, Brian's critique is like, guys, Tom Emmer just made statements and didn't make Gary answer anything that was so lame. This is kind of what this is. This is the arena of public opinion and public interest and public influence. Nothing actually gets done in these things. This is just drama. This is just the sitcom of Congress.
01:54:06.290 - 01:55:04.534, Speaker A: It's a matter of just like watching for the onlookers, right? It's like fighting in Twitter. Like, you don't actually try and convince your opponent. You just produce a scene for people to watch and judge. Tom Emmer, what he just did was try to frame Gary Gensler as being an interest of the big banks. He tried to do the alignment of Gary is doing his shenanigans in the SEC because it aligns with large financial capital institutions. The whole lack of clarity that Congressman Emmer charged Gary Gensler with producing, he said that implicitly benefits large scale institutions and makes an uphill battle for smaller businesses because one small, like becoming compliant or navigating regulatory uncertainty is always going to benefit the large scale institutions. So that's what Tom Emmer was doing.
01:55:04.534 - 01:55:55.702, Speaker A: He was trying to position Gary Gensler as just an agent of chaos, because chaos inherently benefits the incumbents, the large scale financial institutions, the banks, it never really mattered what Gary Gensler's answers was, which is why Tom Emmer wasn't interested in hearing them or didn't really care about anything beyond like a yes or no. He only really wanted to ask the question and place the framing of Gary Gensler as being a corrupt regulator. That just all of his actions naturally benefit the incumbent institutions. So that's my analysis on it. That's kind of why we're doing this. Directing the SEC and CFTC to do a joint rulemaking, creating a process for delisting the clear rules of the road for digital are critical to protect consumers and promote innovation here in the United States. You've claimed that you have all the authority you need, I know before us.
01:55:55.702 - 01:56:48.742, Speaker A: But a rulemaking process hasn't started yet. Can you explain to us why, please? Well, because there's already laws and rules on the books. There's rules and laws on the book that apply to crypto security tokens like they apply to others. And there's nothing incompatible because you're storing something of value on a blockchain ledger. We talked earlier about being technology neutral. Whether you're storing that at DTCC, the public clearinghouse, or you're storing it on an accounting ledger called blockchain, it's still a transfer of value, and the public is maybe, depending on the token, anticipating a profit based on the efforts of others as it relates to the so called crypto exchanges. They're doing what we wouldn't even allow anywhere else.
01:56:48.742 - 01:57:37.910, Speaker A: They're commingling co bundling trading against the public and sometimes front running the public on their platforms. So memorandum's understanding have long been used and adopted a number of contexts. In June 2022, you told the Financial Times you were working on MoU with the CFTC to avoid regulatory gaps for crypto. Can you give us an update on the status of the MoU, please? I was hopeful that we would do something there, but what we do is, on a case by case basis and issue by issue basis, work with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission with regard to this crypto field. They have important authorities. They execute against those authorities, we do against our authorities. Really? Both with the same goal of protecting the public.
01:57:37.910 - 01:57:46.430, Speaker A: Thank you. May you have a sweet New Year. Thank you, gentlemen. Has expired. Gentleman from Michigan, Mr. Haizing, as recognized for five minutes. Warren David.
01:57:46.430 - 01:58:24.440, Speaker A: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good to be back. I was out of order here because I was in a bipartisan meeting with the speaker, talking about a debt commission. And I hope that that is going to be part of the path forward, that we are dealing with government funding and our long term debt. But I want to move quickly, but I want to follow up on some of Chairman McHenry's line of questions and remarks. And I'm not going to belabor the whole situation where we've public documents that you've given us on our request that's been out there for over seven months, no real information except for that which was FOIAd by the public.
01:58:24.440 - 01:59:21.814, Speaker A: Our request simply seeks to obtain information to better understand the black box of the SEC's activities on climate related measures and its rulemaking, authority and you had said in your own remarks, quote, based on authorities granted by Congress. Well, I dispute the assertion that you've been granted that authority in this particular case, and we are a co equal branch of government, and this is routine congressional oversight. So let's talk a little bit about the commission vote for the climate request. When Chair McHenry asked, have you scheduled a vote for the commission? I did not hear an answer on that. Or when will a vote be scheduled? I did not hear an answer on that. There's 13,000 emails and documents, we've been told, that are ready to be produced but are being held up by a provision within an exchange commission. 24 C Exchange Act sorry, I should say and requires a vote of the SEC Commissioners.
01:59:21.814 - 02:00:06.918, Speaker A: Is your assertion or the commission's assertion? Lawyers differ on that, and it's my understanding that you claim that you don't have the votes necessary on the commission. But, Mr. Gensler, I want to ask you this. Are you personally ready to vote yes to produce these documents to this committee? We continue to work with your staff and continue to work we have voted as a commission on the I think they're called transcribed interviews. Transcribed interviews are very different than the documents that we have requested. I'm asking you not about the commission. Are you voting yes, and will you vote yes on giving that information to our committee as requested? There's a really good website, by the way, coinbase.com,
02:00:06.918 - 02:00:25.114, Speaker A: Public Oversight of give you a TLDR working with the Committee to Congress. Yes or no? Working with my fellow commissioners. I want to know what you are going to do. Not speaking for anybody else. You again. Yes or no, sir? Again, we're working through this at the commission level. Come on.
02:00:25.114 - 02:00:58.230, Speaker A: All right, this is ridiculous. Okay, so let's assume your answer now is no. So what have you done to try to produce a vote of any sort? Are you talking to your fellow commissioners? Are you whipping them? Are you asking them to vote for that? We have ongoing discussions. We, of course, have to have it one on one because of the Government and Sunshine Act. All right, well, frankly, we've been pretty cloudy over here on the congressional side. You're fulfilling FOIA requests, but you will not give that same information to Congress. That's a problem.
02:00:58.230 - 02:01:33.570, Speaker A: So under 24 C, the delegated authority by the commission allows you to do those FOIA requests without a vote of the Commission. Seems to me maybe we need to help you out. Does that seem reasonable? Because here's our problem. What happens if you never get the votes? What's your plan? Ignore Congress? We're going to continue to working with you. What is your plan? Because we've got a plan. The chairman outlined the plan, and it begins with a P and ends in oxy. And it's not a real fun word that any of us want to fulfill.
02:01:33.570 - 02:02:31.430, Speaker A: Again, we're continuing to work and trying to get you documents on a regular basis. But you are not, you are giving us publicly available documents. That is not the role of So. Okay, so are you open to legislation that would clarify that the SEC is not required to have a full commission vote to comply with the request for Congress in Congress or this committee? Again, I'd have to have staff look at the legislation. We'd give technical assistance as we give it on other provisions. Yeah, I'm pretty sure we don't need your technical assistance because so far the technical assistance has gotten us nothing nice. Well, I enthusiastically support the Chair's discussion of using compulsory process and it's shameful that you're hiding behind this 24 C process and that the Commission is and we are going to have to remedy that, apparently based on your lack of cooperation.
02:02:31.430 - 02:02:54.506, Speaker A: One last quick question. Did you ever receive a memorandum or agency document in writing assessing the Supreme Court's decision on West Virginia versus EPA on the SEC's rulemaking authority? I know that we've had discussions. I don't remember any memo. I'm going to ask you to follow up. My time is expired, gentlemen's. Time is expired. We're going to have you follow up in writing with that.
02:02:54.506 - 02:03:02.910, Speaker A: Mr. Chairman, I yield back. Thank you, gentlemen, from Illinois, Mr. Cassins recognized for five minutes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Nice to see you again, Secretary.
02:03:02.910 - 02:03:53.806, Speaker A: I want to talk about your climate disclosure. Three left, including this guy, two after this guy coming out soon, Warren Davidson. I'm not going to be able to get into specifics, but I do just want to expand a little bit. You had mentioned to Mr. Cleaver that investors were asking for more clarity because of all the voluntary disclosures that are out there. But I don't want to be presumptuous that there's some history there that I'm hoping you can share because I think in 2010, SEC drafted sort of interpretive guidance regarding more voluntary disclosures. Can you clarify what happened between 2010 and then twelve years later in March of 22, when the SEC decided that it was necessary to provide some more disclosure? And specifically, if you can comment, like what was industry asking you for? So, a lot changed in the twelve years.
02:03:53.806 - 02:04:46.894, Speaker A: Particularly investors got more and more interested making investment decisions. And here in the US. Companies responded their investor relations and their CFOs and corporate executives responded to meet those requests by investors. And they started following something that was called the TCFD framework. You're probably familiar with this international framework, which interestingly was 32 people that were mostly from industry, they weren't government sector that came to this framework. And so by 20, 21, 80 plus percent of the top thousand companies were making some climate risk disclosures. That's what really changed investor demand for investor decision making.
02:04:46.894 - 02:05:53.346, Speaker A: And that's where the SEC has a role. Well, I appreciate that. That certainly is consistent with my experience in the private sector. And I think it said that we need to keep reminding folks that this was really a industry led initiative in the first instance. I want to move to the state level because a little while ago, you had mentioned to The Wall Street Journal that if California finalized some rules, I think your quote was, you said, this may change some of the economic baseline of the commission as it relates to the pending order. And, of course, last month, the California legislature did pass a package of climate disclosure bills, which I understand only relates to companies beyond a certain size that do business in California. But given your earlier comments, can you speak to how, if at all, that is factoring into how you're thinking about the disclosure and whether you're still on pace for an October release, as you'd earlier indicated? So in terms of we look at the economics very seriously, and that law that was passed in California is not yet signed.
02:05:53.346 - 02:06:45.334, Speaker A: But if it were signed into law, as I understand it, that would require companies of a certain size to report on their climate risk, I think over a half a billion dollars in revenues and those over a billion dollars in revenues to report greenhouse gas emissions. And for the listening public, and on a scope one, scope two, and scope three basis, it's worth pointing out all three of these scopes. But for the listening public, it's estimated that somewhere between 14 and 1500 public companies might need to report under that law. We have not confirmed that number. That's just an estimate that's in the press. And so that may change the baseline. If those companies were reporting to California, then it would be, in essence, less costly because they've already been producing that information.
02:06:45.334 - 02:07:44.140, Speaker A: It's also important that the investing public, again, because they're making decisions based on those public reports that they're accurate, that they're truthful, because the investing public benefits making sure that the accuracy of the disclosures. And you had indicated that you were targeting an October release date for the final rule. Are you still on that pace? Can you speak that? And does California's actions in any way change that? Let me just put this a little in context. Twice a year, working with the Office of Management and Budget, we put out what's called a unified agenda, and we put dates on all of the proposals, really in two different dates of the year. So I wouldn't, with all respect, put too much emphasis on that. It's really with 16,000 comments. We've gone through it's, what, 1516 months since we made the proposal? It tends to take, again twelve to 24 months.
02:07:44.140 - 02:07:57.294, Speaker A: But we're not doing this against a clock. When the staff's ready, when the commission's ready. Well, thank you. Got more questions, but I'm out of time, so I yield back. Thank you again for being here, gentlemen. Yields back. We'll now go to the gentleman from Georgia, Mr.
02:07:57.294 - 02:08:03.310, Speaker A: Loudermilk, for five minutes. Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Chairman Gensler. Thank you for being here. Mr. Chairman.
02:08:03.310 - 02:08:51.902, Speaker A: Davidson leave to submit for the record Wall Street Journal article by Warren Stevens and Paul Riley entitled the SEC wants to spy on your portfolio without objection. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Chairman Gensler, as the op ed points out, prior to the consolidated audit trail, the government needed legal cause to force financial institutions to report their customers personally identifiable information. In your opening statement, you refer to the SEC as cop on the beat. But law enforcement has to comply with due process. And I'm convinced that the consolidated audit trail has the potential to become another warrantless surveillance program.
02:08:51.902 - 02:09:23.094, Speaker A: And as we have all experienced, if you extend the government power, that power will inevitably be abused, as we saw with the FISA courts, especially if that power does not have direct oversight and control by Congress. I like what I'm hearing. My first question, ms. Ginser. Have you read this article? The Wall Street Journal just came out the other day about the consolidated audit trail? I may have. I feel like it's in the last two days. I saw the headlines.
02:09:23.094 - 02:10:07.400, Speaker A: All right. So it goes on to explain the problems that I've laid out several times when you've been here before about the collecting of personal identifiable information and quite frankly, a lot of information about individuals and their buying of stocks. In fact, when you were here last time, I believe that you expressed the purpose of this is so you could peruse to look for any potential illegal activity. That's a blatant violation of the Fourth Amendment. That is what this article is spelling out. And it's gotten the attention of a lot of people even outside the financial services arena. So I would encourage you to please read it because I think it explains the concerns that many of us have about this program.
02:10:07.400 - 02:10:23.374, Speaker A: Also, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to submit for the record a letter that was sent by me and my colleagues to Mr. Gensler regarding the consolidated act audit trail. Without objection. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Mr.
02:10:23.374 - 02:11:55.782, Speaker A: Gensler, regarding this letter in the letter, I ask about the 3000 individuals estimated number of people or institutions that would have access to the consolidated audit trail or the Customer Account Information system. 3000 would have access to it. Who are these individuals and how will they be vetted for access to such sensitive information? One, I do look forward, I will read the article that you mentioned. Two, in terms of individuals, it's only allowed to be used this consolidated audrail at the SEC and the self regulatory organizations at the SEC. It's our division of enforcement, our economic risk analysis folks in our trading and market. How are all these, I mean, 3000 individuals getting access to personally identifiable information and details about stock transactions by even just a factory worker who has a Robin Hood account? What's the vetting process on this? And how are we going to ensure that they do not use this in violation of personal rights? I just want to say I'm not familiar with that number, but in terms of at the SEC, these are people that are dedicated public servants that are full time at the agency, either in our enforcement, our economic risk, our trading and markets, the market surveillance. Well, if you respond to the letter, that may be helpful.
02:11:55.782 - 02:12:36.886, Speaker A: And I'd like to move on because we are getting short on time. This really just a yes or no question. Will the SEC use data collected via the consolidated audit trail and the customer account information system to bring enforcement actions? We have already we will anticipate in the future. So let me make sure I've got this right. Well, let me ask you this. How has it been funded, the consolidated audit trail? Is this being appropriated by Congress? It's by an industry funding. Okay, so private industry is funding this, which the cost of this has gone up exponentially since it started.
02:12:36.886 - 02:13:08.810, Speaker A: But just to close out, I want to make sure I understand you're saying that the consolidated autotrail is a comprehensive database of transactions used for federal enforcement purposes, but it is not subject to congressional oversight or through appropriations. I mean, this is lining up to be another surveillance program without any control, without any constraint, without even the power of the purse. And I yield back. Gentlemen's, time has expired. We'll now go to the gentleman from New York, warren Darren Torres. Oh, Richie Torres. Thank you, Mr.
02:13:08.810 - 02:13:36.230, Speaker A: He's been on bank list. Mr. Gensler. Good morning. I worry that the term investment contract has become so infinitely malleable and manipulable that it means whatever you unilaterally thinks it ought to mean. I worry that when it comes to crypto your interpretation, good looking guy investment contract has no limiting principle and therefore could invite arbitrary and capricious enforcement action. So I want to take a few minutes to explore the concept of investment contract in greater depth.
02:13:36.230 - 02:14:15.160, Speaker A: And I want to start with an obvious definitional question. We know that an investment contract requires an investment. Does an investment contract require a know something about this definition? I will quote Thurgood Marshall. Congress painted with a broad brush. And when Marshall said that, he was writing the law of the land so we follow this how? We test and how not just Marshall, but other courts interpreted it. And it has a four part four component. Again, I did not go to MIT, but in the Bronx, if I ask whether an investment contract includes a contract, the answer is typically yes or no.
02:14:15.160 - 02:14:47.662, Speaker A: Actually, sir, under the Supreme Court law of the land, they do not write that in. They say it's an investment of money in a common enterprise and you're anticipating profits based on the efforts of others. So I took an oath to follow the. Law of the land. And that's the Supreme Court law of the land. Yeah, he's just referring to this in Howie, the Supreme Court refers to an investment contract as a contract scheme, or transaction. That was a terminology that I saw in the case.
02:14:47.662 - 02:15:35.402, Speaker A: And as far as I can tell, there's nothing in the Supreme Court's jurisprudence that suggests that a scheme or transaction means the absence of a contract. And so, by way of illustration, consider the landmark case of SEC versus Howey. In the Howey case, there was not a single contract, but there were two contracts a land sales contract with the Howey company and a service contract with Howie and the Hills. And the Court found that the combination of those two contracts, the total scheme, the total transaction, the total economic reality was constitutive of an investment contract. And so a scheme or transaction does not mean the absence of any contract at all. It means, as it did in Howey, a multiplicity of contracts. In August, there were six law professors from law schools as preeminent as Yale who came to the following conclusion.
02:15:35.402 - 02:16:58.682, Speaker A: Quote no decision of the Supreme Court has ever found that a scheme that does not involve a contract could qualify as an investment contract. And so do you disagree with that statement? And if so, could you please cite a decision of the Supreme Court that has found an investment contract in the absence of an actual contract? The SEC has been in front of multiple courts and investment contract has been what's the name of the case, Mr. Gensler? The Supreme Court, actually an investment contract in the absence of an actual contract, can you cite a case the SEC over the decades, whether it's can you cite a case whether it's is there someone in the chat who knows what Richie Torres is up to? What's he trying to get public is investing based upon the efforts of others. I find it telling that you cannot cite a single case that's a security how about a Second Circuit case? Can you cite a single Second Circuit case that found an investment contract in the absence of a I understand where you're trying to go, and I'm going to leave that to the very fine attorneys at the SEC in front of courts. But I'm saying the core principle mr. Gensler, let me finish. This is a question to which you should know the answer, because the definition of an investment contract is the central issue.
02:16:58.682 - 02:17:31.158, Speaker A: That's what determines the extent of your authority. That's what determines the applicability of federal securities law to crypto transactions. And your inability to answer that question is baffling to me. I'm answering it consistent with what the Supreme Court has said, which is the law of the land. It's a four part test, and yet you cannot cite a single case to support your there's no contract without a contract. So crypto tokens aren't investment contracts by default, and aren't security nine times. It's been affirmed by the can I ask, suppose I were to purchase a Pokemon card.
02:17:31.158 - 02:18:15.586, Speaker A: Would doing so constitute a security transaction? You could purchase a Pokemon card. I don't know what the context is, but if you're just purchasing a Pokemon card if I purchase a Pokemon card, is that a security transaction? That's not a security okay. If I were to purchase a tokenized Pokemon card on a digital exchange via a blockchain, is that a security transaction? I'd have to know more. Okay, so for you, the process of tokenization is what transforms a non security transaction into a security transaction. Look, if the investing I thought you were technology neutral. If the investing public is anticipating profits based upon the efforts of others and they're exchanging funds, that's the core. I see.
02:18:15.586 - 02:18:26.182, Speaker A: My time has expired. Love you, Richie. Gentlemen's, time has expired. When I'll go to the gentleman from Ohio. Mr. Davidson. For five minutes.
02:18:26.182 - 02:18:48.266, Speaker A: Yeah. Warren Davidson. There we go. Chairman Gensler, recently a federal court called your rejection of a Bitcoin ETF, quote, arbitrary and capricious. In a subsequent interview, you dismissed the judge's opinion, asked a follow up question, if anything a judge says would change your mind. You responded, quote, well, no, not really. It seems that you don't really recognize the authority of the judicial branch.
02:18:48.266 - 02:19:17.910, Speaker A: You seem to have a love for the Howey test, selectively applied, as illustrated by Mr. Torres. But in light of those reactions, what should people make about the Bitcoin ETF? How will the SEC revise its approach? We have great respect for the courts. I personally have great respect for the courts. We're considering that it's still an active consideration at the commission. So you haven't made up your mind. I got to tell you what the case? Yeah.
02:19:17.910 - 02:20:39.506, Speaker A: I got to tell you that many market participants have reached out and are concerned that you will arbitrarily, perhaps also capriciously pull recent filings ahead of others who've been working with the SEC for years to get an approval for a Bitcoin spot ETF. Will this resemble some sort of free pass for one favored company while others remain locked out? And I asked that because it seems that's happened before at the SEC. Sir, I'm not sure if I'm following. I mean, we're still considering that court case and the application, as you say, to Bitcoin exchange traded products. Are you going to preserve people's place in line, or are you going to pull ahead a favored transaction or another on the consideration of a Bitcoin spot ETF? Are you going to preserve the place in the queue? Because timing matters. People have worked on this for years, and then you get a recent filing by somebody big in the market, and it seems like, oh, yeah, let me take your calls. How can I help? Meanwhile, you've given the stiff arm, as I've said, hotel California style regulations where you can check in with the SEC but you can never leave never leave with and how about the legislative branch? Do you recognize the authority of Congress or the laws that we pass? Yes, we comply with the laws that Congress passes every day.
02:20:39.506 - 02:21:06.602, Speaker A: Well, I've heard you say that about the courts and now Congress, which is encouraging, but I am inclined to judge your deeds more than your you know, I'll pick up where one of my colleagues, Mr. Heizinga, left off with the Supreme Court decision in West Virginia versus the EPA. Are you familiar with that case? Yes, sir, I'm familiar. It's an important case. Glad to hear you say that. And it would be binding, correct? It's the law of the land, sir. That's right.
02:21:06.602 - 02:21:46.920, Speaker A: And it introduces the major questions doctrine. And you told Mr. Barr that you received tons of feedback on your proposed ESG disclosure rules, feedback that should make clear that the proposal for ESG disclosure is a major question, and it should make clear that you don't have the legal authority to do that. So I'd ask you to knock it off, cease and desist and work with this body to pass a law. If you want to regulate, know. Frankly, your time as chairman has highlighted two problems, a Gary Gensler problem and a structural flaw in the SEC. And as I told you in April, I proposed a solution called the SEC Stabilization Act.
02:21:46.920 - 02:22:24.386, Speaker A: You're making the case for this bill easier every day. You are acting as the chairman by doing rulemaking after rulemaking without any regard to the impact of these rules. Or maybe that's the feature for you. I don't know. But it's having a massive impact on our markets. We have markets that truly are the envy of the world. And why would you disrupt them with processes that are driving capital out of our markets? Not to avoid our laws, but to find someplace where they can get clarity, where they can work with a regulator and get a decision and a path forward.
02:22:24.386 - 02:23:07.854, Speaker A: So instead of selectively applied, you're not providing clarity with a rule that's evenly applied. You're intentionally shortened comment periods to limit feedback. And the courts have even called this arbitrary and capricious. You're pushing a woke political and social agenda and I think abusing your role and the authority of the SEC as cover. So I think, fundamentally, the SEC Stabilization Act would remove the role of chairman. It would preserve the current commissioners, but it would add a 6th Commissioner. So there would be no more than three for this is his fire Gary Genzer act.
02:23:07.854 - 02:23:32.622, Speaker A: And so that would restart. That would make the SEC do what you're avoiding. Frankly, you're front running Congress, you're front running the courts. You're front running even the own administration, and no one has held you to account for that. I mean, I wish the Biden administration would say you're fired, but the list of folks they need to do that for is long. Congress, hopefully will with the SEC Stabilization Act. I yield.
02:23:32.622 - 02:24:04.340, Speaker A: Gentlemen's, time's expired. We'll now recognize the gentleman from Nevada, mr. Horsford for five minutes. Thank you, Chairman. And to the ranking member for the hearing, to Chair Gensler for being here. While investor protection remains paramount for my colleagues and myself, it should not be lost on anyone here that the risk our investing public is exposed to at this moment is the risk I think we might be out of all government. We hear time and again in this committee that our capital markets are the deepest and most efficient in the world.
02:24:04.340 - 02:24:33.050, Speaker A: And yet a large part of why they were able to reach their presently enjoyed imminent status is because investors around the globe have confidence that the SEC has the power necessary to maintain fair and orderly. Yeah. This is not about crypto. Without proper funding, understanding, that is pretty much everyone that has anything to say about crypto. I think that is a wrap. Thank you to the over almost 700 people that showed up. We're going to clip some of this stuff and put it out on the Twitter.
02:24:33.050 - 02:25:21.354, Speaker A: That was great. So to recap, who are the big ones? Patrick McHenry, who is managing this whole thing, he had his opening statements, which were kind of a continuation of his last statements. The last time we saw a Gary Gensler hearing in May, followed by Maxine Waters, who just made it super political and said, hey, anything that the red people on the left are doing, I want the opposite. And just full support of Gary Gensler. We saw Brad Sherman, actually interestingly Democrat who's previously supported SEC, kind of grill the SEC on non crypto related things. That was kind of interesting to see. Then we saw a fucking hour of people talking about climate change and capital markets, which were so disconnected, so we had to just grill through that.
02:25:21.354 - 02:25:55.078, Speaker A: And then we saw Tom Emmer, Warren Davidson, and Richie Torres finally ask some fantastic, very punchy, very poignant questions. I can't believe Richie Torres just brought up the conversation of tokenized Pokemon cards. I really hope that he got that from Ryan, because that's definitely Ryan's bit that he loves. And that was really the highlight of this whole entire thing. So with that, I have some work I got to get to some other podcasts. So thank you, everyone, to the 700 people that showed up to to watch us watch Congress Gil, Gary Gensler. Next time we see Gary Gensler here at another hearing, you know where to be.
02:25:55.078 - 02:25:59.540, Speaker A: Come back here. So that's a wrap. We're going to shut this down. And thanks, everyone, for showing up.
