00:00:00.240 - 00:00:28.038, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where you kept latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano. Today's the 8 February 2024. All right everyone, let's get into it. So I'm back today with a lot of bullish stuff to get through, actually, after missing yesterday's episode. Had a lot of fun at the meetup that I went to last night. Ended up speaking about a lot of things got to do with Farcaster and restaking and just like Ethereum generally for about, I don't know, maybe at least it was at least 30 minutes or something like that on stage.
00:00:28.038 - 00:01:00.182, Speaker A: And then obviously after during the networking, spoke to a lot of people. It was just great. I mean, I always love going to these local meetups because it's just easy for me to go to great to meet local people and chat to them about all things, you know, theorem and crypto and beyond. But anyway, moving on from that to today's news. So the first bit of news is more of just like a PSA that I wanted to remind people of. So the SEC again delayed a couple of ETF's today, spot ETF's today, the investor and Galaxy ETF's. And then James Seifert says here this is 100% expected and more delays will continue to happen in the coming months.
00:01:00.182 - 00:01:22.742, Speaker A: The only date that matters for Spot eat ETF's at this time is May 23, which is of course Vanex final deadline date. And you can see all the dates here. I'll link this tweet in the YouTube description below. But you know when I kind of mean. What I mean by like PSA here is that I've said this many times before, the only date that matters right now is May 23. Literally nothing else matters. Like anything, any of these delays that you see are totally normal.
00:01:22.742 - 00:02:24.268, Speaker A: And I think the market knows that because of what happened with the BTC, spot ETF's like there were delayed, delay delayed, and then obviously they got approved on January 10, which was that final deadline that we spoke about for months here. Now, that's not the most interesting thing when it comes to the ETF's today. The most interesting thing was something shared, but shared by Eric Balkanis here, who said that Ark slash 21 shares filed and amended s one for their spot ETH ETF's looks like they updated to be only cash creations and some other things that bring it in line with the recently approved spot BTC ETF prospectus. And now remember, I did tell you guys, that it's going to be much easier for these issuers to get these spot ETH ETF filings done than the BTC one because they're really just going to copy paste what they've got in their BTC one. It should be logically the same thing here, but also as part of this, I don't know if Eric kind of. Eric highlighted this, but someone else highlighted it that I guess Ark put in there that they wanted to discuss with the SEC about having a staked ETH ETF as well. Now, I'm gonna kind of say this now, because I think this is going to be like the outcome here.
00:02:24.268 - 00:03:14.926, Speaker A: A staked ETF is not going to get approved alongside these things. All of these ETF's are going to be, in my opinion, normal spot eat ETF's there, as far as I know, does not exist any kind of regulation or any kind of, I guess, clarity around a staked ETH ETF. It would be very, very hard to get the SEC to approve that, given that they have gone after staking products specifically as being securities like the staking products themselves. So I highly doubt, and I'm very certain on this, that there won't be a staked ETH ETF approved alongside the spot ETH ETF's. There may be a staked ETF in the future. And I think bankless did a podcast with, with someone from Franklin Templeton recently that talks about this, if you want to go check out and get her view on it. But yeah, I have full confidence that the only ETF's getting approved this year for ETH, and maybe even next year are the normal spot ETH ETF's that will not be staked.
00:03:14.926 - 00:03:57.544, Speaker A: They will just be held in, you know, by custodian like the BTC spot ETF's are. But the most interesting thing about this is the fact that, remember, leading up to the BTC spot ETF's, we had a lot of this back and forth between. The issue is in the SEC amendments, you know, discussions, all that sorts of stuff. And I said recently, both on the refill and in the deadly way Discord channel, that once we start seeing this back and forth with the SEC around the spot ETH ETF's, that's when the kind of hype really starts, and that's when you'll probably see it kind of play out in the price of ETH. And if we're actually talking numbers here, you know, if you want to be a. Someone who looks at the charts and looks at kind of resistance levels for ETH, which, I mean, I'm not someone who really does that very regularly. You guys know, I'm not a trader, but I like kind of paying attention to what people are kind of thinking about.
00:03:57.544 - 00:04:35.415, Speaker A: If you look at the levels, I think 2500 is the last level before, at least from what I've seen, the traders are all pretty much like in alignment that ETH could go to like 4k without any major pullbacks. And that's very similar to what we saw with BTC, where essentially it broke that thirty k mark and then just went to 50k without any serious pullbacks or at least like long, longer term pullbacks. If you bring up the chart, you can actually see these playing out. Now what's going to be funny is that this will run up, obviously, to the ETF. And I fully expect the spot ETH ETF's to be a sell, kind of sell the news event again. But the thing is, is that like if it goes to then ETH sells down to what, like even three k, which I think is a pretty steep sell. I don't think it will sell down to that.
00:04:35.415 - 00:05:12.824, Speaker A: But like, let's say it does. You know, it's still been like a major move for ETH because ETH did move alongside the BTC spot ETF price action as well. So if you bought ETH back when. Back when. When Blackrock filed for this BTC spot, ETF's back in, what was it, June? And if I could bring up the ETH chart here on my other screen, just to give you an idea here, if you bought ETH then, which was June, I'm just bringing up here, June, you were buying ETH around $1600, right? So if you count that as like the move to like 4k. Yeah, it's a huge move based on the whole ETF move, which is, you know, I'll bet a very big move there. But I'm not one to kind of speculate on the short to medium term price of ETH.
00:05:12.824 - 00:05:48.564, Speaker A: Obviously, I'm always about the long term, and obviously I believe in the long term, ETH is going to continue to, to accrue value. But really, if you're playing the ETF trade, I think that the consensus is that you play it now. Right. You basically buy ETH now and then you sell it once the ETF is, you know, is approved on, on May 23, the earliest possible date that we could expect an approval here, which, I mean, I don't think is a bad bet. And then there's also a lot of people talking about the L2 tokens and stuff as well as being like ETH beta where essentially they're saying, well, you know, den kun's coming, which I'm going to talk about in a sec, by the way. That's, you know, that, that's got ERP 48 44 part of it. That's like a hype truck trade that people are taking.
00:05:48.564 - 00:06:24.496, Speaker A: And then obviously they're buying ETH as well to get exposure to that. As you guys know, I'm not a short to medium term guy. I do pay attention to this stuff because it's quite, you know, it's quite interesting for me to just pay attention to this stuff. But yeah, I mean the future hasn't not been brighter for Ethan a very long time in my opinion, in terms of like long term value accrual as well. And when it comes to l two tokens, I actually am going to be giving a lot of opinions on this next week. So I'm recording a Bankless podcast next week all about L2s and their respective tokens. I'm recording this podcast with the same people I recorded with in late last year for the ETH Bull Case podcast, which was with Mike Ippolito and Jordy Alexander there.
00:06:24.496 - 00:06:56.226, Speaker A: And the fun thing is I'm actually going to be the bear on the l two tokens. And I'm not going to say that I'm bearish on l two tokens or anything like that, but I'm going to give like the realistic case for these things and how they're actually going to accrue value long term and how the fact of the matter is that most of them are not going to outperform ethanol. Like, I just truly believe that over, over the longer term. But I'll save all of those opinions for next week when I do this podcast with, with bankless. So definitely keep an eye out for that. I'll let you guys know all about that. But yeah, just to recap, May 23 is the only date to worry about when it comes to the spot ETH ETF's.
00:06:56.226 - 00:07:26.014, Speaker A: And I think that from today, we're basically starting the hype around it, you know, because of the fact that we were seeing some back and forth between the SEC and the issuers, which is basically, you know, I mean it's what, February now? February, March, April into May. You got three to four months here. We're going to start seeing this ramp up as, as we get to kind of that period there. But yeah, exciting times for ETH on the horizon here. Now of course, moving on to everything, Den kun. So of course yesterday we had the whole sky testnet fork to Den kun. It did.
00:07:26.014 - 00:07:51.478, Speaker A: So you know, very, I guess like normally there was no issues with that. There was. It did it very smoothly and it finalized and yeah, as far as I know there was no issues, not even with participation rates. So I mean, I think like 5% wasn't updated or something, which is basically nothing, obviously. So yeah, all well and good to get a mainnet date. Now the fun thing is, is that the mainnet date is being set today. But I'm recording the refuel about 3 hours before the all core devs call happens.
00:07:51.478 - 00:08:07.470, Speaker A: So I get to speculate on when the mainnet date is going to be. And right now I'm going to say the time is 09:55 p.m. My time. It is happening at between one and 02:00 a.m. My time. When the all core devs call happens, the refuel will go live before this. Maybe you'll watch me have to give this prediction before that.
00:08:07.470 - 00:08:23.566, Speaker A: But even if you don't, I'm going to give my prediction anyway. I have no inside information on this. There is no inside information to be had. It literally is just the call devs getting on the public call. They discuss it for a bit and they're like, okay, we feel comfortable about setting the date here. So my guess is basically I'm going to give a window. I can't give a date here.
00:08:23.566 - 00:08:47.918, Speaker A: I mean, maybe I'll give a date as well just to see how close I get. But my guess is early March at the, at this stage. And I, and the main reason is because it's usually about four weeks after the date is announced that you get it going live to give people time to update their nodes. But the last two test nets have gone, have forked through just very smoothly. It's been a very, very smooth process. There's a lot of confidence. Blobs are working, you know, everything's working just fine.
00:08:47.918 - 00:09:19.144, Speaker A: So I don't foresee them wanting to extend it out much longer than this. I want to get this on to main net. Once that's on there, they can 100% shift focus to Petra, which is obviously shaping up to be quite an important upgrade to the network. So yeah, I'm going to give a window here of early March. And in terms of a date, I will say if I, if I had to say a date, it could see, this is the thing, like I said in the Discord channel, that it could happen as early as, like, late February. Like, really early March. But I was thinking more about it and I'm like, I'm more.
00:09:19.144 - 00:09:32.648, Speaker A: I'm still kind of more on the side of early March. I'm erring on the. On the side of early March. But as for an actual date, I'm just looking at the calendar here because I want to look at the actual day of the date here. I'm going to say. I'm going to say the 5 march. Tuesday the 5 march.
00:09:32.648 - 00:09:48.342, Speaker A: That's my official prediction. As I said, like, I'm recording this 3 hours before the all core devs call happens. So I don't know what it actually is. 5 March. Let's see how close I get. That's going to be fun there. But yeah, I mean, outside of that, guys, Den kun is finally almost here.
00:09:48.342 - 00:10:18.216, Speaker A: I'm super excited to see blobs go live, finally. It's been in the works for a very long time, and I'm excited to see what the transaction fees are going to look like on the l two s. You know, what. What happens with blobs in the short term? Like, are people going to spam it with inscriptions and then that kind of tapers off and then the l two s or the roll up specifically take over and they start using that instead of call data. I'm excited to see, like, how fast we actually increase the size of the blobs and increase the number of blobs on the network and how the network actually handles all of this. From a stability perspective, I'm just. Yeah, I'm hyped, guys.
00:10:18.216 - 00:11:09.724, Speaker A: I'm always hyped around Ethereum upgrades. I mean, I was even hyped about Shapala and almost a year ago now, which was basically just enabling staking withdrawals on the network. It wasn't anything, like, too exciting, but I was hyped about it back then because it killed a lot of those bad narratives. Remember the bad narratives back then where everyone's like, you know, Chappelle is going to go live and it's going to be a mass, kind of like mass unstaking event on Ethereum, when in reality, I think it was like 90% of the ETH that was unstaked belonged to Kraken's retail users who were forced to unstake due to the SEC action against Kraken. And then we just saw a massive uptick in staking. And now with the advent of restaking, obviously with Eigen layer and then all these liquid restaking token projects, I don't see any reason for like the e stake rate to go down any big way from here. But maybe once the market gets crazy and people want to start taking profits and then there's arbitrage opportunities with these ls, t's and LRT's and the beacon chain, you might see that happening.
00:11:09.724 - 00:11:41.604, Speaker A: But I mean really it's, it's, it's already at such a, like a large kind of um, a large amount of ethiop. You could see here that Hill Dobby said, you know, 25% of all ETH is now staked. I expect this to keep going up because obviously we're in the process of transitioning from like ETH to like liquid staking ETH or liquid staked ETH or liquid restaked ETH as being the asset that people want to hold. So basically they've got ETH, they want to hold ETH, but then they don't want to just hold vanilla. They want to get exposure to the, you know, ETH staking yield. They want to get exposure to any potential restaking yield. They want to get exposure to any potential air drops.
00:11:41.604 - 00:12:14.462, Speaker A: So this is going to keep happening, which means that more and more ETH is going to get staked. What effect that has on the price. You know, I do think it's going to have a very positive effect because it's demand for ethics, locking up ETH. But then these things are derivatives too, right? There is ls, t's and Lrts. So it's going to be interesting to see where the volume shift, where the liquidity shifts and what this percentage of stake it actually settles on. Because there are some, I guess, like I get changes coming to the ETH staking issuance rate, which basically means that at a certain point it makes, it doesn't really make much sense to stake ETH anymore. And that's by design, because you don't want to like overload the network.
00:12:14.462 - 00:13:03.088, Speaker A: You know, at some point it just becomes diminishing returns. As I've discussed with you guys before, the real kind of advantage or the real security comes from the node operators on the network and increasing the number of those, if we're just kind of putting more ETH into Coinbase and more ethics into, you know, more the centralized staking service providers, it doesn't actually do anything for, for the network beyond adding kind of some marginal economic security. What does much more is having independent note operators. And that's why I've been a big supporter of all these other kind of projects coming online recently and taking market share away from players like Coinbase and even Lido in order to decentralize out that and increase the amount of node operators on the network there. But yeah, anyway, Denkun come is coming, guys, coming very, very soon. I think that when is it? As I said, March 5 is my official kind of guess right now. We're gonna see how close I get.
00:13:03.088 - 00:13:46.068, Speaker A: Even if I get it wrong, if I'm within like three days, give or take, I'll be pretty happy with that, with that guess there, because I think I got it really wrong last year when I said it would happen in November. But I've been pretty consistent about early to mid March for a long time now. So let's see if I'm right about the dates there. Anyway, moving on from that, I'll be back tomorrow, obviously, to discuss all of that once the all core devs have their call and everything. Moving on to an announcement from the Ethereum foundation today. So Josh Davies here from the Ethereum foundation basically said excited to announce the launch of the Ethereum Protocol Fellowship Study group, or the EPFSG, a ten week series designed to guide the next gen of Ethereum core developers. You can dive deep into the protocols mechanics with all the existing kind of core developers and researchers here.
00:13:46.068 - 00:14:21.634, Speaker A: So if you are interested in being part of this ten week program that runs from February 19 to April 29, you can register. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. This is an open and permissionless participation. There's only a part time commitment and free of charge, and you are basically going to be across all things core development and research, with the main focus being these kind of, these kind of topics here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. Some of them include things like Mev sharding, vocal tree, so on and so forth. Uh, so, so yeah, you can definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:14:21.634 - 00:15:11.034, Speaker A: Obviously, the pool of people that this is for is going to be relatively small because core development and research is a very demanding kind of part of the Ethereum stack. It's definitely something that I think requires a lot of, um, a lot of commitment, and it definitely requires a lot of prerequisite knowledge. But at the same time, I don't think that that should be something that dissuades you. I think that if you have, uh, you know, if you feel confident and you feel like you want to get involved with this, definitely just apply anyway, and as I said, I'll link this in the YouTube description below and you can go check it out and apply for yourself. All right, so there was a couple of things that happened yesterday around, I guess, like mev boost as a whole and like relayers and how they play within this. So potos here put out a thread saying mainnet is having lots of invalid blocks coming from the same builder. The relay should never broadcast blocks without verification.
00:15:11.034 - 00:15:50.510, Speaker A: We should consider including epbs in Electra. Please raise support for this to be discussed in all core devs core. Now, epbs obviously has been on the Ethereum roadmap for quite a while now, um, and it is basically enshrining mev boost into the Ethereum protocol so that it doesn't exist as a sidecar. Now, Nixxer here quote tweeted potas and basically explained further what actually happened. So blocks route was relaying invalid rsync blocks in optimistic mode, and blocks routes post submission verification was failing. They then disabled optimism, optimism on that builder, which means that validators can continue as normal for now as blocks route investigation investigates what went wrong on their end. Now, I'm going to break this down in plain English for you guys.
00:15:50.510 - 00:16:10.302, Speaker A: Bloxrat is a mev boost relayer. They are part of the relay such as ultrasound, money and flashbots. They're just one independent relayer. Blocksrat is a company, they run a relay. So what they were doing was they were relaying invalid blocks that were being built by Rsync. So async is a block builder. And if you go to relay scan dot in FO, you can actually see all of the.
00:16:10.302 - 00:16:32.666, Speaker A: Sorry, relayscan IO, I'll bring it up here. You can actually see this. So you can see here async builder XYz. They currently build around 10.6% of all Ethereum blocks. So not a small player in the builder market. And then on the left hand side here, you can see blocks route has two relays, the max profit and regulated relay that 25% and 17% share respectively here.
00:16:32.666 - 00:17:39.474, Speaker A: So what blocks route was doing was relaying invalid blocks that were kind of proposed by the RSync builder, which led to a few invalid blocks being kind of put into the network and basically being proposed on the network here. Now this is done. This was able to be done because essentially, at least from my understanding, what it means to optimistically relay blocks is that you assume that these blocks are going to be valid and then you don't check them on your end. And the reason why this is done is because it increases profits to do it this way, because you don't have to basically run the verification on the, on the block yourself, you can just optimistically assume that it's fine, but in order to incentivize people not to play games with that, there's like a bond that's posted in order to do this, that happens in the background and then those kind of, I guess like builders are punished if they, if they do this sort of thing. Now, of course, this started discussion around, as Potos says here, getting epbs included sooner rather than later. But at the same time, Mike Muta posted a post today on ETH research, or sorry, posted not only research forum, just on the notes section of the ethereum.org website here, basically saying that there was a bit of misunderstanding here.
00:17:39.474 - 00:18:10.846, Speaker A: So EPBS doesn't actually solve this issue. It doesn't change anything about this issue. The end state is basically the same and you can actually read this post and I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But the TLDR is that EPBs does not solve for builder bugs. The slots would have been missed regardless. Best case, epbs, the proposal payment is faster and trustless and worst case, EPBS bypass ability reverts us to the same trust model as today. So EPBS still has a benefit here is that like the proposal payment is faster and trustless, but at the same time it was not.
00:18:10.846 - 00:18:30.694, Speaker A: It's not going to solve builder bugs generally. Right? Which is, which is logical because builders are still existing outside of the protocol. In an EPBS world, we're basically just enshrining the relay apart of, of the MEv boost, kind of the MEv boost network here, as from my understanding. But you can go give this a read. That's a. It's not that long of a post. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:18:30.694 - 00:18:58.224, Speaker A: And I believe potash also has a tweet reply to this as well. There's a bit of debate happening here between these, these core developers and researchers, so you can go check that out. But that hopefully explains to you guys what happened here. I mean, it was a bit muted, I think, because it happened. When did it happen? It happened like yesterday. But like it's such a complex in the weeds theme, not many people were paying attention to it. I think originally some people were saying that is there a bug in like geth that we've just finalized on? I think for like a split second.
00:18:58.224 - 00:19:25.852, Speaker A: Some people had like mini heart attacks, right? Cause that's the thing that we've been talking about recently about. If there was like a bug in geth that we finalized on, then we're in for a world of hurt. But it was nothing that nefarious, it was nothing that bad. It was just got to do with these, this builder as part of the, the mev boost network. So yeah, you can go check out all of that. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Mike Muna also has another post here unrelated to epbs, but this post is all about inclusion lists.
00:19:25.852 - 00:20:02.330, Speaker A: So inclusion lists are getting more and more attention recently. It is something that Mike has been spearheading for quite a while now. And you guys know that inclusion lists is one of the solutions to censorship on the Ethereum network. At least one of the things that allows us to increase the censorship resistance guarantees of the Ethereum layer one network. So the TLDR of this document is that it presents a minimal view of what a potential spec for AIP 7547, which is the inclusion list EIP could look like. We outline changes to the execution specs, consensus specs, and execution APIs to clarify how the pieces fit together. These changes are in draft mode and the goal of this document is to relay all the information about these changes.
00:20:02.330 - 00:20:44.446, Speaker A: Now, of course, this is something that's really geared towards core developers and researchers and maybe people that want to keep up to date with all of that in the weeds. It is definitely not something that I would recommend for the layman to read. I mean, I'm not going to say that I understand the whole thing reading it through here, but you can actually look at this diagram, which does a pretty good job of explaining what block production looks like in an inclusion list world. If you already know what it looks like in the current world, then this will just be something that you can pick up on pretty quickly. But there's a nice little diagram for you there that I'll link in the YouTube description below. But Mike has been on fire lately, actually. Mike New Die, he has spearheaded two of the most kind of important aips in recent memory, which is inclusion lists and the max effective balance increase.
00:20:44.446 - 00:21:23.988, Speaker A: He's also across everything got to do with PBS and MeV Boost and sensor resistance on the network. He's just the machine. And he honestly came out of nowhere. I mean, he hasn't been around for that long as far as owner and Ethereum research and development development kind of circles, I think maybe a year or two at this stage. So. And the reason why I bring this up is because it just goes to show that if you have the drive, if you have the, you know, the willingness to kind of like be, to learn the things about the Ethereum core protocol. If you have the, the willingness to kind of put this work out there and to basically dive into the weeds of all this stuff, then you can very quickly make a name for yourself and make a very prominent name for yourself, which is exactly what Mike has done here among other people.
00:21:23.988 - 00:21:50.670, Speaker A: You know, there's plenty of other people that have done this. Another one that comes to mind is domothy. You know, and if you've been in the Delaware Discord Channel for a while, you know that domothy basically was very active in there early on and then went on to be a core researcher that's now across things like Mev Burn and a bunch of other things. He's done podcasts with bankless before. He's also, you know, a really, really great recent, I guess, Ethereum researcher developer last couple of years. But more and more of these people are going to pop up, guys. Like, as I said before, ethereum is the ultimate nerd snipe.
00:21:50.670 - 00:22:32.850, Speaker A: There are so many hard problems within Ethereum that need to be solved, and these people just want to work on and solve hard problems. They want to be part of the solution and they want to have their names, I guess, etched in the Ethereum history books. And I think that's obviously one of the things that drives a lot of us that are very involved within Ethereum. We want to definitely be part of history and definitely, you know, be across all of these challenges and try to do our kind of best to, to help them along. But anyway, you can go give this document from Mike a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, Jasper is back with a pretty big blog post slash tweet thread today, all about how Rockapool and Eigen layer are going to create a kind of synergistic relationship going forward.
00:22:32.850 - 00:23:09.572, Speaker A: So he calls this hybrid theory, which I think is a reference to one of Linkin Park's albums. And he says Rockerpool's middle way between native liquid restaking and pure staking. Now, I'll let you guys read the blog post for yourself. It's pretty lengthy, and there's also an accompanying tweet thread, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But essentially the TLDR of this is that rocker pool. In this, in this design, rocker pool will be able to basically offer the safest way to, to restake your ETH. Because in a worst case scenario where, where I think Jasper actually highlights this in his tweet thread where he goes in the worst case scenario where everyone's getting slashed everywhere.
00:23:09.572 - 00:23:41.888, Speaker A: Eigenlay abs is getting slashed, you know, there's a bug or something and ethereum validators are getting slashed. If you're in Rockapool, if you're holding our ETH, and if you're a node operator, you are basically safest out of all of the other people holding different LRT's and LST and note operators in the ecosystem. And he explains why in his blog post and tweeter. I'm not going to try and summarize it because it's not going to do it justice. It was a really great read. I read both the tweet thread and the blog post, and Jasper really knows his stuff when it comes to, comes to discussing Rockapool. Obviously he's, I mean, I would call him a Rockapool maxi, definitely.
00:23:41.888 - 00:24:10.336, Speaker A: And definitely one of the most active people in the rock community. And I'm sure he's probably going to talk about this, or at least it's going to be covered on whack whack attacks show, the Rockefeller Rocker fuel show that he does. And then there's the weekly orbit show that wack wack does as well that you can go check out. It's on, it's on their YouTube channel, the Rocket Fuel YouTube channel, which you can just search up. I've talked about it a bunch of times on the rearview before. I'm sure they'll dive deeper into this. But if you want to read it for yourself, I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:24:10.336 - 00:24:46.292, Speaker A: And I think Rocketpool is going to have a renaissance this year. They've got their new designs kind of being worked on right now and I think I discussed them last week about these really exciting new designs about allowing people to become node operators without having to stake RPL. I think the RPL tokenomics are going through a complete rewrite, which is definitely very bullish, I think, for the project and definitely very exciting for the project. But this stuff will take time to build. So I think this year is going to be a really great year of just building for rocket pool and getting these upgrades out there and then flowing into next year. It's really going to supercharge the rocker pool network. And I mean, rocket Pool still has what, a pretty large market share, I think two point whatever it is.
00:24:46.292 - 00:25:20.066, Speaker A: 2.9% still. Yeah, around 2.9%. And rocket pool as an ecosystem has by far the most independent node operators by far. Like thousands of independent node operators here so when you kind of look at it from that perspective and you look at it compared to others out there, they're still far and away the most decentralized liquid staking protocol on Ethereum. And I think that with these upgrades that they got coming to there, so the rocket pool network as well as, you know, the synergies that they can create with Eigen layer rocketpool stands to, to grow really well over the next couple of years. All right, moving on.
00:25:20.066 - 00:26:02.620, Speaker A: Just wanted to quickly highlight a new guide from Remy Roy here, who is a frequent kind of participant in the Eatstegger community. So he wrote a guide on how to migrate to a larger disk for an Ethereum validator. So if you are a node operator, if you run Ethereum validators and full nodes locally on your own hardware, this guide is for you, because it basically tells you how to migrate from maybe you have a two terabyte SSD right now, maybe you want to upgrade that to a four terabyte SSD. And you don't want to have to go through the cumbersome process of basically, you know, resyncing everything and copying everything over and basically going through the whole process again. You won't have to do that. Or at least like if you do have to do that, depending on the client that you're using, you can do it in a much easier way by following this guide. And this is a step by step guide.
00:26:02.620 - 00:26:35.878, Speaker A: It's very detailed. I had to skim over it. I mean, I haven't had to do this yet. I kind of future proof myself. All of my machines except one have a four terabyte or more or larger drive in them. And I think that in saying that two terabyte drive is still fine even with blobs, because blobs are pruned after 18 days or whatever the days I think is 18 days. I keep saying I can't remember the exact number, but I'm pretty sure it's 18 days and they're pruned, which means that I think that it will only add an extra like what is it, 20 or 30 gig during that period, and then it gets pruned or basically 2030 gig net for the whole chain there.
00:26:35.878 - 00:27:15.558, Speaker A: So you still, you should still be fine on a two terabyte drive, but maybe you definitely want to kind of like increase up to four terabytes just to continue future proving yourself, especially because a four terabyte SSD is definitely cheaper than it historically has been, and it just keeps getting cheaper over time. So yeah, this guide is for you if this applies to you. So I'll go, I'll link this in the YouTube description below and you can go check this out for yourself. All right, last up here, we just have an update from fluent. Just a reminder here, fluent is a project building a ZK wasm l two on Ethereum and I am an advisor to fluent. Just wanted to disclose that there. But today they launched two key development developments, expanding the functionality of Fluent's private testnet.
00:27:15.558 - 00:27:56.204, Speaker A: They now have 100% EVM compatibility and improved rust SDK. And they say here this brings us one step closer to unified smart contracts written in different programming languages. And they have a bit of a thread here that you can go check out for yourself. So I think that if you are someone who obviously is interested in developing smart contracts in something like rust, you should definitely check out fluent and check out their, their SDK here. And if you're interested in doing being part of obviously a merging ecosystem that is non kind of non solidity, I guess, and like non EVM because as I said, it's like ZK wasm with EVM support. So it's not like just strictly EVM. It's very similar to what I guess like arbitrum is doing with arbitram orbit.
00:27:56.204 - 00:28:25.420, Speaker A: Right. You should definitely go check this out. But right now it's really just for developers. I think that you can join their early builders program here, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. Um, I don't know if there's any way to get involved as a user just yet, other than kind of following the project, joining the discord, or engaging on Twitter, stuff like that. But generally, yeah, I mean, if you're a user or a developer, you can go check this out. I think it's just more geared towards developers right now, but I'll link that in the YouTube description below for you to check out, of course.
00:28:25.420 - 00:28:44.890, Speaker A: But I think that's the last update for today. I did. I just realized I have no filecaster tabs open today and that's because I had so many other kind of like Twitter tabs open and it was getting really, really long. And I'm just like, you know what, I'll just leave it at that for today because I was going to go overtime if I didn't. I think I'm right up almost at 30 minutes here. So I think I'm going to leave it at that for today. But we'll be back tomorrow.
00:28:44.890 - 00:28:54.314, Speaker A: So yeah, thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
