00:00:05.440 - 00:00:51.325, Speaker A: Good afternoon everybody. My name is Gemma, very excited to be at Breakpoint in Singapore. Thank you so much to Solana for inviting me. I am going to announce that Power Ledger is expanding onto Solana mainnet today. So we're very excited to be here to share this great news. We hard forked Solana two years ago, so we've been using the technology for our products since then and we've really seen the benefits for us and our clients. And the logical next step for us is migrating our products onto mainnet.
00:00:51.325 - 00:02:01.635, Speaker A: And so in doing that we can also be a bigger part of the Solana ecosystem. So I'll just talk with you about the next steps for us in doing that. Firstly, we'll be publishing a light paper in the coming weeks which provide all the technical details. We will be in addition to the Power Token, which is an ERC20 token that will remain, but we'll lock up a portion of those and that same amount will be issued on Solana. So Power Token will be available on Solana, which we're really excited about and we'll be spinning up a liquidity pool in radium so that anyone can buy and sell Power tokens on Solana. And finally we'll be migrating our products from the Power Ledger blockchain onto Solana mainnet. And you can find out more and track our progress on this on Telegram, on X and also on our website.
00:02:01.635 - 00:03:17.907, Speaker A: And for those of you that are not so familiar with Power Ledger, allow me just to provide you a little bit of information. We set up the company in May of 2016, so we're not really OGs, we're more dinosaurs and we have been pioneering peer to peer trading of electricity since then. We make software for electricity utilities that want to make new products for their customers to empower them to take control of their energy future. And we're trusted by major brands that you can see here. We also make software for tracking and trading electricity and emissions so that companies can do their reporting but also know how many offsets they might want to procure. And we have a marketplace for environmental attribute certificates like renewable energy certificates and carbon credits. And we've, we successfully delivered more than 30 projects in 10 countries and we've been named as one of the top 50 companies of crypto Valley in Zug, Switzerland where our head office is based.
00:03:17.907 - 00:04:15.085, Speaker A: We were originally an Australian company, but a year ago we moved to Switzerland where we're now head office and where I am based as well. And there's I think a few other points that I wanted Just to share in terms of the benefits both for Power Ledger and also for the Solana ecosystem in powerlender, migrating onto Solana mainnet, the first thing is about Deepin. We're a Deepin project and we've been working in Deepin before. That was actually a technical term. But what actually is Deepin, it's about connecting real world assets into Web3. And that really is what Web3 is about. And we're a founding member of the Deep in Association and the Deep in community within Solana is really active and growing and we're super excited to be a part of that and contributing to that.
00:04:15.085 - 00:05:26.137, Speaker A: The second point I wanted to make was that it's important for the Solana foundation that the ecosystem as well as the protocol is as green as it can possibly be. And with our products and also the Power token being on mainnet, we're able to interoperably connect with applications and projects. For example, projects like validators might want to track their energy usage or purchase offsets and they'll be able to seamlessly do that. And I think that will make interacting within the ecosystem much more streamlined. And assets like digital assets like Carbon Credits, in addition for being used for their primary use case, they can also be used for secondary uses like in defi pools as well. So we're super excited to be expanding into Solana mainnet for all of these reasons, in addition to the amazing technology. And then finally, we've made this limited edition NFT and you can get a free copy of that by scanning the QR code here.
00:05:26.137 - 00:06:01.835, Speaker A: And then in doing so, you'll also qualify for a power airdrop for power tokens on Solana. And we have a few T shirts with this on the back of it. If you'd like, you can find me or one of the Power Ledger team as well. So Power Ledger is about making software for the democratization of power and sustainable energy for all. And we're really excited to be expanding onto Solana mainnet and being part of and contributing to the ecosystem with you all. Thank you.
