00:00:00.360 - 00:00:50.370, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 24 August 2021. Right, everyone, let's get into it. So really a bunch of really exciting news from the Ethereum foundation today. So they announced today that seven or six different projects here have donated $250,000 each to support various Ethereum client teams. So these projects, or I guess, like entities, include compound through the compound grants program, Kraken, obviously the exchange, Lido, the staking provider, or liquid staking provider, synthetix, the, you know, everyone knows Synthetix, one of the DeFi top DeFi protocols, the graph middleware protocol and Uniswap, obviously another DeFi protocol there. Now, this money is on top of the money that the Ethereum foundation already kind of uses to fund these clients.
00:00:50.370 - 00:01:38.478, Speaker A: And the clients that it's going towards are ETH one clients, or as the Ethereum foundation says here in their tweet, execution layer clients, which I'll get back to in a sec. These clients include our Aragon, Nimbus, Go, Ethereum, Geth, and Nethermind and Hyperledger Basu. So a bunch of different clients here. Really, really cool to see. But I did want to kind of just point out kind of what they mean by execution lay here. So some of you may have seen this kind of terminology being used before, but like, just if you haven't, I want to break it down. So essentially in, I guess, like today, with the fact that we have two kind of like blockchains running that are called Ethereum, right? We have ETH one and ETH two, ETH one being the chain we all know and love and use today, ETH two being the beacon chain, the one that we stake on, the one that doesn't really do anything except have staked ETH on it just yet.
00:01:38.478 - 00:02:30.070, Speaker A: Now, once the merge happens, we're going to obviously merge these two networks together, and then they're going to be operating basically in harmony, but still, they're going to be split off into what's called the execution layer and the consensus layer. Now, the execution layer is essentially, I mean, as the name implies, the layer that handles all the execution of smart contracts, processing transactions, all the stuff we already do on ETH one today. And that was, that will be run by the existing ETH one clients that we all use, like Geth or Aragon or whatever else you use there. Then there's the consensus layer, which is basically the layout that runs the beacon chain. So, you know, prism, lighthouse tech, who, all those clients and stuff like that, they're on the consensus layer. So whenever you see this terminology used, this is basically a replacement for the ETH one, ETH two terminology, execution layer being ETH one, consensus layer being ETH two. And then once they're merged together, that's, that's kind of like how we're looking at it.
00:02:30.070 - 00:03:17.022, Speaker A: And it's, it's, it's the reason it's been done this way is to, I guess, like simplify, uh, a lot of these stuff for the researchers and developers and for the ecosystem to kind of know what, uh, you know, the, the separation of concerns between the two. So you have like the consensus layer, obviously, um, kind of comes to consensus on the stuff that's being executed on the execution layer, but they're, they're distinctly separate so that there's less complexity within the clients as well. And there, you know, you don't have to rebuild all the clients to handle both things and, you know, security bugs and all that. So, and all those sorts of things there. So that's kind of like what that means. And I just think, you know, on that note, I just think it's really, really cool to see that we have ecosystem projects donating what is a total of, I think one point, uh, what is it, $1.75 million, if I'm doing my math correctly here? Uh, probably, yeah, I think it's about that.
00:03:17.022 - 00:03:33.780, Speaker A: Or maybe 1.5 million or something like that. My math's off there. Um, but essentially, uh, you know, this is on top of what the Ethereum foundation already kind of like gives to these teams in funding, um, and, you know, there's other kind of like, I guess, funding, uh, uh, things out there, like, um. Like a git, coin grants. Right. The matching ground.
00:03:33.780 - 00:04:04.564, Speaker A: Some of these clients are in there and they get, they get kind of like money for that. And there's, I think there's a various other ways these teams kind of like get funding as well. So, yeah, just really, really cool to see this and cool to see these teams come together, especially someone like Kraken, right? I mean, Kraken is a centralized exchange, but they've been supporting Ethereum for a very long time. Like, you may not know this, but they were the first exchange to list ETH back in the day in 2015, when the Ethereum network went live. Coinbase didn't list it, I think, until a year after or something like that. They are one of the top holders of ETH. One of the top stakers as well.
00:04:04.564 - 00:04:31.500, Speaker A: And, you know, they've just been very supportive of the Ethereum ecosystem over the years. So great to see that. And of course, all the other ones, I mean, pretty much all these projects are built on Ethereum or using Ethereum. Lido is a relatively new entrant, entrant here over the last few months, but it's quickly become one of the top stakers and a lot of people seem to love using Lido as well. So, yeah, quickly. Great to see all of this from the kind of like these, these teams here. And on that note as well, Geth has a new version out, so if you want run the Geth client.
00:04:31.500 - 00:05:08.662, Speaker A: This one fixes a security vulnerability in all live versions of Geth. So all Geth users will need to update. So if you're running the client, definitely go give yourself an update here. So there's been a bit of drama, and I haven't spoken about this on the refuel yet. I did kind of touch on it on the AMA over the weekend, but I did want to talk about it on the, on the refuel. So there's drama about, around this project called the kind of like Eagle Token or kind of like EGL as you may have seen it. So what this project kind of like aims to do is essentially attach a token or monetary incentive to, or like a signaling mechanism to the gas limit system.
00:05:08.662 - 00:05:51.774, Speaker A: So for those of you who don't know, the gas limit is essentially what we refer to in Ethereum as the block size. So the gas limit right now is, I guess it's a, it's a 15 million kind of limit, but 30 million, I mean, technically 30 million because of 1559, but like 15 million is kind of like the target. I won't kind of explain that. It's a little bit kind of like complex to explain. If you want to read about that, you can, you can go back to my newsletter on ERp 1559, the daily gwei there, and check that out. You just have to Google for it. But yeah, essentially what this, what this kind of like token was, was created to do was allow for, you know, people to kind of like signal to miners, hey, you know, we want the gas limit to be voted up, up or down or like to increase or decrease.
00:05:51.774 - 00:06:51.944, Speaker A: And that's because the miners have the ability to increase or decrease the gas limit, aka Ethereum's block size. Now, they've exercised this ability multiple times in the past, and normally it's a, it's a function of, you know, to do the community, does the community want it? Is there rough consensus on it? And do the core devs sign off on it? Because the gas limit or block size, I guess, I guess I should say, is not something that should be increased lightly. It's not something that you can just increase willy nilly. And it's for the same reasons that, you know, some of you may, may know about with bitcoin and their block size war. You know, the kind of like, the more you increase the block size or the gas limit and ethereum, the, I guess, more you increase the hardware requirements to run a full node and then you, I guess, like lower decentralization. So, for example, if you were to increase the gas limit from 15 million, sorry, the target limit from 15 million today to 100 million, essentially what you're doing is you're, you're basically making it much harder to one run full nodes, and you need more kind of like beefy hardware to run that. You're also making it harder for blocks to propagate around the network.
00:06:51.944 - 00:07:30.540, Speaker A: So essentially, obviously, these full nodes are set up all around the world, and miners are set up all around the world. So they have to propagate blocks to each other and talk to each other and communicate. And the higher the gas limit, the harder that is to do, because the longer it takes for blocks to travel and propagate through the network. Right. And on top of that, depending on the client, they probably aren't optimized to handle the load of that increased gas limit. So the clients may fall out of sync and the uncle rewards may go up, which is basically uncle uncle rewards are given to miners who mine a block that isn't included in the canonical chain because it came in slightly slower than other than another chain, than another block. Sorry.
00:07:30.540 - 00:08:12.438, Speaker A: And they're kind of rewarded for that work, but they're not kind of part of the main chain, the canonical chain, as we call it. And, you know, those increase. And when you have too many uncle blocks, it means that the chain stability, chain instability, I should say, increases. And you may have a network split at some point. So there's a lot of good reasons why you don't want to tinker with the gas limit too much here. Um, but, you know, the reason why there's drama around EGL is because it seems like the creators of this blocks route, the company is called, believe that they can put this decision into the hands of, I guess, like, the community and essentially hope that they come together on kind of consensus with this. Uh, and, you know, it's a way it's also a way to kind of like bribe the miners.
00:08:12.438 - 00:08:44.830, Speaker A: So Tim Biker had a few good threads about this, breaking it down better than I can. But essentially, I mean, he says here that it's not a serious threat to Ethereum. It's not going to kill or seriously damage Ethereum. And I don't think so either. You know, really, at the end of the day, it's just like an attempt at kind of pseudo on chain governance on Ethereum, which isn't going to be stood for like, no, most people I've spoken to say that this is just a really bad idea for the. For the same reasons I kind of like outlined. But on top of that, you know, Ethereum doesn't have on chain governance, right? There are other kind of chains that do.
00:08:44.830 - 00:09:23.326, Speaker A: I think Polkadot is like the prime example here of a chain that has like binding on chain governance, where everything's handled through votes and stuff like that. And I mean, we've seen this play out with a lot of the Defi apps on Ethereum. The governance systems aren't very good, right? So that's fine for like these apps and kind of like the app layer and everything like that, but ideally, you don't want the base layer that's supporting all of this sort of stuff running on an on chain governance system. And I've always been against it for the base layer. I don't think it's the right path forward. And the way Ethereum governance works is much more complex than that. It's basically based on a rough consensus, which I won't go into now, but it's like a whole process that the kind of like each upgrade has to go through.
00:09:23.326 - 00:10:14.748, Speaker A: I mean, you know, just as an example, it took over two years for AIP 1559 to get in because you had to go through that whole process and get buy in from different kind of like ecosystem participants, not literal, kind of like buy in with money, but like, you know, social buying and stuff like that. Um, and yeah, I just think like introducing a token to vote on a specific parameter of Ethereum is just like a really, kind of like bad idea. And I think Trent put it really well in his tweet here, where he said, where he basically was mocking this egl token. And basically in this tweet, he says, introducing pr, like peer token, a token to govern the networking settings between Ethereum nodes. Introducing sync, a token to govern the parameters for sinking Ethereum nodes. Introducing q, a token to govern the exit, q for validators. Does everyone see how dumb this is? Now essentially what he's saying here is that let's, you know, egl, the agile token, is, has been introduced to govern one part of, I guess, like the Ethereum network.
00:10:14.748 - 00:10:42.604, Speaker A: So why not just introduce a token for each other part, right. Like for each part of like the protocol itself. And it just doesn't make any sense. It really, you know, it skews incentives. It is, it is very toxic to the Ethereum ecosystem. It can lead to bribing, because what can end up happening is that people can bribe the, I guess, like miners to, with kind of like these EGL tokens or whatever to raise the gas limit and then maybe the EGL tokens kind of increase in value and stuff like that. There's, there's all kind of like weird stuff that goes on.
00:10:42.604 - 00:11:13.420, Speaker A: And that's another reason why I'm against, on chain governance. But yeah, that's, that's kind of like the drama that's been there. It's been a little bit hard to follow because there's a lot of different threads and kind of like, you know, intertwining through all of this and, you know, there's, there's a split in opinion between, you know, the geth team and the Aragon team and stuff like that. So it's just a little bit ugly on, on Twitter. But I do, hopefully I summarized it okay for all of you. But in general, I really wouldn't worry at all about this EGL token and any kind of like security kind of like issues or like, it's not going to kill Ethereum, nothing like that. Right.
00:11:13.420 - 00:11:54.436, Speaker A: It's just, it's definitely something that needs to be called out and the core devs have come out against it and at least most of them, and said, you know, this is a really bad idea. We don't support this. And that's all well and good. And, you know, if you take the super cynical approach here, blocks route, the company's main product is actually something called a blockchain delivery network or a BDN, which it work, which is meant to help miners kind of propagate blocks faster through the network. Right. So you see how going back to what I was saying before, so if you can raise the gas limit higher and higher and then miners need these technology to keep up with the chain, well then you kind of like get them coming to blocks route and purchasing block route. Blocks routes technology or using their technology for this kind of like BDN stuff that they do.
00:11:54.436 - 00:12:32.040, Speaker A: So you can see how this is just like a whole mess of incentives here. Where blocks route has an incentive for the gas limit to be increased. They introduce this EGL token so that they can kind of somehow get the community to buy into this and kind of like get that gas limit increase and then they can on sell their technology later. You know, it's just like taking the super cynical approach, but I don't think it's too far fetched. I don't think it's a conspiracy theory. And, you know, I guess props to uri from, from blocks, right? He's been in and out of all these threads, like, discussing it quite nicely, hasn't been toxic or anything like that. But I think there's just like a massive fundamental disagreement between what he wants and what the Ethereum community at large wants.
00:12:32.040 - 00:13:25.448, Speaker A: So, yeah, I mean, it goes without saying, I do not support EGL at all. I think it's a silly idea. But, you know, in saying that, I do think that the gas limit in general is maybe not something the miners should have control over. And there's a separate discussion to that happening within the community right now. But I also think that the, you know, the gas limit, at least the kind of, like, decision on what you do with it or kind of like to increase or decrease it, I don't know if that's something you leave up to the kind of, like, wider community, because as I mentioned before, there's so many different moving parts to it that really, at the end of the day, I only trust the core devs to know what's best in that on that specific parameter. Um, and some, you know, key community members, I really don't trust, just like the general kind of like a theorem community member to know, you know, the, the intricate details of this sort of stuff. I wouldn't even trust myself, to be honest, to know what this would affect because it's definitely got to do with, like, core protocol, um, stuff that's built directly into clients.
00:13:25.448 - 00:14:09.518, Speaker A: And at the end of the day, the client teams know their tech, they know what they've built, they know what it can handle, whereas community members like, like me and you, we just don't have that level of detail or access to that level of detail. We can learn if we want, but still, like, we haven't coded it, we haven't been around, we haven't built, the clients haven't been around for years. So I'd much rather kind of trust them and their opinions on this sort of stuff than trust, you know, just like, especially a group of token holders. Like, I just think that's the, that's probably the worst way to go about it, but yeah, hopefully that gives you a nice little overview of everything happening there. I'll of course link these tweet threads in the description. You can go check it out for yourself. All right, so Antonio, the founder of DYDX, put out this thread today highlighting all the different kind of metrics since Dy DX launched their token.
00:14:09.518 - 00:14:57.436, Speaker A: I guess the token is not technically launched yet because it's not trading, but you can earn rewards on the Dy DX L2 exchange and you've also got an airdrop waiting for you if you completed the criteria to get that airdrop. But I think it's going live like sometime next month. But essentially he put out the highlights here and he said daily trading volume is over $400 million for the first day and growing 73,500 lifetime users, 34,000 added since the launch of DydX token, $1.8 million in revenue per week and 6.5k weekly traders. Now the reason why I wanted to highlight this was because you may have remembered like a few months ago on the refuel when Dyx launched their L2 exchange, I was going through their growth, right? And I was saying, you know, I expect this to really explode. And I'm, I'm pretty sure I mentioned back then that I expected it to explode, especially when they launched their token.
00:14:57.436 - 00:15:36.210, Speaker A: Because I mean, as I said multiple times, everyone's going to have a token. But what I really wanted to show here is just like how powerful this token is, right? Like daily trading volume over 400 million. This was like, I think 20 million or 30 million just like a couple of months ago, pre token. And that was during like probably the hottest parts of the market when we were approaching all time highs and stuff like that. And now it's over 400 million because you have these token incentives in play where by trading on there you do get to earn tokens and, you know, and obviously there's an airdrop waiting for people. And to, to claim that airdrop, you actually have to trade on there as well and do some kind of like volume on it. So there's a lot of incentives to trade on there.
00:15:36.210 - 00:16:12.118, Speaker A: But I don't think this is necessarily a bad thing. And this is, this is just a way to kind of like bootstrap growth of a new system, especially something on L2 where most users will not be aware of. And I think it's like a, it's just, you know, like what we've seen with liquidity mining and stuff like that. What I, what I wanted to focus on is basically how sustainable this sort of stuff is, because lately we've been seeing a ton of kind of, like, massive numbers being thrown around for these liquidity mining programs. And it really feels like we were just repeating Defi summer 2.0, and especially with other chains. So the other day, I saw that avalanche was giving $180 million worth of their token to Aave and curve users.
00:16:12.118 - 00:16:44.974, Speaker A: And I think maybe some other Defi apps that were kind of like using it on, on avalanche. Now, we've seen with Defi Summer in that, you know, people will come for the rewards, right? And not just defy. Somewhere on Ethereum, all the stuff that happened on BSc, people will bridge over, they'll take their money over, they'll farm the rewards, and they'll dump it, and then they'll go back to where they came from. It's not a sustainable, kind of, like, way to grow an ecosystem, especially when the numbers that big, because you can't pay that out forever. And at the end of the day, pretty much like everyone is just going to be dumping those rewards. There's not many people who actually want to hold those. Those tokens.
00:16:44.974 - 00:17:16.568, Speaker A: And there's enough people now that have learned just how reflexive that is and just how quickly these tokens can dump from the first defi summers that it just. You know, it's just bizarre to me that we're seeing these other chains do this, and I get why they're doing it because they want to bootstrap growth and everything like that. But I look at this and I think to myself, you know, in a few months time, this is just going to be ghost chains again. Like, people just literally just going for. For the money. I don't see how they're going to accrue, like, a lasting network effect by doing that. But in saying that, I think dy DX has a pretty good way of doing it with their token.
00:17:16.568 - 00:18:06.416, Speaker A: They're doing kind of like this, I guess. I mean, I guess you'd call it volume mining, where, you know, you trade on their exchange here, you earn some tokens as rewards, but, like, there's fees involved, too. So the more you trade, the more fees you incur, you know? And you're hoping, I guess, like, the tokens offset the fees, but if not, you've kind of, like, lost out on money, right? It's not just, like free money coming from the. From the sky here, where there's a lot of these other protocols that do give out the free money. So, yeah, I think just just kind of like these protocols and these projects are learning from those mistakes on Ethereum, but I'm seeing these same mistakes just kind of repeated on these other chains. And I'm just hoping it doesn't happen with the L2 ecosystem because obviously when arbitram goes live, as optimism keeps rolling out new projects, as all these other L2s go live, they're going to want to bootstrap growth. And the fastest way to bootstrap growth is to just like add a token or add token incentives.
00:18:06.416 - 00:18:51.616, Speaker A: But as I said, that's good for short term kind of growth and short term kind of like usage, but long term, it's not very sustainable. And I've highlighted things like unincentivized TVL before that the index co op pioneered, where essentially it's measuring the amount of total value locked in the different products that is not there just to kind of like yield farm or to kind of like gain a token reward or whatever, which I think is a better metric to measure. But it's kind of hard to do, I guess, sometimes. And you know, these liquidity mining programs can definitely last for a while as well. They can last for years, but it just depends how lucrative they are. You know, for them to last for years, you would either have to have constant, massive, constant demand side or you would have to have kind of like a leveling out of, of the rewards. And I think that's what happened with curve.
00:18:51.616 - 00:19:40.738, Speaker A: Curve has had a long term, kind of like liquidity mining program where they're paying out a lot of tokens, right. But they also have like a pretty good token mechanism where they lock up a lot of these tokens for, you know, many years so people can earn more rewards. And kind of like curve has had a lot of just natural usage because they're a stable coin swap protocol and that's obviously a very big deal and something that a lot of people use. But generally, yeah, this is just something that I'm going to be keeping a close eye on because I really want to make sure that kind of like, we don't repeat the same mistakes when we, when we kind of try to go to L2 here. And at the same time, I guess, like the fact that it's just going to be more scalable means that there's going to be a ton of new projects kind of going there and launching with liquidity mining programs anyway. So maybe what I'm saying and what I'm trying to do is a fool's errand, but at the end of the day, it's still good to see that, you know, the token can be used for growth. You know, it still works.
00:19:40.738 - 00:20:14.424, Speaker A: But I just really hope that we can create more sustainable kind of liquidity mining programs going forward. All right, so just a quick kind of like, update here on, I guess, that infrastructure bill that went through with the crypto, I guess, like regulations that everyone kind of kicked up a fuss about. So this came from like one of these, I guess, like financial news Twitter accounts that said the US House of Representative Soto, I don't know what his full name is here. Darren Soto. I think that's how you say his name. Um. Uh, he's seeking to offer a crypto amendment to the budget measure.
00:20:14.424 - 00:21:00.714, Speaker A: So remember how I said that? Yes, the infrastructure bill passed through the Senate, but now it has to go through the House. And then if it passes through the House, it has to go through the courts and kind of like, you battle it out and then it goes into law in 2023. Um, so we can still have, I mean, we still have kind of people in our side, on our side in the house here saying they want to offer a crypto amendment to the budget measure to make sure that we can kind of like, uh, make those, I guess, like regulations that were put in, uh, more palatable and make more sense. So, yeah, I'm just monitoring that. I mean, I kind of like, quote, tweeted it within this meme of some green candles coming out of, out of roofs here just because I thought it was a little bit bullish. But yeah, I just thought I'd just give a quick update on that one for you guys. So I put out this tweet today where I said, the amount of opportunities to make money in Ethereum and be part of a community is mind boggling.
00:21:00.714 - 00:21:33.084, Speaker A: One thing that I need to come to terms with is that I won't be able to feel fully exposed to the ethereum ecosystem anymore. My, and my plan is to just keep buying ETH and dope. NfTs. This is, I guess today's is something that I was really thinking about because I was kind of like, I mean, a lot of stuff happened in the NFT ecosystem today. It was pretty crazy. Like, there was a bunch of different kind of like, drops and, um, you know, a lot of people were kind of like going crazy still over the punk stuff from, from yesterday with visa buying a punk and just, I mean, there was so much going on. I'm not going to go through it all, but, you know, from all the chats that are in, people were just like chasing all these nfts and was just absolutely crazy.
00:21:33.084 - 00:22:13.432, Speaker A: And I started thinking, I'm like, okay, how do I get exposure to the NFT ecosystem without buying the individual nfts? Obviously I thought to myself, well, ETH, because ETH kind of like, you know, accrues value from all the activity on the network due to the fee burn. But like outside of that, what else is there? I mean there's project tokens like rare and rari from, from rarible, and there's probably going to be other ones like that as well out there. There's the NFTs themselves, of course, but that's much harder to speculate on. There's some infrastructure platforms, you know, immutable x is going to do their token and stuff like that. And maybe some of the L2s if they do a token, I guess like Matic is probably another exposure point there as well. Just a disclosure. I'm an advisor to Polygon.
00:22:13.432 - 00:22:53.648, Speaker A: I'm not trying to shield matic. I'm just kind of like going through my thought process here and I was just kind of thinking, you know, that's, that's kind of like the ways to get exposure. But at the same time, I'm never going to be like fully exposed because if something with something like the NFT ecosystem, I feel like, I mean, I'm always going to miss something, right? Like, and not just me, like everyone, everyone's always going to miss a drop here or a drop there. Especially for us in Australia, we're usually sleeping for these drops. And you know, you may not come across something until it, the price of it is just skyrocketed and you're kind of priced out events and stuff like that. Because at the end of the day, these NFTs, I mean, yes, you can fractionalize them, but if you want to own a whole NFT, it's like super hard to do. And it's different to kind of like owning a token or part of a token, you know, because a token is just like a fungible thing.
00:22:53.648 - 00:23:18.612, Speaker A: And it doesn't really matter if you own kind of like this token or that token. They're all kind of the same thing there. But with an NFT, if you kind of like, you know, for example, if you want a punk right now, I mean, you to buy a whole punk at the cheapest one is $250,000. Like that is out of reach for the majority of people. There's only a very few people can kind of like, can kind of own something like that. Unless you bought it early on and you held till now. But if you wanted to buy one as a fresh punk owner, then yeah.
00:23:18.612 - 00:23:54.204, Speaker A: And this is why we've seen like a lot of these other profile picture kind of, I guess, like NFT projects spin up like bored eight yacht club pudgy penguins. There's so many of them, is simply because, I mean, one, the lot of people couldn't afford punks and they wanted to be part of a community. And, and two, I think that, you know, punks aren't going to appeal to everyone too, right? Like, it's just one kind of thing there. But outside of that, there's also like a bunch of, you know, art pieces and one of ones of artists and stuff you want to buy. It's just, it's going to be impossible to kind of like, have exposure to all of that. It's the same with, like, defi. I mean, you can buy the defi pulse index, but that doesn't include every defi token.
00:23:54.204 - 00:24:46.392, Speaker A: And at the end of the day, I just was thinking, how do I get the maximum exposure here? And I really just settled on ETH at the end of the day, yes, I'm going to probably buy other things and try to get involved and stuff like that, but just buying ETH and stacking ETH over the long term, which I already do anyway, and just buying nfts that I like, I think I'll be content with that because buying nfts that I like just kind of like make me happy. I'll be able to support the artist. I'll get like some really dope art that I can display on my mural behind me and stuff like that. Right. Um, you know, and kind of like display as part of my digital collection maybe in the metaverse one day. And then with ETH, kind of like, I get broad exposure to it because, I mean, I put out my tweet here today that all of this NfT activity is actually still burning ETH, right? Like, people, people have forgotten this already. And I kind of said that, you know, we're now at 82,500 ETH, or $275 million burned, and 1559 has only been live for 18 days at time of recording here.
00:24:46.392 - 00:25:27.092, Speaker A: And then I went on to say ETH is so incredibly undervalued because I believe it is. And, you know, I've said before that I think that 1550 nine's impact in the short term is, is not going to be as, as great as its long term impacts. Because, you know, as we keep getting this, ETH kind of I guess burned. And as a lot of it comes from, from the market directly because there's a lot of new purchases of ETH, you know, whether they're purchasing it, purchasing it to buy nfts or participate in Defi, they have to have it because of gas fees and all that sort of stuff. Um, you know, over the long term, this is going to cause like a supply shock on ETH. And then I do, I do think it's going to appreciate a lot from here, but at the end of the day, because all this activity from nfts is being fed back into ETH. ETH is the perfect thing to get exposure to the whole NFT ecosystem.
00:25:27.092 - 00:26:31.256, Speaker A: But it's, you know, it obviously isn't going to give you, like, you know, some of the crazy enormous gains you can get from nfts if you pick the right nfts. But picking the right NFT is hard because just say you wanted to pick, I guess, like, you know, the Fidenza NFT, like that's been all the autoglyphs or whatever else, those ones that, like, are going for millions of dollars now, but just a few months ago, we're going for like only maybe tens of thousands, something like that, even less than that, to pick that and to hold it until now and to not sell it too early. I mean, it's just really, really hard. Like, most of the people speculating in these nfts right now are not going to get those insane returns and stuff like that. You may be able to get better returns on buying, you know, I guess like any NFT during a mania phase. But I'm talking about like the long term kind of arc here and kind of like the simple, the kind of like simplistic, I guess, investment view is basically, for me, is that buying ETH makes me feel like I have exposure and then just buying nfts that I like makes me feel good because I'm still involved in the NFT ecosystem. But I'm also kind of getting exposure via Ethan and those other nfts that I like.
00:26:31.256 - 00:26:45.330, Speaker A: Maybe they appreciate one day, too, I don't know. But it's kind of like how I play it with my figurines that I buy. I don't buy them for investment purposes. I buy them because I like them. That's just simple as that. And that's how I'm playing the NFT game right now. But that's not to say that you can't kind of invest and flip nfts.
00:26:45.330 - 00:27:00.930, Speaker A: It's very profitable right now. But just like keeping up with it and kind of like keeping on top of it is pretty much impossible even for people who have like a team of people doing it for them. It's. It's impossible because there's just too much going on. It's like trying to keep up with the Internet, right. It's just. It's just crazy.
00:27:00.930 - 00:27:43.578, Speaker A: And that just. It's not just for nfts, but it's like for Ethereum in general, like keeping up with all the new DeFi projects, all the new dows and social tokens and, you know, all that sort of stuff. It's just, you know, it's really, really hard to keep up with all of it. So if you want a dead simple thing, then, you know, I think it's ETH, not, not investment advice, but obviously I think it's ETH because of the fact that all that value is flowing back to ETH through the fee burn especially, but also because ETH is being used as money within the ecosystem too. Right? So you have all of that going on as well. So a ribbon finance announced that ribbon V two, it will be going live soon. So they're basically detailed, you know, what ribbon V two is, how it's a huge improvement to the current vault and what exciting new features it introduces here.
00:27:43.578 - 00:28:27.612, Speaker A: So the upgrades to the vaults are they're going to be able to decentralize the vaults. So ribbon V two, as they say here, has moved away from managed vaults altogether and is now fully autonomous code that does not need human input, which is really cool. This is achieved through two new features, algorithmic strike selection and open auctions. Here they're rebuilding their vault accounting system. They're going to have governable vault parameters here and they'll be officially launching V two, the first V two vault in the next few weeks. And we'll be doing a gradual migration from V one to V two. So if you've been a ribbon finance user in, in the past, or you're just interested in seeing what they're all about, I definitely recommend going and checking this out and just like, I guess like a TLDR on what they are, they're a protocol that offers structured products for crypto.
00:28:27.612 - 00:28:59.790, Speaker A: So, you know, things like options and stuff like that. They've been pretty popular with, but definitely go check them out if you're interested in that sort of stuff. And you can get more details about V two in this blog post. So awakey from Gitcoin basically announced this new project that they did today called Moonshot Bots. And it's basically a profile picture project with, with a 303 supply. So not the usual 10,000 supply here, but essentially all the proceeds from this is going towards supporting public goods. And last I checked it was seven or $800,000 had been kind of put towards this.
00:28:59.790 - 00:29:50.410, Speaker A: So this is essentially harnessing I guess like the NFT Degen for good because this is going towards supporting public goods on the Gitcoin platform. All the ones that we've seen whenever we donate on gitcoin and stuff like that, which I think is really, really cool. And you know, I think Wiki has been a really big fan of doing this for quite a while. He basically calls it Regen finance or regenerative finance where you harness like the Degen energy, all this money flowing around and you basically use it for public goods funding instead of kind of like using it for just like the super speculative stuff, the greed and all that sort of stuff, which I think is really cool. So yeah, unfortunately, you know, I woke up to this being as usual, like I woke up and this was already kind of launched and now I think it's like ten ETH or something to buy one of these things. You know, I'm definitely kind of like priced out of that there. But yeah, congrats to anyone who got one at a kind of cheaper price here.
00:29:50.410 - 00:30:24.384, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean, just generally I think this is really cool because you'll be able to kind of obviously put this as your profile picture if you want, signal that you, you're supporting public goods. And, you know, the next bitcoin grant round is going to be, I think, huge. Because of this, there's going to have more money to flow around here. So I think that was really cool. So last thing about NFTs, Nifty island has introduced their kind of like nifty blade here. So this is essentially a digital and physical blade that people can kind of like bid on as part of an auction here. Just full disclosure, I got one of these blades for free because I'm a neon palm holder.
00:30:24.384 - 00:30:58.444, Speaker A: But like I'm not showing it because of that. I just wanted to kind of highlight it because, you know, the reason I got this was because I basically was, was one of the early, kind of like people who participated in this project, found that, you know, early on, kind of like, I guess on the refuel, kind of highlighted it for you guys as well. And I had a couple people messaging me saying thanks because I got one of these palms which are worth a lot of money now. So, you know, I'm pretty happy that I was able to kind of like, help people there. But essentially this auction's already over, but from now on, they're going to be auctioning more of these blades at specific times. You know, this one was at 04:00 p.m. Central time in the US, so I'm assuming it's going to be on the same times.
00:30:58.444 - 00:31:25.220, Speaker A: But yeah, it basically gives you an opportunity to purchase one of these. These are kind of blades that you see here. And as I said, there's a physical blade. So you basically get this NFT ticket that you can redeem for a physical blade at a later date. I'm definitely going to be redeeming, redeeming mine. And I'm putting it, like in the background so you guys will be able to see it when I get that. I think this is really cool because, I mean, this is following along with the theme of, I guess, like the hacky sack that gitcoin did, the uni socks, right.
00:31:25.220 - 00:32:03.740, Speaker A: There was like defi socks like this, basically this kind of like NFT that you can bid on and get within, you know, on chain and then burn it or kind of like redeem it for a physical item that's sent to you. And, you know, unisocks is worth what, $150,000 right now, which is kind of crazy. And I think the hacky sacks are worth about maybe 30 or $40,000, something like that. And yeah, there's been a bunch of these kind of like, things being done, but it's cool to see, I guess like a katana, basically a blade here kind of been done because I hadn't seen that before. I'm hoping I can actually import this into Australia once I get it. They have pretty strict rules and laws around that, but we'll see how that goes. But on that note, I think that's it for today, everyone.
00:32:03.740 - 00:32:12.684, Speaker A: So thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
