00:00:00.360 - 00:00:31.354, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deluge Refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano, and today's the 3 August 2021. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So the bankless ETH hub livestream for ERP 1559 was announced today. So I'm going to be joining Ryan, Sean Adams, David Hoffman, DC investor Justin Drake, Hudson Jameson and Eric Connor for this live stream on approximately 08:00 a.m. Eastern daylight time on Thursday in eastern time in the US. Sorry.
00:00:31.354 - 00:00:54.350, Speaker A: So for me that is, I think late night, like ten or 11:00 p.m. At night on, on, on Thursday. And I think for, you know, for Europe it would be maybe around 102:00 or something like that. But anyway, you can go to the link here, you know, and set a reminder for yourselves. But this is going to be really cool, I think. I mean, it's 1559 week, as they've said here. They've actually got other things happening during this week.
00:00:54.350 - 00:01:29.038, Speaker A: Today they've got an EIP 1559 expert panel happening on, on bankless here and then they've got the, you know, the live stream with us on, on Thursday. And then Thursday as well. A couple of hours after, there's going to be a live recording of the Bankless podcast with DC investor Squish crypto and James Wang here. So yeah, really, really cool to see bankless, you know, having so much coverage here. I mean, I love listening to their podcast that they do. And I think this one with the expert panel here with Tim Bico Barnaby Monoi mono. I think that's how you say his name has to like clients.
00:01:29.038 - 00:02:08.672, Speaker A: And Microsoft, who is going to be really interesting because they've been some of the people at the forefront of 1559 research and development. So definitely tune into that as well. But I hope to see you all at the live stream here on Thursday. So, you know, we've, we've been going over on the refuel lately and you, I'm sure you've seen on Twitter about this kind of like crypto regulation that's been stuffed into the infrastructure bill. Now the EFF, the electronic frontier foundation put together a thread today which basically says, here are six reasons we hate the new cryptocurrency surveillance provision buried in Biden's infrastructure bill. And I'll read out each reason because it's not going to take me too long to do so. But the first reason is it will require new surveillance of everyday users of cryptocurrency.
00:02:08.672 - 00:02:51.264, Speaker A: Secondly, it could force software creators and others who do not custody cryptocurrency for their users to implement cumbersome surveillance systems or stop offering services in the United States. This would apply to things like decentralized exchanges because they are non custodial. But it would be expected that somehow the decentralized exchange operators, at least the smart contract owners, if there was like an admin key there, they would have to basically survey their customers through KYC, AML and reporting and all that sorts of stuff. And it's obviously unworkable for something like Uniswap, which is totally decentralized, the protocol layer. So, yeah, it's just a misguided regulation there. The third reason is it will create more honey pots of private information about cryptocurrency users that could attract malicious actors. I mean, that's just a no brainer.
00:02:51.264 - 00:03:31.244, Speaker A: Anytime you have kind of like reporting requirements, you're just basically reporting on users and creating these treasure troves of basically a private information that can, or probably will be sooner or later kind of hacked and leaked on the Internet. We've had plenty of those play out in the past, you know, not just within cryptocurrency, obviously, with the ledger leak that happened a few months ago, but also generally across, like, the web. Two space. The fourth reason here, it will create more legal complexity to developing blockchain projects or verifying transactions in the United States, likely leading to more innovation moving overseas. I mean, this is self explanatory and a no brainer. You start clamping down too hard on crypto and crypto companies, they're just going to move to friendlier jurisdictions. We've already seen this play out somewhat.
00:03:31.244 - 00:04:10.970, Speaker A: We've seen people move for tax reasons, too. There's a lot of people moving because the tax laws in the US aren't exactly depending on the state, aren't exactly very, very kind or very favorable. And there's not just, there's really not much guidance there. So we've already seen this been happening over the last few years. The fifth reason is it is impossible for miners and developers to comply with these new reporting requirements. So one of the, I guess, most kind of like hardcore of the regulations in this bill is that it will require miners and stakers to report on, I guess, like the users. So essentially, I mean, the reason why this is crazy is because like you, every, I guess, like, user of a chain is essentially something, someone that the miners and stakers are servicing.
00:04:10.970 - 00:04:59.674, Speaker A: Because if they mine a block or propose a block as a stake or a test to a block, or, you know, build on top of the blockchain. When they're kind of like mining it and building on top of the canonical chain, it basically leads to them having to report on basically every single user of the chain, which makes absolutely no sense in, is really, really insane. So I think that one's actually probably the most hardcore requirement and totally unworkable. Right. And the 6th, it creates uncertainty about the ability to conduct cryptocurrency transactions directly with others via open source code, for example, through smart contracts and decentralized exchanges. As I explained before, this would just be like really, I mean, open a can of worms that just isn't something that's workable in any kind of like fashion or anything like that. So, you know, the EFF also posted a blog post here where you can kind of like read a bit more information about this and kind of like, I mean, it's kind of lengthy.
00:04:59.674 - 00:05:31.746, Speaker A: Not, not too lengthy, but like, it's much more, much longer than the Twitter thread and gives a lot of good context around here. Now, I've been talking about this for. For a little while on the refill for I guess, like the past week or so, and I've been covering tweet threads from like Jake Stravinsky from coin center people and things like that. I think there's still amendments being made to this bill. There's still a lot of things happening here. As I said, this is like an infrastructure bill, which means it is something that is totally unrelated to cryptocurrency. So cryptocurrency regulations don't even have any, I guess, like business being in here.
00:05:31.746 - 00:06:20.738, Speaker A: But if they are going to be in there, we should really make sure that they basically really light regulation or something that at least is workable and makes sense and doesn't kind of like create these insane draconic laws around crypto in the US because as much as you can say, people can just move to friendly jurisdictions. The US is probably the biggest kind of like consumer of cryptocurrency to this day. Obviously, China has recently cracked down on cryptocurrency, both on mining and on centralized exchanges. So the kind of like China, the China activity is slowing down, unfortunately, of that. But, you know, parts of like other parts of Asia are picking up the slack there. There's a lot of activity happening in Southeast Asia with crypto. Europe is obviously big, but I think the United States is still by far the biggest kind of player in the crypto scene.
00:06:20.738 - 00:06:53.338, Speaker A: So we definitely don't want these regulations going through and kind of like slowing down the innovation happening in the US around crypto and, you know, I guess kind of like forcing a little bit of a reset or they stalling the crypto industry. Because if there are these regulations, it would. It would basically mean, if these go in place, it would basically mean a lot of the US kind of based teams and, and a lot of the US activity for crypto would have to slowly move overseas, and that could take years. So, uh, it is better to nip this in the. In the bud before it goes through than just say, oh, if it goes through, we can just, like, leave the country. I mean, that's like the worst case scenario. That is not the optimal path.
00:06:53.338 - 00:07:21.186, Speaker A: The optimal path is making sure that these draconian regulation regulations don't go in, in the first place. So, askew on Twitter today posted this interesting chart which I wrote about in the Daily Gwei newsletter. But essentially, it shows kind of like the stablecoin market cap share between, like, the most popular stable coins you can see here. USDT is 62% of total stablecoin market cap. USDC is 27.4%. TUSD is only 1.2%. DAI, 5.6%.
00:07:21.186 - 00:07:42.398, Speaker A: BUSD is 12%. And there's a couple of others in there as well. But you get the idea. What I wrote about in the newsletter today is that I actually think this is a really positive development. Now. You know, up until, like, a few years ago, up until USDC kind of started growing, you know, especially. Especially through DeFi, tether basically had, like 90% plus dominance on the stable code industry.
00:07:42.398 - 00:08:14.290, Speaker A: Probably higher than that. I mean, for a long time, they had, like, almost 100% dominance. And obviously, there's been a lot of drama about tether over the years. It's totally opaque. You know, there's barely any transparency into tether that, you know, there's shady stuff going on and people really don't like the fact that the crypto ecosystem is so reliant on tether, and for good reason. Um, but, you know, now that we have had the USDC growth, it's kind of like chipping into tether's market share. Same with BUSD, but really, all we're doing with these other centralized stable coins is replacing the old boss with a new boss that is exactly the same as the.
00:08:14.290 - 00:08:38.794, Speaker A: The old boss, right? Okay, maybe not exactly the same, but still very similar. You could argue that USDC is more transparent than USDT, which, to be fair, it probably is. Um, you could say that it's it's been less shady historically. It's based in the, directly in the US, so it has more oversight. Things like that. Busd I would consider pretty shady because like buying it's directly tied to binance. And binance has been coming under fire a lot by regulators recently.
00:08:38.794 - 00:09:04.610, Speaker A: And then, you know, there's Dai as a decentralized alternative at 5.6% of market share. But a lot of Dai is backed by USDC these days. So can you even call Dai decentralized stablecoin? You know, that's up for debate as well. And then you have like the long tail of all these other experiments playing out, such as the algorithmic stable coins, which pretty much most of them have blown up at this point. You have things like Faye protocol, you have Rai. There's a bunch of others out there.
00:09:04.610 - 00:09:47.006, Speaker A: I mean, there's some, I guess like hybrid algorithmic, kind of like decentralized stable coins. I mean, there's so many of them right now, I've lost track. But they are nowhere near kind of competing with USDC and USDT. I mean, they basically have a duopoly on stable coins at this point in time. Now, because of this, I've seen people kind of bring up an argument that, oh, well, you know, these stable coin issuers are like king makers on Ethereum now. If there was like a chain split, they would be the ones to kind of like, I guess, choose which chain won in a controversial hard fork. And I, I kind of get the argument because essentially what that would mean was circle, the issuer of USDC would basically say, okay, well, on this chain we're going to honor USDC redemptions.
00:09:47.006 - 00:10:23.936, Speaker A: And on this chain we are not. Which means that the one that they are not all the USDC on there would be worthless, go to zero. DeFi blows up, essentially, right? Like all the liquidity pools kind of blow up there. People get liquidated, things just start falling apart. But in saying that, the same thing could be said for something like a centralized exchange, for example, what if a centralized exchange saw this kind of controversial split, or at least a bunch of them, bunch of the centralized exchanges, and said, okay, well, I'm only going to support the ETH on this chain and not on the other chain. This is the real ETH. This is the one that's worth $2,500 and the other ETH can be worth whatever the market thinks is worth, but we're not going to list it sort of thing.
00:10:23.936 - 00:11:07.716, Speaker A: Right. The, the kind of the other chains ETH, so are they not kingmakers in that regard. Right? Like, are they not exerting like, lots of power over the ecosystem? And we saw this play out with the, the Fork wars in 2017 with bitcoin and bitcoin cash, where there were a bunch of exchanges will going to support the fork that was basically going to like reject Segwit, essentially. But then at the last minute they kind of caved and said that, okay, well, it's better that we do bitcoin cash. Sorry, that we split off and just do bitcoin cash instead of kind of like causing drama with bitcoin. And I think from that, there's like very strong precedent that these big central entities like exchanges and stable coin issuers, they do not pick which chain wins in a controversial split. The users pick that.
00:11:07.716 - 00:11:47.684, Speaker A: The users always pick that. The whole ecosystem coming together picks that. And the users aren't just like people like me and you using the chain every day. The users consist of pretty much like every entity, every stakeholder within the system, whether they be centralized exchanges or the issuers of stable coins, whether they be the defi projects, the infrastructure around that. You know, all the kind of like other, other kind of like peripheral things, like, you know, not just the big exchanges, but like the small brokerages things and those people getting involved, the core developers obviously, stuff like that. And if the majority of those kind of like people say that this chain is the real Ethereum in a controversial split, well, then that chain is the real Ethereum like that. As simple as that.
00:11:47.684 - 00:12:35.426, Speaker A: That's how the decentralized governance process works within Ethereum. And we've seen these play out with like, with tons of things within Ethereum over the years with all the network upgrades that have happened. You know, for example, Erp 1559, you know, we saw that the miners were against it and they're probably still against it, but they cave because they realized that they're not going to win that fight. The rest of the ecosystem wants 1559 to go ahead, and it is going ahead this week. And, you know, even if they, they kind of tried to fork off and basically fork their own version of a theorem without 1559, they know that no one would use it. And in doing that, the defi ecosystem on that chart, on that chain will also fall apart because, as I said, circle. The issue of USDC, for example, is only going to honor the USDC on the chain with 1559 on it because that is the chain that most of the ecosystem is backing.
00:12:35.426 - 00:13:16.468, Speaker A: So forking Ethereum is actually really hard because you have this thing where essentially, if you're the minority chain blows itself up because of things like Defi, where none of that stuff will work. If you're on the minority chain, it's not like with bitcoin where it's just that BTC or like the BCH asset or things like that. With a theorem, your fork is only as good as the apps on it because Ethereum's use case and a theorems kind of appeal is the apps. At the end of the day, like, if a theorem was just ETH, right? And that's it. Like, it was just like an alternative to bitcoin. It just had like a different monetary policy or whatever, say it was similar to something like litecoin because litecoin really is just a fork of bitcoin with a couple of parameters changed. Well, look at litecoins valuation compared to bitcoin.
00:13:16.468 - 00:14:03.300, Speaker A: It is worth way, way, way less than bitcoin, whereas a bitcoin compared to Ethereum is. There's a much smaller gap there. So from that perspective, you can kind of like, see how this has played out in the past, how it will play out into the future and why any kind of like minority chain, or at least like a chain that's forked off in a controversial fork that becomes the minority based on the whole ecosystem coming together and deciding on this, will basically quickly die out because no one will use it. It just doesn't mean anything. And you can see this with Ethereum classic, for example, even though Ethereum classic was born out of, I guess, like a much more controversial thing that I think we're going to see going forward within Ethereum. It's just we have so much precedent for this. We have so many, so much evidence of what's happened kind of like in the past, and we can kind of like gauge what would happen in the future in a scenario like this.
00:14:03.300 - 00:14:50.360, Speaker A: So, yeah, I just wanted to kind of like, cover that because I've been seeing a bit of debate about this on Twitter recently, and I think that it's a lot more nuanced than just saying that. Oh, because USDC is so ingrained in Defi, it makes circle the kingmaker. Well, I don't think that's the case because you could make the same argument for centralized exchanges by saying, because they're so ingrained in onboarding people onto Ethereum, that, you know, decentralized exchanges could pick which Ethereum was the real one. And, you know, maybe if they wanted to, they could, if they, if they wanted to go against the consensus of everyone else that's their prerogative. They can do that. But the thing is, the game theory holds that if they do that well, they're just shooting themselves in the foot because they are on the minority chain and they basically lose the customer base. And then it kind of becomes a game of chicken of which exchange caves first to the community, and then you have like, they all fall like dominoes in the end.
00:14:50.360 - 00:15:17.812, Speaker A: And I actually think that centralized exchanges really don't want to take in a position or any of this sort of stuff. They usually stay out of the governance stuff that's happening. And I think that's a really good, good idea for them to do. And the same thing with these stablecoin issuers. I think that they know that if they try, if they try to work against the ecosystem, they're going to quickly learn what centralized governance means. That's for sure. But yeah, anyway, I wrote a little bit more about that in the newsletter today, but that basically, I recap what I wrote in the newsletter.
00:15:17.812 - 00:16:09.268, Speaker A: But I think it's, it's really important just to keep in mind about how the governance process in Ethereum works and why there is no king makers within ethereum. So Hayden Adams posted this tweet on Twitter today, basically saying how it started. And there's this picture on the left here, this meme, for those of you listening in the meme is like the four people, the three, three guys and one woman here standing in like standing in a row here with someone in a pink shirt on the left, and then white and then blue and then, and then, you know, kind of like a wacky kind of shirt on the right here with Bill Murray. I don't know all the actors names here. I only know Bill Murray. So if you know which kind of meme I'm talking about, if you're only listening to it, then you know what I'm talking about. But then Hayden Adams posted on the right here a picture of himself on the left in kind of like a pink or a pink kind of shirt here.
00:16:09.268 - 00:16:59.116, Speaker A: Kane next to him in a white shirt. This person in, on the, on the kind of like next to Kane in the blue is actually, yeah, I don't actually know his name, unfortunately, but he's basically, I think, like the head of pleaserdow, essentially here. And then on the right, you have, you have Robert Leshner from compound. So they were kind of like recreating this. And why I thought this was funny was that not only did they recreate this picture here, but they also did something else on crypto Twitter today, where they all bought and changed their profile pictures to these wild, kind of, like, white haired punks. Now, what's really funny about this, and this is what I really wanted to talk about, was that these white haired punks weren't anything special before these kind of, like, people bought them because they were just like, I don't think they were rare. I think they were just kind of like.
00:16:59.116 - 00:17:48.114, Speaker A: And, you know, they're not necessarily kind of, like, appealing either. Like, you look at this and you're just kind of like, okay, like, wild white hair, who cares? Kind of thing. But because the, like, Kane and Hayden, Robert bought these whitehead punks, the other whitehead punks started catching bids and started going for a lot more, and all of a sudden became rare. And it's just really funny when you look at this from, like, a cultural perspective, because that's what these NFTs and specifically crypto punks are, is that it's the culture. Now, the culture is basically, hey, these really popular defi founders changed their profile pictures and bought, like, white haired punks, which are worth, like, $200,000 or something like that. Now, Whitehead punks are valuable, which I thought was just really funny. Uh, and the other thing that was funny about this was that earlier in the day, Robert Leshner put out a tweet who said, who is in crypto in New York City this second? And wearing blue, need you for a mission.
00:17:48.114 - 00:18:05.498, Speaker A: And that mission was obviously this. And it's amazing that they found someone that was actually, you know, playing a big part in the Ethereum community. Uh, here. I think his name is Jamies, the. The kind of, like, head of pleaserdao, uh, to. And, like, he just dressed the part perfectly, right? Like, you can see from the two images here, he just. He just dressed apart perfectly.
00:18:05.498 - 00:18:44.644, Speaker A: But this is, like, hilarious. This is what I love about the Ethereum community and the Ethereum ecosystem is that not only did they recreate this picture, like, perfectly, I reckon this is hilarious because, like, in the original meme, everyone was saying that the person on the left look exactly like Hayden Adams from Uniswap, which I thought was really funny. But not only did they, did they do that, but they also bought, like, all these punks simultaneously. And they kind of started a movement behind a punk that wasn't necessarily rare before, but is now considered rare. So it's just pretty funny when you look at these sorts of things. And this is kind of like, what I talk about when I talk about, like, nFts and culture and how the culture sets the value of these things, and maybe that gives you a bit more insight into why people are coveting punks so much. I just.
00:18:44.644 - 00:19:14.000, Speaker A: Yeah, I just think this is wild. And this is only the first kind of thing we've seen of this. There's gonna be plenty of, like celebrities much bigger than the deep, these defi founders that are gonna be doing changing their profile pictures to punks and other nfts. We've already seen some of them doing it, and I think this is gonna be like a massive cultural shift, not just within crypto, but outside of it as well. So I'm really looking forward to seeing how that all plays out. So Ben DiFrancesco put out an interesting little tweet thread here today where he says, my bet, the EVM stack is locked in. It's past the point of critical mass.
00:19:14.000 - 00:19:50.608, Speaker A: Nothing is going to catch it. Every layer, two sidechain and alternate l one will add either EVM compatibility or fade to obscurity. And then he continued on a little bit in this thread here. But essentially, this is what I've been saying, and I've written about this in the newsletter before, where the EVM really is the moat at the moment. Because if you look at all the chains that have gained traction site, whether they be side chains or other l one s, they've been EVM compatible. And that's because that EVM compatibility lends itself to all the apps that are already existing on Ethereum, just being able to be cloned onto these chains. We saw that happen with BSC, we've seen that happen with Polygon.
00:19:50.608 - 00:20:20.674, Speaker A: We've seen that happen with some of the l two s, like, you know, optimism, even though optimism requires a little bit of changes there, but things like arbitrum. So it means that the developers don't need to rewrite their smart contracts. They don't need to get them audited again. They don't need to kind of like fragment their code base or anything like that. They can essentially just deploy the same thing and upgrade the same thing on either kind of chains here. Now, you know, Ben goes on to say, but. And then he puts out the second tweet here where he quotes, you know, someone saying, but there's this thing that's wrong with the EVM, and this other thing is better.
00:20:20.674 - 00:20:50.334, Speaker A: And then Ben says, you might be right, but it doesn't change what I said. See JavaScript, et cetera. This is how low level technology adoption works. And he's right. I mean, there's plenty of examples of technology that is probably inferior to kind of, like, better technology, but went on to become the dominant thing because of the fact that they had early network effects. And those network effects are very hard to break once they've developed out. And I think that the AVM is in that kind of point, and not just the EVM, but solidity as a smart contracting language and all the tooling built around that.
00:20:50.334 - 00:21:15.042, Speaker A: So, you know, I think that's, that's just going to be true going forward. And I think that any other chain that doesn't do EVM compatibility is going to have a very, very hard time getting any sorts of adoption. But even still, like, it's. There's going to be diminishing returns. Not every chain that has EVM compatibility is going to be able to get any kind of, like, market share or have any kind of usage. It really just depends on a variety of factors. And the more chains that do it, the more diminishing returns there are there.
00:21:15.042 - 00:21:43.224, Speaker A: Um, and, like, kind of, like, finally here, um. Ben says, in short, don't listen to Udi. And Udi put out a tweet back in on January 5, 2019. So this is two years ago or two and a half years ago now, where he said the worst time to learn solidity was a year ago. The second worst time is now. Well, if you learn solidity in January of 2019, you probably joined an early deFi project and probably sitting on a lot of money right now because that Defi project probably tokenized. You got a sharing that, and, you know, you could use those solidity skills for whatever else as well.
00:21:43.224 - 00:22:05.734, Speaker A: So. Yeah, don't listen to trolls like Udi, that's for sure. But, yeah, I thought this was just interesting from Ben. I mean, as I said, I wrote about this in the deliquare newsletter. If you want, you can google that. It's just called the EVM is the moat, and you can Google the Daily Gwei after that, and it'll come up with that, with that blog post there. So risk Harbor, a project that's offering, I guess, like, risk management.
00:22:05.734 - 00:22:45.474, Speaker A: Risk management marketplace for DeFi, aka, like, you could think about, like, smart contract insurance and things like that. They launched the first ever automated risk management hack simulator that they're calling it. So what this tool does is it basically enables users, or allows users to simulate a protocol hack, file a claim, then receive a payout in under 45 seconds, all on live contracts. So thought this was really cool because what we've seen play out, I think, with a lot of these smart contract kind of like insurance protocols is that you don't know if you're going to get a payout. You don't know what that payout is going to look like. You don't know if it's going to apply to such and such smart contract. You don't know if it's going to apply to the exact exploit that happened on there.
00:22:45.474 - 00:23:15.304, Speaker A: And, you know, you may not know that with risk harbor either, but I think what this does is it gives you a better idea because it lets you simulate it. Basically, you know, what you could do is you could say, okay, well, I'm putting $1,000 into yearn. What happens if this yearn vault is exploited? And then you can kind of simulate that with using this tool. So yeah, if you haven't checked out this tool, be sure to do so. It's at this URL here simulator dot riskcaber.com. Um, but yeah, we, I think we need more of this. I think risk and like smart contract just um, you know, exploitability in general is still something that's overlooked by a lot of people.
00:23:15.304 - 00:23:52.796, Speaker A: And a lot of people think, oh no, it can't happen to me. Even though we've seen plenty of exploits and rug pulls and hacks that have happened in the past. Um, and I think a lot of people still aren't taking out kind of um, uh, coverage or smart or insurance on their positions. And I think actually to get there, we do need it to be integrated into these apps. So it's one click. So you can imagine going to yearn and saying, okay, well, I'm going to go in this vault and then having like a little checkbox that says, okay, you know, would you like insurance, would you like coverage on this? And you just ticket and you get coverage on it. Sort of like when you go to kind of, I guess post something at like the post office or whatever and you kind of fill out the option, yes, I would like insurance on this package just in case something happens to it.
00:23:52.796 - 00:24:40.314, Speaker A: That's the only way you're going to kind of get mass adoption there, I believe, because people aren't going to go out of their way to basically say, okay, well, I open this position now. I take this position to risk harbor or Nexus mutual whatever and then I insure it over there. You kind of need that one click thing to make it easier for people and make people's lives easier when, you know, getting smart contract support and things like that. So yeah, going to be really excited to see how that plays out across all the smart contract insurance and coverage protocols as time goes on. All right, finally, Argent has introduced their L2 waitlist. So it's not their L2 kind of implementation yet, but essentially you can sign up on their waitlist at Flash Argent XYZ and you can go in the running to win a $270,000 crypto sweep sweepstake to celebrate. Now, they've been teasing this l two kind of integration for a while.
00:24:40.314 - 00:25:24.024, Speaker A: They're going to be using zksync for this, which I think is really cool. But essentially I'm imagining they're basically going to enable, I guess, people through the Arjun mobile wallet app to use l two to do a variety of things or basically anything that's on zksync. And I'm sure that they're going to be adding other l two s as well, like optimism and arbitrum. And this is really how we get mass adoption on these l two s because as I said, I've said many times, there's three key kind of like adoption or at least onboarding vehicles that need to be in place for l two to see mass adoption. One of them is centralized exchange with onboarding. The second one is batched onboarding from l one. The third one is direct fiat on ramps, which I think the third one can, is direct fiat on ramps and mobile wallet on ramps.
00:25:24.024 - 00:26:06.900, Speaker A: It kind of like one and the same because Argent has direct fiat onboarding onto that. So essentially what you could do is you can go from like your bank account to Argent to an l two. And that's how we're going to get those mass, that mass adoption happening. Because at the end of the day, people, if you still have to pay a layer one fee to get onto L2, that's going to scare a lot of people away, especially if that fee is like $50 because, and you have to do it for like each asset as well. And, you know, I mean, seller networks has a product out there, L2 finance, which allows you to batch things together, which is working really well. Um, but on top of that, we also need like something for new users because that would be for more existing users, I think we need something for new users. And that means mobile wallet apps having direct and native integration with l two s and fiat on ramping through that as well.
00:26:06.900 - 00:26:21.652, Speaker A: So yeah, if you haven't signed up for this waitlist yet, be sure to do so. It'll be linked in the YouTube description. But on that note, that is it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:26:21.652 - 00:26:22.124, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone.
