00:00:04.720 - 00:00:38.501, Speaker A: Hello Breakpoint. I hope you had a great day so far. And let me take you to the next level by talking about the most important thing in our industry that are tokens. Tokens play a really important role in a decentralized protocol to grow and flash trade. At Flash Trade, we are trying to revolutionize the way token economics are done and changing the game for good. And before we dive into the token economics, let me go through the major pain points as token holders that we go through while holding tokens. So let me go through the three main points.
00:00:38.501 - 00:01:37.845, Speaker A: First point, money raised. Most of the teams that have raised money till date, there is no transparency to what the money is used for and no specific path on how the money is spent. Second point, token unlocks. Majority of us might have gone through the mundane vesting schedules where the team gets the token irrespective of their contributions or the will to get to the next level because the linear vesting schedules just blocks you out of the, out of buying any new tokens because you always like there is a huge overhang supply and you're like, oh my God, should I buy or not? So this is something that we really want to address. And the third part is governance for the sake of doing, for the sake of launching a token. This is also has been a major pain point lately where it's been dragged on since the late 2020, where every token that has been launched, they're launched for the sake of governance, nothing else. So we are about to change the game and let me just get started with it.
00:01:37.845 - 00:02:25.415, Speaker A: It's like flash is launching the token. The token that we have built after understanding and running the protocol for the past 10 months, which is aimed to basically, you know, work with the protocol and grow at this, like get more users and distributions. So the idea is to change the game for good. The idea here remains is we will never have any linear vesting schedules for the team. The team will only get tokens when we launch new products or features which are all governed by our token holders. The token holders control the protocol and the future of the protocol and the governance that we have will not be the governance for the sake of just voting. All the governance, all the voters will always have yield attached to their voting proposals.
00:02:25.415 - 00:03:16.217, Speaker A: Basically when they vote, they'll get the yield that is generated from the treasury that we will be raising by selling a major chunk of the protocol. So basically the idea is to create a flywheel effect where the treasury grows, the protocol revenue grows and the token holders are more aligned to use the protocol. Because the team only gets the tokens when they launch new features. So we are just trying to create a new flywheel effect which is a revolutionary thing and haven't done before. And moving to the next point is. So what have Flash achieved so far? So Flash has in less than 10 months, it's actually nine months if you discuss the month of September. But in the last 10 months we have done more than $11 billion in volume while generating more than $10 million in fees, all the while being fully bootstrapped and community aligned.
00:03:16.217 - 00:04:13.373, Speaker A: We are the only protocol right now like amongst the few protocol that haven't raised a single dollar from the market all by surviving by all ourselves since day one, since the FTX thing saga happened. And we would love to take this legacy to the next level by doing, by launching a token that will be the most community line. And it has a flywheel effect which keeps us as aligned as the community that we have. And we grow and our community grows with that. And the next part is, yeah, I do get a lot of questions like why do people need a token? Right? You know, like it is a question that a lot of people ask like but if you are able to, you know like create a token that surrounds about three things which is like that we have designed revenue, utility and governance. There is a flywheel effect that goes around and as the team, as the protocol grows. Sorry, the token holders also earn a lot.
00:04:13.373 - 00:05:06.729, Speaker A: So yeah, let me get just to the token. So. So it's not just about the token. We are also launching three new things later this year which is the margin engine V2, which is going to be the most efficient margin engine that you're going to found on any blockchain with the least amount of fees and margin fees with an interesting funding mechanism model. And the second thing that we are working on is the limit orders. Those limit orders are not just going to be on a perpetuals, they are also going to work on spot tokens as well. And the third thing is the most interesting thing that I'm just going to keep under wraps because it might shock a lot of people and I am so far really thankful for the community that we have found around Flash trade which has helped us to reach to the levels that we are today by remaining fully bootstrapped and getting as much as good feedback from all the Solana ecosystem.
00:05:06.729 - 00:05:11.945, Speaker A: And so with further ado, I just want to thank you all and yeah, have a good one.
