00:00:04.640 - 00:00:56.953, Speaker A: Hi everybody, my name is Jess Holgrave. I am the CEO now of Reown, which many of you might not be aware, until Tuesday, was actually called Wallet Connect. Wallet Connect has been a project that's been around since 2018. It was designed as a protocol to connect any app with any wallet within Web3, such that users can take all sorts of actions when they're doing things. So we've worked now for the last seven years to make over 150 million connections between apps and wallets, providing over 24 million unique wallet addresses with the ability to connect into applications. And it's been a wild, wild journey until this Tuesday, at which point we announced a new chapter for Wallet Connect. So what does that mean? Firstly, we announced that we are decentralizing the network.
00:00:56.953 - 00:01:50.761, Speaker A: We've added the first third party node operators to the ecosystem and are in the process of setting up. We've set up the Wallet Connect Foundation. The founder of Wallet Connect, Pedro, is moving over to the foundation and perhaps most excitingly, we announced the launch of the Wallet Connect token, which is going to be the token that governs and is the fee paying system for the WalletConnect economy. So in line with all of those changes, on Tuesday we also announced our new brand, Rion, which is the brand and the company that is going to leverage the WalletConnect network to build better toolkits for developers. So that's what I'm going to talk to you about today, especially with respect to the Solana ecosystem. Rion, Our vision here is that UX should be usable. The new Internet, the Internet of ownership, the Internet of crypto is what we're all here to build.
00:01:50.761 - 00:02:32.223, Speaker A: But today it's really hard to use. People have to deal with complex wallet systems, complex ways of interacting with apps, and we're here to make on chain usable for people. Riona's going to take over the two core toolkits that we've already built at Wallet Connect. So, so we've got AppKit, which is our toolkit for app developers, and WalletKit, which is our toolkit for wallet developers. Each of these at their core, contains things that enable apps and wallets to Communicate through the WalletConnect network. Many of you will be familiar with that. You might have logged into a web app using a mobile wallet.
00:02:32.223 - 00:03:18.005, Speaker A: You've scanned that QR code with the WalletConnect symbol and we're providing that connection to you. And these are the things that are at the core of the new products, AppKit and WalletKit. But AppKit in and of itself is more than that. And that's why this is now part of Reown and not just WalletConnect. AppKit is a full stack developer toolkit for anybody building applications. And as I said, at the core it contains the WalletConnect modal, allowing any wallet to log into an application, but it also contains more than that. So we've now got email embedded wallets, the ability to log in with social accounts and create wallets for the new user that's coming to your application.
00:03:18.005 - 00:04:09.133, Speaker A: We've got swaps and on ramps. So a new user comes to your app, they create an email wallet and they can load and swap into any token that they want to. And I think what's most exciting and why I'm here today particularly is announce that this is now live and fully functional in Solana. So I'm really excited to share that we've got some really amazing partners who are launching with us. We've been working with Drift, with Jupiter, with several others to bring this as a full stack toolkit to the Solana development community. Here you can see those email wallets in action and our goal is to make a the developer experience delightful. You can download and get all of these features in a single SDK and b to make your user journey better.
00:04:09.133 - 00:04:55.215, Speaker A: I think for Too long in Web3 we have had too low a bar. We've expected users to go through pain in order to use our applications. And we're now reaching the point where I think every single one of you as an app developer really cares about creating a delightful experience for your end user, about giving them the ability to log into your application and use the features that you care about. You are not there to solve the user experience. That's what we want to help you with. You're there to create a delightful end user experience. And I think that by bringing you these tools, we're hopefully going to see it much, much easier for end users to connect, but to do more than that too and to really benefit from all of your applications.
00:04:55.215 - 00:05:11.195, Speaker A: So please download, contact us, give us feedback. These are now available live. You can visit reown.com to access the new SDKs for Solana and we look forward to working with you going forwards on it. Thank you.
