00:00:03.130 - 00:00:38.582, Speaker A: So I'm Dave Engel, I'm head of business development for Starquare. We're going to talk today about Starkware and the future of institutional finance. It's a very lofty title, but it's one that we very much believe in. And I think even the last two days, you're really starting to see some of the shoots of kind of how we're not really just focusing on developers anymore. We're actually starting to scale more towards large scale and tuitions. And what I want to talk about today is what we're seeing in the ecosystem, what we're seeing in the marketplace, and how Starkware is shaping that. So who am I? Head of Starkware? I've been in Israel for eleven months now.
00:00:38.582 - 00:01:08.526, Speaker A: I'm half australian, half american, and hopefully the next half of my life, Israeli. Let me just move these down a bit. My passions are fintech and web3, although web3 has completely taken over fintech now. Ice hockey, which unfortunately, I don't have much of an opportunity to play here. And then Djang as well. Background. I've worked at AWS, GE Capital, and National Australia bank, so that's my enterprise credentials and then a whole range of varyingly successful startups.
00:01:08.526 - 00:01:36.794, Speaker A: Nothing that even touches the scale of Starkware. So this is the first true rocket ship that I've been fortunate enough to ride on. Okay, so the agenda, I'll try to get through everything and leave some time for questions. At the end, it's a longish presentation, so if I don't have time, just hit me up afterwards. I'll be wandering around, you'll be able to see me. So does institutional finance need blockchain? Which is the question that we should all be asking ourselves if we're interested in this space. Money is starting to move.
00:01:36.794 - 00:02:25.146, Speaker A: So what are examples where we're seeing institutional finance use blockchain, but use it in actually a way where it's using the technology as opposed to crypto, it's just an asset. And then finally, Starkx, which is one of our platforms and the future of finance. So what are we actually doing on there? First of all, does institutional finance need blockchain? I think we should start with a quote from probably the most well known banking executive in the world, Jamie Dimon from Morgan, a well known crypto skeptic. But I think that he actually takes more of a more nuanced view than what people think. So first thing he says is cryptocurrency has no intrinsic value. I'll respectfully disagree with him there, but he's entitled to his opinion. But I think what's interesting is the next part of this sentence, which is blockchain is real if we use it for certain things, and parts of Defi are real.
00:02:25.146 - 00:03:09.480, Speaker A: So I wouldn't call it a ringing endorsement, but it's certainly not the same as the first part where he says crypto has no value. And I think what he's really saying here, which is what we very much believe, is that blockchain as a technology is really going to be instrumental in being the backbone in the future of institutional finance. And that's what we're building at Starquare. I think that we are very much blockchain as a technology company. You can see by the way that we operate, you can see by the way that we ship products. I had a BD candidate a couple of weeks ago. Ask me at the end of an interview, he said, well, are the founders interested in just short term gain, or are they actually really in this for the long term? And my response was, if they're in this for short term gain, then they're doing a terrible job.
00:03:09.480 - 00:04:18.782, Speaker A: So I think, hopefully the way that we act speaks for ourselves. I also want to define institutional finance, just in case it's not clear to anyone, retail finance or retail banking is when I go and have a deposit account, a current account, a credit card business banking would be b to b business, like paying invoices, things like that. Institutional finance is moving money between large institutions, so it could be debt funding or collateralizing loans or treasuries. So mainly institutional finance is very, very large companies or very large banks that are dealing with central banks. And the reason that we're focusing on institutional finance today, and kind of as an organization, is that's where the really large volumes of money are. And ultimately, that's where we kind of have a theory that the most value, at least in the near term, will be created there, as opposed to necessarily like peer to peer payments or peer to merchant payments, which are also coming and are very interesting. But what we're starting to see from institutional finance, I think, is a little bit more interesting in how blockchain as a technology can start shaping finance as well.
00:04:18.782 - 00:04:52.042, Speaker A: And really, if you think about where money comes from, money comes from, you know, institutional, sorry, from central banks, and it flows through institutions down to consumers. So if you go back to where is the source of money, it's really from either governments, central banks, or I guess, bitcoin. But those are kind of where the money starts. And so that's why? I think as you get closer to the source, you start to get more opportunities for doing like really large scale projects. So I just want to give that definition. Okay. Does institutional finance like blockchain qualified? Yes.
00:04:52.042 - 00:05:28.306, Speaker A: So what do they like about it? First of all, instant settlement. So I assume everybody here has done a transaction on the blockchain before instant settlement. I send the money a to b, leaves my wallet, gets to their wallet, it's done. Unlocks trillions of dollars of locked up collateral. When you are trading with an institution, if you are taking commercial paper. So if I need to borrow $100 million to make payroll, and this is very common, what I'm saying, I'm going to need to borrow $100 million to make payroll for the next few days and then I'll unlock that collateral and then you kind of just continue to roll it over. For me to borrow that money, I have to lock up collateral.
00:05:28.306 - 00:06:07.154, Speaker A: So I have to lock up long term debt or something like that, or even short term. That money is inefficient when it's locked up as collateral. And so what instant settlement means is that rather than me having to lock up collateral, I can transfer that money instantly and my collateral can be unlocked instantly. And when we're talking about trillions of dollars, even trillions of dollars sitting in a bank account and that's not my account not earning me interest, is incredibly capital inefficient. So there are literally trillions of dollars that's locked up in accounts, not earning customers. When I say customers, institutions like could be BHP or Spotify or Facebook. That's just not earning them money.
00:06:07.154 - 00:07:03.726, Speaker A: And it's a really bad use of capital. And effectively what that means is that there's just less capital for productive use. Instant settlement, like it sounds, will instantly transfer the money and then the collateral can be returned instantly. So all of a sudden what you're getting is a far more efficient use of really substantial amounts of money, which is material instant settlement reduces operational complexity. So talking about settlement, there's actually banks have teams of hundreds or thousands of people just dedicated to settling these transactions. And so when you have all these people, you're paying them and it's basically all they're kind of doing is making sure that the money did what it was meant to do, that it went from point a to b, that it was compliant, that it followed all the regulations, that it went from where it went was meant to go to where it was meant to go. But it's basically just like, it's like kind of like a team that just checks the box and you need it because you have to be compliant.
00:07:03.726 - 00:07:42.922, Speaker A: You have to make sure the money goes where it's meant to go. But again, you've got these teams doing a lot of kind of basically just checking work. Whereas with blockchain I send it and it's settled instantly and you can take one person or a computer or a robot to check that, as opposed to a team of thousands of people. So obviously we all like reducing operational complexity and so blockchain does that. And then finally, composability enables new asset classes and revenue streams. Building financial assets is hard. When I say an asset like take an ETF, an exchange traded fund, which is basically a basket of stocks.
00:07:42.922 - 00:08:24.282, Speaker A: For me to build that basket of stocks, I have to go and do a lot of manual review. I have to make sure that it's balanced. I have to make sure that the top, if it's an S and P 500, I have to make sure that I've got the right balance in there. It's very manual to do. When you can start to do it on the blockchain where you can use oracle feeds, where you can automate the addition or subtraction of different assets, you can tokenize those assets, all of a sudden it unlocks a whole world of potential that both increases the operational efficiency, increases the velocity at which you can make these changes. And so basically what you're going to start to see is a whole new form of asset classes as a result. However, first of all, private blockchains lack liquidity.
00:08:24.282 - 00:08:41.890, Speaker A: Private blockchains are like r three or ripple. These were like the first version of blockchains. They were centralized. They're basically like a peer to peer network. But they weren't decentralized, they weren't liquid. We've moved away from that now to public blockchains. But one of the problems with public blockchains is that they're public, it's a feature.
00:08:41.890 - 00:09:16.906, Speaker A: But for banks or for banks customers, it's often a bug. They don't actually want their movement or their money or their trades or anything like that on the public blockchain. So even though they recognize that public blockchains and like Ethereum particularly, are the most secure for doing these, they don't want to expose their trades. So it's kind of this problem that they haven't been able to overcome yet. Ethereum, which is becoming the preferred, we talked to a lot of institutions and they're kind of starting to settle on Ethereum as the, no pun intended, as the blockchain of choice, it doesn't scale. And I mean, you're all here because you all recognize that I don't need to explain that to you. Banks like float from locked up collateral.
00:09:16.906 - 00:10:12.814, Speaker A: So even though me as a customer, the use of my collateral is inefficient, the banks actually can earn interest on that. So you kind of have this tension where banks actually don't mind that they're locking up collateral, but for the customers that are locking up that collateral, they don't get any benefit from it. So there's kind of this healthy tension between banks and customers of how the collateral is used and then instant settlement, even though it's great in that it's much more efficient, if you're wrong, there's no reversing it. So obviously, when you're dealing with hundreds of billions of dollars and human intervention and things like that, it introduces a different kind of operational risk. So that's why it's a qualified yes. So what are we actually seeing that's interesting? And the reason that I want to give these examples is we're now starting to move from banks and institutional finance using crypto as an asset. So just tokenizing an asset and then trading it, or just holding crypto, or helping their customers invest in crypto to using blockchain as a technology.
00:10:12.814 - 00:10:53.634, Speaker A: And that's what I think is more interesting, and that's what I want to highlight here, because everything back to Jamie Dimon's statement, crypto as an asset, from his perspective as the CEO of the biggest institutional bank in the world, is not valuable. Or he would say that it's not real. But blockchain, the technology, is real. And so I think what's interesting is that we're now starting to see this move from institutional finance, treating crypto as an asset to treating blockchain as a technology. And there's overlap there, but I think that's what I want to highlight here. So society general, a very large french bank, is depositing assets and borrowing assets on Makerdao. So Makerdao is an over collateralized stablecoin, one of the biggest in the market, decentralized.
00:10:53.634 - 00:11:34.966, Speaker A: And so what society general did is they tokenized 40 million in real estate, mortgage bonds on ethereum as collateral, and then they deposited that to maker dow. So taking real world assets, tokenizing those, depositing them on maker, and then borrowing a stablecoin. So first of all, that's just very cool. The fact that a regulated entity was able to do that. In order to do that, they also had to submit a governance proposal to Makerdao. So the fact that you have a highly regulated financial institution interacting with a completely unregulated, completely foreign sort of entity and being able to come to an agreement is really interesting. These two types of organizations could not be further apart.
00:11:34.966 - 00:12:20.966, Speaker A: And the fact that they were able to submit and agree to a governance proposal, I think in and of itself is a real innovation. And then they drew down the dye from the facility. So it's not just depositing it, it's now starting to draw down the DAI and using it then to refinance the mortgage bonds. So the reason I think this is interesting is I said governance proposal, but you're actually now starting to get to see a full lifecycle of assets move from a bank, from a regulated institution, to a decentralized entity, to Makerdao, but then back to the bank. And so I think this is one of the most innovative examples of starting to see a full lifecycle of money moving. So I think that's really interesting, and hopefully we'll start to see more and more of those. And society general, it's actually not even the bank, it's called society general forge.
00:12:20.966 - 00:12:52.094, Speaker A: So they've actually created a completely new entity because the regulation around doing it as society general was too complex. But in creating a new entity, they're actually dealing with a lot of the regulatory issues that will help other banks, both banks and daos, like Maker, actually start to do this more at scale and faster. JPMorgan just doing time check. JPMorgan executing a trade on Polygon. This is super cool. And like full credit to both JPMorgan and Polygon for doing it. This is an FX transaction.
00:12:52.094 - 00:13:22.534, Speaker A: So what banks do all day long, it's a $7.5 trillion market, is that they trade FX to help move money for their customers. They do it as traders, they do it for upside. It's a huge market, but it's all done off chain. The opportunity here, obviously, is that if you can tokenize these assets, then all of a sudden you're still FX. It's just a tokenized FX. It's a tokenized currency, but it makes the trading then much faster.
00:13:22.534 - 00:13:44.030, Speaker A: You get instant settlement. You can start to become much more creative. You get these really long tail assets or long tail currencies that are very illiquid. All of a sudden you can start to add liquidity to these assets. And so this goes back to the composability. So they tokenized Singapore dollars. One of their customers tokenized SBI, tokenized yen.
00:13:44.030 - 00:14:01.842, Speaker A: They put them into Ave Arc. So Ave arc is like a permissioned lending platform from Ave. So Stani spoke before and then they did. We'll call it a swap. Really what they did is they actually each borrowed it and then paid it back. But they borrowed it, but it was set at 0% interest. And I think a couple of takeaways.
00:14:01.842 - 00:14:35.862, Speaker A: First of all, is just the fact that they did this, I think is really, really interesting. It was completely done on chain. I think one interesting fact is, like, doing a swap of tokens is dead easy. Like, you can do it on uniswap. The reason that they didn't use Uniswap is because Uniswap doesn't have permissioned access. So this is where you see, like they kind of got, let's call it 40% of the way there. But rather than doing a swap on Uniswap or any other exchange, they actually had to do it where they both deposited and then borrowed each other's deposits and kind of called it a like again.
00:14:35.862 - 00:15:15.330, Speaker A: So we're seeing there's these obstacles that they want to overcome. But because Ave is permissioned, it just means that JPMorgan could control who could then access those pools of capital, whereas on uniswap anybody could come in and access them. So it's a really important step forward. And I think JPMorgan is probably the leader in this field. They've got like 200 people in the onyx business unit doing it. Is that time warning or is that somebody's phone? Okay, so five minutes. Okay, and so what? So use of public blockchain for FX swaps.
00:15:15.330 - 00:15:45.322, Speaker A: I think the big part here is when we think about kind of blockchain and using blockchain for interbank. Sorry, for remittance or transferring between people, that's the remittance industry. That's $133,000,000 a day. The global FX volume is $7.5 trillion a day. So back to my first point about why we think that institutional finance is so much more interesting than retail. We're getting multiple orders of magnitude increase in volume when we actually think about the global FX market.
00:15:45.322 - 00:16:16.850, Speaker A: And so the fact that this is the first example of an on chain trade that we've seen is just very cool. And then the other thing is that they've actually tokenized deposits. So without getting too much into the detail, basically stablecoins are back one to one. If you're going to take in a stable coin, you got to put in one dollars. A tokenized deposit is fractional reserve. So if I think about like when I go and I deposit $100 into my bank account, that bank can actually usually lend it out like ten to one, so they can use leverage. And so in order to be able to do that, you need to be a regulated bank.
00:16:16.850 - 00:17:16.642, Speaker A: But that also means that you can now scale a tokenized deposit, or you can create a new sort of currency, almost a stablecoin, where you're starting to scale it and leverage it at the same rate that a bank would leverage their fractional reserves. And so the point that Morgan made in that is that stablecoins are good, but it just can't scale when it has to be backed one to one, to the volume that institutional finance expects. Whereas when you can tokenize deposits like what Morgan did and other regulated banks will do, all of a sudden you're going to see a substantial, substantial growth in the amount of kind of liquidity available to start doing these kind of larger on chain interactions. Then finally, my personal favorite, Visa, built a payments PoC on Starknet. So hopefully all of you guys came and saw Kai speak yesterday. This is probably the deepest tech one out of all of them. Visa created a recurring payment PoC using account abstraction on Starknet.
00:17:16.642 - 00:17:59.982, Speaker A: So this allows customers to do pull payments. So basically pull payments is where the merchant initiates the payment from you, as opposed to push, which is the only thing you can do on Ethereum wallet now is I can tell my wallet, you have to go and give money to this person. A wallet can't actually get a pull from a merchant or do recurring payments or build any sort of smarts into it. Why is this cool? First of all, account abstraction is just an amazing technology that is hopefully going to solve the self custody challenge with seed phrases. So we are self custody maxis. But the hardest thing about self custody is that if you lose your seed phrase, your money's gone, which means this is an incredible barrier to self custody transactions. Account abstraction solves that in that you can do multi sig, you can do account recovery.
00:17:59.982 - 00:18:37.726, Speaker A: It's a programmable wallet. So all of a sudden you can start to get a wallet to act like a web two wallet, but this is going to do much more than web two wallets. So I think that's very exciting. And the other thing, I've made this statement a few times is that this project was completely permissionless. So we found out about it basically when Visa told us they were going to publish a paper on it, which in my history of doing BD, which is pretty long, and doing enterprise BD, which is almost as long I've never actually gone and had a customer tell me that they built on us after they already built it. It's really mind blowing how cool it is. And this is what permissionless blockchain is.
00:18:37.726 - 00:19:17.870, Speaker A: So I'm sure we're going to see a ton more of this from a ton of different companies on a ton of different protocols. But I think the fact that you have a company like Visa, which is one of the most regulated, largest, well known brands, going and building on a protocol and then letting them know afterwards is like a really exciting indication of things to come. So how do we facilitate the future of finance? So obviously we talked about account abstraction. Starkx is our layer two permissioned blockchain, and it solves a lot of the problems that I mentioned at the very beginning. So we get Ethereum security. What is Starkx? It's basically a set of APIs that we give to any company. So Apex, who you're going to hear from next, has built their derivatives platform on top of it.
00:19:17.870 - 00:19:47.110, Speaker A: DyDX is on top of it. Immutable is on top of it. So rare have all built using the APIs. Ethereum security layer two scalability the thing that kind of was an eye opener for us is that we started having all these institutions coming to us because they want Ethereum security and layer two scalability. But we also have validium availability mode, which means that the transactions are kept off chain. So if you remember when I said, yes, institutions love blockchain, but they can't really have their customers'transactions on the blockchain. Starkx solves that.
00:19:47.110 - 00:20:20.046, Speaker A: So we didn't set out to build validium mode for privacy, we actually set out to build it because it's much cheaper in terms of settling transactions on chain. But it's like this happy coincidence that all of a sudden has led to this influx in interest from institutions because they get the scalability, they get the security, but they also get the confidentiality. And the rest you can read. Starkx is actually mind blowing tech. So this is the best indication of kind of true layer two scalability. So Starkx is almost all week settling more than all other l two s combined. It's also sometimes settling more than Ethereum.
00:20:20.046 - 00:21:09.380, Speaker A: And so what that means is that we are settling one to one and a half times as many transactions as Ethereum is doing in the same week. We then roll those up in a roll up. We settle those on Ethereum and we're settling, let's say, one and a half times as many transactions on Ethereum, and we're taking up less than 0.1% of the block space. So when people talk about the promise of roll ups, the fact that scales Ethereum, this is like the first example of it actually happening in the wild, where you're settling millions of transactions more than Ethereum and taking up a fraction of a fraction of a percent on the Ethereum blockchain. So I think that's just amazingly cool. Conclusions blockchain pocs are happening with greater focus in institutional finance and with priority of moving money that gets to the point around using the technology.
00:21:09.380 - 00:21:40.090, Speaker A: We're seeing the move from private to public blockchains, which I think is really exciting. Starkx is this hybrid of private and public, so it's still permissioned, but it's settling on layer one, which is giving the banks the security guarantees of Ethereum. Solutions at scale of institutional finance are still probably going to be a few years away. They need regulatory clarity. They're also just starting to get their heads around the ability to build on it. They're starting to hire solidity developers. Getting them to develop on Cairo is like a whole nother step, but we'll get there.
00:21:40.090 - 00:22:16.230, Speaker A: And I think what's really interesting is that you're now starting to see protocols moving away from an enterprise focused blockchain. So like Ripple is an enterprise focused blockchain. R three is those protocols are kind of, they're not really very successful. But what you're seeing is that you're seeing now regular public blockchains, but now starting to service enterprises. So I think it's both a maturity of the protocols themselves, but a maturity of institutions as well that are now recognizing that public blockchains are the future of enterprise blockchain, and that they need to kind of select carefully which ones they build on. So that's my presentation. Hopefully.
00:22:16.230 - 00:22:47.820, Speaker A: If there's any enterprises here, we're always happy to chat. I think that my favorite thing about this darkware session in particular is this is the first time that we're seeing the developer ecosystem and the enterprise ecosystem within Starkware kind of starting to come together. I'm seeing some amazing conversations happening between really small depths or wallets and things like that, and enterprises that are here. And I'm really excited and encouraged to think that Starknet is actually going to be one of the main facilitators towards bringing our developers and our enterprise ecosystem partners together. Thank you.
