00:00:00.160 - 00:00:00.700, Speaker A: Foreign.
00:00:05.520 - 00:00:06.312, Speaker B: Co founder.
00:00:06.376 - 00:00:11.256, Speaker A: Tell us a little bit about your journey in crypto and what obviously brought you to this point.
00:00:11.328 - 00:01:01.414, Speaker B: Well, I actually started my career in the more traditional finance space before I actually stumbled upon crypto in 2017. If I may actually refresh people's memory about it. Back in 2018 there was a very, very cold crypto winter and I think what I have learned was we actually should probably go strong momentum. And secondly, I think Eigenlayer has actually inspired and introduced the idea of restaking. What is the most valuable driver of this entire business model is the underlying assets that's being pledged. But if you are really talking about asset strength, Bitcoin probably beats everybody else hands down. And I think a second point is that Blockmates Orange is sponsored by Core Network, the ultimate Bitcoin powered EVM compatible blockchain.
00:01:01.462 - 00:01:21.204, Speaker A: Learn more about core@blockmates.com welcome back everyone. Another episode of A Blockmates Orange. As usual, we're going down the bitcoin defi rabbit hole. Great guest today, Makoto from PAL Network. Bitcoin restaking. Bitcoin defied its very essence.
00:01:21.204 - 00:01:44.788, Speaker A: You know, obviously we are looking at, you know, what Ethereum has taught us about restaking, but it's the same but very different. There's also other products within the poll network. Very ambitious from what I can see. But it looks like the guys are executing had a. Had a precede raise recently. I think it was last month for $3 million. You guys are in the game, you're here to play and you're serious about what you're doing.
00:01:44.788 - 00:01:46.720, Speaker A: Welcome sir. It's great to have you on.
00:01:47.550 - 00:02:00.290, Speaker B: Hi Jedi and Blockmates. My name is Makoto. I'm Pale's co founder. Very happy to be here today to jam with one of the most professional degenerate community in the crypto space.
00:02:00.590 - 00:02:15.092, Speaker A: Yeah, what an awesome intro. I'm gonna definitely get a clip of that. Okay, just jumping right in. Tell us a little bit about your journey in crypto and what obviously brought you to this point. Y'all go for it, right?
00:02:15.276 - 00:03:13.326, Speaker B: Well, I actually started my career in the more traditional finance space, did investment banking and management consultant before I actually stumbled upon crypto in 2017 and I was actually hooked up by a friend to the Ethereum foundation to help them organize the Eve global hackathons. One particular episode was the 2018 ETH Singapore. Back then, they have never done this in this part of the world and since I was based in Singapore, I actually helped them to pull that off. That really opened a new world for me. Because I saw a really genuinely passionate and innovative technology that was being developed. And if I may actually refresh people's memory about it, back in 2018, especially in December, there was a, a very, very cold crypto winter. Despite all that, there was still a lot of developers, builders really building interesting stuff.
00:03:13.326 - 00:04:25.524, Speaker B: And some of them actually led to the DeFi summer two years later. And I think that was it for me. And I sort of ditched my job in a tradfi world and jumped into the crypto rabbit hole, never looking back, starting my crypto career, so to speak, adapting to cefi and then DeFi. And I think what I have learned easy and hard lessons along the way over the years was that we actually should probably go with strong momentum or where the trend is going, but not passing fads, stronger, bigger narratives. And that's why for Pel, we have actually seen perfectly converging forces in the area of bitcoin ecosystem. And I think Blockmates have covered a lot of content on that already. And secondly, I think Eigen Layer has actually inspired and introduced the idea of Restaking so Pale basically put these two ideas together to do restaking Bitcoin and what idea actually on a high level is simple as that, but the devil is in the detail when it comes to actually implementing Bitcoin.
00:04:25.524 - 00:04:32.000, Speaker B: Risk taking. It's a whole new different kind of ball game. Happy to actually talk more about that and again, thanks for having me.
00:04:32.380 - 00:05:22.514, Speaker A: Today's podcast is sponsored by Glyph. Glyph is a non custodial decentralized exchange operating on the core network. As you know, we've spent a lot of time focusing on Bitcoin Defi on this podcast and essentially what Glyph is doing is replicating what Uni Swap has done on Ethereum. So they are obviously dedicated in developing a sustainable and innovative decks on top of bitcoin, much like Uniswap and just taking this whole bitcoin narrative to the next level. So they've got a unique non custodial approach which allows users to retain ownership of their Bitcoin while enjoying the benefits of a decentralized exchange experience. Their website is Glyph Exchange and you can go and trade a variety of assets there like btc, usdt, USDC and a lot more. Go check them out.
00:05:22.514 - 00:06:23.640, Speaker A: Yeah, it's an absolute pleasure and what a great intro. Just very mindful of kind of like the moving parts in, in the Defi space and then obviously translating that into, into Bitcoin itself. I wanted to just ask you in terms of like, you know, obviously we've had, let's lean into the kind of the Ethereum side you brought up Eigen Layer. And, and, and what I really like about Eigenlayer is that despite the token price, which obviously a lot of people are grumpy about, the irony is that it's such great technology. And, and are you guys essentially looking to replicate the security that is Eigen layer in comparison to Bitcoin? Just tell us kind of like what the similarities are and the lessons that you guys have seen from Eigen and, and Ethereum and how you guys are planning to, to obviously, I mean, I know, I know that it's not a copy and pasta scenario, but it almost seems like it is. I mean I'm just curious as to what's like on a, on a fundamental and on a technical level what that looks like.
00:06:24.020 - 00:07:38.332, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. So I think if you look at the fundamentals of the Restaking business model, what is the most valuable driver of this entire business model is the underlying assets that's being pledged and delegated as security collateral. Eigenlayer proposed and implemented using Ethereum as the asset to actually protect other networks. And if we look at it, ETH is great, is the second largest crypto asset after all. But if you are really talking about asset strength and the security stemming out of that, Bitcoin probably beats everybody else hands down. Right? So we said to ourselves if this is the most important value driver of restaking, why can't we go straight to the top and use Bitcoin to actually provide that economic security for other distributed networks. And I think a second point is that we realize while Eigen Layer has really done great stuff within the Ethereum or EVM ecosystem, it is in a way also limited to the EVM world as at least as of today.
00:07:38.332 - 00:08:31.552, Speaker B: And what we already know that where the state of affair for crypto is that we are already in the multi chain world. That's why we actually came up with the idea to actually make our Bitcoin restaking network Omnichain. Which means we are not only able to support the Bitcoin ecosystem, evm, Solana, Move, Cosmos, ton anything that you can name it, so that any projects that wish to actually get on borrow the Bitcoin backed security, they don't have to worry if they are EVM aligned, they can actually straight away integrate with Pale and off they go. So these two actually in my view are the key differentiators of pel other than sort of sharing a similar business model when it comes to restaking So.
00:08:31.576 - 00:08:50.940, Speaker A: I mean, just for the sake of our listeners, how would you define eigenlayer at the moment? And guys, it's not a token. There's like something really fundamental around what eigenlayer is. Makota, how would you define what eigenlayer is doing? And then how would you define what PAL is doing?
00:08:51.480 - 00:09:46.682, Speaker B: Right. So I think I would like to abstract away eigenlayer and Pel and look at restaking as a business model. There was actually an article that I read about and I really liked that analogy. Using restaking to actually help bootstrap new projects or new distributed networks is like the AWS Moment of Web 2. If we turn back the clock to the 90s or early 2000s before the birth of AWS. If you want to start up an Internet company, you have to actually procure your own server resources, your own data storage, and all of this will actually be fixed capital expenditure and it has to be on premise. And this actually means if you want to start a company, regardless of what kind of product or services you want to build and offer, these things you can't run away from.
00:09:46.682 - 00:10:49.030, Speaker B: And this actually became in a way a hindrance for some of the new projects or companies back then to actually test out the idea because they have to actually get sufficient capital before they even get started. Now enter aws. They say that, look, you don't have to actually do this all on your own or all by yourself anymore. Why don't you actually subscribe to our cloud computing services where we provide this storage, we provide this compute power on cloud so that you can turn this capital expenditure into an operating expense. And this is actually going to reduce the overall cost, making more effective and it's offering the companies more flexibility. And of course, as of today, we all know how successful AWS is, but when you just got started, it wasn't born without a lot of skepticism. Right? So we actually are seeing a similar trends or similarity here for restaking.
00:10:49.030 - 00:12:04.126, Speaker B: Now, if you want to actually start your own distributor network project today, and if, say, you want to actually use the proof of stake consensus mechanism, you actually have to reach out individually to potential validators and you have to offer them sufficient incentives in terms of your own token to attract them and retain them, for them to actually provide these validation services for your network and for them to actually stay with you and do honest work. And traditionally this has cost projects and APR in terms of token emission, upward of say 30% per year. And that is actually a very high cost of running your business. And that actually has led to A very big part of the tokenomics of any kind of projects to have to be set aside, earmarked and used to actually incentivize and maintain the validator network. So enter restaking. We say that look, you probably don't have to do this on your end anymore. So I think both Eigenlayer and Pel, we actually have connected with many node operators on our platform already.
00:12:04.126 - 00:13:19.370, Speaker B: So for any kind of developers, they want to actually start their project, they can integrate for example with PEL and you have instant access to our 4050 node operators. You don't have to actually knock on the doors one by one and you actually will get to pay probably a smaller amount of fees because we actually do not need you to actually incentivize these guys with very high APR anymore. And I think one third component that is very important as well is that using your own token to secure network is without, it's not without its problems. And I think we have heard about the idea of a dev spiral where the token price plunge of any kind of project, then the overall network security becomes weakened and then you are actually prone to more attacks. And if some of this happen, then you are just going to see the price of a token tanking even further and then basically until the end of the network. Right. So using a external asset, in our case Bitcoin, to actually secure your network, you are shielded from this kind of risk.
00:13:19.370 - 00:14:05.750, Speaker B: Even if your token is going up or going down, your network security is independently managed because it's pegged more to Bitcoin rather than to your own token. And I think as lately we are seeing Bitcoin approaching really, really close to the $100,000 mark. I think this is speaking for itself, how strong the economic network security can be if you use Bitcoin. So overall we see with the introduction of restaking, the developers really benefit from a more cost effective way of bootstrapping their projects. They don't have to actually go through the whole nine yards anymore. They probably can spin up things in a matter of week in instead of month.
00:14:06.850 - 00:14:42.054, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean obviously, you know, from a technical perspective, amazing answer. Also, very good sales pitch on your behalf for PAL Network. So well done on that. I mean you guys are wanting to attract developers, you do want to attract growth and that's obviously, I would imagine, part of your business plan and part of your, your, your revenue generation. I, I want to get into that in a little bit, but I just want to ask you just one question that, that I, I always seem to come back to with these discussions. And that's, you know, Bitcoin centric. And it's not even Maxis.
00:14:42.054 - 00:15:15.790, Speaker A: I think just from a, from a Bitcoin centric mindset. People don't like to hand over their Bitcoin for some reason. Ethereum Maxis and even Ethereum users don't really have a problem. They'll go into protocol, they'll stake. They kind of accept that this is part of the process, it's part of what we learned in Defy. Are you guys finding the same kind of like assumption that I'm making here now that people don't want to hand their bitcoin Bitcoin over? And if you are finding the same thing, how are you guys planning to overcome this challenge?
00:15:16.210 - 00:15:51.250, Speaker B: Right. I have both a good news and a bad news to that. The good news is that as of today, PEL Network has PVL across the supported networks or chains that we work with of over $600 million. That's actually about half a year's work for us since we launched in May this year. That's the good news. So there are people, bitcoin holders who are interested, who actually took the leap of faith to actually participate in what we call Bitcoin centric defi. Right.
00:15:51.250 - 00:16:35.424, Speaker B: Or some people like to call it BTCFI nowadays. The bad news is that actually is very, very minimum and small compared to the overall market cap of Bitcoin. Right. And again, if we take Ethereum as a reference point right now, the entire E market cap out of that, I think 20 to 30% is actually pledged or used for staking. But for Bitcoin we are far, far away from that. And I agree that this has something to do with how people see or are educated about how to use or deploy the assets. Bitcoin was born with very limited programmability.
00:16:35.424 - 00:17:13.004, Speaker B: Right. The native layer one chain itself doesn't support such kind of functionality. And that's why we are seeing a proliferation of Bitcoin L2s. And I think Core was one of the pioneers and leading BTC Layer two there. And we actually need to essentially build additional infrastructure pieces in order for us to realize functions as simple as staking and restaking. And I think that is going to be sort of a long journey ahead of us. And again, it's both good news and bad news for us.
00:17:13.004 - 00:18:41.880, Speaker B: The good news is that really the sky's the limit, right? We are seeing a really huge potential here. But the bad news is that of course it's going to take a lot of hustling and grinding and tireless consistent community and market education for us to onboard more and more users into the space. But I think we see the silver lining here that really since the born of Bitcoin 15 years ago, it has been pronounced that countless number of times in both traditional media and even crypto media. Right. And look at what we have achieved today, 15 years later, Bitcoin ETF is actually launched in the US and I think this actually tells us that if you're able to bring what people used to call vapor scam into such kind of mass adoption or mainstream adoption, we are confident that we already have the foundation and to go from here to a future where Bitcoin is not only a static store of value or what people call digital gold, but it can also become a reliable and transparent secure yield asset. That is actually something we are committed and bullish on and that's where we're building.
00:18:42.510 - 00:19:19.500, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean that's for, for me that's like, it's obvious. I mean that's the next, the next frontier. I think a lot of people are fading the idea of kind of like a Bitcoin D5. But like anything in the space, it's just, it's not a question of, of if it's just when, you know. And I think the, the, the approach is the correct one in terms of the way that you guys are going about it. And like you said, there's obviously going to be some interesting lessons and valuable lessons that you guys will learn along the way. So the other thing that really intrigues me about what you guys are doing is obviously the omni chain component.
00:19:19.500 - 00:19:53.910, Speaker A: Can we, can we take a, a deeper dive, look into, you know, the way that you guys are approaching it? Because I know that, you know, at the end of the day, we've always known that some of the biggest risks in crypto are the bridging components, irrespective of what those might look like. Are you guys building your own bridge or bridges in terms of the communication that you are requiring between the different chains? And what does that look like? You know, from a, from a planning and obviously from a technical perspective?
00:19:54.250 - 00:21:07.678, Speaker B: I really love this question because when we actually design the architecture of, we thought about what does it take to be Omnichain? The conventional way to do it is to actually build bridging solutions. And I think if we speak about it in a more layman term, it's basically, I have built a great product or service now, users or customers, you come to me because I have this awesome thing that you must try out. Right. We actually decided to not go with that approach, but rather actually take the extra mile and walk to our users. So what we do is we actually deploy our restaking contract natively on all the different chains that we work with. So say if you hold your Bitcoin assets, any kind of BTC layer 2 or EVM chains, you don't have to bridge them to anywhere else, you actually will be able to find pel's native rest taking contract directly on the chain and you can interact with the Pale app there and then and do the restaking of your Bitcoin on the chain itself. So you don't have to bridge at all.
00:21:07.678 - 00:22:07.190, Speaker B: Now we already support, I think 16 to 17 chains as of today, and that number is only only going to grow as we scale our business. But the second part of Omnichain is that now we have essentially scattered Bitcoin liquidity or asset value on various chains that our users have staked. Right. How do we actually make use of that? We actually employed what we call a layered modular architecture where we are building and we have by the way, just announced a public testnet on that, our own special purpose layer one chain, Pale chain that serves not as a general purpose layer one where you actually build defi and stuff like that. It only serves two purposes. Number one is it actually help to calculate and aggregate the different kind of BTC assets we have on different chains without moving them. So it's really an accounting ledger.
00:22:07.190 - 00:23:18.746, Speaker B: And secondly, it also acts as the single point of contact with our own node operators and our decentralized validator services partners, we call them DVs, to also signify the importance of omnichain. And they don't actually have to interact with any of the chains where the assets are sitting on, because that can be a tedious process for them. You have to actually do quite a bit of redevelopment, redeployment, so on and so forth. Now, Pale can be your interface to that. So that on one hand we have aggregated the assets, on the other hand we have aggregated the interaction with our node operators as well as our DVS partners, so that we are able to essentially work with any users having BTC on any chains or any DVS service providers building their projects on any chains. This is how we actually have done our Omnichain implementation. There's no breach, there's no wrapping or sort of issuing assets that's required.
00:23:18.746 - 00:23:51.370, Speaker B: And I think Blockmates probably are a very good example of being very DGN users that you know the more steps it takes for you in any kind of defi interaction. No more. The more friction it creates and the less motivation you have to participate. Right. So we say now let's take away the unnecessary steps. We just want you to know how it is a one click experience to restake and then you just wait for the yield that will fall into your wallet.
00:23:52.690 - 00:24:40.250, Speaker A: So I mean just in terms of that and I think it's, I never realized obviously the dynamic that you guys had. So thank you so much for, for that insight. I wanted to ask you around this, this methodology that Core are using with the lock, the lock mechanism that they have where you, you retain custody of your bitcoin but you are you pledged, right? So effectively it's a pledging you retain custody but you obviously can't buy or you can't sell it because you've pledged it, else it's on a time lock mechanism. Are you guys utilizing that technology as well in terms of essentially easing that psychological barrier that people might have in terms of staking their Bitcoin? Or is that, is that something that you guys haven't really considered? I see you smiling.
00:24:41.790 - 00:26:01.908, Speaker B: So actually we, we don't do that and I think you might have already answered a question for us. So how do we actually work right now is that we actually work with our partners, for example like Core where they have already got their job done to convince the users to move their native BTC onto corchain and now we just tell them now have your bitcoin on cor already. What can you do with it? Potentially you can consider restaking that BTC to earn some passive income rather than us sort of going all trying to convince people if you have your bitcoin, why don't you move that to, you know, BTC layer tools for example and then participate in in defi activities that I think is going to be less efficient. We already actually have a number of good users that are sort of testing or tipping their toes into Bitcoin defi ecosystem. So we want to make sure we provide good services, offer good products, simple and secure for them to actually understand and love first. Before we actually expand our target audience to people who are still holding their BTC in their code wallet. And I think we can't do this on our own alone.
00:26:01.908 - 00:26:45.122, Speaker B: We actually work this in collaborative efforts with three primary groups of partners. Number one will be the chain partners like Core and number two will be actually bitcoin asset issuers. This include guys like rep btc, tbtc, I think FBDC so on and so forth. And thirdly, we also work with bitcoin liquid staking partners, the likes of Lombard, Lorenzo, Bedrock, Pump, pdc, you name it. Right. And I think to us then it becomes a joint effort and shared responsibility to pitch to the bitcoin holders rather than fighting this battle alone. So that's the strategy and approach so.
00:26:45.146 - 00:27:18.346, Speaker A: Far in terms of the, in terms of the kind of like scope around, you know, all these products and the rest of it. I mean, where do we. Are we very much still in the experimental stage where we're trying to determine yields and all of that kind of stuff? Or do you think we've arrived where like, okay, we pretty clear as to the kind of products that people are looking for and now we're just going to push those products. Where do you think we are in, in this kind of like Bitcoin Renaissance that is Bitcoin DeFi at the moment?
00:27:18.538 - 00:28:10.776, Speaker B: Right. I think we are definitely still in the very early stage, although we have seen some, I would say early signs of success and encouragement that we have indeed people interested in trying out different kind of bitcoin centric defi protocols. We still have not moved the needle for the mass majority of bitcoin holders. So there's a long way for us to go. And I think in terms of the concerns people have, I think one of the very core concern they have is now I have one btc. I put that into your protocol. I want to have a way that I am 100% and absolutely certain whenever I want it, I can at least get that one BTC back.
00:28:10.776 - 00:29:06.956, Speaker B: How much yield I'm actually going to generate out of that probably is secondary to me as a bitcoin holder. Unlike for example, if you are doing defi on Ethereum or Solana, you are probably sort of telling yourself that, okay, even if I run a risk of sacrificing this one ether or one soul, but if I actually hit the jackpot, I'm going to win big. So I don't mind trying. The mentality here is very different. So we actually want to make sure we build simple product first so that people can actually see through okay, this product is easy to understand. Okay, I don't mind trying because if it's too complex, people can't do it. Right? But on the other hand, in terms of the yield for the BTC staking or restaking, unlike PoS network, Bitcoin layer 1 doesn't generate organically on its own, so it has to come from somewhere else.
00:29:06.956 - 00:30:06.970, Speaker B: But again, if we look at the history in Defi summer just a few years back. Where does the yield come from? The yield come from the altcoins being issued by these defi protocols. And why people were so hyped and sort of formal into that is because the expectation of the tokens were high and that actually popped up the liquidity. And I think for us, so long as we are able to recreate in a way that kind of market environment, then I think this question is probably going to be a laughing stock for people like what? You are still, you are still questioning the legitimacy of the source of yield and stuff like that. But right now we're not there yet. So I think just, just in a way be patient and as we sort of enter the next stage of the bull run, a lot of these currently sort of questions that we are scratching our heads will go away on their own.
00:30:07.670 - 00:31:08.760, Speaker A: I mean, I think one of the most efficient, or should I say the most sustainable fee generation protocols is lending and borrowing. I mean the success of aave. It's kind of like, it's very obvious and I think that for me is kind of like a starting point around, you know, the essence of what DEFI is. It's like what protocols generate viable and sustainable fees and then how do you then direct those fees obviously to your users and your stakers and I mean back to the protocol. It's kind of like that, that, that give and take environment. Do you think that we will ultimately land up replicating what we had on evm? I know that the answer is probably yes, but do you think there will be nuances and differences around that or do you think we just basically, once again, are we going to land up copying and pasta ing this whole thing and arrive at the same place that we did with EVM slash, Ethereum?
00:31:09.100 - 00:32:21.240, Speaker B: Well, definitely we are going to see a lot of similarities in Bitcoin lending protocols compared to Ethereum or say other ecosystem counterparts. But I think based on my own personal experience in the past, when it comes to bitcoin lending, sometimes it goes beyond say leveraged defi looping as the way to actually generate yield. There are, I will say probably more genuine use cases when come to. When it comes to bitcoin lending and borrowing, for example, you have miners who actually have to maintain their mining operation and they have a running cost when it comes to the utility bills when it comes to, you know, operating expenses of maintaining their, their mining operations. So they have this cash flow need actually for their, for their business. And what do they have then on the other hand, in terms of assets essentially Bitcoin holding that they have actually swept to, to actually earn. Right.
00:32:21.240 - 00:33:15.980, Speaker B: And I think in where we are right now and upwards market, the likelihood or sort of the mentality of people to just sell that away and to actually sort of pay for the bills, cover, cover, what's, what's the cost of doing business is actually going to reduce and pov like I want to actually hold my Bitcoin and I just want some cash liquidity out of that. So I'm going to find an avenue where I can actually obtain some liquidity and pay back later. For example, if bitcoin goes to 120k then maybe with the same amount of token the loan is paying for itself. So I think we are definitely going to see more institutional level kind of adoption when it comes to Bitcoin based lending and borrowing as one case in point.
00:33:17.080 - 00:33:51.470, Speaker A: Wow, you've just gone down a complete rabbit hole that I wasn't actually prepared to, to actually get into, but I'm going to do it anyways. And, and the big question is institutions, you know, how are they perceiving this whole thing? Have you guys had any insight into that? I mean, you know, you've, you've, you've been doing this for a while. Are they coming from, from, from that fundamental level of like we actually see the potential around what pal's building. We want to be involved. Tell us a little bit about that, give us some insight into what's happening on the ground with institutions.
00:33:52.050 - 00:34:43.806, Speaker B: Sure. I think, let me just start off with a little bit of clarification on institution. So we have crypto native institutions and we have more tradfi institutions who are just accumulating or adding Bitcoin as an alternative asset into their portfolio. I think for the former, some of them actually are already participating in pel's Bitcoin restaking service or product because for them I think one thing very important is the risk appetite. They actually would prefer yield strategies that would at least give them a comfortable way of guarantee of some sort that they're not going to lose their principal. Right. Again, how much yield they can generate on that.
00:34:43.806 - 00:35:43.252, Speaker B: So long as it's non zero, they don't mind trying. Now I think we still again have a very long way to go to get all the institutions on board because as bitcoin price is rising rapidly, especially recently, they're like okay, this market beta is probably better than what kind of additional yield you can offer me. So I'm just comfortable holding my Bitcoin and For people who are sort of sharing that kind of feedback with us or just feeling that they are not ready, we are totally okay. Because we know we are not going to build this over time or sort of in a day or, you know, things will be just different tomorrow. We're here for the long term. And I think we also need time to accumulate our own credibility, our own track record to actually demonstrate to institutions. Because I think if you work for an institution, chances are you are not managing your own money, you are managing someone else assets.
00:35:43.252 - 00:36:29.630, Speaker B: Right. You actually need that in a way, chain of proof that there has been an established track record for this business of returning, consistent return on, on, on the investment. And I think that actually would make it easier for them to finally say, okay, we are in. But of course we have institutions also with different kind of risk appetites and some of them are already with us. But I just want to sort of turn this into a slightly different angle. Ultimately we still see that any kind of momentum, any kind of new innovation, they are probably not pioneered by institutions with big asset holdings. They are pioneered by retail communities.
00:36:29.630 - 00:37:01.690, Speaker B: Bitcoin itself actually started out as nothing but sort of experiment among the geeks community. Right. And we didn't have Bitcoin sort of getting adopted on day one by some big corporation or institution. So again, when it comes to bitcoin defi or restaking in particular, we still see this. Probably will hit it off with the retail community first before it gets the attention and sort of recognition and acceptance from the institutional site down the road.
00:37:03.140 - 00:37:34.516, Speaker A: Yeah, I think, yeah, I mean it makes sense. Right? It's kind of like, well, I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna throw a billion dollars into something that's been around for a short period of time. So yeah, I mean, obviously you, you've been very clear in your communication. There's no shortcuts here. You know, you've got to go through the motions. I wanted to just, just go back to Paul kind of like in terms of what it is that you guys are building this. There's quite a few products kind of like rolled into this, this beast that you guys have been building.
00:37:34.516 - 00:37:52.080, Speaker A: Just give us a rundown. You know, obviously we've spoken about the, the restaking aspect, obviously the Omnichain side of it. What else, what else is kind of like, you know, kind of like the, the big components of PAL at the moment that you guys are building.
00:37:52.940 - 00:38:44.812, Speaker B: Sure. So I think we actually take it as one of our missions to make restaking as a business or as A narrative simple and straightforward to different kind of target audience. So for the bitcoin holders, I think you just need to understand this as a way to generate safe yield on your Bitcoin. Don't expect the sky out of it. You know, it's not yield farming, it's not leverage trading, it's not opening perks position that you know you can, you can actually just double triple 10x or lose everything overnight. This is actually a very low risk strategy. But other than that you don't actually have to look at say our layered modular architecture and other stuff unless you are personally interested right now.
00:38:44.812 - 00:40:03.720, Speaker B: On the other hand, for our DVS partners we offer them a complete suite of documentation when it comes to integration, development, deployments and other services and sort of support we offer say by connecting them to other dependent or related projects, to our community of users who actually may be interested in trying out the services. And I think we actually take it very seriously when we say we want to build the Omnichain BTC restaking network. So so far we have supported all the major Bitcoin L2s, we support all the major EVM layer 1 layer 2s and we are in the process of completing our development to support natively the MOVE ecosystem as well as Solana. And once we're done with these two we are going to move on to Cosmos and Ton and then go on from there beyond. And we have also launched our public testnet last month in conjunction with announcements of closing of our precede round. We target to actually launch our mainnet somewhere next month. I'm crossing my fingers, hope everything goes smoothly and we can do that.
00:40:03.720 - 00:40:28.210, Speaker B: And I think we just want to basically walk the talk that we've been giving to our community, giving to our friends that we have chatted about. We are a team of builders, you know, majority of our team members are engineers. We just keep building and sometimes to the extent that we forget to actually come and tell people, hey, we have built this awesome stuff. Check it out.
00:40:29.070 - 00:41:05.566, Speaker A: Cool. Yeah, I mean I love, I love this kind of thing. I'm a big, I'm a big supporter and yeah, I'm, I'm basically the ambassador for Bitcoin Defi at the moment. I feel like I'm on my own, especially with kind of like the DJ inside of things because everyone's focused on, you know, the noise of meme coins and the rest of it. But yeah, I think at Blockmates we, we really do see the incredible potential and the obvious, you know, the obvious win that this whole Sector is gonna, you know, kind of like reveal to us. Yeah. Makoto, thank you very much for joining us today.
00:41:05.566 - 00:41:32.310, Speaker A: It's been an absolute pleasure to speak to you. I think you've got an amazing way to deliver the educational side of things without making it boring. So I've been completely with you the whole way, so I really appreciate that. I think you got a great approach to explaining things, but it's obvious you've been around for ages and, you know, you know what makes this place tick. So thank you for your time, for sharing your wisdom. It's been very much appreciated.
00:41:32.650 - 00:42:33.310, Speaker B: Pleasure is mine. Thanks so much for having me. And I think it's, it's like you said, it's a bit rare to find people who still keep their head down and sort of not paying attention to all the meme frenzy that's going on. Sometimes, actually, we feel anxious, to be honest, that are we doing the right thing? Because it seemed that people's attention with tokens that shot up 100% or 10x over a span of days. But then we sort of tell ourselves that, look, this is not the kind of game that we are playing. We are here, here trying to build something that's really going to pave the way for the potential future of crypto and for bitcoin specifically, and let's not be affected. And we have faith that, you know, there, there are always sort of revolving hot topics in the space.
00:42:33.310 - 00:42:51.754, Speaker B: And I think we are confident when the time comes, our work is going to be fully recognized by people. And by then they are also going to see that this is adding real value and utility to the next evolvement or evolution of crypto.
00:42:51.802 - 00:43:22.990, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, I completely agree with you. I think, I think, like, I actually smile when people say there's no innovation in crypto anymore. And I'm like, really? Have you actually, like, just go to blockmc.com and scroll, like, scroll off the page? You know what I mean? Tell me there isn't any innovation in the space. There's a lot of innovation. There's a lot of good stuff happening, more so than ever before in the history of, of this industry. And yeah, well done for being a part of that.
00:43:22.990 - 00:43:26.950, Speaker A: And once again, thanks for joining us. It's been an absolute pleasure.
00:43:27.450 - 00:43:29.378, Speaker B: Thank you very much. Till next time.
00:43:29.434 - 00:43:44.524, Speaker A: Thank you. Yeah, until next time, definitely. Yeah, and good luck with what you guys are building. Look forward to seeing how it all plays out. I'm sure you guys are going to smash it. Thanks everyone for joining us on another episode. Please, like, and subscribe we always appreciate it.
00:43:44.524 - 00:43:46.880, Speaker A: Take it easy till the next time. Cheers.
00:43:47.540 - 00:43:57.532, Speaker B: Peace. Quick one. Nothing Here is financial advice. It's for entertainment and educational purposes only. Always do your own research or speak to a financial advisor before making any investment decisions.
00:43:57.596 - 00:43:58.220, Speaker A: Like and subscribe.
