00:00:00.280 - 00:00:58.230, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of Deliquare refuel where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is Saturday the 4 March 2024. Right everyone, let's get into it. So a little bit of drama over the weekend with regards to the ETH ETF's now, it all stems from this one comment from Eric Bilkunis here, who I've spoken about a bunch on the refuel before. I've been following him and his takes about the BTC spot ETF for probably over six months now and he's been one of the really great kind of analysts that Bloomberg that's followed the ETF's for quite a while now and I've really always respected his opinions on things, but unfortunately he doesn't seem to hold ETH in very high regard. As he put out a tweet replying to someone basically saying that the ETH wasn't going to get approved, Eric said, yeah, James and I will have James safety, the other ETF analysts that I've been talking about along the refuel and I will have formal odds out soon. But to be honest, and no offense to the ETH people, but this is such small potatoes versus spot BTc ETF's.
00:00:58.230 - 00:01:30.094, Speaker A: It's like the opening act coming on after the headliner using Gen X bands. It's like sister Hazel trying to follow Nirvana. Now I'm going to show my age, not in the I guess like old sense, but in the young sense here. Obviously I know who Nirvana is, but I have no idea who sister Hazel is. Now, I think this analogy is really silly and I quote tweeted Eric and I said, I understand why people believe the spot ETH ETF's could be denied. And I think some of the arguments are sound, but to call ETH small potatoes is such a bizarre take. ETH is one third the market cap of BTC.
00:01:30.094 - 00:02:09.908, Speaker A: That's not small potatoes. And the ethereum ecosystem is absolutely massive and we all know that. Guys, like I'm preaching to the choir here, we all know that. But the market cap kind of metric is what I find most bizarre because you expect something that's small potatoes compared to BTC to not have one third of its market cap. And even if you go back even further and look at what's eat, what each market cap was, when Blackrock filed for a spot ETH ETF for BTC, it was around the same as what BTC's market cap was back then. And that was a tweet that cyrus UnEsc put out and he pointed that out on Twitter. Basically that ETH market cap was essentially the same size as bitcoins was when Blackrock filed for an ETF for BTC.
00:02:09.908 - 00:02:50.422, Speaker A: So yeah, I think that got a lot of people a bit triggered that he was calling eat small potatoes. I do think it's got, comes down to like an education thing. I do think that inherently ethereum is obviously more complex to understand than bitcoin. I think that when it comes to these guys who traditionally follow tradfi, they've been following bitcoin because of the ETF stuff. And now for them to context change, to follow ethereum requires a pretty big commitment, I think, because to learn about what actually makes ethereum and ethics valuable, you have to spend more time than, I think, within the bitcoin ecosystem. Because within bitcoin there's that kind of meme of, oh, it's digital gold, right? And it's worth like a trillion dollars, whatever, it's going to replace gold, so on and so forth. Like that's relatively easy.
00:02:50.422 - 00:03:32.356, Speaker A: Whereas with Ethereum, like, people like to use analogies, like it's a, you know, it's a digital oil or something like that. But that doesn't even scratch the surface of what ETH is as an asset. And in no way does it describe what Ethereum is, because the bitcoin network, at least until recently, with the ordinals kind of stuff and taproot and stuff like that, the bitcoin network generally just cannot do what Ethereum does. It it's not, the bitcoin network is not viewed as something that brings utility to BTC, the asset. Whereas Ethereum as a network is all about utility, right? It's all about driving value from the network to the asset. Whereas traditionally bitcoin has been viewed as a kind of just an asset network, essentially. So it's just, it's a network that just secures BTC, let you transact BTC, but that's all it does.
00:03:32.356 - 00:04:23.823, Speaker A: It doesn't really do anything yet, but obviously that's changed a bit recently. But still, like, the people that are looking at BTC as an asset and calling it digital gold, they're not paying attention to any of the stuff happening with ordinals, right, and taproot and, and kind of like BRC twenties, whatever they want to call them, they're still focused on that easy narrative. Whereas with Ethereum it's, it's a completely different game, right? So I actually replied to Eric and I offered to get on a call with him to educate him. Obviously I'm not going to be able to educate him on one call about what makes Ethereum great. But I really do think that's just that, that massive gap in education there where people, especially if they're only exposed to the bitcoin of talking points, they seem to think Ethereum is so much smaller than what it actually is. And they seem to get very confused about what Ethereum is because a lot of bitcoiners, particularly the Maxis, particularly like the laser eyes, right? They just, they just call ETH a scam. They just call Ethereum a scam and they put out all this absolutely false information out into the window.
00:04:23.823 - 00:05:04.312, Speaker A: So if you're someone from the Tradfi world and all you're following is bitcoiner talking circles or bitcoiner kind of content, then you're going to get the wrong idea about Ethereum and ETH. So I really would love to jump on calls with these people and just explain to them, I could do it in 30 minutes like you, I don't need it very long, but I can do it in 30 minutes. I can explain to them why ETH is special as an asset, why Ethereum, the network, is special as an asset, and why those two things work in harmony to drive value to each other like I can, you guys know, I mean, after listening to me for so long on the, on the refuel, you guys know I could do that, right? I'm not trying to like toot my own horn, but I would love to, to be given that opportunity. But, but typically I'm not given that opportunity. I'm not really in those circles at all. And I don't really get approached by those people. And I'm not someone to go out there and cold dm people or anything like that.
00:05:04.312 - 00:05:44.284, Speaker A: I'd rather they come to me because that means they're coming to me wanting to learn rather than me going out to them and co dming them. And basically I wouldn't say forcing them into it, but basically if they do want to do it with me, it's more that I initiated it. So I'd rather them initiate initiated. I'd rather them have the curiosity about it to be, to learn, because at the end of the day, like, to learn is to be curious. And I think that that's what's helped me a lot with my kind of learning, is that I'm always curious about things going on within the crypto ecosystem and even outside of it. Obviously, crypto isn't the only thing I try to learn about. But still, I could, I could educate and I could basically dispel any fud that they came at me with, especially stuff that they've heard from bitcoiners.
00:05:44.284 - 00:06:23.950, Speaker A: But that was kind of one tweet there. But then there was another one from Eric as well, where he replied to Nate Jirachi here, who actually said that he thinks people are underestimating the ETF and how much activity it will generate. But Eric replied and said, yeah, I'll stick with my sister Hazel metaphor. Which is not saying ETH and Hazel aren't popular, but not in Nirvana's league. They sold, they, being Sister Hazel, sold 2 million albums to Nirvana's 75 million beat o b I t o, which is the ticker for bitcoin Futures, has $2.5 billion AuM, whereas ETH, which is a ticker for ETH Futures, has $25 million of Aum. And that's why it's hard to get as into its approval process versus BTC.
00:06:23.950 - 00:07:01.678, Speaker A: I was actually very surprised by this tweet from Eric. Like, he should know better than this, honestly. And the reason why he should know better than this with regards to why the ETH ETF inflow is much less than the BTC one, is because of the obvious reasons that I actually outlined here. And if I'm outlining these, he should definitely know about this because I don't pay attention to this stuff as my full time thing. Guys like all of this ETF stuff, all of these tradfi stuff, all these kind of like futures on the CME and futures ETF's like that's all stuff that I've only been really paying attention to over the last, you know, maybe six to eight months. But whereas these guys, I mean, he's a senior ETF analyst at Bloomberg, like he knows this is his bread and butter. Or at least I thought that he should know this.
00:07:01.678 - 00:07:42.496, Speaker A: And I quote, tweeted this again, and I said, this comparison makes no sense. Bito or beto launched at the picotop of the last cycle and ETH launched in the middle of the BTC spot ETF race, meaning that people assumed a spot ETF would be coming next. The better comparison here is GBTC and Ethi, which are Greyscale's products, where GBTC was $30 billion, assets under management pre conversion. So pre the ets being approved on January 10 and Ethe was $7.3 billion on top of this, why would anyone buy the ETH futures products when they can buy ETH e at a deep discount and bet on the conversion of ethy into a spot ETH ETF. Like, all of this stuff is not rocket science. Like, this is just stuff that's already well known.
00:07:42.496 - 00:08:16.720, Speaker A: And the ethy was trading at a pretty massive discount on January 10, and it's still trading at about a 10% discount and is at $10 billion AUM right now. GPTC has obviously had a bunch of outflows because of the fact that it got converted to a proper spot ETF, which means people can sell, and I expect that to happen with ETH as well. But the point I'm trying to make here is that, like, that's the real comparison, that's the actual comparison, not the. The futures comparison, that this makes no sense to me. And then Ricky Bobby actually replied to me and said, an even better comparison are the canadian ETF's. The BTC. Canadian ETF has $2.5
00:08:16.720 - 00:08:54.882, Speaker A: billion in AUM, and the ETH one has $500 million ETH, holding at roughly 20% of the BTC AUM for quite a while. And the reason I use the grayscale products, because I was trying to take a us centric view here rather than go out internationally. But that, again, is another great example here of the fact that ETH, not small potatoes, a, will get, in my opinion, once the spot ETF's get approved, ETH will get massive inflows. I truly believe, maybe not as much as bitcoin, because, I mean, inherently bitcoin is just a bigger asset as well. Right? And inherently, it went first. There was like this pent up demand because they've been trying to get a BTC spot ETF for a while. But I do still think ETH is going to be huge.
00:08:54.882 - 00:09:11.686, Speaker A: I do think the inflows are going to be huge. I do think that the issuers are going to be educating their, the audience about this as well, educating their clients about this. You know, Blackrock isn't putting their weight behind Ethereum and ETH just to launch the product, and they're not doing anything with it. No, they wouldn't. They wouldn't do that. It's just dumb. It's dumb.
00:09:11.686 - 00:09:43.844, Speaker A: It's a dumb business move. And also, Larry Fink, the CEO of Blackrock, went on, I can't remember what, what mainstream media it was, but he went on there and did a video interview where he basically said that BlackRock is really bullish on tokenization. Where do you think they're going to do tokenization, guys? And they're going to do it on bitcoin. Right, right. They're going to do it on Ethereum. Like, and they're getting the ETF as the first, I think even said that the ETF is really just the first step. Get the ETF in, then do a lot of the tokenization stuff they want to do on top of Ethereum or using Ethereum technology or working with Ethereum kind of players to do that.
00:09:43.844 - 00:10:12.492, Speaker A: So to say that ethy small potatoes, when you have Larry Fink, the CEO of the largest asset manager in the world, talking about tokenization, which you can't do on bitcoin, like, I'm sorry, guys, like, I know that there are technically tokens on bitcoin now with ordinals and things like that, but. But they're so limited and they're just like completely different to what you have on Ethereum. And Ethereum has all the infrastructure already for this. So it's going to happen on Ethereum. And ETH as an asset, as I said, is one third the market cap of BTC. It is not small. Like, you can tell.
00:10:12.492 - 00:10:43.566, Speaker A: I got really annoyed by this because Eric should know better than to say these things. Like, I don't know what happened to him over the last kind of six months. Like if he got infected with what I like to call bitcoin brain, where essentially you focus too much on bitcoin and you lose sight of the fact that the ecosystem is much larger than bitcoin. And then obviously, as I said, if you're in bitcoin or circles, you hear constantly about how Ethereum is bad. ETH is a trash asset. Ethan shitcoin, you know, what's the supply cap of ETH? Like, all these dumb fud that's been refuted a million times. But if you come into crypto as a newbie, this is an old fud for you.
00:10:43.566 - 00:10:57.930, Speaker A: This is you hearing this for the first time. And these people are saying it with confidence. So you start kind of believing it because you don't know any better. And this doesn't just happen with, you know, on crypto. Twitter happens everywhere. There are so many YouTube videos, guys, that I get linked to. And people say, look at this, man.
00:10:57.930 - 00:11:26.970, Speaker A: Like there's so much wrong in here about a theory. I mean, I look at it, I'm like, how is it so bad? Like, it's actually terrible. I remember just the other week, one of the popular YouTube channels was saying that Den Koon was going live. I think it was like Feb. 8th or something. But they got confused because Den kun was not going live on February, obviously, it was the core devs were having a call to organize when they, when a main net date would be, when Denku would actually go live. Like, how do you get that wrong? Like, it's not even a hard thing to understand.
00:11:26.970 - 00:12:07.540, Speaker A: Like, no one said anything about Deng kun going live on that date, right? So when you take all that together, especially me as an educator, it really annoys the shit out of me. Like how people can just have such wrong information and put such wrong information out there and even, and obviously I don't think this youtuber was doing it in a malicious way, but by doing that, they just continue the cycle of bad information. Right? Anyway, I've ranted enough about that, but I really thought that was for focusing on because I got a lot of questions about this. When people saying, look, Eric's really bearish on the ETF's, you know, does that mean they're not going to get approved or does that mean they're going to, you know, not have much inflows. I just honestly don't think Eric has a good read on Ethereum and ETH at all. Honest. I don't think has any rate on it, to be honest.
00:12:07.540 - 00:12:51.062, Speaker A: And the fact that he's a pining on it probably shouldn't be if you don't have a read on it, in my opinion. But obviously he, you know, the tradfi ETF world is what he knows. Obviously he's probably talking to people who are like, not really talking about ether, Ethereum, it's all about bitcoin right now because that's where the attention is due to the ETF's. That's fine, but that's an opportunity there. That means you have the opportunity to front run these people because eventually they're going to learn about Ethereum and ETH because the blackrocks of the world and the other asset managers are going to be educating these people about it. Right? We have reports like the Ethereum Investors club report that I just showcased the other day that you can actually pass on to these people. Like betting on the, I guess, like people not learning about Ethereum and not, not kind of researching Ethereum is the wrong bet to make and it's the wrong bet to make about a lot of ecosystems, I believe.
00:12:51.062 - 00:13:13.502, Speaker A: But anyway, as I said, I think I'm leaving it there today on that one. Not, not today. There's a lot other stuff to get through. But I think I'm leaving that one there because I've already spent a lot of time on it. But yeah, just a little bit of a classic sassle rant there because that got me quite ticked off over the weekend. All right, moving on to some more positive stuff. So East Denver obviously just wrapped up over the weekend.
00:13:13.502 - 00:13:46.912, Speaker A: People are heading home. You know, people had a lot of great, great times there. I spoke to a few people dispel and I couldn't make it. Honestly, I'd love to go, but it's just so far away. And last time it just got so sick and kind of got PTSD from it. But anyway, the reason I'm bringing it up is because Jasper here, who you guys know from the rocker pool community, tweeted out then that Houston, the next Rockapool upgrade, the next major rock upgrade will be going live on May 6 and brings with it fully on chain voting and much better support for institutional staking partnerships. So as you guys know, Rockerpool has a.
00:13:46.912 - 00:14:08.836, Speaker A: I think that's three. There's at least two upgrades is Houston and I think Saturn. And then there's a third upgrade around the tokenomics. I don't. I think the tokenomics might be getting rolled into Saturn. But you guys know that rocket pool is undergoing a pretty substantial change over the next, I guess you could say twelve months from here, probably maybe a little bit longer than that, but pretty substantial change with regards to how the protocol works. You know, scaling up the protocol, how the token works.
00:14:08.836 - 00:14:24.692, Speaker A: The tokens actually got undergoing a very, very big change. They want to make it so you don't have to hold RPL to stake, which is obviously a huge change for the Rockpool model here. But it's great to see that Houston is already going live in May. Like that's not far away, guys. I mean we're in March. That's. That's two months away in the 6 May.
00:14:24.692 - 00:14:45.554, Speaker A: I mean it's 4 March, right? Yeah, two months away until May. So. So I'm looking forward to that. But just wanted to put that on your radar that that's going live then. Don't think there's any date around Saturn or the tokenomics changes just yet. But if you want to follow Rockapool, I mean, you just follow Jasper, honestly, Jasper and whack actually as well. And, and Pat, who does the weekly orbit episode with Whack.
00:14:45.554 - 00:15:19.104, Speaker A: If you follow those three guys, you're going to keep up to date with rocket pool, that's for sure. And obviously the rocker pool discord community is still as active as ever. If you're in there, you know all about that. But yeah, if you want to keep up with Rockerpool, follow Jasper, follow Wack, follow Pat, and go watch Wax show, obviously rocker fuel, and also the weekly orbit that he does with Pat. All right, so ETH wave has an update on their, I guess, like their Sankey diagram. Is it the term for. I think it's called a sankey diagram, where they show where the ETH has flowed since Genesis across the ecosystem.
00:15:19.104 - 00:15:59.768, Speaker A: So obviously the picture on Twitter is a little bit small here and compressed. And I've showed this before, but basically you can see from the left hand side, you've got the Genesis wallets, and then you've got the mining rewards of ETH, and then you've got the staking rewards split out. And then what ETH wave has done is basically visualize this in this diagram to show you where all of this ETH has flowed over time. Now, I can't see the smaller bits here, but as you can imagine, it shows ETH going into defi, into L2s, into staking protocols like liquid staking and obviously restaking. And they have a whole thread on this, basically, I guess, going through and breaking down what's happening here. And they've also got a list of sources that they use, too. So if you want to go check out all the sources, you can.
00:15:59.768 - 00:16:27.036, Speaker A: As I said, I'll link this thread in the YouTube description below for you to check out. And actually, there is a live version. I should have started with this, maybe, because this will give us a better view. So there's a live version of this diagram. Very. An interactive version, and which I'll link in the YouTube description below because the URL is too much to say on the, on, on the refill here. But yeah, you can see, I guess if you start from the Genesis wallets, you can see the total supply of Ethereum flowing into things like centralized exchanges, you know, where it's gone from there.
00:16:27.036 - 00:17:04.826, Speaker A: Staked, obviously, a lot went into Lido, but then other liquid staking protocols, L2s, you can see which ones have got the most Ethan, and then all the way down to, like, you know, liquid restaking. You know, what's, what's cool about this is you can follow the ETH from the total supply. It gets staked, but then it gets staked with liquid staking, and then from there it goes into, you know, obviously Lido, but then other liquid staking protocols like Rockerpool and swell and so on and so forth. Then it goes into liquid restaking down to Eigen layer. So, like following it along like, as it, as it goes here. It's just really, really cool to see and it's really cool to see this visualized here. So yeah, kudos to Ethwave for putting this out here and thanks to them for sharing it in the daily gray discord channel.
00:17:04.826 - 00:17:33.062, Speaker A: So I didn't miss it. And actually I wanted to give a quick shout out for ETH wave here. They, they asked me if I could do this shout out for them and of course I will oblige here. So they're actually looking for a job in crypto right now. They're looking for a junior developer role or, you know, something in the community, but also around data analysis as well. So if your team or a team, you know, is looking for anyone like that, please reach out to me or ethwave through their daily discord channel and let them know about that. Just a shout out there for them.
00:17:33.062 - 00:18:03.494, Speaker A: You know, I'd like to get them working in the ecosystem. They obviously do a lot of great work and they know what they're doing when it comes to developing things and building data visualizations and analyzing data. So they definitely be an asset for any team to have. So yeah, just wanted to give a shout out there for them. All right, moving on. So you guys know that shared sequencing and pre conformations and based roll ups and base boosted roll ups are all the buzzwords that Justin Drake is talking a lot about recently. But not just him, a lot of different people.
00:18:03.494 - 00:18:38.798, Speaker A: Now, obviously it can be hard to keep up with where this stuff's going. Keep up with like the calls and things like that. Well, there is a new resource here that M team put out on forecaster today where you can check out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But this has resources for everything regarding based roll ups, shared sequencing and everything that goes into that, as well as links to the things like the pre confirmation calls or the shared sequencing calls that Justin Drake has been spinning up recently and others have been joining recently that you can go look at. And you can actually go check the notes as well so you don't have to watch the whole video or listen to the whole podcast. You can just look at the notes as well.
00:18:38.798 - 00:19:05.180, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean, there's not much else to say here. I just figured I'd put this on your radar if you wanted to learn more about based roll ups and based boosted roll ups and shared sequencing and pre conformations, those three things are definitely going to be at the forefront of this. To talk about fragmentation generally within the Ethereum ecosystem, within the l two s. So definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. AIP 4844 is coming, guys.
00:19:05.180 - 00:19:32.230, Speaker A: Like it is less than ten days away now. Very, very close at this point. Actually, I think that it's going live in exactly ten days, in an hour and a half. No, no, actually less than that. I think exactly nine days and an hour and a half because I know that the live stream is at midnight my time. But regardless of that, very, very close now. Now, Michael Silberling here has put together a really, really great resource that shows you I will not just team, I mean, a bunch of other people worked on this as well.
00:19:32.230 - 00:20:04.308, Speaker A: It's basically a website that will show you how much blobs will save you as a user after they go live on op stack chain. So this just applies to op stack chains, does not apply to albatrum one or ZK sync or snark stock net or anything like that. Just op chains like op main net and base and a bunch of others out there, of course. And Zora, which you guys have probably used before if you've used far Caster. Now, there's two ways to interact with this. You can go to the website, which is welovetheblobs XYZ, and on this website they'll give you sample transactions. So if you go, you click ok.
00:20:04.308 - 00:20:33.916, Speaker A: I want to see what a swap on Uniswap is going to cost me pre blobs and post blobs. And you can see here that before blobs it would cost you $0.58. After blobs it's going to cost you basically a cent, obviously a substantial saving there. Now, I do want to caveat this by saying that you can click the learn more button on this page and actually kind of learn about how they're calculating this. There's a lot of assumptions baked into this. A lot, honestly, of assumptions baked into this because we just don't know what blobs are going to be priced at when they go live. We just don't know what's going to happen there.
00:20:33.916 - 00:21:05.698, Speaker A: So there are a lot of assumptions. We know that the roll up fees are going to be cheaper, but we don't know how much cheaper. We're just estimating here. And we also don't know what it's going to look like based on which roll up stack it's a part of because op stack is going to be different to what, how arbitrum handles it is going to be different to how zksync and stagnant handle it and so on and so forth. Right. So just, just keep that in mind there. But what's even cooler about this tool is that on Farcaster, if you actually go to the, to this um, cast, which I'll link in the YouTube description below, and you have your uh, you're logged into farcaster with your Ethereum wallet.
00:21:05.698 - 00:21:33.028, Speaker A: If you click check savings, it will show you one of your transactions that you've done on base. And you can actually see what the cost was for you, uh, when you did it. And then what the cost will be post 4844. So you can see here that I recently minted uh, an NFT on base here for zero point whatever, zero zero seven 8th, which cost me about a dollar. And then the estimated cost after 48 44 is going to be about 1.3 cents. Substantial saving.
00:21:33.028 - 00:21:50.716, Speaker A: Right. And then you can keep clicking through this, I can see another, obviously all this activity is happening on Cecil dot E field. You can see I claimed my djen tokens, which are people tip, you degenerate on forecast. So I claim that. And I claiming cost was over a dollar. And now post 48 44 it's going to be 1.4 cents.
00:21:50.716 - 00:22:12.844, Speaker A: And you can keep clicking through. This is all on sassle. So obviously I don't mind if you guys see what I'm doing here. You can see like sending ETH and I'm just clicking through as it goes on here, interacting with, with arcs that have transferred. And I think that's a swap actually. But yeah, anyway, you can go check this out for yourself and check out your own transactions to see this. But as I said, guys, like just keep in mind there's a lot of assumptions baked in here.
00:22:12.844 - 00:22:44.384, Speaker A: We don't know what the costs are going to be until 48 44 goes live. But this is really the groundwork being laid here for the, you know, for scaling ethereum, for scaling L2s. And with 48 44 we can basically start to do things like obviously it's the start of blobs, but it's like not the end of blobs, it really is the start. We can increase the size of them, we can increase the count of them, and that will make things even better. And it will make, make, uh, make savings even better. But the, as I've always said about 48 44, the coolest thing about it is that it creates a separate fee market. Because right now you can see that guay is at like 60.
00:22:44.384 - 00:23:10.918, Speaker A: That given that we're in a bull market, I don't expect gas to go back down. You know, I don't think gas is going to go back down low for a while. Like, it's not going to be sub ten for a while. Right? Like as it was in the, in the bear market for a bit there. So it's going to be high. But post 48, 44, roll ups will no longer be using. Well, most of them have said that they're not going to be using core data on, on the normal layer one, they're going to be using blobs instead, which means that the fee market will be completely separate for them to what we have.
00:23:10.918 - 00:23:40.940, Speaker A: So it's going to start at basically one way, essentially, or even cheaper than that, and then it will go up from there based on usage of blobs and blobs only. That fee market is completely separate from everything else. It is only the usage of blobs that will determine what the gas price is of blobs. So, yeah, anyway, moving on from that to something related to that. Actually, Tony put out a great little visualization today, or pie chart today on Twitter where he said 70% of the total call data comes from rollups. Publishing data. Damn.
00:23:40.940 - 00:23:57.548, Speaker A: Ready for blobs. You can see the pie chart breakdown of all of the roll ups using core data and what they share is. But yeah, I mean, this is basically what we're creating blobs for to stop these roll ups from using coredata. Because core data was not made for roll ups. Right. It's not purpose built for roll ups. It is part of the regular l one fee market.
00:23:57.548 - 00:24:38.282, Speaker A: So it, it definitely is, you know, affected by the swings in gas prices on layer one and the spikes in gas prices on layer one because it shares that fee market. It can't be modified in an easy way to increase the size of it and the count of it. Cool data is actually going to become more expensive in a future upgrade, probably in Petra, because we want to reprice it, because now that roll ups aren't using it anymore, we can just reprice it because it's not. It is a resource that should not be heavily used because it adds, you know, and because, and it's mispriced right now. I think that's what the core devs believe. But yeah, I mean, the fact that 70% of core data is coming from roll ups and pretty much all of that is going to blobs. Post 48 44.
00:24:38.282 - 00:25:03.274, Speaker A: It's going to be interesting to see. It's going to be interesting to see what, what, you know, how quickly blobs get saturated, how quickly the gas price of blobs goes up because the gas price of blobs can go up to 60 way as well. Guys. Like, there's no stopping it from going that high. It just depends on the demand, right? It just depends on how much demand there is from roll ups to use it. It depends on if they want to outbid each other. But I do think we're going to find a bit of an equilibrium, or a much better equilibrium with blobs then we will with.
00:25:03.274 - 00:25:37.514, Speaker A: Than we did with call data. And the reason is, is because with blobs, we know the user. Like, besides, I mean, take away inscriptions. Like, I'm assuming no one's using it to do inscriptions because, you know, maybe they do it at the start and they won't do it long term, but with blobs, we know the user. The user is the roll ups and the roll ups, it's in their best interest not to try to outbid each other because there's no mev to be had from that. There's no real advantage to be had from that. I mean, maybe you can say that, oh, look, we're posting to the, you know, to layer one every block, and, you know, that makes us more secure, but in reality, it's.
00:25:37.514 - 00:25:58.154, Speaker A: That's not how it works. So outside of some meme marketing, it doesn't really make any sense to do it. So really what we're going to see is we're probably going to see, like, an orderly kind of fee market, much more orderly than what we see in the regular fee market, because blobs are their own fee market. They're very specific to one, I guess, user, which. Which is roll ups. And. And because of that, it means.
00:25:58.154 - 00:26:14.194, Speaker A: And there's no. As far as I know, there's no mev to extract from these. This. So because of that, the female should be a lot more orderly than. Than the regular fee market. The blob female should be a lot more orderly than the regular fee market, outside of things like inscriptions kind of invading from time to time. But I don't expect that to.
00:26:14.194 - 00:26:34.236, Speaker A: To be anything but a passing fad, to be honest. So I'm very, very excited to see that all go live and see that all play out. Been a long time coming. You guys know that. I mean, I think. I think I've said I'm excited about it a million times already, but, yeah, just a great visualization from Tony and to remind us that, yeah, blobs are going to be a very, very big deal. All right, staying on topic of l two s.
00:26:34.236 - 00:27:09.826, Speaker A: Tyco has announced a $37 million capital raise across three different rounds. Now, I participated in one of those rounds as an angel investor, just to disclose there. But I mean, there were a lot of kind of people in this round, a lot of funds in this round as well. Lightspeed hashed generative ventures and token Bay capital were all the leads, I believe, with a bunch of other VC's joining as well as a bunch of angels here. You guys know Tyco is one of the l two s that is focused on based roll ups. I think that the only l two really, that's focused on based roll ups right now, or at least doing a lot of research into that area. They have been around for a while.
00:27:09.826 - 00:27:36.234, Speaker A: I've talked about them for a while on, on the refuel. I back them because I love l two s and I just love l two s that do different things as well. Like there. There are a lot of l two s right now. I think that if you're kind of splitting the l two s into different categories, I would say that when I think of an l two, I think of them as ecosystems now. So you have the optimism ecosystem, which is obviously all the op stack chain. So I count base as part of that account blast as part of that account, op main, that is part of that, and other ones.
00:27:36.234 - 00:27:51.024, Speaker A: Right. And then you've got like the polygon ecosystem. So they've got the polygon ZKVM, the future polygon pos chain. All the other chains that are joining to be part of the. The aggregation layer. Then you have obviously arbitrarium, arbitram one, arbitrum, nova. You have the arbitrary orbit chain.
00:27:51.024 - 00:28:21.528, Speaker A: So when I talk about them, I talk about them as if they're ecosystems, because they are. Right. But then you have the ones that really are focusing on something very specific and something very, I guess you could call it niche or just like not a cold kind of like ecosystem play where it's like, oh, we'll let people create change using our own technology. So that's the taikos of the world. That's the scrolls of the world. You know, I think Starknet as well, to an extent. They haven't really focus too much on, I guess, like making people making it so that other people can use their technology to create their own chains.
00:28:21.528 - 00:28:41.766, Speaker A: It's more about make more about making stock net. The best it can be. They did start off like that with immutable. Oh, and obviously immutable is part of the polygon ecosystem now as well. But yeah, I mean, immutable, went to Polygon here and then. I mean, I think there's a few others, like Zksync, for example. I think they do want to do the ecosystem play, but definitely they're more on the tycoon scroll side right now than the ecosystem side of things.
00:28:41.766 - 00:29:25.678, Speaker A: But regardless of that, the reason why I really like Taika is because they're really laser focused on this based roll up, kind of primitive, which, if it works like we want it to work, it'd be very, very cool, because it means that essentially what a based roll up allows you to do is it allows you to use Ethereum's l one's block builders and validator sets to process your transactions instead of using your own sequencer. And this has obviously a lot of benefits because you get like a more. I mean, you instantly get a very decentralized and distributed validator set. But the main con, at least from my point of view, is that you've got that validator set, but you're still at the mercy of that validator set. You. You don't have your own sequencer. You're giving up the mev to the ethereum l one validators.
00:29:25.678 - 00:30:03.694, Speaker A: You're giving up the fees to the ethereum l one validators and the block builders instead of doing it within your own ecosystem. But from a kind of composability perspective, it's better as well, because you're obviously using the l one, and the l one transactions can be composable, as far as I know, and atomic, as far as I know, with the, with the l two transactions. But, yeah, I'm just super excited to see people trying different things within the ecosystem. So, yeah, I'm glad to back them, but congrats to them for this massive raise. That is a lot of money, and it's given the money to build out the base roll up technology. All right, grow the pie has a new feature, so they've called. Well, they've added block space to their single chain view.
00:30:03.694 - 00:30:46.500, Speaker A: So you can focus on your favorite l two with dedicated block space analysis and see what activities are hot on your desired l two in the most active contract section. And I think I've shown this before, but if you go to the chain overview block space section here, you can actually see each of the l two s that grow the pie is tracking, such as base, op, mainnet, so on and so forth. And you can see what is taking up the block space on those networks. So for base, for example, the most used thing outside of unlabeled would be social and defi. So Defi and social, the two biggest things there, obviously social is because of far caster. And then there's other networks such as Zora, where 42% of their block space is being used for nfts. I mean, that makes sense because they're an NFT focused l.
00:30:46.500 - 00:31:12.206, Speaker A: Two, you have arbitrum, one where 26% is focused on DeFi and very little on nfts. Actually 1.7%. Right. Because arbitram is very much heavily used for DeFi. But then you can see that the rest of them here, you can see the rest of the chains, what they're all focused on. But the reason why I really like this overview is because it really kind of proves out the thesis that different altus are specializing in different things. They obviously all have their own defi ecosystem happening on there.
00:31:12.206 - 00:31:30.362, Speaker A: There is going to be Defi on there regardless. But then you can see here that just the stark difference between Zora. Zora has 42% nfts and only 3% defy. Whereas, oh, sorry, only, only basically 0% defi. Actually. I mean, I think it's probably a little bit more than 0%. But yeah, you can see here that it's basically 0%.
00:31:30.362 - 00:31:55.538, Speaker A: And then you go to something like, like arbitrary one, which has 26% defi but only 1.7% nfts. So you can see the differences between the kind of different chains here, which is what I really like to see. But you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But I just wanted to shout out that for you guys so you don't forget that's a feature on grow the PI. All right, so a pretty major announcement from Coinbase over the weekend.
00:31:55.538 - 00:32:29.710, Speaker A: I think they've been working on this for quite a while. It's part of their wallet stack. So Jesse Pollack shared this on, on Twitter where he said the Coinbase smart wallet is the most important new product since base and the most consequential consumer wallet launched in the last five years. It's the last piece to bring billions of people on chain because it just works. He is not being hyperbolic about this. He is not, I guess like being too bullish about this, I actually think is 100% right here. Because if you click on their demo here, which is at smart dash wallet dot XYz, it's on testnet right now, and you just click on.
00:32:29.710 - 00:32:56.144, Speaker A: I mean, I have to log out because I already done it. If you click on connect to mint, you can see. Oh, you actually can't see this on my screen, but it pops up with something that basically says, hey, do you want to create a wallet? And then depending on what device you're on, whether you're on a desktop pc or in your mobile wallet, whatever, it's going to use that to generate your wallet. And that's it. You've got a wallet and that's it. You don't have to download a new app or anything like that. It's just using what you already have and it's generated the wallet for you.
00:32:56.144 - 00:33:13.210, Speaker A: And then you connect it to the correct network and you've minted. Now, Jesse does a really great job of explaining exactly what's so special about this. Better than I can. Setup is less than 10 seconds. It's very, very fast. There's no separate app or extension. As I said, works across all EVM chains and apps.
00:33:13.210 - 00:33:30.410, Speaker A: Out of the box. You can use your Coinbase balance on chain. Now this is the most important thing. If you have an existing Coinbase account, centralized exchange account with a balance, you can now use that balance on chain. Like that is mind blowing. That is actually really, really, really good. It means that the bridging is abstracted away completely.
00:33:30.410 - 00:33:59.312, Speaker A: Didn't I say this was going to happen, guys? I said this was going to happen. I'm giving myself some credit there. So that's just abstracted away all of that, right. And abstracted away all the intricacies of creating a wallet because it's just done natively within whatever device you're on here, there is two FA, there's recovery and, and more security features that keep you safe and day one distribution through the existing development kits such as Rainbow kit, wallet, SDK and so on and so forth. This is how we bring the masses on chain, guys. This is it right here. You're seeing it happen in real time.
00:33:59.312 - 00:34:24.580, Speaker A: Coinbase is one of the teams leading this. There are other teams working on this as well. Don't get me wrong, it's not just Coinbase, but Coinbase is laser focused on making it as simple as possible. And they have the distribution to back it up too, because they have the most real human users out of any platform. In crypto, they have the most customers, the most KYC customers. So they know they're real people for the most part. You know, sometimes you can slip through the cracks, right? But for the most part, they know that they're real people.
00:34:24.580 - 00:34:46.790, Speaker A: They've got money there, they've got their balances on the exchange. They can actually do this analysis and see how many people have never actually withdrawn from the exchange and say, okay, well, let's just make it so they can use their coinbase balance on chain and bingo bango, they're on chain like that is mind blowing. That is exactly what we want. This should be celebrated more. I don't know why people aren't talking about this more. This is what we've wanted for years. This is what people complain about all the time.
00:34:46.790 - 00:35:06.310, Speaker A: Oh, it's too hard to get on chain. There's bridging or no one wants to leave a centralized exchange or creating a wallet's too hard. There's too many different kind of like new terminology people to use. Well, now there's not. You create a wallet in under 10 seconds. You have security features baked in, there's no separate app or anything to download and you can use your Coinbase balance on chain immediately. That is the holy grail, guys.
00:35:06.310 - 00:35:29.706, Speaker A: I mean, obviously it's going to get better over time. It's not like the end state, but this is the holy grail stuff that we want, that we want to be seeing. So just a huge kudos to coinbase for this. A huge kudos for Jesse for leading the base effort and doing a lot of this stuff. Obviously internally this is great and I can't wait to see more and more people get on chain because of the efforts of Coinbase here. All right, last up before where. This is another long refill.
00:35:29.706 - 00:36:00.024, Speaker A: These refills are getting longer, guys. It definitely is a bull market. But last thing before I get into a bullish rant, I'm going to give you guys a very nice bullish rant in a sec. But anyway, last thing, get Coin has published the Git Coin 2.0 white paper with the main theme being grants equals growth. This was, this white paper was written by Kevin Owocki, one of the original founders of Gitcoin and Megalista here, who works at Gitcoin or works in the labs of gitcoin. The white paper illustrates how grants are pivotal for ecosystem growth and coins evolution from 1.0
00:36:00.024 - 00:36:20.608, Speaker A: to 2.0 g 2.0 introduces diverse capital allocation mechanisms and embraces multiple EVM based networks. The paper also explores Gitcoins modular solutions tech stack. So you can read the paper at gitcoin co ypaper. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But great to see them kind of refocusing here because you guys remember that coin did a bit of an experiment with launching their own l two.
00:36:20.608 - 00:36:47.872, Speaker A: Didn't really succeed, didn't really go anywhere and I think one of the main issues was that it was the fragmentation where Gitcoin as a protocol is better suited to exist on multiple EVM chains rather than having their own chain. And they learned that and they were able to gracefully shut down the l two and now they're moving on to Gitcoin 2.0, which seems to focus a lot on that and focus a lot on grants. But anyway, because I'm overtime here, I'm not going to get into too much detail about that. You can go read the white paper. It's very detailed. And there's also a visual guide to the white paper, too.
00:36:47.872 - 00:37:20.074, Speaker A: If you don't want to do too much much reading, it shows what their goals are here. So definitely go check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so I promised, promised a little bit of a bullish rant to end today's episode off. As you can see in front of me, I put together a little image of the eat supply versus the ETH price since the merge. So the supply has gone down only since the merge, guys, it is negative 0.22% over the last 534 days, which is that when the merge was, it's about, I think it's like 535 days ago or something now.
00:37:20.074 - 00:37:50.404, Speaker A: But anyway, since the merge here and then below it, I've got an image from Coingecko of the ETH price going up only since then, since September 15, 2022 here. Now, the reason I put this out there is because people have been saying, oh, you know, the ETH supply going down and ETH being deflationary hasn't really had too much of an effect on ETH as an asset. And I would argue it has because ETH hasn't really gone down at all since the merge went live. ETH has really been up only. Yeah. Okay. It's been slow for a little while and now it's accelerating.
00:37:50.404 - 00:38:32.686, Speaker A: But ETH has really been up only here. And I've long argued that the merge issuance reduction and the burn and the being a deflationary is really good for basically cushioning ETH. So I want to revisit this when the bear market hits and basically see how ETH does and what ETH bottoms at because, you know, not only will ETH have like an ETF, not only will ETH have all of the natural demand drivers that it already has, it's also got the net deflationary supply. So it's going to be interesting to see, like what ETH bottoms out. Like, does ETH go to, you know, this bull market, does it go to, like, 20k? Let's just say, right, you guys know, my target is 15 to 20k. This cycle goes to 20k. But does it only go down to, like, eight k or ten k? Like, that's a 50% drop at ten k, right.
00:38:32.686 - 00:39:09.782, Speaker A: Instead of going down 80% or 85% like it has traditionally, like, if it went from 20k down 85%, that would put it at $3,000. Right. I kind of struggle to see ETH going to $3,000 if it goes to 20k. But, hey, anything can happen in a bear market, just like anything can happen in a bull market. But if it doesn't do that, even if it only goes down, you know, 75% instead, which is down to five k, that is still a big improvement over previous cycles. And, you know, maybe it goes down even less than that because as I said, it still has all those demand drivers as well as a, you know, a very limited supply here. But we're going to have to see how that shakes out after the bull markets finish because we don't know.
00:39:09.782 - 00:39:21.634, Speaker A: I mean, things are just getting crazy right now. As I said the other day, we're in the mid bull market now. I mean, BTC is about to breach all time high. It's at 65k. It's pretty much going to go to all time high this week at this rate. Right. Maybe it doesn't break it the first time it goes there.
00:39:21.634 - 00:39:51.648, Speaker A: Typically doesn't. But still, we're well and truly, you know, into the bull market now and in the kind of, like, mid cycle here. So it's going to be very interesting to see where it goes to what the top is and where ETH bottom's at. And I think that also it's going to be interesting to see what ETH BTC does as well, because ETH BTC, even though it hasn't really performed since the merge, it's a little bit down. It's not flat. I think it's down like maybe, maybe 10% since the merge or something. The point is, though, is that in the last bear market, ETH BTC went down 90%.
00:39:51.648 - 00:40:14.738, Speaker A: In this bear market, ETH BTC only went down Max, 45%, I think, or maybe 50% at its worst. Yeah. Okay. That's still a big drop. That is a substantial improvement over last bear market. And I think that is definitely due to the merge and to eat being net deflationary now in the next bear market. What's that going to look like, because it's not only about ETH USD, it's also about ETH BTC in my eyes.
00:40:14.738 - 00:40:50.600, Speaker A: So does that mean ETH BTC goes down, you know, maybe 30% only in the next bear market? Or maybe ETH has permanently flippant bitcoin and it's bitcoin that goes down against Ethnia. I don't think that's going to happen this cycle. Maybe next cycle, but it's going to be very interesting to see. And I do think that the merge issue introduction and AIP 1559 ETH being at deflationary plays an absolutely massive part in that. And that is what's special about ETH being deflationary. And that's what people miss, because it plays out over longer time periods. It's not like a meme coin that pumps 400% in a week, right? I mean, we all wish either pump 400% in a week, but it doesn't.
00:40:50.600 - 00:41:07.474, Speaker A: But it does give you slow and steady growth over time, like a nice store of value should. Anyway, enough of that bullish rant. That's going to be it for today, so thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
