00:00:04.250 - 00:00:33.350, Speaker A: Hi everyone. Welcome to Unconfirmed, the show that reveals how the market names in crypto are reacting to the week's top headlines and gets the inside scoop on what they see on the horizon. I'm your host, Laura Shin, a journalist with over two decades of experience. I started covering crypto five years ago and as a senior editor at Forbes, was the first mainstream media reporter to cover cryptocurrency full time. Unchained and Unconfirmed are now published as videos. If you're not yet subscribed to the Unchained YouTube channel, head to youtube.com c unchainedpodcast and subscribe today crypto.com,
00:00:33.350 - 00:00:54.640, Speaker A: the cryptosuper app that lets you buy, earn, and spend crypto earn up to 8.5% per year on your Bitcoin. Download the crypto.com app now. Block native is the easiest way to build and trade with mempool data. Hundreds of the top DFI projects and traders have integrated block native's API. Learn why@blocknative.com
00:00:54.640 - 00:01:58.754, Speaker A: fourth Holidays today's episode is an AMA with questions I solicited from Twitter. Next time, if I get my act together in time and I'm not juggling five bajillion things at once, I will solicit them on the show so you can record your questions. So here goes. Zurrez asks, what do you think about privacy designed blockchain? So it's kind of interesting because these blockchains are sort of under attack, I guess you could say, from regulation right now. Melton Demir has actually talked about this in the episode that I did with her and Lynn Alden where she said that that's kind of the main thing she'll be looking at for 2021. And I think at the moment that I'm recording this, we only have rumors about what type of regulation it was that Treasury Secretary Steve Benuchin wanted to put on crypto right now because I think know, privacy coins were in the crosshairs. And this was something that Jessie Liu, who came on Unconfirmed, talked about.
00:01:58.754 - 00:02:52.002, Speaker A: She was the what was it? Former district attorney, I think, for Washington, DC. She's prosecuted a ton of cases around, some of the biggest ones involving illegal use of Bitcoin and by state actors like North Korea or by the child porn website in Korea. Welcome to video. And some of the other big criminals, like terrorists and stuff. Anyway, point is, she highlighted that as something that she was noticing in I can't remember it was the dog enforcement framework, actually. And I do think that this is going to be something that comes up again because Brian Brooks, the acting controller of the Currency, also kind know, when I asked him about how he thought the US. Might regulate privacy, he well, you know, the US.
00:02:52.002 - 00:03:57.042, Speaker A: Is different from other countries because we're the victims of terrorism or we're subject to terrorism or something like that. And he said that he thought people would be willing to make a trade off for that, which I thought was very interesting. I really was curious to know what the crypto community's reaction was to that comment, but yeah. So I think we're going to see that kind of come up as a battle. And I would be surprised if in the end, there wasn't some way to have blockchains that feature privacy prominently, because in a way, I can't imagine the technology really taking off in all the ways that it could take off if there wasn't such a feature. And you even see that like in a forthcoming episode I have on unconfirmed. It's a panel discussion, but there is somebody from the federal reserve who talks about building systems for central bank digital currencies who know flat out, you can't design these systems unless you have privacy as a consideration.
00:03:57.042 - 00:04:55.270, Speaker A: From the beginning, he said it cannot be an afterthought, and he's talking about for central bank digital currency. So I really do think that at least some of these blockchains will have to feature it prominently, and I don't think that we're going to end up with blockchains that just don't have it at all. I would be surprised on a long enough time scale, I do think in the beginning there might be a bit of a battle, but I think after we get real adoption, then I would be very surprised if we don't start to see more privacy features. Somebody named p. Zero oaker wrote, do you endorse the stable act? I don't endorse anything that I feature on the show. Whether yeah, I don't endorse anything. I know a lot of people in the crypto community were very much against the stable act, which was the bill that was introduced by representatives rashida tlaib and some others that basically know, if you want to issue a stablecoin, then you have to apply for a bank charter.
00:04:55.270 - 00:05:55.390, Speaker A: And obviously their reasoning for it was a little bit confusing, which is what I asked him about one of the advisors to the act, rowan gray, who's a professor at willamette university law, a school of law. I asked, you know, representative talib said that she thought that the reason for the act, for the bill was that it would prevent stablecoin issuers from perpetrating the same types of crimes that big banks had perpetrated against disadvantaged populations. And so I asked him flat out, how does turning stablecoin issuers into banks prevent them from doing the crimes that banks did? And you can listen to the show. He had great answers for pretty much every question I asked him. I thought, and I thought it was very interesting to hear his viewpoints. But if you ever hear anything on my show, I wouldn't say that just because it's on my show that I'm endorsing. You know, that applies for everything across the board.
00:05:55.390 - 00:07:44.014, Speaker A: The serumist asks, do you think facebook's DM, formerly known as libra, is going to have a negative or positive impact on the broader crypto ecosystem? I think what will probably happen is that in the long run, it will have a positive impact. I think what might happen is it might be a little bit like AOL in that as AOL was to the Internet, in the sense that it might just get people into the crypto world or into the blockchain world. I should say, and help them learn how to transact very quickly and easily with this kind of technology and just get them into digital money generally and teach them how to use a wallet and send transactions with your phone and perhaps maybe even do other things or at least have access to be able to do slightly more interesting things with the technology. And so in that regard, I think just teaching people some of the basic behaviors around how to use it is going to be extremely know. One thing that I think kind of gives me pause in saying that it will definitely be positive for the broader ecosystem is just that because Facebook is as big as it is, and because, as I said, regulation is going to play a bigger role in the world of blockchain technology, I believe, than it did in the internet in general. So I just wonder if the fact that it's an entity that can be regulated and that so many people will have access to this, I wonder if that will kind of, in a way, just make it a place where people kind of stay rather than venturing off into some of the other blockchains. And that's something that I'll just be interested to watch it.
00:07:44.014 - 00:08:29.146, Speaker A: It'll be kind of a curious thing to see if that does happen. However, I'm sure, as we are all quite well aware, facebook is no darling of the regulators. And I think pretty much the vast majority of people would agree that giving a company like Facebook more power over yet another aspect of our digital know, maybe isn't the best. Um, and I know people say that, you know, not owned by, you know, it was created by Facebook. They hired a lot of the initial people for the foundation, et cetera. So clearly it's in the DNA of that organization. Over time, who knows, maybe it will really be a lot more independent.
00:08:29.146 - 00:08:51.240, Speaker A: But there's just no question that from the beginning, it will be very tied to Facebook. So in that regard, it really could go either way. It really could. All right, so let's take a quick ad break right now. These are the sponsors who make this show possible. Thank you to them. And yes, in a moment, I will answer more of your questions.
00:08:51.240 - 00:09:27.922, Speaker A: Today's episode is brought to you by Block native. Block native is the easiest way to build and trade with mempool data. Hundreds of the top DeFi projects and traders have integrated block native's API. They even have Mempool Explorer, the industry's first no code environment for working with mempool data. Mempool Explorer truly brings blockchain data to life, letting you watch mainnet transactions as they happen through the first quarter of 2021. Unconfirmed listeners get double the transaction volume on all Block native commercial plans, as much as $25,000 in value. Visit blocknative.com.
00:09:27.922 - 00:09:48.418, Speaker A: Unconfirmed to get started and claim this offer. Crypto.com, the crypto super app that lets you buy, earn and spend crypto all in one place. Earn up to 8.5% per year on your BTC. Download the Crypto.com app now to see the interest rates you could be earning on BTC and more than 20 other coins.
00:09:48.418 - 00:10:24.930, Speaker A: Once in the app, you can apply for the Crypto.com Metal card which pays you up to 8% cash back instantly. Reserve yours now in the Crypto.com app. Okay, back to the rest of the AMA. So Andrew Lee asks what's one thing you miss from Pre COVID about the Crypto community? Oh, what's one thing I miss? Boy. You know, I think the obvious thing to say would be obviously the in person gatherings.
00:10:24.930 - 00:11:53.422, Speaker A: And that really runs the gamut in the sense that some of them are kind of like smaller gatherings of people that are just lovely and you just get to hang out and chat and just talk about all the crazy things going on in our world, which I really miss. But I actually think a lot of those also happen around conferences. And so even as we all love to hate on some of the big conferences, just the fact that those do bring together such a huge proportion of people and then we can all go off and have our separate meetings and little dinners and parties and whatever. Aside from that, I think, yeah, that's really fun and yeah, I miss those and I just want to give a shout out and thank you to all the people who've invited me to so many wonderful things, like in some really lovely destinations as well that I've been able to attend. And yeah, that was just something I never expected from falling in love with Bitcoin, but that is what has happened to me and has been a really fun part of the ride. Okay, bad Crypto Bunny asks how do we use Blockchain and Crypto to weed out propaganda and false news stories? Okay, I don't know if you guys followed that whole thing that happened with that startup Civil. It was like a consensus spoke.
00:11:53.422 - 00:13:04.150, Speaker A: It basically was this media company or they were trying to launch their own blockchain, the Civil Blockchain, with a token CVL that was going to, I don't even quite know, but somehow I think verify the stories on the blockchain or something like that or put the stories on the blockchain. And they did actually attract some really big names. Like, I remember I think the CEO or the editor in chief or something was like a big name for NPR. Unfortunately, I forgot her name, but yeah, there were a lot of people from well respected publications that had joined in. And I do know Manous Zamaroti who does the Zigzag podcast. She had done Note to Self before and I think joined up with Civil as part of the Zigzag podcast. And if you listen to the first episode, the first season or two of that, it's basically chronicling of, first of all the pitch to them and how they joined on and how they thought, oh, this is going to solve some of the ills of our industry, et cetera, et cetera.
00:13:04.150 - 00:13:58.246, Speaker A: And then obviously the Civil project ended up failing just because it did not raise anywhere near as much as it aimed to raise in its ICO. And so it sort of never even got to get going. And yeah, now actually I should reach out to Manushka, I don't know what she's doing. I think she still does a Zigzag podcast, but I don't know how she's funding it. Maybe just normal ads or something. But the point is that I always was a little skeptical about how they were going to use the blockchain to verify their news stories. I mean, was it just going to be very discreet facts that were easily verifiable? I mean, there's obviously a whole subset of facts where, yeah, you could do it that way, but you'd have to phrase them just so because there's like 20 different ways you can state the same fact.
00:13:58.246 - 00:15:14.286, Speaker A: And so what are you going to do, put all those 20 hashes on the blockchain and they all represent the one fact? I don't know. So yeah, it wasn't clear to me how they were going to do that. And this reminds me of, I think it was like Stampery, there was some early blockchain startup where I kind of did a little interview with the guy just to find out kind of like how they were thinking about it and it was some kind of they were pitching it almost like it was a notary. But then I said, well, what if someone puts a lie on the blockchain? And he was like, yeah, we're not verifying whether or not these are accurate. And so then I was like, okay, well then what's the point of this? If I just take a spam email that somebody sent to me at twelve noon on Friday and I stick that on Stampery, how was that useful? And he was like, yeah, well then we know that you had that spam email at that time. And I was like, okay, this is like he's just like, why? All of those kinds of similar questions I think would exist for any kind of blockchain that aims to address the issue of false news stories. Because I think what would happen is you always do not always, but every once in a while there is a news story that needs some kind of correction on it.
00:15:14.286 - 00:16:28.426, Speaker A: And so what then? If there's like a tiny little fact wrong that's immaterial to the story but needs to be corrected, what then? Is the story somehow invalidated or I don't really I don't know how that's going to work. So Jared Zemp asks what are the best pick and shovel plays in crypto? Right? Well, because we're somewhere in the ballpark of roughly a year away from a Coinbase IPO, I would probably say Coinbase is clearly they're already sort of the proven on ramp to crypto in the US. Just the easiest place to buy and just convert your Fiat into any kind of crypto. And obviously now they also offer stablecoins. So I think just in terms of on ramp, I still feel like we're in the days where we need to just or where the industry would want to get more people on board and into the system and learning how to use this stuff. So that would be one. I do think in general, any kind of exchange obviously so far has proven to be a good business.
00:16:28.426 - 00:17:32.734, Speaker A: I would say also that right now I think we're starting to see a lot of kind of like specialization amongst the different. You know, I know Paxos is serving as the back end for a number of big companies, including PayPal. And so, you know, that is just sort of like a niche that they're carving out for themselves and I could see a lot of other players picking different niches, whether it be custody or Staking or whatever. So I think we're just going to see a lot of that and I think any kind of company where you see somebody owning an important niche for crypto that's probably going to make sense at this moment rather than actually some of the bigger, more wild things that are probably more exciting to the rest of us. So the last two questions are not like in the previous AMA I did last week, I had some about journalism and being a reporter and stuff. They were a little bit more crypto focused. These are not, but these are just the last questions I have.
00:17:32.734 - 00:18:23.194, Speaker A: Matthew Mori asks, what distinguishes a journalist from an entertainer? Okay, I don't even know where this question comes from. I'm just going to answer it straight. I don't think journalists really do their job thinking about necessarily providing entertainment. I think they come at the job from thinking about informing people but also doing it in a way that is appealing to them and that will get their attention. Whereas an entertainer isn't going around like trying to figure out what the facts are in addition to getting their attention. They just want people's attention so they're willing to say anything and whether or not they've fact checked it is completely immaterial. So that's probably actually what distinguishes them.
00:18:23.194 - 00:19:29.598, Speaker A: One does the reporting and make sure that or tries to the best of their ability to make sure that all the facts are correct and the other does not need to do that at all, which I'm sure actually is quite liberating. But yeah, that's not how we journalists do it. All right. And then last question from Archen faust is what are your thoughts on the state of media and journalism in America? So I think the main thing that I think about right now is just the business model, which has come up a few times across the last AMA. And this like, pretty much the whole of my career in journalism has been through this massive disruption of the media industry. And it's just so crazy because my first real journalism job was@newsweek.com and the reason that that is very fascinating is because this was in the year 1998 when Newsweek was the thing.
00:19:29.598 - 00:20:14.670, Speaker A: But Newsweek.com. What was that? People didn't know what that was and I didn't know what that was. And I show up and it's like, I forget, like somewhere between seven and nine people and it's just like this little operation. And we only did gosh I think we only did like three or four stories a day, and they were very short. And anyway, looking back, it was slightly comical now that we've seen what the Internet has grown into. But the point that I'm talking about is that when I showed up there, I was like, Newsweek.com? Okay, great that I get to work with all these Newsweek editors, but I want to write for the magazine, I don't want to write for Newsweek.com.
00:20:14.670 - 00:20:41.450, Speaker A: And there were a few very tiny things I did get to write for the magazine and I was so excited about those. And of course I enjoyed writing for Newsweek.com because I just love writing. And so that was super fun for me. But it was like, the magazine was it and I just did not see at all that the.com stuff was the future, even though my next job was@wsj.com again, the.com
00:20:41.450 - 00:21:27.320, Speaker A: not the newspaper. So I again was like, how can I get to the newspaper? And I remember at that time, like, Kara Swisher worked to the Wall Street Journal and was constantly reading her and I was just, you know, she has the life, like, this looks fun. And this also was the time when the focus really was the newspaper in the sense that all stories were written for the newspaper. And the role of the website was simply to put the newspaper stories online. That was our job. And yes, we had other things we did, like we took the wire stories from Dow Jones and repackaged them for Wall Street Journal readers and there were some special sections we did that were just online and things like that. So it wasn't like completely just this remote copy paste thing and make it nice for the web.
00:21:27.320 - 00:22:01.620, Speaker A: But that was basically the main function. And obviously things now are so different. Things are written for the web first and then whatever makes it to the paper, makes it to the paper. The next job I had again, New York Times.com, even this whole time, literally, this is over the span of I forget how many years, the first years of my career, I still always just was like, I want to be at the real publication. It took me so long. I think it was like ten years into this disruption before I realized, like, oh, the web is the thing.
00:22:01.620 - 00:22:57.954, Speaker A: So the point is, all I'm trying to say is that weirdly. Here I am 22 years later, and I'm a little bit like, oh, the media industry is only just now kind of figuring out the business model for the web. Obviously, the experience of The New York Times with their digital subscriptions has been huge for know, the Wall Street Journal got that way earlier. But of course, they have a lot of people who get their companies to pay for their I think, you know, the Washington Post has seen pretty good uptake on their subscriptions. And my old employer, Forbes, just instituted their own subscription model. Before they were only advertising focused, like most of the that and we're seeing this more and more. Quartz, Bloomberg, I mean, just all these places, they all now have subscription based models, which is what it was like in the old days.
00:22:57.954 - 00:23:25.710, Speaker A: I remember growing up as a kid, my parents oh, my God, our household was filled with magazines because they just subscribed to all these places. The way that they consumed their media was to pay the media companies and get the magazines. So I wonder if people will just pay more for media. Frankly, I hope so, because that's how it used to be. Like I said, I literally think my parents subscribed to, I don't know, at least 20 different magazines. Like I remember. We got Newsweek.
00:23:25.710 - 00:23:50.466, Speaker A: Sorry, Newsweek and US. News and Time, like, all three of them. It wasn't like they just picked one. They got all three. Yeah. I'm still curious to see how business models continue to get disrupted in my own industry. I feel very lucky that I've managed to ride the whole wave in the podcast boom to have my own shows that support me independently.
00:23:50.466 - 00:24:17.886, Speaker A: This, again, has affected my own career. Again, it's like a disruptive thing in media. But I think that I was lucky. It was just at the right time, and I was somewhat early. Not super early, but early enough. These are the main things I think about a lot when it comes to media and journalism in the States. It's probably not exactly what you were asking, but this is just what I think about because this is how I want to continue to make my living for the rest of my life.
00:24:17.886 - 00:24:40.450, Speaker A: All right, you guys, that's it. Thanks so much for tuning in. There won't be any news recap this week as we did last week because me and my staff were all off for the break. Don't forget, we are now on YouTube. Subscribe to the Unchanged podcast YouTube channel today and Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin, with L from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Ness bossy baker shashank, josh durham and this team at CLK transcription. Thanks for listening.
