00:00:00.080 - 00:00:01.742, Speaker A: I think today's guest needs no introduction.
00:00:01.806 - 00:00:07.550, Speaker B: True DeFi or G Infodex is designed basically to replace centralized exchanges.
00:00:07.630 - 00:00:11.406, Speaker A: My dad is literally downloading phantom and slinging shit coins and stuff like that.
00:00:11.438 - 00:00:15.126, Speaker B: One of the components we're going to be using is NIR's chain abstraction.
00:00:15.198 - 00:00:19.590, Speaker A: Quick one, nothing here is financial advice. It's for entertainment and educational purposes only.
00:00:19.670 - 00:00:21.278, Speaker B: Always do your own research or speak.
00:00:21.294 - 00:00:25.382, Speaker A: To a financial advisor before making any investment decisions. Enjoy the episode and like.
00:00:25.406 - 00:00:26.370, Speaker B: And subscribe.
00:00:32.400 - 00:00:41.020, Speaker A: Welcome back to another episode of still early. I think today's guest needs no introduction. True defi og quality builder in the space. Kane, how's it going?
00:00:42.040 - 00:00:43.980, Speaker B: Very well. Yeah, thanks for having me.
00:00:44.440 - 00:01:24.580, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely, absolutely. So I think people watching this might have known a little bit of your backstory already, so I want to kind of skip that. People who listen to this podcast should have used synthetics and everything that you've built in and around that ecosystem. But you guys are building something really, really interesting with Infinix and I just want to kind of pick your brain on that for the next half an hour, 45 minutes, and kind of shed a little bit light on what you guys are building. But first of all, why has this particular problem with what you guys are building with Infinix kind of piqued your interest and kind of push you towards building in this direction and maybe kind of give people a high level of what uh, Infinix is as well?
00:01:25.360 - 00:02:07.568, Speaker B: Yeah. So, uh, Infinix is designed basically to replace centralized exchanges. That's, that's the end goal. Right. What we're trying to do, um, and, and the, the reason why I think we need to do this is because we have this, uh, interesting situation, right. Um, which is not optimal, uh, which is that, you know, even very deep into this cycle, the majority of people who are crypto natives, daily active users of crypto, are doing their crypto things inside of CZ's database. And that's just not right.
00:02:07.568 - 00:03:00.530, Speaker B: That doesn't make sense. Right? Like, you know, we have, we have crypto native rails, crypto native infrastructure. Why are we still using some guys database? Right. It made sense maybe ten years ago and even recently, I would say up until this last cycle. But we've now invested so much in infrastructure that it's time to rebuild the feature set of centralized exchanges on crypto rails using crypto infrastructure. And the reason why this was interesting to me, I guess, is because having built a protocol we built from the ground up, we started with smart contracts and even deeper actually, when we realized that l one was not going to scale. We partnered with optimism and worked on building scaling technology for smart contract platforms.
00:03:00.530 - 00:03:46.850, Speaker B: At l two, we were one of the earliest adopters at synthetics of l two networks. We had to actually go deeper than just a smart contract layer, the consensus layer and the scaling layer. And then we built up into contracts and then built up, built up, built up. And by the time you go through all of the stack, you get to the UX layer where the user actually interacts with the protocol. And it just was never really satisfactory. I would say we've never really nailed the UX to the level of what coinbase or Binance or Bitmex or I, any centralized exchange was able to do. And that kind of makes sense.
00:03:46.850 - 00:04:34.416, Speaker B: There is a reason for that. Using centralized tech and databases and all of the stuff that web two uses. This technology has been around for decades now. It's very mature, very robust, it's constantly improving. There's a ton of investment into optimizing this tech stack and how to deploy it and how to make sure that you're as close to the user. Cloud hosting all of this stuff has been worked on for years and years to make it as efficient as possible. Crypto being much younger as a tech stack, it's taken us a while to catch up, but we finally have caught up.
00:04:34.416 - 00:04:55.320, Speaker B: Right. And so, you know, the goal of Infinix is to rebuild the feature set that you have on binance. Spot trading, lending, staking perps, you know, even just asset storage. Right. Like, you know, custody, putting your assets in a safe place. Right. That feature set needs to be rebuilt on crypto rails, and that's the goal of Infinix.
00:04:55.900 - 00:05:19.660, Speaker A: Awesome. And why is, I suppose it must be a mixture of a lot of things that have happened. Like what? Why is now the right time to be solving this? Is it, is it a tech problem that's kind of came to a point where the tech's available now? Is it kind of a knee jerk and a backlash? And quite rightly so from what's happened with centralized exchanges over the past couple of years. Like, why is now the right time to be building towards something like this?
00:05:20.240 - 00:05:46.054, Speaker B: Now's the right time because the protocols are finally ready, I would say. Right. You know, and different protocols at different times have been ready. You know, arguably, Uniswap's been ready to replace spot trading on binance for several years now, right? Probably since Univ. Three, I would say perps protocols. It's more recent, it's in the last year, 18 months, maybe lending protocols. I think Aave has been quite robust for a long time.
00:05:46.054 - 00:07:06.630, Speaker B: And so different parts or different features, if you will, that you have on centralized exchanges have had different levels of maturity. But certainly towards the end of last year they all reached a level where I, you know, liquidity fees, accessibility, market depth, all of that stuff has kind of reached a level of maturity now where I think it can compete with centralized exchanges. And then I think there are some other things that have launched recently in terms of private key management, chain abstraction, account abstraction, abstracting all of the on chain infra away so that for a user it feels like a web two app. A lot of that investment in Infra has only really paid off in the last six months, and in some cases it's still not quite launched. So one of the components we're going to be using is near as chain abstraction that's in testnet. It doesn't launch for two weeks. So there's an argument that we're not even quite ready to do this today, but it's coming very soon because one of the things that you need to be able to do, I would argue one of the core use cases that centralized exchanges dominate on is you got to be able to store people's bitcoin.
00:07:06.630 - 00:07:52.396, Speaker B: If someone who's using binance today, if you say, hey, I've got this amazing new platform, you should come check it out. And they're like, okay, cool, how do I deposit my bitcoin on it? And you're like, oh, no, no, we don't support that. What are you doing? The good luck to you. They're going to be like, sorry, you're not credible, right? And the same thing kind of goes for swaps, right? You know, we're so enamored of our amazing on chain technology, but for an end user, they don't really care, right? If you go to a binance user and say, okay, I've got this incredible thing that you're going to be able to do. You're going to be able to swap USDT into doge. They're going to be like, what the fuck are you talking about? I've been doing that for ten years. Like, that's not impressive at all, right? And we're like, no, no, no, you don't get it.
00:07:52.396 - 00:08:39.756, Speaker B: This is like using like multi party computation and like, you know, cross chain signal. And they're like, I don't care, I don't care. I like, I like. No, right? And so, so, you know, those, those core things that you need to be able to replicate it doesn't matter how cool the tech is and how hard it is for you to replicate it, you just need to be able to replicate it. You need to be able to store people's bitcoin and litecoin and unfortunately they're ripple as well, right? Like, if you can't store their XRP, then they're going to be out, right? You got to be able to store all of their boomer coins that they want you to store, right. And then you have to be able to do swaps and perks and margin trading and lending and staking and all of that stuff. Anything that you can do on binance, you got to be able to replicate.
00:08:39.756 - 00:09:13.330, Speaker B: And it is 100% harder to replicate those features with on chain tech. It's why it's taken us so long to get here. To answer your question, why are we ready to do this? We invested so much money in the actual on chain smart contract platforms, in the on chain protocols and the on chain infra, and it's all kind of reached this level of maturity now where like the pieces are all there and someone needs to come and connect all those pieces together.
00:09:14.150 - 00:09:59.970, Speaker A: Yeah. Awesome. So how do you change this kind of onboarding mass muscle memory of, I say you're down there, pub with your mates and they're like, oh, I'd like to get into crypto, can you give me? Because naturally the instincts would be that, well, you need to download coinbase or you need to download binance, and he's my reflink. And away you go. I'll show you how to get some money on that. How do you change that kind of, because that's so embedded into the kind of like a passive, like, word of mouth kind of behavior of how you'd onboard a friend or like a family member. Like, what, how destructive does this have to be to actually get that? So, like, next time we're down the pub, it's like, oh, you should just go directly to Infinix.
00:10:00.630 - 00:11:04.376, Speaker B: I think there's two components, right? The first component is convincing the enthusiasts and early adopters and tech lovers, right, that this tech works. You know, we have to convince the people who are the advocates for crypto, right? The person who your friend is going to come to and say, what should I do? You know, it's, it's March 2025 and bitcoin is ripping. And, you know, your friend from high school turns up at the pub and says, I need to buy bitcoin. Like, how do I do it? Right? You become the advocate, right? The person who's been in crypto for five years, they're going to go to you and say, what should I do? Right? And today, you know, the reality is you got to say, go to coinbase or binance, right? There is not a comprehensive, on chain, non custodial platform that can do all the things that your friend is going to want to do or even can do the simple things, right? I just want to buy some bitcoin and be able to log in like I do to my Facebook account. Like, don't give me an 80 word seed phrase and private key. Like, I just. I want to buy some bitcoin and park it there.
00:11:04.376 - 00:11:34.690, Speaker B: I don't want to get creative, right? So we have to convince the enthusiasts, we have to convince the crypto natives, the early adopters, and it's not going to be that hard, right? They have been waiting for something like none of us love saying, oh, go to binance. You kind of have to grin and go, yeah, binance. My mother, she has a binance account. I'm not going to tell her to go and install metamask or rabbi or whatever. That would be crazy. Just go to binance and just go to username and password. It's simple.
00:11:34.690 - 00:12:15.428, Speaker B: That's the first thing, right? Is we have to solve that. We have to convince people and be able to credibly demonstrate that this tech is ready. Once we do that, here's the interesting thing that people forget about crypto cycles is each cycle you get to start from scratch. Your friend from high school has no brand allegiance or awareness or anything. They are a blank slate. They don't know binance, they don't know Coinbase. They may have heard the names, but, like, it means nothing to them, right? So when they turn up at the pub and say, where do I go? You could say infinix, or you could say uniswap, or you could say binance, or you could say Coinbase.
00:12:15.428 - 00:13:06.784, Speaker B: It's all the same to them, right? And this is why the power of incumbents in crypto is nowhere near what it is in web two, right? In web two, you kind of have a continuous stream of customers, right? In crypto, it's very peaky, right? You get this, a huge wave of customers and then a bunch of them disappear. Then another wave that, as each wave comes, you have an opportunity to change the paradigm. And this is why every cycle, some new exchange comes in and does something better or differently or faster and wins, right? You know, people would have said, and they did. They did say in 2015, 2016, you know, the exchange landscape is settled, right? The winners are there. Coinbase is there, Kraken is there, Poloniex. No one's going to beat them. And then binance turns up, doesn't ICO, in 2017.
00:13:06.784 - 00:13:42.752, Speaker B: It just blows them all out of the water in six months because they were faster to list. They did all of that stuff, and then the next cycle, FTX did the exact same thing. They gave you crazy shitcoin margin on your perps, listed every perp really quickly, had weird markets for things that people wanted to trade, and they beat binance. So every cycle, there's an opportunity. So this cycle will not be different. There will be an opportunity for a new entrant to come in and make a case for why the new users coming into the space should use them. And we all want to recommend on chain tech, we all want to recommend non custodial tech.
00:13:42.752 - 00:14:01.718, Speaker B: We just haven't had a credible thing to recommend for a new entrant coming to the space. My hope is that this cycle, Infinix, will be the thing that everyone can say, go and use Infinix. They're not going to rug you. It's going to be safer, you're not going to lose your money, you're not going to get phished. And they do all the stuff that.
00:14:01.734 - 00:14:45.870, Speaker A: You want to be able to do 100%. You could argue we've seen this cycle with everyone slinging shit coins, and I guarantee there's been more phantom downloads than they've ever came to expect. My dad is literally download phantom and slinging shit coins and stuff like that. So it's like that idea of kind of these motes is definitely not as strong as a traditional web two company, like you've just previously said. But even with Phantom, you do have the idea of it's still externally on account where I guarantee my dad's lost his seed for us. I guarantee there's nowhere to find it. So can you talk through the user journey and the onboarding experience? Because I've done it, I've deposited in the crate run.
00:14:45.870 - 00:15:16.820, Speaker A: It's a bit of an unlining experience as much as it is a step forward, because you feel, because it is so streamlined and so seamless, you kind of feel like you've missed a step. Because we've kind of. The hobbyists and tinkerers in the space have been so used to kind of putting up with dog shit ux, it's kind of got to a point now where it's just like, did I miss a step here? But in actual fact, I haven't. But can you kind of talk us through the onboarding experience and some of the kind of online experiences that might, people might kind of come up against when they've downloaded for the first time and jump on?
00:15:17.560 - 00:15:43.826, Speaker B: Yeah, of course. I think one of the key decisions that we made that where, you know, we've been a bit opinionated is around pass keys. So pass keys have been around for a while. They weren't quite ready. We made a decision last year to lean into them and that they were going to be, you know, ready for mass adoption. Right. And this is, in my opinion, like one of the biggest unlocks because, you know, yesterday I logged into Amazon.
00:15:43.826 - 00:16:18.100, Speaker B: You know, every once in a while you get logged out, you have to log back into Amazon or whatever. I logged into Amazon and they prompted me to set up a passkey. And then today I logged in again and it's like, passkey login. And I was like, yep, click one button, done. Right? So people are being onboarded into passkeys by web. Two companies that they use daily that are critical parts of their lives, whether it's Apple or Gmail or Microsoft or Amazon. These companies are investing hundreds of millions of dollars into onboarding people into passkeys because they know it is better than passwords.
00:16:18.100 - 00:17:16.660, Speaker B: Passwords have been around for a very long time. They're not ideal and there's been no real solution to it. But somehow we are lucky that the Fido alliance has managed to bring this all together. And so Passkeys will be the thing that everyone uses. And so we're actually in this interesting kind of inflection point where all the web, two companies are moving away from this legacy password tech and moving on to passkeys, while at the same time we are hopefully moving away from seed phrases and private keys and hardware wallets and things like that on the web3 side and the crypto side and moving towards passkeys. And we're able to kind of leverage all of the investment in education and awareness building that the web two companies are putting into this transition and just ride on their coattails. And we're seeing that people are getting more comfortable on a daily basis with passkeys.
00:17:16.660 - 00:18:05.450, Speaker B: And so using passkeys, which is just a crypto token, it's just a crypto token that you store in a secure enclave on a device. That's it. Right. And that crypto token allows you to do things, to unlock things, or in our case, to unlock a private key that's stored in turnkey and to therefore sign transactions. And so you have this pass key, which is this cryptographic token which is controlling your account, your on chain account across these multiple chains. And you don't have to give up self custody, but you also don't need to have a, you know, seed phrase or store a private key or, you know, do anything, you know, like that. That could be problematic later.
00:18:05.450 - 00:18:31.470, Speaker B: You know, when your dad reinstalls the OS on his machine and then goes, wait, where's. What happened to my money? Right. You know, poss keys are already set up to be synced to the cloud, whether you're using Microsoft or Apple or Android or whatever. They've already handled syncing and backups and all that stuff. So I think that our ability to leverage this new wave of tech is going to be pretty huge.
00:18:32.090 - 00:19:03.450, Speaker A: Yeah, it's quite interesting that that's kind of simultaneously getting adopted in the web two space, and then also we're kind of joining the tracks at the same time. That's quite interesting. So this whole idea of chain abstraction, I think people are an avid user of Cato, and this term is seem to be up and up and up every single time I log into that thing. Can you kind of give people a high level who might be coming call to this whole idea? Because I think you guys are kind of at the forefront of what's going on with this kind of movement.
00:19:04.110 - 00:19:32.160, Speaker B: There's like everything in crypto. There's a bunch of different ways you can do things. Right? You can do account abstraction using smart accounts. If there's an EIP, or. I think there's actually several eips that are been proposed around a technical solution to account abstraction. What we've done, I think, is a much more pragmatic approach to this. And we're doing the same thing for chain abstraction.
00:19:32.160 - 00:20:20.800, Speaker B: The way that we think about it is the same posture that you have with an optimistic roll up. Right. So the incentive scheme that we have right now is this TVL based yield farming scheme, right. And the way that it works is you can deposit assets on any one of six chains, and then the deposit is relayed by a keeper to the contract that keeps track of total TVL across all the chains. So if you are a Solana user, you can deposit Jito Sol on solana, and the TVL will be calculated and rolled up and sent through onto base into the staking rewards contract that tracks your TVL. Right. So that happens off chain.
00:20:20.800 - 00:21:12.066, Speaker B: That is very useful for two reasons. One, we can be much more performant about passing through these things, right? And, you know, ensuring that we can both see on the front end for the user what is happening and can communicate to them very clearly and not wait for the chain to necessarily update. So we can do some things that would be hard if you were just using subgraphs to read directly off the chain. You'd be sitting there in limbo waiting for something to happen, whereas we know what's happening in real time. And then the second thing is, it's still sort of resolvable to on chain actions, right? So it's auditable. So you can see whether or not the thing happened. You can see the deposit, you can see the transaction cross chain, right? You can see that that's happened.
00:21:12.066 - 00:22:16.390, Speaker B: And anyone can go in and actually look at the ledger on both chains and go, okay, this was real, right? And if you tried to put injectVl into the contract that was not actually reflected on another chain somewhere, you could easily see that and call it out. There's a strong incentive for this keeper network to not be malicious, because everything is on chain, and you can audit it on chain and figure it out, but at the same time, you don't need to do every single thing as a cross chain message. That's the posture that we're taking that your account that you have in Infinix is multi chain. It's across every chain. But each of those accounts that you have on each of the chains is owned by you. You are the owner, and you're the only one who can trigger a transaction on those accounts. And so if you're moving assets from Solana to base or base to arbitrum or whatever, we know exactly what's happening.
00:22:16.390 - 00:22:46.100, Speaker B: We know the asset that you've initiated the transfer from. We know where it's going, and we can very easily keep track of that using middleware that sits above the chains and, you know, and kind of tracks all of that activity. And so then you have this hybrid where you're not just having the on chain state as the only thing that you can show to the user, you actually have this off chain state that you can monitor at the same time, and so therefore have a much more seamless experience.
00:22:47.400 - 00:23:27.022, Speaker A: So where do you kind of envisage infinite sitting with regards to someone's kind of. How do you even describe this, like, self custody arsenal? So is it, does it sit somewhere between a paper wallet that started off chain starting to vulc somewhere and hardware wallet? Or does it go towards more of a hot wallet? Like, where do you envisage people? Like, slotting this into, like, the kind of, I don't even think of the word to kind of describe it. Like, how does this fit into people's life with regards to the other kind of self custody solutions they have? And it might be multifaceted. I don't know.
00:23:27.206 - 00:24:17.044, Speaker B: Yeah, it's funny, I was talking to someone about this today, right? The idea of, like, hot wallets, cold storage. These are anti patterns. These are like, anachronisms that are due to the tech, right? It would be weird if you were like, oh, yeah, that's my hot bank account. And I only keep a certain amount of money in that because, you know, people come in and steal it all the time. So, like, I don't want to keep my life savings in my, like, you know, so I have my cold bank account that's not connected to, like, this is madness, right? It doesn't make any sense. What you need is a secure system that is usable, right? Where you can have, you know, very clear permissions set up on what you can do, and that it's all enforceable on chain, and it's all non custodial. And then you can sleep at night.
00:24:17.044 - 00:25:20.320, Speaker B: You can have all your assets in this platform. They're stored by secure smart contracts, and you don't directly interface with protocols. You have some middleware contracts in between each protocol, and you can specify to your own level of security what those contracts can do in terms of daily withdrawals and transaction size. You can also delegate as well. When you look at how we manage large treasuries and things like that with multisigs, it's an incredibly inefficient mechanism. Most of the time, if you look at someone who's managing a large treasury, and this is not like a primary use case, but it's an important use case in crypto, and it really highlights how broken the actual underlying ux is. You have a hundred million dollar treasury, and you want to do a $10,000 transaction, you need to go and round up four out of seven signatures.
00:25:20.320 - 00:26:22.554, Speaker B: They're probably in different time zones. And God help you if that $10,000 transaction is a trade on uniswap, right, where there's slippage, because you just can't do it. Like, the, the slippage will get blown out by the time someone signs a transaction. So then what do you do? You go, oh, okay, all right, we're going to sign a transaction to send the funds into a hot wallet, and we're going to do the swap in an EOA, and then we're going to send it back and like, it's crazy, right? Like this is, these, these are broken systems, right? What you actually want to do is have four or five people who are able to do a certain level of transaction value in certain protocols, and you pre decide what those things are. And in order to escalate or modify those rules, right, and security posture, then you need multiple people to agree to do it. Right? But, you know, if we've got an analyst that is allowed to, you know, rebalance a portfolio up to 50 grand or something like that, right? They kind of, they don't. You might not even let them withdraw the money.
00:26:22.554 - 00:27:18.800, Speaker B: They're just allowed to do certain transactions. They can swap on curve or Uniswap or whatever, right? In certain pools they can just like web two security posture, bank accounts. Like this is. This is just a known thing, right, that you can delegate authority up to a certain level, role based security and things like that. So again, these are all things that I would say we their solved problems in the web two land, but we didn't have the tech to solve them in the same way. So we reinvented solutions which are not necessarily optimal. Right? So I guess my final thought there is that what we should do is try and converge more on what people are used to in terms of the UX and security posture, rather than trying to teach them some novel security posture that is only relevant to a specific part of their lives in crypto.
00:27:19.220 - 00:27:32.800, Speaker A: Yeah, good answer. So I've installed with passkey and from my personal experience, I deposited some solen. And can you talk us through what's happening with crate run? And the idea behind that?
00:27:34.060 - 00:28:28.510, Speaker B: The idea behind crate run is it's classical yield farming, except there's a twist, which is you have this injection of randomness via pithead, right? So we use the pith entropy contracts to inject some randomness. And the reason for that is that it makes it somewhat nonlinear, right? So crate earning is linear, right? So there's no incentive to Sybil, because as soon as you open up civil incentives, everyone loses, right? You just have industrialized, bought farming. And so you have a linear distribution of crates, but then a nonlinear distribution of rewards because you have randomness injected. And we've seen this, we've seen people open. It's a one in 1000 chance to get patron NFT. As an example. We've seen people open four crates, get a patron NFT because of randomness.
00:28:28.510 - 00:29:15.510, Speaker B: That's how randomness works. You're going to get some people who get very lucky and some people who get unlucky. The entire point of this crate run campaign is to distribute access to the platform. So rather than distributing access to the platform in this kind of linear fashion, where it's all airdropped, all yield farmed, you're actually distributing access to the sale where people are going to be able to buy tokens. And this is kind of a wild idea, but the best distribution mechanism for alignment with a project, especially when it comes to governance, is let people buy the token. People who want the token can buy it. The end.
00:29:15.510 - 00:30:17.370, Speaker B: It's unfortunate that we've come so far away from such an obvious answer, for reasons, but in my view, we want as much alignment as possible. If we're going to replace centralized exchanges with on chain tech, we need everyone in the community, no matter which chain you support, no matter which protocol you like, if you're a morpho supporter or a Camino supporter or an AavE supporter, we want everyone in the same tent, because we need to have that alignment. We need to be credibly neutral. This is going to be incredibly valuable infrastructure if it works, right, the distribution power and market power that Infinix will have is going to be incredible, far larger than even centralized exchanges have now. Centralized exchanges have distribution power, but it's very narrowly focused. They can pump the aave token, they can't pump the Aave protocol metrics. They don't send people to AAVE.
00:30:17.370 - 00:31:40.330, Speaker B: They replicate that with centralized tech inside their own platform. So there's no value to aave the protocol from binance or coinbase. With Infinix, there is direct value in AAVE being integrated because you have hundreds of thousands of users with hopefully hundreds of millions of dollars with the TDL that is all being put through that protocol. The infrastructure is on chain, no matter which lending protocol or which perps protocol or which spot protocol you like or support, we need to have that alignment with the entire community so that we're credibly neutral and so that we can integrate all of these different protocols, all of the on chain infra that that's been built over the last five years, and then we can work out how to aggregate it, how to distribute volume through different things, and it becomes a game of efficiency. Right? You know, if, if Morpho has an advantage in some particular niche of the market and Camino has a different advantage in a different place, then orders will be routed to wherever they're best suited, right? And you know, this is a, this is both incredibly powerful and incredibly useful, but also incredibly important to have that neutrality and openness across the entire ecosystem. We need as many people involved as possible.
00:31:41.190 - 00:33:00.290, Speaker A: Yeah. If you thought about, I'm sure you have. But the kind of onboarding process for specific applications that you want on Infinix or the community wants on Infinix, how do you make that, um, a sufficient enough rollout that you're getting? You kind of, you're kind of capturing all these, the applications already established communities as well, which is, I think supercharges the Infinix community growth set. But how do you make sure that you can roll them out quick enough, roll them out secure enough, and then how do, how is it gonna play out where it's not kind of this kind of gated system, where it's kind of like a pay to play mechanisms to be actually on Infinix and in the spotlight? Because I've seen so many kind of times, even if it's just assets getting listed on no names to be mentioned, like lending and borrowing protocols, it becomes this huge governance who ra and it becomes like this lobbyist game, like who can get the most votes to get their token listed. And we've seen some assets do incredibly well off the back of being listed. Like it should be an open, permissionless system to the point which makes it secure enough and safe enough for its end users. But how do you get the applications on there as opposed to question, without being too reckless with it? And just some thoughts on that, please.
00:33:00.990 - 00:33:44.844, Speaker B: It's a good question, and I don't have an obvious answer. This is one of the reasons why I think this governance alignment with the entire ecosystem is important. If Infinix is governed by a small subset of the crypto community, then I think you will have this kind of problem exacerbated. It'll be integrate buybags and not this thing or whatever. I think it's almost unavoidable that this happens to some extent. It's going to be a question of how you mitigate it. Certainly in the short term, the things that for me as an Infinix user I'll be looking for is like, hi, Lindy.
00:33:44.844 - 00:34:12.712, Speaker B: Right. I think we're going to want things that have been around for a while, right. And not just protocols that have been around for a while, but like markets within protocols that have been around for a while. Right. You know, the risk in the early phases is still probably smart contract risk. Right. And so particularly as you come and try to attract binance users away from binance, say, hey, come and use this platform for a couple of reasons.
00:34:12.712 - 00:34:57.576, Speaker B: One, we're subsidizing everything so there's no cost to you for gas, for withdrawals, deposits, all of that stuff. It's all going to be subsidized because growth is the key. We're going to invest in growth by subsidizing the cost of usage. Now you're on an equal playing field with finance. The second thing is we're going to pass through 100% of the incentives that protocols and chains are offering for volume and other key metrics that they're tracking, as opposed to binance, where the vast majority is captured by binance. Again, this is a growth play. Then at that point it comes down to we've got this intersection of security of the protocols.
00:34:57.576 - 00:35:36.320, Speaker B: You want mature protocols that are of as safe as possible and markets within those that are as safe as possible on chains that are well vetted. And you roll that core infra out first because you got to get to feature parity with binance. Now the reality is you can probably get to feature parity with binance by implementing AAVe on arbitrum. That's going to get you margin lending. Then you're going to need Jupiter on Solana. You're going to need uniswap on the maybe base or main net or whatever. You're going to have to piece together these key bits of infrastructure.
00:35:36.320 - 00:36:37.366, Speaker B: Once you've done that and you've got feature parity and you support all the assets and you've got the right alignment, and a binance user is not missing anything by coming to Infinix, then it's a question of, okay, what are the cool things that you can put in front of a user that wants to experiment, that wants to try out new things and what are the incentives there? And that's where I think governance really comes in. And it's going to be like, okay, let's enable some new perp exchange on mega ETH or Monad or something like that. Okay, let's do that. Right now, there's a couple of different ways we can do it. We can do it as its own siloed app where you replicate the UX, but you keep it. And it's like if you're an enthusiast or a want to experiment or you want to go down the long tail of things, okay, jump in and do that. But you might not necessarily integrate it into like the core liquidity platform, right, until it's got a bit more Lindy or whatever.
00:36:37.366 - 00:37:15.050, Speaker B: But these are governance decisions around like risk, trade offs and incentives. And also you can allow it to be a little bit driven by user choice, right? You make it available and if someone's like, listen, I've got to use this new mega ETH purpose protocol, it's too amazing. It's got all of these cool features, and that's what I want, then by all means, like, you absolutely go and use it, right? But if you've got an uninformed user that just wants to trade some ten x leverage ETH and doesn't want risk, right? Like, doesn't want platform risk or smart contract risk, then maybe they need to be siloed in a lower risk section of the app.
00:37:15.550 - 00:38:04.300, Speaker A: Yeah. Like all fintech options, even Apple has, what's it called? Test pilot or something, some shit like that. It's like they've all got experimental features that are not as battle tested as the others and roll them out that way. I want to pull back to a statement you made earlier, which, how have we got to the point where it's crazy to think that you should let the people who want to buy the token buy the token. Why have we got to this stage in the industry? And I. I've been thinking about this a lot recently. It feels like a lot of the kind of private, round shenanigans that's going on, not leaving enough meat on the bone for the average man on the street, then you've obviously seen the pencil up swing the complete opposite way with the likes of pumped up fun, and that's a kind of antithesis of that side of the industry to the other.
00:38:04.300 - 00:38:09.940, Speaker A: How has it got to this point? How are you thinking about it and how do we get around it?
00:38:11.310 - 00:39:10.190, Speaker B: I think that it comes down to token sales. That was the thing that kicked this off. You can go back to Mastercoin, this goes back to 2014 era crypto, it's ten years ago. There's no question. It got to a point where there was this proliferation of token sales and icos and things like that, and a lot of bad actors turned up. There's a question of would the market have self corrected? And my argument is that it was already in the process of self correcting by mid 2018. And would the market have gotten better at filtering out the things that were credible and not credible? And just to be clear, filtering out doesn't mean perfection, right? It doesn't mean that no one ever loses money.
00:39:10.190 - 00:39:39.170, Speaker B: You know, people lose money in early stage startups, right? People lose money in late stage startups, right? Like, you know, there's a bunch of people that have piled into Nvidia, and if Nvidia you know, slips up at all, right? Like it's going to be a dark time. There's going to be, you know, the entire market cap of crypto is going to be, you know, nuked. Right. If Nvidia, you know, fails in any way. Right, in the short term. So, you know, there's nothing that says that no one's ever allowed to lose money. That's crazy.
00:39:39.170 - 00:40:37.394, Speaker B: If you said that our goal should be that no one should ever lose money, then you can't have any innovation or investment because innovation and investment is directly correlated to risk. The more risk you have, the more innovation you have. What you need, I think, is the ability for people to determine their own view around this, right. Like how, how much risk they want to take. And there are multiple different ways you can do that. You can have, you know, very robust disclosure regimes, et cetera, you know, and attempt to try and generate as much transparency as possible. But even within those regimes, I mean, look at spacs, right? You know, we had the SPAC boom and basically everyone's faces got ripped off, right? Like there's, there's, there's like, you know, there's no easy solution to this, right? Anyone tries to sell you an easy solution is selling snake oil.
00:40:37.394 - 00:41:29.930, Speaker B: Right? And if you have regulators selling snake oil, that's kind of, that's a dark, that's a dark situation to be in. Right. You know, people, people need, I think, to be told clearly what the risks are with any kind of financial activity. That's the best that you can do is educated. And so my view is that there's been this kind of pendulum swinging too far to risk off, and people are too worried, even good actors are too worried to do anything that could create regulatory risk, and that stifles innovation. And this is not a coincidence. This was the absolute outcome that certain regulators were trying to create, and they were able to do it right.
00:41:29.930 - 00:42:15.934, Speaker B: They were looking to create this chilling effect to stifle innovation. And it was only in the last, probably 18 months that this became obvious to me. I remember sitting there with a couple of OGD five founders two or three years ago, and we were quite hard on ourselves for actually failing to educate, for being too focused on our own protocols, too focused internally on crypto, and not making enough effort to actually educate regulators. And one of the people at that table then went and invested a ton of money and put a ton of effort into helping to educate regulators. And then, like, six months later, we realized, actually that's not the issue. They know, they know what's going on? They don't need to be educated. The issue is they're actually adversarial to us.
00:42:15.934 - 00:42:35.578, Speaker B: They don't want us to exist. They don't believe in the technology, and they want it to go away. Now I've got some bad news. Like, the technology is not going away. Right. The technology is better technology. We have better technology than, you know, a black box bank that's running on CObOL from 1950.
00:42:35.578 - 00:42:59.166, Speaker B: Right. Like, it's insane to think that that would be able to compete with open and transparent smart contract platforms that are auditable by everyone. Right? This is an ideological disagreement, I think, now. Right. And so when we transition to this adversarial environment, then it became, you know, if you're in a pitched battle, you need to shoot back. Like, that's just literally where we're at. Right.
00:42:59.166 - 00:43:43.026, Speaker B: And so my view, as someone who has been fairly successful in crypto is that I have an obligation to actually do the thing that makes the most sense, take the optimal path to achieve the outcomes that I want to achieve and not de risk, you know, because of this regulatory chilling effect. And so, you know, that's, that's what I think we plan to do. That's the only option that we have, right. Is to do the right thing. And I'm fairly convinced that I'm a good actor in the space, you know, that I'm well meaning and, you know, I'm genuinely trying to, like, foster innovation. I'm trying to take all this infra that everyone is invested in and built and actually bring it to end users. And that's going to be a heavy lift.
00:43:43.026 - 00:43:56.818, Speaker B: Right. But I'm bullish on it. I think we've built amazing stuff and I want more people to use it. And if I want more people to use it, then I need to go out and do the best thing that I can do to ensure distribution of that tech. That's the outcome that I want.
00:43:56.994 - 00:44:21.396, Speaker A: 100%. And I completely agree. As we were saying earlier, the onboarding process was so slick, I felt like I'd missed a step. And that's like a really positive thing. And obviously only used crate run up to now. Can't wait to get some applications over there, start getting it into everyday usage, and then build up that muscle memory. So it's just like instinctive to go over there and use it.
00:44:21.396 - 00:44:48.270, Speaker A: But, yeah, kudos to what you guys are building. I think it's much, much needed. And I thought, honestly, I thought it was going to be a lot further out of. I thought I thought it was going to be a couple of years down the line. So I'm really, really kind of excited to kind of see this and kind of use it every day. And I just want to point is there, is there anything that we might have missed off that you want to make the listeners aware of? Or is what's like, what's next? Like, how long until, like full rollout? How long until. How long have we got left for crate run? Like all that kind of good stuff?
00:44:48.690 - 00:45:35.322, Speaker B: Yeah, crate run ends on the 30 July, so by the time this comes out, it'll be getting pretty close. We've got some, you know, final campaigns, I guess, within crate run for people who are maybe late comers to crate run to try and give people an opportunity to get involved. We've also got a couple of plans in between crate Run and the actual patron sale. So crate run is the gate to getting into the patron sale. So if you haven't gotten in yet, then, you know, there's still a little bit of time to do it. But even if you miss out on that, there will be some other opportunities potentially that will happen over the next two or three weeks. And then eventually we get to a point where we get into what we're calling integration season, which will be the last quarter of this year.
00:45:35.322 - 00:45:56.050, Speaker B: Integration season is about rolling out all of the amazing infra that has been built, whether it's Jupiter or Aave or Morpho or Kamino, all of this amazing tech that's been built. We're just going to start integrating and rolling it out and making it as accessible as possible to every crypto.
00:45:56.830 - 00:46:03.638, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, we'll leave some links below. I think we've got a ref link, or it might be mine. I might just steal it from the teams.
00:46:03.814 - 00:46:06.930, Speaker B: Nice. Nice. Well played.
00:46:08.150 - 00:46:29.448, Speaker A: And yeah, I think we've got some onboarding stuff coming on, coming out relatively soon as well. So if people are interested on that, you can go to blockmates tv and have a look at that and keep an eye on blockmates.com. i think there's some Infinix content coming out there. But Ken, thanks very much. And we have an open invite if you ever want to jump back on. Pleasure to chat to you finally. And thanks very much for your time.
00:46:29.448 - 00:46:35.120, Speaker A: All right, thanks for listening. If you enjoyed the show, please give us a like, subscribe and turn the notification bell on for next time. See ya.
