00:00:00.250 - 00:00:41.702, Speaker A: At a very fundamental level that the Federal Reserve or Morgan or MakerDAO or Steeth or Eigen Layer or any of these liquid restaking protocols, they're built in the same way and they have very similar challenges of managing assets and liabilities. And frankly, let's just be honest, eventually these things will be transparent and on chain there'll be these services that we can track it one for one in real time. Check the code is kind of a meme now. There aren't enough people that actually know how to check the code. Alright, everyone getting to be that time of year again where we are four months out from Das London, the largest, oldest institutional conference in all of Crypto. But it's also Thanksgiving and Black Friday. And I know what you're thinking.
00:00:41.702 - 00:01:00.014, Speaker A: You're thinking, Mike, I'm a loyal listener of Bell Curve here. Been wanting to go to Dazzlenen, but I've been waiting for my Black Friday deal. I just haven't seen something from you yet. Well, don't you worry, dear listener. I and the good marketing folks at Blockworks haven't intuited that. And we are rolling out our Black Rock Friday deal special. See what we did there? Black Rock Friday institutions are coming and all that.
00:01:00.014 - 00:01:30.226, Speaker A: For the next five days, if you head over to the Das London site, which you can see linked in the show notes here, you will get 20% off of the group pack. So that's four packs. So grab family members that are interested in Crypto, grab folks from your company and come hang with the growing list of speakers in London. We've got the guys from Framework Sansi's coming out there evgeny Gavoy of Winter Mute, a bunch of the big European funds, electric One, KX. This is going to be a really, really good one. So hope to see you there with the entire Blockworks family in London in March. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve.
00:01:30.226 - 00:01:57.570, Speaker A: Before we jump in, quick disclaimer. The views expressed by my co host today are their personal views and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal or other advice. You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. You got miles and I here today.
00:01:57.570 - 00:01:59.326, Speaker A: Miles, how you doing, buddy?
00:01:59.518 - 00:02:06.706, Speaker B: Great to be back. Another deep dive fireside chat. If you want to tee it up, I'll let you.
00:02:06.808 - 00:02:57.554, Speaker A: Yeah, this is going to be a fun episode because this is actually a little bit of a revisiting of an old theme that we talked about a couple of seasons ago that has become relevant again. So this episode is going to be a deep dive on liquid restaking and we're going to get very into the weeds on how that actually works as well as some of the new protocols that are up and about to launch, but I would highly recommend for folks liquid restaking. Miles and I did a whole season on liquid Staking, which was one season ago. Highly recommend that folks go back and listen to that, particularly the episode on restaking that miles and I did with Sriram. But throughout the entire course of that season, there was intersection of liquid staking and restaking. And we sort of hypothesized or mused about this idea of liquid restaking. But back then, I think we thought maybe this was going to happen, but far off into the future.
00:02:57.554 - 00:03:10.214, Speaker A: And I think you and I wanted to do this episode now because it looks like, wow, there are a lot of teams that are operating somewhat on the DL. Some are just starting to come out, and this looks like this is something that's going to happen sooner than I think you and I both thought.
00:03:10.332 - 00:03:52.966, Speaker B: Yeah, well, let's be honest. I think it was one of those things that we knew was probably going to happen for all the same reasons that liquid staking is inevitable, right? Once the ability to retain your liquidity and also have the higher yield is available, there's no way that it's not going to happen. So here we are a couple of months later with over ten liquid restaking protocols that have launched or at least announced that they're entering the space and eigen layers a few months at most, away from going to to see how this plays out.
00:03:53.068 - 00:04:44.322, Speaker A: It feels timely, I agree. So guys, in terms of the agenda for this episode, miles and I are going to do a little bit of a recap on our framework for looking at protocols like or liquid restaking protocols and how they're similar to restaking protocols like eigen layer, lido, stablecoins. It's kind of a commonality between some of these protocols that we're going to be talking about. Then we're going to get into sort of the different models that exist for liquid restaking. Miles is going to call on you to kind of walk us through pros and cons and where you see the dominant model being. Then I think we're going to spend some time getting into kind of the competitive dynamics between all the different players that exist in this liquid restaking supply chain and then when maybe we can view sort of at the end of what this actually means for ETH and this new sort of era of ETH exporting security and what that means for value. Cruel, we can end on some sort of higher level consequences.
00:04:44.322 - 00:05:50.870, Speaker A: But for now, I want to walk folks through. This was a theme that you and I touched on quite a bit during that season of liquid staking, and we had several guests discuss the similarity between different types of protocols that on the surface look very different, but under the hood look extremely similar. So this diagram, if you're following along via video, this comes to us from Adrian over at Steakhouse. Shout out Adrian and all the chefs over in the steakhouse. But this is something that Sam Kazamian Afrax talked to us about as well, which is there are these very different entities and what we're actually looking at here is illustrative capital structures of the US federal Reserve, JP. Morgan, MakerDAO, Steeth and I think we could add eigen layer and liquid restaking balance sheets to this as well. But basically the similarity is when you look at it from a balance sheet standpoint, you have assets on one side of the balance sheet which are sort of yield bearing assets and then you have liabilities in the form of these sort of callable deposits, right? So for something like a bank, you have the callable deposits, which is cash that you deposit to a bank.
00:05:50.870 - 00:06:34.458, Speaker A: Then they turn around and put that in very liquid securities like Treasuries or they put it out as loans. And what they're trying to do is it's a net interest margin business where they're trying to manage duration and risk of the assets and the ability for those liabilities to be called. So there's kind of deposits, debt and then an equity buffer on the liability side of the balance sheet. And that's actually very similar for crypto protocols as well. So you've got MakerDAO as an example. Steeth is a really good example of that where there's kind of this two sided marketplace where if you look at it from the standpoint of assets and liabilities, you have staked ether. So you have sort of your network of operators that are earning ETH bearing yield and then the callable deposit is Steeth, right? And then there's a surplus kind of insurance fund.
00:06:34.458 - 00:06:51.614, Speaker A: So that's kind of the framework that I think you and I want folks thinking about when we start to get into some of the weeds of what these liquid restaking protocols and kind of look like actually under the hood. Anything to add here? What do you think about this?
00:06:51.732 - 00:07:43.546, Speaker B: No, I think that makes sense. We can get into it. This is adding another layer of risk and complexity, I think, to that original model. And we can talk about some of the pros and cons there and the different ways to do it. But overall it's the same idea of you have a demand side of assets coming in. Those assets are deployed to some yield generating activities and operators and then you're giving the users a derivative on the other side that they can go use in DeFi. And I think, again, we can get into kind of the differences in models, but some of them will look more like maker, where you can, depending on the risk of the underlying collateral, you can mint less than one to one or maybe one to one if it's the least risky.
00:07:43.546 - 00:07:57.270, Speaker B: And then others will look more like lido, I think, where you're really depositing into a vault, get a derivative one to one, and then the protocol is managing all that allocation and risk management on your behalf.
00:07:57.690 - 00:08:51.910, Speaker A: Yeah, I would say two concepts to keep in mind as we go through this episode is principal agent risk and fungibility, which are both extremely important concepts to understand for these protocols. So principal agent problem is this sort of difference or a divergence in incentives in between the principal holders of something and agents who are acting on their behalf. So this is relevant for all of these protocols who are like, let's just take the case of lido where there's a delegator, right, so they'd be the principal in this instance that's coming to lido and saying, hey, I want to delegate some of my ETH. And then there's lido, who is the agent and how they're being an agent in that respect is they're choosing which operators. So which professional stakers or eventually community stakers to actually delegate that ETH to. So principal agent risk is something to understand. And then there's the concept of fungibility.
00:08:51.910 - 00:09:46.834, Speaker A: There are intense power laws for these businesses because they want that token or derivative or kind of claimable deposit to be viewed as money. That's the goal of something like lido. They want Steeth to be the dominant asset. There are huge power laws there. They want it to be basically one for one good with ETH. And so one of the key things that Steeth needs in order to do that is kind of this idea of fungible, one to one, right? And on something like lido, that's a little bit easier than the situation in something like restaking or liquid restaking, because all of the operators are doing the exact same thing, right? These are all validator nodes that are staking and earning consensus level and execution layer rewards. But that's not necessarily the case in something like a restaking or a liquid restaking protocol, which we can get into, which just adds an entire new batch of complexity.
00:09:46.962 - 00:10:16.014, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. And I think it's probably worth just doing a quick rehash of what the eigen layer model looks like without liquid restaking tokens. And then from there we can overlay. Okay, where are these protocols coming in and how do they impact the user experience and essentially potentially impact the eigen layer marketplace itself at some point if they get large?
00:10:16.212 - 00:10:31.590, Speaker A: Yeah, that's I'm just going to tee you up there, miles, can you just give us a refresher on the eigen layer protocol, what it looks like from kind of a marketplace perspective, and then the different operating models that people can use with eigen layer, and then we can get into where liquid restaking belongs there.
00:10:31.660 - 00:11:29.290, Speaker B: Okay, awesome. So just to rehash, I guess what the eigen layer model is here. So if we recall, eigen layer is a marketplace for ethereum's trust. On one side, the supply side, you have stakers either LSTs or native stakers that are basically securing ethereum. The protocol and on the other side of the marketplace you have protocols like roll ups, shared sequencer sets, other POS chains that want to rent this existing security and they also want the operators, ethereum operators, to do additional jobs for them. And in the same way that normal staking works, they basically have a set of operators, they're doing a job that secures the protocol. If they do a good job that leads to positive externalities and if they do a bad job, then they need some sort of economic punishment, right? So they will be slashed.
00:11:29.290 - 00:12:57.800, Speaker B: And so here you have the supply side for layer are the native stakers and LST holders. They will go if you're a staker or an LST holder and you say okay great, I want extra yield and I'm willing to take on a little bit more risk for that extra yield. So I deposit my LST or I deposit my native stake to eigen layer and then I will go and pick which Avs, which is the demand side. So these are protocols again like POS chains, roll ups, anything. I will decide, okay, which Avs do I want to restake to and which operator of that Avs specifically do I want to delegate my stake to? And this is a complicated sort of decision, right? Not everybody is going to be an expert at evaluating the slashing conditions of these AVSS, evaluating the performance and risk associated with various operators. But they do want extra yield, right? And that is where liquid restaking tokens come in. Most of these liquid restaking tokens have recognized that there is demand from ethereum stakers and LST holders for extra yield, yet there's probably less demand for specifically the supply side to really want to choose themselves which AVSS and operators to pick.
00:12:57.800 - 00:14:22.590, Speaker B: In the same way that Lido does arguably a better job at choosing how stake is delegated than users. If they had their own choice, that is the role that most of these liquid restaking protocols are going to play. And so you can see here they basically wedge themselves in eigen layers marketplace between the demand side for them, which is eigen layer's, supply side being the stakers and LSTs, and the supply side for liquid restaking again is the demand side for eigen layer. And so basically, if I'm holding Steeth just to walk through this, I will go to the website of one of these liquid restaking protocols, I will deposit my Steeth and then the liquid restaking protocol will deposit that to eigen layer on my behalf. And then the liquid restaking protocol will basically allocate all of these deposits across a set of AVSS and operators that they have onboarded. And on the other side they will give me a derivative of my basically restaked ethereum. And so how is this different than normal LSTs? I think the most clear difference is in the amount of risk that they're managing.
00:14:22.590 - 00:15:04.350, Speaker B: As you mentioned earlier, if I bring my ETH to Lido, I give it to Lido and then they go find different node operators to allocate that to and I get extra yield. It's hard enough, I guess, evaluating the performance and risk associated with operators for Lido when all those operators are doing the exact same job, right, they're all just proposing blocks on Ethereum. Now with liquid restaking, these protocols are going to take on a lot more responsibility just to underscore Miles.
00:15:04.850 - 00:16:03.986, Speaker A: Why that's sort of a more manageable, a difficult but manageable task is because if they're all performing the same exact set of activities, then you can have some sort of standard criteria for ranking them, right? You can apply a shared framework to say, and by the way, just obviously Ethereum has a large ecosystem of solo stakers, but especially the original node operators in Lido, we're talking about professional staking companies like Chorus, One Block, Damon Figment, et cetera. So it's much easier to take a relatively smaller group of companies that are all doing the same thing and apply a standard framework for risk assessment, scoring, all of that kind of stuff. But when you open it to this wide world of Avs and it could be a sequencer or an oracle or some other validator on a completely different L, one that has a totally different set of consensus and rules, you can't apply any sort of standard framework. So the operational load for the underwriter, right, the liquid restaking protocol is just much higher, much harder to get, right.
00:16:04.088 - 00:17:50.930, Speaker B: Right, of course, because if something goes wrong, just like liquid staking, those losses are socialized across the entire holder base, right? And so if you're a liquid restaking protocol, you need to be very careful about which Avs is you onboard based off of their own specific Avs slashing condition risks and technical risks, right? Like bugs, something could go wrong in here and you're evaluating the operators associated that have opted into securing those additional protocols. And so my guess is this is going to look very similar to LSTs did when they first started, right? These operators are likely only going to be professional node operators. And it's a little bit less clear to me exactly how conservative they are going to be with AVSS because to date, before Eigen Layer has a launch yet, we don't know exactly how risk is going to vary, like how highly it's going to vary across AVSS. But the bottom line is the liquid restaking protocols have two layers of risk that they need to evaluate and then manage on an ongoing basis in allocating all of these deposits across operators and ABS. And if they do a good job, it's very happy days. Like you get the equivalent of steep, right, because it's all fungible with each other except you're getting extra yield, right, and there's no slashing, hopefully. So I think for the most part the ceiling, I guess, for a lot of these liquid restaking protocols, is that their derivative will have the equal to Steeth in terms of liquidity and integrations and use cases but with extra yield.
00:17:50.930 - 00:17:58.050, Speaker B: And now to do that it's going to take some very careful management.
00:17:58.210 - 00:18:47.906, Speaker A: Yeah. So basically to sum up here, maybe to connect this diagram that we're looking at with some of the diagrams that we were looking at before, you can actually start to see even that what we're talking about is much more logistically complex. Underneath the hood there's still that same exact dynamic of a balance sheet here of managing assets and liabilities. So in this case the liability is the easiest to understand. It's the liquid restake token but the asset side is what becomes a lot more complicated here. And in theory you're connecting these two parties which really ought to be connected, right, which is people who want to earn extra yield on their staked ETH. Okay, there's a lot of incentive there and then there are all these other actively validated services which we've just kind of talked about in this group together way.
00:18:47.906 - 00:19:24.894, Speaker A: But it's really very heterogeneous sort of group. So alternative layer ones that want to solve the cold start problem or pay for security and not just inflate their tokens into infinity, Oracles sequencers, whatever that ultimately ends up being. There's a very rich sort of ecosystem there. I do have a question for you Miles. Maybe what we're looking at here, maybe for listeners who aren't watching via video, we're looking at a diagram here of sort of all the way on the left the native stakers and LSTs which are moving into liquid restaking vaults which is actually going to be sort of the front end that users ultimately end up interacting with.
00:19:24.932 - 00:19:25.086, Speaker B: Right.
00:19:25.108 - 00:19:59.590, Speaker A: You're going to take your steep to the liquid restaking vault. You're not actually going to see eigen layer is on the back end. They've already onboarded a bunch of these AVSS and operators. There's going to be overlap in between the actively validated services and operators, between Eigen layer and some of these different liquid restaking tokens, the liquid restaking token protocols. So many words here are going to decide which AVSS and operators they want to be a part of their token and that's what the asset part of the balance sheet is going to look like. Then the derivatives or the liquid restaked.
00:19:59.670 - 00:20:53.530, Speaker B: Basically these liquid restaking protocols are going to allocate deposits to a subset of Eigen layers, AVSS and avs operators. And in the same way that Lido is now expanding into different staking modules and they're adding solo staking, the community staking module, they have the DVT module, right? As these I guess liquid restaking protocols start to take off their training wheels and get comfortable, they're going to start similarly being able to onboard more and more different AVSS and more operators. So that maybe at some point the construction of these liquid staking what's backing these liquid staking tokens. It's no longer a small subset of Eigen layers universe and maybe it covers the majority. I think that's the best case scenario. Okay, but have to be careful.
00:20:54.350 - 00:21:24.946, Speaker A: That's a good analogy. So could we look at something like this? Because I was going to ask you, I guess the obvious question here or something that I was definitely wondering is why Eigen layer isn't just doing this. I guess the idea is there's sort of a credible layer where they've just onboarded a bunch of these AVSS and operators and then you have the liquid restaking tokens. What their value proposition is, is they're basically creating different products which might be different modules on the Staking router. If we can draw that analogy, it's.
00:21:24.978 - 00:22:16.280, Speaker B: The same reason that Ethereum itself has not enshrined liquid Staking because then Ethereum would need some sort of governance body that determines how stake is allocated across node operators. That adds tons of Bloat to Ethereum governance number one. And number two makes ethereum is no longer neutral. Right? And Eigen layer knows that they're taking the same approach. Or the biggest version of itself is one that is as thin as possible and as unoppinionated as possible as it relates to who's leveraging this marketplace and who gets the supply side deposits, right? And so Eigen layer itself basically wants to maintain complete neutrality here. But we can get into this a little bit later. They're very wary of where this can go.
00:22:16.280 - 00:23:50.790, Speaker B: And maybe just one other thing to say on this diagram that we've thrown up here. This is the dominant model, this model where basically the users just deposit into the Liquid restaking protocol and then that's where their journey ends because the liquid restaking protocol will basically handle the rest for them. And this model kind of assumes that the majority of their market just wants extra yield and doesn't actually care about which Avs they're restaking to. There are other models here that I think will be tried where it basically if you're an LST holder, you could deposit into Eigen layer, then you could choose your right and the operator and then you could borrow off of that position. You could mint some LTV based off of the individual risks of your position, some stablecoin or some ETH based derivative. Now, I think that that is maybe the less popular route here because I think most people are recognizing that in the same way that Lido is not bending over backwards to let users basically choose which Staking module they are allocating their stake to. Because it creates lots of fungibility issues and it's just shown the market doesn't actually want that.
00:23:50.790 - 00:24:19.038, Speaker B: Right? That's why people most these projects are going this vault route. But I did want to call out that you could basically, at the risk of losing fungibility or at the risk of maybe not being able to mint one to one from your position, you could have a similar sort of end product. But letting the users have more control over exactly where their deposits are going.
00:24:19.204 - 00:25:15.178, Speaker A: Yeah, this is exactly the conversation, again, to maybe to refer to an episode that you and I did with Izzy of Lido and Asheen of talked. We got really in the weeds of what the staking router was going to look. You know, there was a big conversation, know, especially I think this comes up with institutional staking, something like that, where they're like, look, we want to stake here, but we need to know who our counterparties are. So we need to be able to choose validators who have been KYC'd and Lionel's like, well, I mean, we can't really do that because know, you have a direct position with these specific set of validators and the position isn't fungible. And that defeats what we're trying to do here with making Steeth this fungible asset. It kind of sounds like with this alternative model where users have a little bit more choice, they get to select one Avs, something like they have a preference maybe for this Avs or the set of operators or whatever. I know there are technically two sub models.
00:25:15.178 - 00:25:37.462, Speaker A: There one where you can select the Avs and the operators, one where you can only select the ABS. But just for simplicity's sake, let's just say you get to select the ABS and you can kind of construct your own risk profile. And then instead of minting one to one, similarly to Lido, there's underwriting of risk and say, well, you're selecting really risky ABS here, so we have to build in some loss provisions. So you can only get 75% LTV something like that.
00:25:37.516 - 00:25:58.720, Speaker B: Right. Looks more like maker, frankly. Right looks makerish. Yeah. Depending on your collateral is a reflection of the asset itself and in this case, ABS and operator. And based off of those risk parameters, you can mint up to one, but likely less than one to one. Right.
00:25:58.720 - 00:26:26.982, Speaker B: So, yeah, I think that's kind of laying at the lay of the land right now. And there's lots of interesting competitive dynamics and maybe we can get into starting to get into, I guess before the competitive landscape is this good? Why might you think this is good? Why might you think this is bad? If you're say in the shoes of somebody at Eigen layer or just a general ethereum stakeholder, before we get into.
00:26:27.036 - 00:27:16.322, Speaker A: Even the like, is this good or bad? Let's talk about some of the competitive dynamics here. Yeah, let's talk about this actually from that, because the way that I see it right now, there are multiple different stakeholders here. There's the liquid restaking tokens right. There's eigen layer itself here. There's actually kind of Lido, which again, there is the possibility from an operational standpoint that you could have like a solo staker, which is rehypothecating their stake through something like Eigen Layer. But let's just assume for the most part this is going to be people taking their Steeth and then dumping it into these liquid staking. The one of the words that we used to describe the relationship between lido and eigen layer in this last season was cooperation, because there's always this sort of threat like consideration of vertical integration.
00:27:16.322 - 00:27:54.014, Speaker A: So mostly the strategy of these protocols has been what you just said, sort of minimizing surface area and making it a very thin, very credible layer that people can build on top of. But from the perspective of lido, for something like the staking router, they can roll out a restaking module and then compete directly with eigen layer, something like that. So there's always kind of this idea of vertical integration. Where do those sorts of tensions exist here? And if you're putting yourself in eigen layer shoes, how are they feeling about these liquid restaking tokens that are kind of building themselves around your protocol?
00:27:54.142 - 00:28:27.630, Speaker B: Yeah. Okay, so I think this is going to be one of the most daunting competitive landscapes of any area of crypto for the next, I would say, like one to two years. Because if you are a liquid restaking protocol, let's look at what the competitive landscape looks like. You have at least ten other liquid restaking protocols that are all basically either have your exact same model yeah. Already, or some variation of your model. Okay. So you're competing with them in terms of brand distribution, value, prop.
00:28:27.630 - 00:29:46.834, Speaker B: I would say all of that normal thing, all of that normal stuff, right? Now, where this gets interesting, I think that you alluded to is that if you're a liquid restaking protocol, again, your demand side are basically LST holders and native stakers. Those are the people that are wanting extra yield and using you to get it. Your supply side are the avs that you basically allocate stake to. Now, I think liquid restaking protocols are going to face competition from both their demand side and their supply side. So let's maybe touch on this for a second. To your point, if your demand side of deposits are the vast majority of them are LSTs, and the vast majority of those are one or two LSTs, those LSTs, whether it's lido or rocket pool or stator or another one, they're going to probably know the amount of leverage they have over your protocol, right. And they're going to understand that they can potentially just pull all of that stake back in and then provide that same service with only one counterparty.
00:29:46.834 - 00:30:28.838, Speaker B: Now, from the eyes of the user, right, they don't have to worry about lido and the LRT protocol. They only have to worry about lido, and they get both. I would argue the LSTs, let's be honest, it's like lido, and then there's everything else. I think lido, it is easiest for them. Obviously, they have the most leverage to compete if they wanted to. But I would argue that that in some ways flies in the face of what they're trying to do from. A long term strategic vision which is making the protocol as thin as possible and it's governance minimized as possible.
00:30:28.838 - 00:30:52.670, Speaker B: You're now adding a second product to Lido, and I feel like that at some point kind of flies in the face of everything they're trying to do to become equivalent to ETH itself and becoming the biggest version of itself. All of these self limiting debates probably get pretty intense once if Lido were to choose Alto to take on liquid.
00:30:54.690 - 00:30:56.320, Speaker A: Just be I agree with you.
00:30:57.330 - 00:31:12.850, Speaker B: I'd say the supply side is like everybody outside of Lido is going to want to try to do this to capture more market share. I just have a hard time seeing Lido do it in their next like one to two years. Okay, so that's your demand side. They could compete with you if they have enough leverage.
00:31:13.270 - 00:32:06.894, Speaker A: Sorry, I have a question there. Do you see? Okay, so there's, let's say actually say there's three groups of actors here that are influential. There's Lido, and we think that probably based on this is everything that we heard from the Lido folks in the liquid staking season, the long term strategic values to be incredibly neutral, very thin layer, governance minimized, and even just with all these self limiting debates, okay, probably not going to be them. Then there's maybe a long tail of liquid stakers, maybe the rocket pools of the world, and maybe they have a little bit less to lose. And so maybe they're like, you know what, I'd like to have this too. And I won't have a ton of market share, but I could have this sort of compelling they wouldn't sell it like this, but like a vertically integrated option here, where, from the user perspective, I can just stack all of my yield under one brand that I trust really easy and my margins are great and I have lower market share. Then there's the centralized entities.
00:32:06.894 - 00:32:26.954, Speaker A: They be the Coinbases of the world, right, which they actually have a couple, they've got their hands in a couple of different pies, they've got CBE, they've our participant in alluvial, and they've got the institutional sort of angle. So you ever see Coinbase entering the ring in something like this? I mean, what do you think about that? That's the other entity that I think would be interesting.
00:32:27.072 - 00:33:07.350, Speaker B: Yeah, totally. I think it kind of depends on if coinbase cloud. So first of all, I would say I think it's possible for their liquid staking products to do this. I don't think it's that as likely, but I do think their actual institutional staking service. So Coinbase cloud like X, bison trails and figment players like that. Course one, they will be some of the major operators of these AVSS. And so if they have institutional clients that go into their own interface to stake with them, I think they'll probably offer restaking to the AVSS.
00:33:07.350 - 00:33:20.482, Speaker B: The only offer restaking to the AVSS is that they support. So I don't think that they'll compete in terms of liquid restaking tokens. I think they will compete as a front end for restaking.
00:33:20.646 - 00:33:23.520, Speaker A: Okay, I like that take. Sorry I interrupted you.
00:33:24.530 - 00:34:30.770, Speaker B: All right, so you're the liquid restaking protocol. You got to worry about your demand side. Now let's talk about the AVSS. I think there are certain classes of AVSS like, let's say another proof of stake chain that on the surface really want Ethereum security for bootstrapping. I think there's lots of reasons to want that, lots of reasons why that's a better model than relying on your own native token from day one, which could have a very low market cap and it's frankly just really expensive. But it would be even better if you could rent security and unlock that security and turn it into liquidity and users on your platform. And so I think that there are a lot of Avs where it's actually a platform where you could then go do something where they're interested in eigen layer not just for security, but also to have a chance at converting some of these stakers into users.
00:34:30.770 - 00:35:16.900, Speaker B: And so what's the easiest way to do that? If I'm like a Steeth holder and I select your Avs to restake to, maybe you just unlock that stake and say you can go use it for limited use cases in DeFi. Maybe if I'm like a Dex app chain or something like that. What I'm getting at here is I think that there are a lot of Avs that are really interested in Iglayer for the chance of capturing those users in liquidity. And the best way to try to do that is to basically launch a liquid restaking token that's specific to your Avs and you can do very limited things with it. Right. Does that make sense? Maybe?
00:35:17.350 - 00:36:09.650, Speaker A: Yeah, that does make sense. Yeah, that's a pretty interesting value proposition because it does sort of beg the question a what the ultimate market structure is going to look like. For other layer ones, I feel like this might materialize more immediately with the form of the form of roll ups, actually. Where okay, so for something like a layer one, at least the business model sort of exists. But whether you like it or not but for L2, they're sort of looking for the reason for them to have a token and it makes sense, maybe even outside of L2s. But something like Subnets on Avalanche or something like that for them to rent ETH Security. But then, yeah, there is this kind of tension in between.
00:36:09.650 - 00:36:27.954, Speaker A: Maybe I want to do that for the time being and then maybe you could talk a little bit about the user meta as well because sort of user acquisition is a part of this as well. But yeah, I actually don't really know how to think about it yet, but it's a super interesting dynamic.
00:36:28.002 - 00:37:40.986, Speaker B: Yeah, I think what I'm also kind of getting at here is you see a lot of projects moving to ETH. L two, you have a lot of projects that are basically trying to find ways to improve their ethereum alignment. And I think what that subtext there is sometimes we want to capture users and liquidity from ethereum by presenting ourselves as more ETH aligned. And one way to get more ETH aligned is to say we're secured by Eigen layer, secured by ETH stakers. Okay, that's great, but how do you convert that alignment into users and liquidity? Easiest way to do that is to unlock that restaked value and let it go, deploy that into your specific DeFi ecosystem or your XYZ. I think they'll face pressure from their demand side. And what adds to that as well is that I think a lot of these AVSS, they'll be paying Eigen layer restakers in their native token, right? And so these liquid restaking protocols are going to get an alphabet soup of yield and all these different tokens.
00:37:40.986 - 00:39:02.646, Speaker B: And what are the liquid restaking protocols? What do their users want? They want more ethereum, right? They don't want alphabet soup of rewards. And so the likely path here is that the liquid restaking protocols will get these rewards and all these random tokens, they will sell them and back into ETH and then redeposit that to compound the rewards, right? So now if I'm an Avs and I am getting the majority of my economic security is actually coming through Eigen layer via this liquid restaking protocol, sure, I'm getting security, but that security is not converting I'm not converting that security into new users like I want to. And this liquid restaking protocol is like insta dumping my reward token. So I'm feeling a lot of sell pressure. Now, alternatively, I get them to restake directly to me by offering this platform specific liquid restaking token. Now, those rewards are not being insta dumped necessarily because it's accruing back to a user who's using them in DeFi. And so you've converted the security into a new user, into liquidity on your platform, and you avoid the sell pressure.
00:39:02.646 - 00:39:30.260, Speaker B: And so I think that the incentives on one side, it's great because this is going to funnel in, I think, net more economic security than if Eigen layer didn't have liquid restaking tokens. And that's good for ABS because they have more security, right? On the downside, I think that they would really prefer that in some ways that they could just get that restaking and turn those into users and avoid the sell.
00:39:32.550 - 00:40:17.826, Speaker A: I was actually I wonder if this is going to be such a basic question for this podcast because kind of a fundamental premise to Eigen layer, but I'm now really trying to put myself in the shoes of someone who wants to rent ETH security. Let's say I have the sovereignty of being able to launch my own token. I wonder if there's a little bit of an analogy here in between countries managing foreign exchange reserves, where they keep a bunch of their reserves in something like a US dollar, but then they can print their own currency. And what they kind of have to worry about is exchange rate risk dual token models. Yeah, that's kind of what that sounds like, because immediately where my head goes is like, okay, well, I don't actually know if that sounds like that good of a deal. Okay. I want ETH security.
00:40:17.826 - 00:40:27.582, Speaker A: And the reason that I want that E Security is because I'm just printing tons of my token and I have this crazy inflation rate. But the advantage of that is I can always just decide, hold on.
00:40:27.736 - 00:40:41.750, Speaker B: I would say that you don't need to print crazy amounts of your token if you're getting ETH Security. Right. You actually have to print, like, less because you're not having to convince people to go buy your random token and stake it.
00:40:41.820 - 00:41:12.958, Speaker A: That's what I meant. Sorry. That's what I meant. So in the situation where you haven't rented E Security, that is the relationship, and there's a trade off in between. You have to convince these people to do this crazy stuff. And you have a higher inflation rate, but you have total sovereignty over that as opposed to something where you have this liability in the form of you have to pay for this e security, which is denominated in something that you don't actually control and you're trading off in one instance. Almost like execution risk versus exchange rate risk.
00:41:12.958 - 00:41:29.078, Speaker A: And that's kind of an interesting I think there'll be plenty of protocols that opt for that. I do think the point that you're making here is very key about potential user acquisition and ETH alignment and all of that stuff. I feel like that's a critical point as well.
00:41:29.164 - 00:42:07.170, Speaker B: Yeah. And I think at some point you can basically use Eigen Layer for bootstrapping, but then once you're a certain size, you can start to wean off of it, because at that point, you can actually introduce your native token that has some material value. Right. And so you can be shifting the proportions of where the security is coming from away from it being 100% Eigen layer, and it costing you that much to okay, maybe now my protocol is, like, actually making money, and I just direct that real yield to stakers. I hate that word, real yield, but yeah. You know what I mean?
00:42:07.240 - 00:42:26.822, Speaker A: I do. All right, everyone getting to be that time of year again where we are four months out from Das London, the largest, oldest institutional conference in all of Crypto. But it's also Thanksgiving and Black Friday. And I know what you're thinking. You're thinking, Mike, I'm a loyal listener of Bell Curve here. Been wanting to go to Das London, but I've been waiting for my Black Friday deal. I just haven't seen something from you yet.
00:42:26.822 - 00:42:53.486, Speaker A: Well, don't you worry, dear listener. I and the good marketing folks at Block Seven intuited that. And we are rolling out our Black Rock Friday Deal special. See what we did there? Black Rock Friday institutions are coming and all that for the next five days. If you head over to the Das London site, which you can see linked in the show notes here, you will get 20% off of the group packs. That's four packs. So grab Family members that Are Interested in crypto, grab folks From Your company and come hang with the growing list of speakers in London.
00:42:53.486 - 00:43:32.378, Speaker A: We've got the guys from Framework Sansi's coming out there evgeny Gavoy of Winter, Mute, a bunch of the big European funds. Electric one KX. This is going to be a really, really good one. So hope to see you there with the entire Blockworks family in London in March. I've Got One More Question For you, almost from sort of a strategic or go to market standpoint from the perspective of these different liquid restaking protocols. And then let's return to that question that you posed about is this good or what are the broader implications of this even existing as a thing? So I feel like let's put ourselves in the shoes. Let's say we're still mike and miles, but you and I are launching a liquid restaking token.
00:43:32.378 - 00:44:24.766, Speaker A: Like we're going to we're going to do this. We're going to compete with our supply and demand sides that are trying to squeeze us because there's massive market opportunity and we think we've got what it takes. Let's walk down the set of decisions that we would need to make. One I Think would be, are we retail focused or are we institutionally focused? And I think that's going to be like there are some you're starting to see this within liquid Staking, which is I think it's sort of starting to cleave a little bit in between retail, which is kind of the Lido version. And Lido folks, if you're listening to this, please correct me if the intent is to pursue make some changes to liquid staking or the staking router and to pursue the institutional market as well. But let's just say Lido kind of dominated retail. And the benefit of that is it's mostly retail here now and they got huge power laws, they got all this market share.
00:44:24.766 - 00:45:12.922, Speaker A: The downside is maybe the retail money runs out and eventually you need institutional money to come in and also you have this virulent response from the community, this Lido isn't aligned. And this social scaling dilemma then for the institutional angle, it's kind of a different value proposition, right? You're pursuing a group of capital, pools of capital ultimately that are much larger but are probably longer term customers. And maybe you're taking the risk that you're too early for something like this and you're hoping that these big macro funds or long only mutual fund ETFs are going to get staking all of a sudden and then just you know what I mean? How would you assess that kind of trade off of pursuing an institutional or retail solution? Or am I making a dichotomy out of nothing?
00:45:13.076 - 00:46:25.270, Speaker B: No, I think that's right. I don't know. There's just part of me that I think I can see the path to institutional staking very clearly. I can see the path to staking becoming commonly incorporated into ethereum investment products and ETFs and I can see basically the preconditions, like the types of solutions where this might actually work to get that capital from Fiduciaries and actually have it staked. And that really comes down to, I think, the counterparty risk with the node operators that the capital is being staked to. And so from that side, I have a hard time actually seeing the same sort of penetration into liquid restaking apart from when you're adding zero counterparty risk. If you feel comfortable staking with Figment or Coinbase cloud, the only way that know you could see yourself entering restaking is probably through those same operators.
00:46:25.270 - 00:47:13.494, Speaker B: And so I think that, again, that's why I kind of pointed at the native staking and native restaking as probably being the more likely sort of competitor there. I just have a hard time seeing if it's direct investments from an institutional fund, a hedge fund, whatnot, or some of these market neutral yield shops. I could totally see them being amendable to this. But I think this is going to be one of those things again where it's going to start retail, it's going to start for the yield, the risk on sort of like crypto native shops. But I have a hard time seeing this restaking incorporated into an ETF at any point.
00:47:13.692 - 00:48:20.150, Speaker A: All right, so I agree with that. And maybe to compound your thinking there, one of the dynamics that you and I talked about in our liquid staking season was that eventually it looks like the yield that just gets paid out to stakers or vanilla liquid stakers is trending down probably because for two reasons. One is the stake rate goes up, that's just less consensus layer rewards going on. But I also think that we've probably seen now that I say this, it's going to be the opposite, but maybe a local peak. In terms of mev, even this last season of Bell Curve been really focused on DEXes and every AMM operator that you talk to. They are single mindedly focused on minimizing the amount of mev that leaks out of their. And I actually it's funny, I went into this season thinking it's going to be this competition in between LPs and swappers and it's like, no, actually they're just like there's this huge other problem to solve before we even get to that dynamic, which is lever.
00:48:20.150 - 00:48:51.590, Speaker A: So are LPs getting screwed by sex, the decks, Arbitrage and 1559 and gas costs and all this stuff. And they are single mindedly focused at recapturing a lot of that or redirecting it back to the app layer to the stakeholders of their platforms. So I kind of feel like the staking yield for ETH is going to go down, which is going to push people into restaking, liquid restaking. But the risk profile of someone who's willing to do that is probably not an institution.
00:48:52.250 - 00:49:31.220, Speaker B: Yeah, the only chance again is the institution is not going to be basically taking on additional risk with operators that they don't know and avs that they don't know. I do agree with you that all of this leads to lower base like risk. The risk free rate comes down quite a bit, ethereum's security goes up a bit. That's healthy for the protocol. But then finding that next opportunity, I think it's going to take a little while for people to get comfortable with this or at least the additional yield by that opportunity.
00:49:33.350 - 00:49:42.520, Speaker A: Because I've heard this referred a number of times, which is the idea of the risk free rate. And we talked about it on podcasts before and I never really know how I felt about it.
00:49:42.970 - 00:49:44.520, Speaker B: It's not a risk free rate.
00:49:45.450 - 00:50:16.126, Speaker A: It's not you know what, I ultimately think it's kind of silly to compare something like ETH staking yields to treasury rates. It's just not the same thing at all. You make the decision to invest in ETH and then you make the decision, do you want a little bit extra or not? But it's not like people looking at my ETH stake rate or my Treasuries like which 01:00 A.m. I going to do. It's totally different. You get exposure to ETH, that's where you're going to make or lose all your money. It's not the 5% versus the 3%.
00:50:16.126 - 00:50:22.738, Speaker A: So I just think that's I don't know why that just crystallized with me this week. I was like, I feel like there's a pretty silly comparison actually.
00:50:22.824 - 00:50:23.234, Speaker B: It is.
00:50:23.272 - 00:50:49.002, Speaker A: Okay, one more sort of fun, even just hypothetical and before we get into the bigger stuff, let's say go to market. Now, one of the things you and I talked about is people tend to spend a lot of time talking about the supply side and how this is all going to work under the hood. Let's just assume somehow all of this works, right? What does the go to market strategy look like for one of these protocols if you were kind of in charge? I have some ideas, but I'm curious to hear what you think.
00:50:49.136 - 00:51:21.442, Speaker B: Yeah, I think honestly it's not that similar, not that dissimilar than normal LST protocols. Right. Your first job is basically to establish a node operator set that you feel very comfortable that it's not going to lead to disastrous slashing before you even get off the ground. Right. Then you need to build up. Number one is get the supply side set up well. Number two is build liquidity.
00:51:21.442 - 00:52:09.654, Speaker B: Right. This is the same playbook. It's going to be going to the same venues, going to curve, going to market makers. And maybe it's a little bit different now because we have like Uniswap and V three and other sorts of AMMS and whatnot that this might kind of get beyond curve, essentially. And then number three is you're going after integrations, right, and you want your user to be able to lend to borrow against their assets as collaterally. You want to basically get this as much utility as possible for your liquid restaking token. And again, I think the ceiling here is like, you know how Lido says our goal is basically to be as ubiquitous as ETH itself and to have the same utility as ETH itself.
00:52:09.654 - 00:52:45.300, Speaker B: I think liquid restaking protocols are looking at Steeth and saying our goal is basically to be as ubiquitous or as close as we can to Steeth itself and have the same utility as Steeth. So I think one outcome here is the vast majority of staked ETH is through Lido and the vast majority of restaked ETH is through one winner. I think it is the same sort of like winner take most dynamics and then you have two very powerful entities in Lido and whoever that winner is.
00:52:47.830 - 00:53:35.634, Speaker A: The history of Lido is interesting. So, P to P, I've heard actually Santi did a great episode with Jason on Empire a little while ago about actually being in the early days of some of the Tezos. I guess they hosted like sort of staking competitions. I don't even know what that means really, but apparently that team was just like crushing it. So they had the team right then they had the vision of a lot of protocols, said they were going to do this, but they started off and they were like, we're not immediately decentralizing our operator set, which was 100% the right move. So they had a really good strategy in terms of executing that. And then the thing that they got right on the distribution integration partnership front, but also kind of got a little bit lucky was the integration with Aave from beginning and Aave started to blow up.
00:53:35.634 - 00:54:11.520, Speaker A: They became the dominant liquid staking token on Ave and it sort of kick started this flywheel. So I was even thinking to myself, if this were you or me and we were sitting around, we were being like we should be prioritizing integrations. Would we be going after the Ave's of the world where there's already established or are there upstart, maybe new protocols or something like that or ecosystems or whatever, where we could catch a protocol that's on the come up? And maybe the answer is both, but I'd be curious how you would view.
00:54:12.930 - 00:54:58.694, Speaker B: I'm maybe this is counterintuitive, but I would take that tried and true path. I think what Lido didn't win on yield. It didn't honestly, it didn't even win because of those integrations right away. It really won on brand, right? You feel like safe depositing. Kaleido, their brand is as close as possible to synonymous with ethereum staking as you can get. Some of the dark arts here is like getting a lot of these politically influential figures within the Ethereum community to come out and say, we support Lido which hard to believe today, but that was the case back then. And so basically doing whatever is possible to have value accrue to your brand.
00:54:58.694 - 00:55:51.050, Speaker B: And I think that ways to screw that up is, know, pouring on additional yield with inflationary emissions of your own token, maybe going after the most dgen lending integrations or maybe trying to compete on yield by being more risk on with operators. I think what really solidifies, I guess, the lead here is not necessarily the upside of depositing into one of these protocols, but limiting the downside. And then once you've kind of accrued that sort of like blue chip sort of brand impression then you go to the Aaves, right? And you're going to have a better time getting integrated because they look at you as a responsible, non B gen protocol.
00:55:51.810 - 00:57:05.726, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree with all that. All right, why don't we move here to this sort of discussion about whether or not this is good or bad and how we're thinking about this? Because I think even when we were talking about restaking we were a little bit on the maybe obviously very first of all, extremely intellectually interesting idea. An enormous amount of merit, kind of don't even doubt too much that it's going to be successful. I think people get a little bit spooked with this idea of rehypothecating ETH and multiplying claims on the same amount of underlying ETH and the additional amount of principal agent risk that you take on there. And then liquid restaking just seems to compound all mean, I guess. First of all, how do you think before we even get into our opinions, how do you think this is going to be viewed by something like the social layer of ETH and the Ethereum Foundation, who have pretty publicly, I would say, not all of the Ethereum Foundation, like Mike Neuter has been great, had very balanced kind of takes on this. But there have been some public figures from the Ethereum Foundation who said, push back pretty openly against Lido.
00:57:05.726 - 00:57:08.518, Speaker A: So, I mean, how do you think something like liquid restaking is going to.
00:57:08.524 - 00:58:19.500, Speaker B: Be or even come out and said we need to treat restaking like AI right, like lots of guardrails and things like that, right? I think there's a couple of different ways to if you're coming from the EF or you're just a core Ethereum stakeholder, you can look at this as good and bad. And that's a little bit different than the way that even Eigen layer itself looks at this as good and bad. So maybe we'll start with if you're thinking about this from the perspective of ethereum itself, the base layer, if this is good or bad. I think the good side is that Eigen layer and liquid restaking on top of that is going to bring in more stake to ethereum. Like the staking ratio will go up, the demand for staking will go up, and that's a combination of looking for additional yield and now having ability to get additional yield. So that's good. The bad side is that kind of similar to liquid staking, people looking for additional yield typically are also the node operators themselves.
00:58:19.500 - 00:58:56.070, Speaker B: And so I think the largest node operators for l one, which are already being looked at as like they're getting pretty big, are probably going to be the largest node operators for liquid restaking as well. Right. And eigen layer in general, and it's important that they are because you want to have those professional node operators as training wheels to make sure that nothing breaks right away. But I think that's generally how they're looking at it. Okay, good. In the sense that we'll increase the amount of economic security of ethereum, essentially bad as a centralizing force. Okay.
00:58:56.070 - 00:59:26.062, Speaker B: I think that's the base layer's view. And then let's talk about eigen layer because I think that if you're on the eigen layer team, this is probably even more interesting. And eigen layer, if you're on that team, why would you like liquid restaking tokens? Well, this is not for sure a thing, but I think it brings in net more TVL if you don't make users pick the Avs and operator and take on those decisions.
00:59:26.126 - 00:59:27.380, Speaker A: Frankly, I agree.
00:59:27.990 - 01:00:06.542, Speaker B: I think without liquid restaking maybe it's like a billion dollars of TVL. If they're with liquid restaking, it could be double or much more than that. And that's not just because you're taking that choice off of the user's backs. It's also like you're breaking a trade off, which is I think again, if you were without these things, you would have a liquid token Steeth, you would restake it and now it's illiquid again. Right. You lose your liquidity with regular egg and layer. So right.
01:00:06.542 - 01:00:59.758, Speaker B: What's good about this? It brings in more deposits. What's bad about this? This is where it gets interesting. I think you could argue if maybe to pull that diagram back up again, liquid restaking protocols are wedging themselves in the middle of the marketplace. And if one of them becomes dominant, basically the deposits that come into them, they become basically kingmaker for which Avs get to receive those deposits. And so you could see a situation where let's say the 80% of all restaked ETH has been deposited to one liquid restaking protocol. The marketplace, the competitive dynamics of the marketplace completely break down. Right.
01:00:59.758 - 01:01:42.720, Speaker B: The liquid restaking protocol has complete control over which Avsses actually get any sort of economic security from eigen layer, and they have pricing power over that. And that's, I think, why eigen layer is sort of weary of this. They're saying, okay, first of all, we lose the user relationship because the UX, they never actually touch eigen. Layer. But the demand side economics for eigen layer, which is the they they could break down because they basically would know at the mercy of the liquids restaking protocol instead of at the mercy of eigen layer to onboard them to like the Slashing veto council or something like that. Right?
01:01:43.410 - 01:02:24.239, Speaker A: Yeah, it's an interesting I don't have any thoughts that I basically agree with all of that. I think you should always be wary when you're losing the relationship with the user. I do tend to agree with the cosmos point of view on this, that your proximity to the user is just an enormous amount of leverage that you're never going to lose. Same time, I do feel like this is definitely going to increase usage for eigen layer itself because it increases the demand for people that want to restake because then you have another liquid token that you can do something with and.
01:02:24.239 - 01:02:26.700, Speaker B: At the same time, what can eigen layer do? Right?
01:02:27.390 - 01:02:34.330, Speaker A: That's kind of the point, right, of being a protocol with that strategy. Don't you sort of want people to build on you?
01:02:34.480 - 01:03:35.394, Speaker B: Right? And if eigen layer was in charge of how the restaked ETH was allocated across the AVSS, it's no longer a neutral marketplace in the same way that if ethereum enshrined liquid staking and then decided which node operators get staked, it's no longer a neutral sort of marketplace with its supply side. So I think they can't do a lot. That's the reality. And anything they can do at the moment that's directly competitive is at ODS with their grand vision. And if you remember, eigen layer's grand vision is to be more or less enshrined into ethereum itself, right, or at least some of the core functions. And maybe eigen layer is more of a front end for those core functions. I think it's kind of an interesting dynamic here where maybe the biggest version of this liquid restaking protocol is one that eventually gets enshrined into eigen layer when they have to work out.
01:03:35.512 - 01:04:21.166, Speaker A: I was going to say maybe a baby step for that miles would be like a stamp of approval from eigen layer. You could imagine it would be very powerful from the perspective. And that way you don't maybe need to enshrine the whole thing, but you can just say, hey, basically this is eigen layer approved. That would immediately have the effect of if it's not eigen layer approved, way less people would use it. But there are a number of protocols that I think this is starting to apply to almost a boring kind of marketing strategy question, but one where you don't necessarily have the direct relationship with the user and you need to market around someone who is standing in between you and the user. The example that I'll give you is pharmaceutical companies in the US. Very simplified supply chain here.
01:04:21.166 - 01:04:41.394, Speaker A: Makers of these pills, doctors offices and hospitals that distribute the pills patients. Right. And what you see, actually, this is where you see these horrible ads. These are the worst ads in the face of the planet, but they just roll these things on TV so that you can have a relationship with whatever this limitation, it's effective.
01:04:41.442 - 01:04:46.230, Speaker B: I don't know what the hell Skyrizzy is, but I see a commercial for it, like, every other day.
01:04:46.380 - 01:05:00.390, Speaker A: Yeah, so you'll go talk to your doctor. If, God forbid, you get whatever disease Skyrizi treats, then you're going to be like, wait, this is the one that I know. And there's some element of that here, and maybe there's a soft enshrinement.
01:05:00.470 - 01:05:48.330, Speaker B: I agree. That's kind of what I was referring to with the dark hearts of getting those politically influential figures to come out and support you. In the same way that Lido had a bunch of advisors that were working at the EF and singing its praises as what's basically our counterposition versus this centralized staking risk. Right, the centralized exchange staking risk. I was like, no use lido. I don't think there's going to be anything like that here where the liquid restaking protocol could frame itself as solving a problem for Eigen Layer and getting that support that way. But if I were one of these liquid restaking protocols, I'd want to be positioning myself as to Eigen Layer is, okay, if this is going to be a thing, I want these guys to be the winner because they're going to make it as decentralized as possible.
01:05:48.330 - 01:06:13.010, Speaker B: They're going to protect the users as much as possible. I don't want the ones that are basically maximizing yield and trying to get agreed. Taking the degen path to all this. Yes, but that accrues to Brand as well as what I was getting at earlier, right. Having Eigen Layer or somebody influential come out and say like, no, these are the adults in the room. If you're going to do this, we want you use them.
01:06:13.160 - 01:07:11.346, Speaker A: I agree. Okay, let's talk about even on a high level, not from the perspective of the base layer or Eigen Layer of like, do you and I, what do we think about this? Because I have maybe a more positive view to end on here, but to just clearly spell out, I think, the risks to this, you're you're taking on a lot of principal agent risk with something like this. And it would be interesting to get either folks from Eigen Layer or one of these liquid restaking tokens onto debate if this is creating leverage. But in a sense, I sort of feel like it is creating leverage. You're creating multiple different claims on the same underlying spot ETH. And one thing I've been worried about for a while is I worry that we might have learned the wrong lesson during this last blow up. And everyone blamed because they deserved it, frankly, centralized finance.
01:07:11.346 - 01:08:10.790, Speaker A: And they said, look at this opaque system like centralized finance. This would never happen if this was in DeFi. And look, it ave and compound and all these protocols ended up working out. It's kind of like, well yes, and I want to believe that narrative and I do think in a long term future, putting things on chain radically does increase transparency and solves that problem. But I don't think we're there yet. And just to re show you this diagram, because it shows at the base layer or at a very fundamental level that the Federal Reserve or Morgan or MakerDAO or Steeth or Eigen layer or any of these liquid restaking protocols, they're built in the same way and they have very similar challenges of managing assets and liabilities. And frankly, let's just be honest, eventually these things will be transparent and on chain there'll be these services that we can track it one for one in real time.
01:08:10.790 - 01:09:03.062, Speaker A: Check the code is kind of a meme now. There aren't enough people that actually know how to check the code and I just don't really believe in that for the time being. Eventually I do, but for now I think we have to acknowledge that there are too few people who actually know how this stuff works for it to be usefully transparent. And it's very, very complicated. And so I sort of worry going into this next cycle because you can see this, there is a lot of on chain infrastructure being built, which is awesome, that is so good, that's 100% the direction that we should go. But I think we should go eyes wide in saying a lot of the challenges that blew up these centralized lenders are going to come to these decentralized protocols and we shouldn't just kid ourselves and say it's all on chain, it's decentralized, we shouldn't worry about it. There probably are going to be stresses to the system on the DeFi side of things during this next cycle.
01:09:03.062 - 01:09:11.580, Speaker A: And let's just call it spade a spade restaking and liquid restaking does not alleviate the stresses that would happen in that case.
01:09:12.270 - 01:10:23.554, Speaker B: Yeah, I agree with all that. I would say that I think a lot of this is kind of going to have to be a collaborative effort at making good decisions. And what I mean by that is it's not just on the liquid restaking protocols and being smart about which Avs they onboard and operators they onboard. It's not just about Eigen layer being smart about the Slashing veto committee and onboarding through that only in safe sort of Avs setups. It's also on the ave's of the world right to not allow or at least be pretty conservative with things that could make this ten times worse. Because if we remember liquid Staking really blew up once ave onboarded Steeth, and then people could run that loop to basically have a three X leverage on staking. Well, imagine if you take three X leverage on Staking, you have that Steeth and then you put it into Rio or another liquid restaking protocol and then you take your liquid restaking token back to Ave and you could do three more loops on it.
01:10:23.554 - 01:11:28.354, Speaker B: Right? And that's when this thing gets really scary. That's just like one example of a DPEG, sort of like cascading collateral impact here. And that's when I think you could see the withdrawal queue end up with months at long withdrawal times because Eigen layer is trying to withdraw this ETH, the slash. And then you have lending protocols that have bad debt because that ETH needs to be repaid somehow. Right? All this is like kind of there's a lot of interconnected pieces here but I will say it's in general good that I think that this is now opening up the design space for different sorts of security models because we have this big pool of capital that is ready to go. Either secure machines that are doing a job, that's the general idea right now. But I think that if it's there, I think things like interesting insurance models could become a thing that's not like traditional restaking.
01:11:28.354 - 01:11:47.120, Speaker B: You're not taking staked ETH and giving it to another machine who's doing a job but maybe you just let it's there. It's available to be drawn upon if something happens because yeah, I think staking it's kind of been the first use case for all this, but could be a lot more.
01:11:49.330 - 01:12:52.434, Speaker A: So maybe to end on the positive scale, I think ultimately this ends up being a pretty dominant model and I kind of think it's the way that TradFi works in a not bad way. I think just describing my own journey going through TradFi because especially in the US and just western markets, everything is highly financialized and I think it's really easy to look at that and say man, why do we need all this financialization? These people are just pushing paper around, creating derivatives, getting rich, doing nothing and we've probably taken it too far. But when you look under the hood, there's some really good reasons for that financialization. I give you an example. The 30 year mortgage, that's not an animal that you find in the wild, so to speak, right, that relies on derivative written swap markets and actually Dgens to take the other side of interest rate swaps. So there's good to financialization as well. And I think this is a natural thing that was going to happen in crypto because we're not actually that wildly different.
01:12:52.434 - 01:13:14.570, Speaker A: We have better systems but it's the same overall principles and financial gravity still applies. And if we're going to be basing the next financial system on any one asset, I'd rather it be ETH. And I think there's a pretty bullish ETH argument to be made here because exporting security like this exporting ETH.
01:13:16.270 - 01:13:16.646, Speaker B: It'S.
01:13:16.678 - 01:14:21.870, Speaker A: Actually something I once thought Bitcoin would be able to do. But I think they've chosen a very different path and instead, you know what it actually reminds me of is Treasuries. So the dynamic of the world in Treasuries is we export Treasuries to the rest of the world through raising debt and then those Treasuries are the collateral that a bunch of countries sorry, end up using A either as foreign exchange reserves or B to fund additional projects. Consider it security right in this instance and what that looks like, that's essentially what Ethereum is doing right now. It is exporting its asset to all of these other ecosystem country type things and it is the closest thing that I have seen in crypto to date of transitioning purely from a commodity to something like a denomination. And I push back on this idea of ETH being ultrasound money but there is a deep analogy to be made here from Treasuries and I feel it is pretty bullish and for the endurance of ETH at being at the base.
01:14:21.940 - 01:14:38.520, Speaker B: Layer of this ecosystem good for capital efficiency which is good for new products and investment. Yeah, I agree with you crypto native Treasuries wait, I thought we said this staking was not the risk free rate.
01:14:41.850 - 01:15:35.490, Speaker A: It doesn't become the risk free rate until you're not taking beta really on ETH. But here's the other little idea that I would leave you with is I feel like this trend is the inverse of the real world asset trend. And what I mean by that is real world assets, they probably still are going to be a big thing, and I wouldn't sleep on them. But I think the real reason why they existed is there is a profound lack of collateral that exists on chain, like pristine on chain collateral. And Bitcoin, for better or worse, because of the design of its protocol and how ossified it is, it doesn't really interact with the rest of crypto. And so you've kind of got ETH. And then if you're a protocol like maker and the demand for your product depends on the demand to borrow against basically just ETH, you're limited in terms of growth.
01:15:35.490 - 01:15:50.780, Speaker A: But I feel like this is the first real step in exporting the amount of claims on that ETH and creating real collateral in totally on chain self contained way which I think is better and neater than real world assets anyway.
01:15:52.510 - 01:16:37.370, Speaker B: Safer too in some ways don't have the Oracle problem. Yeah, I totally agree with that. I would say I'm rooting for Babylon also to maybe help export Bitcoin. I was going to say I just think that reminds me of Babylon. It's a tough sell to the holders given their personas at the moment and just naturally there's like less you can do with it but yes, I totally agree. So it's all more native here. I guess it's kind of interesting to think about if maybe there's an alternative to roll ups where you don't have to have the constraints of a roll up but you are economically secured by ethereum is like good or bad for ETH long term.
01:16:37.370 - 01:17:14.214, Speaker B: And the market, by the way, when I say if the market says no, this is just as good for us as a roll up, then that will be like the outcome. Whether ETH likes it or not and whether is that good for ethereum, I think it still could be good because again, this is increasing the staking ratio, which takes liquid ETH out of supply, which drives demand for ETH staking. It all could actually help the price of ethereum, even though it's really directly benefiting ethereum's supply side by giving it extra yield. I think it also could potentially help ETH holders at some point. I agree.
01:17:14.332 - 01:17:40.190, Speaker A: Yeah, we'll see. We were talking about that a little bit before. It's hard to really speculate on is this going to be directly good immediately for the value accrual or whatever, but I think long term, there's no doubt that this is very good for ethereum and good for crypto and these kinds of ideas and these big swings. Obviously there's risk. Don't want to downplay that. Feel like we did a good job of underscoring what that risk is. This gets me excited.
01:17:40.190 - 01:17:49.330, Speaker A: This is a big idea. And this is, I feel like, why we're here, kind of to take these big swings and really cool ideas like this.
01:17:49.400 - 01:17:50.674, Speaker B: Yeah, I totally agree.
01:17:50.712 - 01:17:53.618, Speaker A: It fires me up is how I honestly feel about it.
01:17:53.704 - 01:18:18.090, Speaker B: Really excited about it. Really excited about just to see how these competitive dynamics play out, what people end up, the design space that a lot of this opens up from a security model angle. Now that you have all this consolidated capital that's looking to do something, looking to earn additional yield, there could be a lot there. Yeah. So saddle up. We'll see how it goes.
01:18:18.160 - 01:18:32.334, Speaker A: Saddle up, baby. Do your own research, know your risks, be safe, don't do anything dumb. But I think at least from where we're sitting, it's safe to at least get intellectually excited about this and watch how it plays out.
01:18:32.452 - 01:18:33.120, Speaker B: Absolutely.
01:18:33.490 - 01:18:36.574, Speaker A: All right, partner. This is a good one. I think we did our subject justice here.
01:18:36.612 - 01:18:45.670, Speaker B: Hopefully. I think we might have some more Eigen layer related stuff as the start. Just a tease.
01:18:46.330 - 01:18:53.254, Speaker A: Yeah, maybe we do miles. Yeah, we'll drop more Tidbits and hints like that, but maybe look out for something else.
01:18:53.372 - 01:18:55.910, Speaker B: All right. Yeah, sounds good, man.
01:18:56.060 - 01:18:56.850, Speaker A: Bye, buddy.
01:18:56.930 - 01:18:57.330, Speaker B: See ya.
