00:00:02.120 - 00:00:21.878, Speaker A: The Gorge show is sponsored by Ellipsis Labs. Ellipsis Labs is building a world where mainstream finance happens on chain. Their first product, Phoenix, is a fully on chain limit order book. Dex on Solana, doing hundreds of millions of dollars in volume. I know this team personally. It's one of the strongest in the space. If you're interested in working with a team that's here to stay, Ellipsis Labs is hiring engineers passionate about Defi to join their team.
00:00:21.878 - 00:00:47.818, Speaker A: You can find ellipsis labs on Twitter ellipsis labs, or head to ellipsislabs Xyz to learn more and apply. Hey, guys, I'm here today with John Charbonneau, pretty well known in Ethereum and crypto communities, now a venture capitalist, and has long been a writer and thought leader. John, do you want to introduce yourself quickly?
00:00:47.906 - 00:01:14.154, Speaker B: Yeah, what's up? Good to be on. So, yeah, as with the intro, I mean, the main thing I do is co founder right now of DBA. So crypto pretty, I mean, straightforward, traditional vc, mostly investing in, I would say, like, infrastructure type projects, though broadly generalist and mostly just try to do focused, kind of low level work, have also been described as the much less funny VC version of Gort.
00:01:15.094 - 00:01:24.054, Speaker A: Well, that's a compliment, I suppose. You just had this research day that you guys host. Is it annually?
00:01:24.554 - 00:01:34.418, Speaker B: Yes. Well, now it is. I mean, this is the second time that we've ever thrown it just because, I mean, DBA is like a little over a year old at this point, but, yeah, so we've thrown it twice now and we plan to keep doing it every year.
00:01:34.506 - 00:01:45.458, Speaker A: What is the idea behind this? I mean, I watched some of the videos, so I see you just like, get projects together and have them give, like, Ted talks essentially. Is that sort of the premise?
00:01:45.586 - 00:02:16.820, Speaker B: Yeah. So most of it is just like a super selfish version, basically of, like, what I want a conference to be myself and MJ of, like, I don't like going to conferences. The last one that I've gone to was breakpoint last year. And the reason that, like, I still enjoyed breakpoint last year was because it was like, right before Solana took off. So it wasn't just full of like, you know, a million people, just like, VC's, everyone there don't want to hang out with people like myself. And so it was like, it was actually a fun conference. So, like, I haven't gone to most of them lately.
00:02:16.820 - 00:03:01.474, Speaker B: Most people are in New York anyway now. So it was really just like, we want to have a conference where it's just like, you can actually have a reasonable sized group of people who just want to nerd out and talk about fun stuff. And so most of the projects that we have talking there, the vast majority of them, they're not portfolio companies that were invested in or anything. It's just interesting stuff that we want to hang out and talk about. Also, most credit for this, by the way, 90% of it goes to my partner MJ on this, although I'm the loud one on Twitter. He is the one who gets almost all the credit for this. And a bunch of other stuff we used to do, like small research clubs too, which is kind of like the genesis of how actually DBA started of like MJ was like doing these really small research clubs of like ten people ish.
00:03:01.474 - 00:03:21.988, Speaker B: I want to say losing track of time was actually like two years ago, and I happened to be in the first group of the first, like ten of them that like, one of the people he invited invited me. And so we just, I like, I kept going to those like every few weeks, and then by the end of the year was like when we decided to start UBA together, and then it kind of evolved into this. Now we do this one bigger one every year, which is a ton of fun.
00:03:22.076 - 00:03:33.020, Speaker A: Not that you have to pick favorites, but what did you find to be the most interesting talk at this most recent research day? Or you can name a couple. I don't want you to have to pick or choose.
00:03:33.132 - 00:04:07.798, Speaker B: Well, super biased. So the first one I'm going to pick actually is an investment. It was Josh's from Astria. His was also just for anyone who watches it, I think was like, probably objectively the most entertaining of, I mean, one, Josh is just like my type of speaker that I really like personally. He speaks at three x, the speed of a normal human being, and will just say whatever shit is on his mind and will not really hold stuff back. So his talk was called we're all building the same thing. And it was basically going through ecosystem by ecosystem, was like, this is what the ethereum supply chain looks like, this is what the Solana supply chain looks like, this is what cosmos looks like.
00:04:07.798 - 00:04:39.218, Speaker B: And was like, hey, this is what Google looks like. And they actually all kind of look the same at the end of the day and was calling out, a lot of the stuff in the different ecosystems really do kind of converge to the same thing. And I think that's totally true, and I think we're starting to get a better idea of that as an ecosystem, which would be really helpful for people to build going forward. Once we realize, hey, you're building the same thing over there, we should probably learn from each other. That one was really good. The other one that I would say was the most entertaining at least was Connors from Celestia. His was really funny.
00:04:39.218 - 00:05:11.800, Speaker B: Just because Connor from Celestia is super, super funny. And just like, his dry humor delivery of all of them was just really, really good. He was talking about subjectivity oracles, how you can have enshrined oracles in sovereign chains, which is really, really good. Other favorite ones, I think what my other favorite ones were, beyond that, there was a lot of really good ones. They went in all different directions. Part of it, too is we actually have no intentional theme to research day. Everyone asked us what's the theme for research day? And they're really, there genuinely is none.
00:05:11.800 - 00:05:43.246, Speaker B: We're just going to pick however many timestots we have. What are the most interesting talks and say, go talk about it. So one on the super far end was we had Leon from Alpen, who is talking about a very different talk from Josh's at a very different level of, hey, here's this really complex ZK paper that I just put out and going through that. So total opposite direction. And that one was really, really good. But yeah, really all over the place of just what are the most interesting talks and kind of give the speaker liberty to go talk about it. So it was lot of really good ones there, chilling.
00:05:43.246 - 00:05:48.222, Speaker B: But I highly encourage everyone to go check out the videos. We did post them yesterday or the day before now.
00:05:48.358 - 00:06:21.782, Speaker A: Yeah, I watched Liam's talk. Another bitcoiner was talking to me about this and he's like, he has the makings of like, a mini Andrew Polstra. They even kind of, like, look a bit similar, I would say. And like, they have, like, yeah, I think Alpine's doing something very interesting right now in the same vein. But more broadly, how do you feel about, like, the general sentiment of VC's and in crypto right now? Like, there's been a lot of, you know, Twitter screeching. How do you feel? And also being like a. Like a relatively new firm.
00:06:21.782 - 00:06:31.046, Speaker A: Um, like, what are your thoughts right now regarding, like, the VC landscape and, like, maybe some of the pushback that VC has ever seen as of late?
00:06:31.150 - 00:07:10.544, Speaker B: Yeah, so, yeah, I mean, yeah, there's sort of, like, different parts of it. Like, one is like, I guess, how I feel and how I think, like, most other VC's feels. And, like, I do think that it's like, somewhat different part of that's probably just my personality, but part of it is just like, yeah, we're like, we're newer and we don't have a lot of the same baggage of things that people are dealing with. I mean, me personally, I'm having a ton of fun. Like, we're on our first fund and I just genuinely love what I do, so I'm having a ton of fun with it. The main reasons that I would say there's a lot of displeasure, particularly within the VC market, is a lot of the stuff that we are investing in is not the stuff that is going up right now. And shockingly, that doesn't make people happy when everyone else's bags are going up, but theirs are not.
00:07:10.544 - 00:07:40.744, Speaker B: So that's kind of been the classic story. Like, yeah, bitcoin's going up, all the meme coins are going up, and then none of this high float, low fdv infrastuff in the middle. Those are kind of all flattered down only. And there's definitely truth to a meaningful amount of that. And part of this is just normal cyclical stuff of like, yeah, a lot of this stuff is going to happen. Stuff will get over funded now. Um, there's going to be most projects, like, don't make it through the cycle.
00:07:40.744 - 00:08:24.134, Speaker B: Like, like, I feel like that's going to be normal. Um, like we've seen that in previous cycles. Um, but like, I, like, I get why there's like relative displeasure amongst people, but like on a fundamental level, I mean, I think crypto as a whole is like actually just progressing well on just like a fundamental level. I feel like a lot of the kind of like cynicism and displeasure with the cycle is almost because it feels like forced that we are trying to explain the cycle amongst each other and we're telling each other is like B's of previous cycles. I feel like we had a very clear, coherent story to everyone of like, oh, nfts are this great new thing. They unlock trillions of values. This is the reason why we have this cycle or DeFi or this thing.
00:08:24.134 - 00:09:09.924, Speaker B: It was very easy and comprehensible. Yeah, we should be going up a lot because of this and this cycle. Realistically, it's like our prices are going up and it's like, I like, it's probably mostly because things just went down too much before and we're getting ETF's and there's a little more adoption, but those aren't sexy good things that you can sell to people and say, this is why this new base roll up design that I backed is the right thing. I think there's a lot of displeasure probably because of that. A lot of it does feel forced, and it is. But when you just step back, if you're to look at where are most things that are developed now relative to two years ago, I would say things are generally better on the infrastructure level. There's generally more adoption.
00:09:09.924 - 00:09:25.820, Speaker B: I think that we are closer to people being able to reasonably use stablecoin payments and all these things. On a fundamental level, I think that things are better and getting better in most of those things, but most of the froth, I think, is much more transparently bullshit now, which is why you see a lot of people pushing back on it.
00:09:25.892 - 00:10:15.676, Speaker A: I think that we're probably just converging on a more efficient market. I don't know if this really represent, like, I don't know if prices in some of these, like, you know, low float, high FTV tokens and, like, what they're launching at really are so indicative of that. I don't have, like, strong feelings on that one way or another, but I think that also there were, yeah, like you were saying there were more clear, I would say, novel things in prior cycles. Like, we had Defi, we had NFts and, like, meme coins this cycle, but we're still kind of pushing this infrastructure stuff. And like you said, I think it's like, clearly getting better, but it doesn't feel like, I mean, more bluntly, like, it doesn't feel like the new Ponzi is like, really as Ponzi as people want. Like, in terms of, like, the real projects building. Right.
00:10:15.676 - 00:10:48.044, Speaker A: And I think that, like, this, this, like, sort of defeatist attitude toward. Toward the meme coins. Yeah, like, it's obviously representative of all of this, but, yeah, I mean, like, we have restaking right in points. Like, this is the meta, but it doesn't feel like, you know, just getting dumped thousands of dollars a day, like, yield farming, and. And then we see these projects, like, debuting at, like, outrageous valuations and everyone's like, well, we might as well just go and degen on the animal coins. So. Yeah, I think you're probably right.
00:10:48.044 - 00:11:01.404, Speaker A: Well, I wanted to. Okay, I wanna shift gears now and start, like, talking about a lot of the stuff that you have written about and researched. Uh, you did an episode recently. Yeah. You're now the co host of Uncommon core. It doesn't seem to come out very often. Like, is it just like, random?
00:11:01.484 - 00:11:23.974, Speaker B: Yeah, we do it, like every, like, we wanna do it more but yeah, we've been doing it like every couple months or so. I'd say is about like average range of, like, when we just have a super interesting thing to go on. I mean, like, most of it's just like a time constraint of like, it just takes a while to, like, put stuff together and like, plan an episode. So it's much, it's much easier when someone like you put together the agenda and handle everything else on the back end.
00:11:24.354 - 00:11:58.382, Speaker A: Yeah, so the most recent, I think it was the most recent one was a discussion with two Ethereum foundation researchers regarding issue with potential issuance changes or proposals. And, yeah, like, they sort of flesh out an idea that has been researched now for, for quite some time. And, yeah. Can you just like, maybe talk broadly about what inspired, like, discussions about issuance changes first, and then I'm going to ask like, more like, personal questions and, like, what your opinions are on this.
00:11:58.518 - 00:12:21.956, Speaker B: Sure. Yeah. So, like, the super TLDR on it is that, like, Ethereum currently has the same issuance curve of when the merge happened. And basically the way that they picked that curve at merge was like finger in the air. Like, this doesn't seem like these numbers will break anything. So, like, let's kind of ship this thing. And now people are kind of like, poking at that and be like, should we like.
00:12:21.956 - 00:13:05.272, Speaker B: Or should our finger have been like, in a slightly different place than that? Like, should we tweak this thing? And, like, the main direction of what the proposed, like, there's different proposals and research on it. But, like, I would say two main directions of things that people want to address. One is generally to lower the issuance. That, like, ah, like, it kind of feels like we're overpaying for security right now in these, like, hand wavy terms that, like, no one really knows how to quantify. A fun side note on which is, I think it was John Adler who had said this in one of the old forum fights on this. It was like, the fun thing about knowing the lower bound on economic security is you'll never know that you found the lower bound until you've been 51% attacked. So that's one side of it.
00:13:05.272 - 00:13:39.984, Speaker B: It's like, feels like we should lower, but maybe not. We don't know. And then the other side of it is not just lowering the raw amount of ethics issued, but hey, maybe we don't want 100% of the ETH staked. And if you let the current curve play out, it is strictly rational for people to end up staking 100% of their ETH. And then we just get 100% liquid staking tokens in some form. Some of the proposals around should we target a number of let's try to keep only 25% staked and then 75% stays in base eth. Those are the two directions of generally the proposal around.
00:13:40.684 - 00:14:37.842, Speaker A: Maybe zooming out one more time now. What are your overarching thoughts on changing the issuance curve or the degree to which we should meddle with? What should in theory be these market driven mechanisms? But also, I wanted to say, you said something, and I think this may have kind of slipped through the cracks and something, I mean, especially revelatory. But you did say it on a podcast and you said like, you know, if you, if you play out like the game theory, oftentimes with proof of stake, like all the stake ends up very, very concentrated. And so I want to hear like your thoughts on, yeah, like maybe first just the Ethereum community wanting to meddle in something that should, you know, work itself out if the mechanism designed correctly. And then, yeah, also just like what you think about concentration of stake going forward.
00:14:37.898 - 00:15:27.104, Speaker B: Maybe for going into more detail, I would say just setting up my high level view on it is basically based on everything. I'm not philosophically, there is no scenario in which you should ever touch the issuance curve in Ethereum. I think there are arguments to do it in certain circumstances if there's enough reason to do it. But like, anything that we are talking about now doesn't even come like vaguely close to crossing the hurdle to me of like the benefit of this thing is so clear and objective versus it feels like we just have our finger in the air and we're just kind of putting it in like a slightly different place. And we're like, we just like, we just kind of want to touch it and like see what happens. Feels like a little bit too much like that to me, versus like, I don't think the benefit is super clear. So that's my kind of like high level view on it.
00:15:27.104 - 00:15:56.224, Speaker B: The other thing that's probably somewhat dulling is I had a tweet, I guess it would have been like a month or two ago at this point of, the more time I spend on proof of stake, the more I start to appreciate certain aspects of proof of work. I tweeted that right after we finished recording this podcast. That was probably Sunday or maybe the night before or maybe right before we were filming it. I think it might have been after. It was either right before or right after. After I'm thinking about it. So that's probably also, like somewhat telling on it.
00:15:56.224 - 00:16:37.264, Speaker B: Yeah, like, my general views are like, I understand the concerns of, like, are we quote unquote, like overpaying? Like, so we'll take that part of it first. Like, I understand why people say that, like, arbitrarily. Yeah, it feels like, you know, if you just reduce issuance like 20% or something, like, is Ethereum getting 51% attacked? No. Like, no, it's not going to. But why are you really trying to do this? Quite frankly, at the end of the day, the worst case scenario, if you look at the issuance, if it goes 100% and the burn goes to zero, is something like Ethereum's issuance is 1% inflation per year. It's something like that. It's crazy, crazy low.
00:16:37.264 - 00:17:05.746, Speaker B: So you're already in, honestly a good place in the literal worst case scenario, which we're not at today. Literally today, ETH is net deflationary. It just feels excessive. It feels like picking up pennies in front of a steamroller when you're going to probably cause a lot of second order consequences. It's really difficult to reason about the other part of it, too. Less on a long term basis, but on a short term basis. And this part of this gets into what's your time horizon of what you want.
00:17:05.746 - 00:17:36.702, Speaker B: I think it is bad for the current cycle is what I think that most people are also afraid of with reducing issuance. Realistically, most of the narratives around Ethereum right now are like, oh, we got the CTF. Like we're the credibly neutral one. And the big story of Ethereum, of bitcoin is like, we've got yield, we've got restaking, we've got all these things. And then if you sell that to Blackrock and everyone, and then you turn around like, hey, by the way, all these techners decided to just cut your issuance in half. Sorry about that. That's not a very good sell.
00:17:36.702 - 00:18:28.188, Speaker B: So at least on a short term basis, I think a lot of people don't like it for that reason. Rationally, then the other point on targeting, and this gets more into the concentration of stake point, I'm not super convinced that whether you have 25% of Ethereum stake or 100% Ethereum stake, that it actually ends up with a drastically different composition of the distribution within that. There's some kind of subjective arguments on both sides that, like either one could actually make it more centralized or less centralized in general. I don't think that like, either is super convincing or they're going to have roughly the same thing. And like, on a strictly rational basis, that actually is what should happen. So I don't think it'll help with centralization at all, like in either direction. I think it's like centralization at stake is like a valid concern.
00:18:28.188 - 00:19:05.362, Speaker B: I don't think that reducing or lowering the target will change anything there. I think the main argument is we don't want lsts is the argument there. And my argument to that is generally, I don't know, I feel like you accepted that when you move to proof of stake, you're probably going to get liquid staking tokens. That's just what happens, man. Even if you put an artificial target on how much can be staked, that doesn't actually stop you from ending up with liquid staking tokens in excess of that. Anyway, it is still rational for the market to wrap all of this stuff and just socialize the yield across more people. So I generally don't think it does a whole lot and adds all these problems of messing with it.
00:19:05.418 - 00:20:08.008, Speaker A: What do you think about just Ethereum pushing this premise of economic security to begin with? It's a little bit bizarre, maybe, because economic security, you can have $100 trillion of economic security, but if it's all in Coinbase, it makes not very much difference, right? So, like, it, it's much more about the distribution of stake. And I do wonder if this, like, pushing this theory, like, you get these, like, Justin Drake tweets, right, where he's like, there's five x, the economic security of Ethereum now than bitcoin. It's like, well, it's an interesting way to look at it, but it doesn't mean, like, that it has any value to look at it this way, I think. Do you think Ethereum has maybe done itself a bit of a disservice by, like, really pushing this idea of economic security without necessarily taking into account the fact that, like, this has nothing to do with, like, the decentralization of the network, which should, in theory, be what we're gunning for here.
00:20:08.176 - 00:20:59.844, Speaker B: Yes, definitely. Like, I have told people at the EF this since like a year ago, I don't think it should be pushed that aggressively. And the other reason why I was very clear of, I really don't think you should push this was, this was last summer ish, when I was starting to really be like, I really don't think you should do this because that was the point where I was starting to get quite bullish on Solana, too, and you could just do the back of the envelope math really quickly of like, hey, Ethereum stake rate is like 25% and Solana stake rate is like 80%. And if this thing goes up a lot, your economic security is very plausibly actually going to be lower than something like Solana. Now, it's your argument, and that feels like a very plausible scenario to happen at some point. It's not there today, but what do you say today? I don't know. It's two to one or something like that, probably.
00:20:59.844 - 00:21:13.304, Speaker B: So is sauna half as good? And if it goes up more, it gets even better. Credit to the sauna side. I think that they put no stock in this. They're like, yeah, it's really decentralization of the boxes. Totally. Yeah. Solo's spam prevention, it doesn't matter.
00:21:13.304 - 00:22:03.514, Speaker B: And I am generally more in that direction philosophically of like, the actual decentralization and robustness of the operator set is what matters a lot more. And so how in practice do we get a super decentralized operator set? And this is what has kind of pulled me much more in the direction of being like, yeah, I'm super okay with lsts. And like, a lot of the even like, proof of governance stuff that I wrote like a year ago is because in practice, if you have proof of stake and you want to super decentralized operator set, I think the best way, unfortunately, that you get that is with a meaningful amount of outside subjectivity of, hey, we want decentralization. We are willing to intentionally craft the operator set. In reflection of that, if you just let the free market go to side, you're going to end up with a super centralized validator set. That coinbase has all the stake and it's all on an ETF. That's obviously not a good outcome.
00:22:06.254 - 00:22:35.512, Speaker A: I wanted to go back quickly. Um, I saw that tweet you said, like, working with proof of stake has made me understand. I don't know exactly what it was, but the value of proof of work or something like this, I didn't, I actually didn't know if that was with regards to MEV stuff or. Cause I think there is some, um, there's certainly like some relevance there. But what was like, what was the inspiration for that? Was it with regard, like, what you're saying now, like, just centralization to stake? Or like, what, what made you say that? Like, proof of work is very interesting now, having worked with proof of stake.
00:22:35.658 - 00:23:17.354, Speaker B: The main thing was actually a little bit, I would say, related, but tangential of the main thing is really just actually the simplicity of it and not having so many politically interested parties that are involved in this, I noticed that very clearly, and this is a symptom of it, you want ethereum to be this value creating, value capturing asset. The result of that is you have a lot of businesses and products that are built on top of that that have very strong political influence. The very simple practicality is if you say, hey, we want to reduce issuance, but Coinbase has a business built on top of this. Lido has a business built on top of this. Every other LST and restaking protocol has a business built on top of this. ETH holders are getting their yields. They're all going to get really mad at you.
00:23:17.354 - 00:23:51.442, Speaker B: And the reality is, even if, let's say this was the objectively correct thing to do, which I don't believe it is, but let's say it was, the practical reality is most people are probably going to get mad at you because it's bad for their bags in the short term, at the very least, it's difficult to get that thing through. It makes it really simple when you just say from the start, like, hey, yeah, money just goes to the miners. Your token doesn't have any value. Capture bitcoins, valuable if you want it to be valuable. Yeah, you're not getting any cash flows, man. Sorry. A lot of the aspects of simplicity around that, and it's still not perfect.
00:23:51.442 - 00:24:32.338, Speaker B: Yeah, there's questions with the long term security budget, I get all those things, but there's a lot more simplicity around the asset, which is like, super valuable when you're obviously trying to be particularly a form of neutral, non sovereign money, it's difficult where Ethereum is starting to realize that you're trying to touch both sides. And that's been the thing with Ethereum lately. It is in somewhat of, it's not quite bitcoin, but Solana's faster. What's this thing in the middle? It has some difficulty on both sides. There's a lot of elegance in the simplicity of peripheral work and obviously bitcoin's design. I just come to appreciate that more and more over time. Thanks for listening to the Gort show on the Blockspace podcast network.
00:24:32.338 - 00:24:43.138, Speaker B: Subscribe to our newsletter at Blockspace Media to get the show directly to your inbox. Show links, transcripts, and bitcoin articles twice per week. Stay ahead of the conversation by visiting blockspace media.
00:24:43.306 - 00:24:56.390, Speaker A: Like you, you went on a podcast and said, like, eth is not ultrasound money. Like you've been willing to say things. I mean, you're still a VC. Don't get me wrong. So you got to, like, protect the. You have to protect the social capital. But I will say that you've been.
00:24:56.390 - 00:25:16.726, Speaker A: You've definitely been willing to say, like, okay, guys, you're not looking at this correctly. I want to ask you, do you think that there has been some, like, I keep going back. There's like, this get. You know where this guy is, like, pointing at, uh, it's like, from, um. I think you should leave. Or he's like, we're all trying to figure out who did this, and it's like he's in the banana suit and. And, okay, so, you know, the memory.
00:25:16.726 - 00:26:05.210, Speaker A: All right. I feel like there's a good bit of this that I see within, like, Ethereum foundation, maybe in Ethereum researchers, where, like, we were talking about a lot of this stuff prior to the merge, prior to the transition of proof of stake. In fact, your podcast partner Hasu wrote, like, a very well reasoned argument as to, like, look, steak likely ends up with liquid staking derivatives. Here's why. Georgios tag team that with them, another person who's, like, very clearly intelligent. And I want to ask you, like, do you feel like there's been a bit of, like, oh, we can't believe this happened? And it's like, what do you mean? Like, everybody said this was gonna happen. Because this is a lot of what I see on Twitter, and I'm like, it's almost like, what? What are you guys talking about? Like, I thought we all knew.
00:26:05.210 - 00:26:13.694, Speaker A: I thought we all knew, like, lido was gonna be dominant, you know, that, like, Beaver was gonna have 40% market share. Like, what? Like, what are your thoughts on, like, that idea?
00:26:14.254 - 00:26:57.220, Speaker B: I definitely think there's a very meaningful degree of that being true. I think the most valid counterargument to that would be that, yeah, this is true in theory, but empirically, go look at every other chain. There are a lot of other proof of stake chains around. And if you go look at literally any other one, even today, even Solana liquid staking adoption is absurdly, absurdly low. Most of these chains, it's 1% territory. It's super, super low. So I think there was a very valid argument in hindsight, looking from the perspective of people who weren't as concerned at the time of, like, yeah, this makes sense if you play everything out rationally, but if you play everything out rationally in these systems, everything breaks anyway.
00:26:57.220 - 00:27:46.660, Speaker B: There's some point of reason, and if you look at every other system empirically, you don't actually get to that point very few people use these things. So I think that's probably my strongest argument against it from their view in hindsight and in hindsight with 2020, obviously that had a severe underappreciation of the fact that Ethereum has very different dynamics than all these different chains, which is why you get a bunch of liquid seeking adoption. And a lot of it is actually a product of the fact that it didn't start with proof of work first and where you had Lido and this stuff pop up ahead of time. So there is some degree of, I think it's fair to give a lot of leeway of, it was a completely unique and different circumstance, and that resulted in a very different market structure in Ethereum than we still even see another change today. So I think that would be the best argument against it, which I think is valid.
00:27:46.852 - 00:28:15.662, Speaker A: So like, you wrote a thread. Actually, I have two questions before we get to that. So you wrote a thread about restaking recently. I think it was when Eigen layer launched. Just general thoughts on restaking. One thing that, like, for example, Tarun says is like restaking may help sort of balance these concerns about issuance or centralization of stake. Like potentially, like if you're like, we kind of have new modules where state can go as opposed to just being dumped in lido or coinbase or whatever.
00:28:15.662 - 00:28:27.958, Speaker A: And so maybe we watch the market equilibrium work itself out before we make some like, you know, potentially very aggressive changes to issuance. So like, what are your like, general thoughts on restaking?
00:28:28.006 - 00:28:59.694, Speaker B: I guess, yeah, quickly on the issuance thing? Yeah, I definitely don't think that anything with restaking right now is an argument to change issuance. If anything, I don't think is more in the opposite direction of like, we don't know what the hell is going to happen in the next year or two, to be totally honest. Let's just see this stuff play out so we don't try to go make a change in the rails in a year. Like, oh, that was a bad idea for reasons x, y and z that we couldn't reason about. That's my general view on that for starters. Yeah. So restaking as a whole, I mean, quick disclosure, I'm a personal investor in Eigen lair from a while back.
00:28:59.694 - 00:29:38.484, Speaker B: DBA is not. It was from before. Is DBA general view on restaking landscapes as a whole? The core concept of it is fully sound and makes sense, and there is a real use case for this thing. And that the vast majority of stuff that is currently built around it is unsurprisingly bullshit. As happens with most things that are super hyped up in a new cycle, unsurprisingly, basically on core restaking protocols themselves. Basically, Eigen layer is obviously leader. And then there's like a couple others for investors who couldn't get into Eigen lair.
00:29:38.484 - 00:30:14.224, Speaker B: And then there's a bunch of LRT projects. We didn't do any of the LRT projects personally, mostly just because kind of my view on all of them is like. Like, there's good teams doing some of them, but from my view, they're mostly like highly differentiated, undifferentiated from each other. And realistically, like, if you do any of the back of the envelope math on like, what's the yield that's like actually going to be produced by these things? Like, not a lot. So they make sense as token forms and stuff like that. The short term, they'll get high fdbs. I don't really think they'll generally have staying power.
00:30:14.224 - 00:30:45.084, Speaker B: We actually bought Lido in the last few months, especially in the last month. Everyone was freaking out, all the conflicts, global stuff. Because I think that is actually a simple product that actually has economics that make sense and has staying power over time, even though it's not the sexy thing right now in this cycle. On the AV's side, I think, is also where you see the same idea of most of them. Like, yeah, they don't make any sense. Like they're riding the AV's hype bandwagon. And then a handful of them are like genuine, very good projects.
00:30:45.084 - 00:31:39.930, Speaker B: And I think that those will have a lot of sway in how the market actually turns out in this, at the end of the day of like, what are the lrts that matter? You know, what is the restaking protocol that matter is like, of the handful of really big abs's that stick around and have staying power, what are they using and who are they attached to? So are pre conformations a big thing? And who do they go use for that thing? That could be important. The one that where disclosure invested in is ethos is a simple example, one that I think is a simple product that makes sense and highlights, I would say, why resticking makes sense, at least in a simple case. The very TLDR on them is they let you spin up a neat, secure chain using Cosmos SDK. They'll expand from there. But the super dumb idea of it is cosmos hub for re sticky. Just think of it that way. It highlights the simple use cases of, hey, maybe I want to spin up a chain, but I don't want my token right at launch.
00:31:39.930 - 00:32:27.512, Speaker B: Or maybe I just don't actually want a token. This is a super e at some level of economic security at a very cheap rate of it should be pretty easy to get some multiple restate eth that gives me enough security for what I'm doing, and that's cool, that makes sense, and it should be pretty cheap for these projects, all of that. Or maybe you want to do dual staking of you want to avoid this scenario that's often described with terra. Maybe your token goes to zero and your proof of stake security goes to zero. You can get this dual staking token for a pretty cheap rate that gives you a hedge, particularly if your chain is doing a lot of weird defi stuff with your token or whatever, and it may be volatile. It gives the market more confidence at a very cheap rate. So those kinds of things make sense and I think that there will be real use for those things in the long term.
00:32:27.512 - 00:33:08.764, Speaker B: I think that we are obviously going to go through this inevitable cycle in the next year though. Plus of most of these projects are going to make sense. I don't think that most of these LRT's are going to make it a few years out. They're going to peter out and go away and you'll be left with the handful of things that actually matter. Steve will still be around, there'll be a handful of ABS's that matter and there'll be some stuff there. I guess the last thing would be the thread that I actually posted that was on eigen specific token mechanism, which is really funny. It was the first thread or kind of thing that I posted in a long time and everyone got so annoyed at it, which in hindsight was totally predictable.
00:33:08.764 - 00:33:41.666, Speaker B: I had seen and reviewed the white paper before and I was like yeah, this is really cool. The mechanism makes sense. I honestly did not know any details about what the airdrop was going to look like or the transferability and all that. Honestly, God had no idea. I just posted this thing right away and every single comment I got was just ignoring everything about the forking mechanism, which is all I wrote about, just complaining about the airdrop and I was like yeah, I get it dude. Looking at the details I actually get why people are annoyed, but not what I was writing about. That was the last thing.
00:33:41.666 - 00:34:35.104, Speaker B: I think people start to look at this over time of the Eigen inter subjective working mechanism, which in hindsight looks very academic and got buried and everyone getting annoyed at the airdrop, but the super TldR of it is if you have a service like any kind of da layer where a fault is not objectively attributable on chain, your previous option was like, yeah, you could have a governance vote of Eigen tokens, like do we slash this guy or not? Did he withhold data? This is just a better mechanism to solve that problem which has less of a tyranny of the majority where you can select the token. It's a better mechanism for that. It doesn't replace any of the stuff that youth should be doing for objective security. It's not super clear that there's going to be a million use cases for this thing. Again, makes sense for DA layers. It probably makes sense for an oracle. If you're building a big oracle and you want this mechanism, you probably want to use your own token in there instead of Eigen.
00:34:35.104 - 00:34:43.084, Speaker B: Because why not? Like there's nothing special about it. Like you should use your own so cool mechanism. But yeah, it was kind of the TLDR of it.
00:34:43.124 - 00:34:54.916, Speaker A: Okay, so then what do you think is like the in game use case for restaking? You've named a lot of things you don't think it's going to be very useful for, like what is your idea of like where this goes long run? Like where this is practically useful.
00:34:55.020 - 00:35:42.222, Speaker B: So I think that you're going to see the different major ecosystems converge on similar concepts of this. Like there will be some notion of e three staking and sole restaking and bitcoin restaking and whatever. And at the limit you are going to have this large asset that should have a very low cost of capital relative to others. Where if you want economic security at a cheap rate because you don't have your own token, but you still want some sort of economic security, or you want a little bit of extra dual staking because maybe your token is worth shit or you're afraid it's going to go to zero, add a little bit on the side. It should be pretty cheap, at least as a short run to medium term thing to get your project going. It can make sense for those things. I think that is the most clear use case where the numbers just make sense on this thing.
00:35:42.222 - 00:36:14.002, Speaker B: It should be pretty cheap and it actually provides you some tangible benefit. That is the main thing for me in the long run of that makes sense. If you assume that there's going to be a lot of new projects that continue in crypto, that makes sense and that will happen. There's a meaningful degree of, I've poked at this before of one of the big use cases of eigen layer is like alignment. I was joking about that a year ago, but it actually is true of some degree. Why are you going to use ETH versus Sol? Well, if you're a Solana based project, you're probably just going to use Sol. That makes sense.
00:36:14.002 - 00:36:57.512, Speaker B: The data, your chain, it's right there. Just go use it. If I'm a purpose protocol that wants to do some restaking thing on Solana, you're going to use Sol. If I'm doing this thing and a more eth centric audience world, I'm going to use ethnic. And so I think you'll see the big assets kind of converge on this, of like, there are some basic use cases that would benefit from having some level of economic security that aren't natively there. Is it going to be this like trillions of dollars and we are creating like billions of dollars of cash flow? Probably not, because, yeah, I don't think that most people are going to want to leak, like, an inordinate amount of value out of their own ecosystem to go pay another token. There's like, there's some value for that, but at a low cost of capital rate in the long term, not a very high cost of capital.
00:36:57.512 - 00:36:59.982, Speaker B: So there's going to be limited amount that people pay for that.
00:37:00.158 - 00:37:24.590, Speaker A: Okay, well, we're going to skip to Mev stuff. Now, yesterday, I think. Yeah, yesterday you tweeted something with regards to private order flow. And. Yeah, it's like a really, it's quite an interesting subject. What are your thoughts on, like, some of the relationships that are being built for order flow right now? Yeah, take it. Take over.
00:37:24.702 - 00:38:01.864, Speaker B: Yeah. So this kind of dovetails, I would say, from what we were starting to talk about before, what you mentioned of was it foreseeable that we ended up with a super centralized builder market when we did the whole PBS thing? And this is part of the, I think that PBS, honestly, everyone agreed on this thing at the time of like, yeah, boost is the best idea that we've got at the moment. Let's go do that. And yeah, we'll worry about these kinds of issues longer term. We'll add inclusion lists and blah, blah, blah, and all these things. Honestly, everyone agreed on that at the time, or the vast majority of people, 95% of people, whatever. And so the result that we do have now is like, yeah, we do have that centralized builder market.
00:38:01.864 - 00:38:30.696, Speaker B: In practice, there's three builders that build like 90 plus percent of the blocks. It's SCP, Beaver, Wintermute is rsync, and then Titan, who actually uses the real name is Titan. So they build the vast majority of blocks. Yeah. And the thing that I was tweeting about last night was like, it was funny. I was realizing of a year or two years, I guess, more like two years ago, which makes sense. It was more like bear market.
00:38:30.696 - 00:38:51.754, Speaker B: I feel like everyone was tweeting about at that time. Oh, yeah. Exclusive order flows can be this big problem. All these private background deals, and this would be so bad, it's going to centralize everything. And at the time, there was nothing going on yet. Fast forward to now. And there's a ton of this stuff going on at serious scale, and no one is talking about it.
00:38:51.754 - 00:39:17.464, Speaker B: It's a very weird. I assume it's a mix of, honestly, people talked about this a lot during the bear market, disproportionately, because there was nothing else to talk about. Prices were down and there were no applications. So we're like, okay, we have to go talk about Navy. And people just, that's not the case anymore. The other part of it is that, understandably, people don't want to call out the people that they're working with by name. Luckily, I'm not working with most of them, so it's sort of fine for me to do that.
00:39:17.464 - 00:40:02.436, Speaker B: The main things that you see in practice are these kind of exclusive order flow deals, which where so, like, taking the simplest, biggest ones that I would use are telegram bots that have billions of dollars of volume. Like, they are taking out like hundreds of millions of dollars of me feed. Like, these are like, really, really not small at all. And they seem to have exclusive deals with these builders where basically what they'll do is like, hey, we send you exclusively all of the flow. So also for context, these telegram bots, they do have a lot of volume. In particular, the volume for them is very retail oriented users who are dumb money flow. So they are generally overpaying, unsophisticated traders.
00:40:02.436 - 00:40:30.306, Speaker B: This is the most valuable flow you can possibly get. They're going for overpaying for token sniping type stuff. What you could do is these bots can send them exclusively to one builder and that builder. What they could basically do is they can kind of check the market and see, hey, the market rate right now to win a block is one eth. I've got like 50 eth that I'm going to make off of this exclusive order flow that I got. I'm going to bid like 1.5 eth to the proposer, and I'm going to keep the other 49.5
00:40:30.306 - 00:40:52.432, Speaker B: eth. I'm going to keep some of that for myself and I'll kick the rest of it back to the telegram bot. So that's kind of the general idea of what's going on. Or if they feel like it's not a lot and they're like, not actually confident that they're going to win the block, you can kind of just kick that order flow out at the end of the block and then distribute it to the other builders at the end of the block just to make sure it gets included quickly. If you don't have enough flow to win the block yourself. But that's a general idea.
00:40:52.568 - 00:42:03.522, Speaker A: Let me quickly jump in here. I haven't, like, I've heard of this, and yeah, I heard rumblings of this myself, and I think a lot of people have. It's nothing like exclusive, but it is less talked about publicly for very obvious reasons. But let me ask you, do you know what strategies these builders are employing? And the reason I ask this is because I think that, well, first of all, I think that, like, a lot of this stuff is, well, maybe this is like an overarching theme I have with Ethereum, which is like, a lot of these are like intractable problems. But the thing about this is like, there is a difference, obviously, between getting exclusive order flow and making markets, maybe like you see with Robinhood and Citadel, versus getting exclusive order flow and sandwiching your users from all angles. And I'm curious if you know what strategy is like. You know, I've heard and witnessed the ways that, you know, some of these well known builders don't sandwich, but the way in which they order the transactions in the blocks is not entirely dissimilar to the end result of what a sandwich would be.
00:42:03.522 - 00:42:14.346, Speaker A: So, but I'm curious if you have any insight as to what the strategies they're employing. Did you know what we're looking at here?
00:42:14.490 - 00:43:02.486, Speaker B: I would say that gets nuanced and just honestly varies from one builder to the other, and it starts to become this gray area of, honestly, what's the difference? I think that the main high level is that I think are important and honestly hold in either case is one. Most of these deals are very not public. These things are not marketed and disclosed to people, even though the couple hundred people who work around these systems know them. I do think that needs to change. And it's not entirely clear what's going on with some of the funds of is this being given back to users to any degree? It doesn't appear to be so. But generally these things are not very transparent, is, I would say, the biggest problem with them. And obviously then you also have these questions of market structure.
00:43:02.486 - 00:44:04.800, Speaker B: Is it super centralizing? Yeah, it's super centralizing. Obviously, this is how you get a super top heavy bullet market, and you're starting to see the same trend too. I would say separate this into a different story a little bit, but similar direction of the Uniswap X. And now metamask smart transactions are also in this direction of, hey, how do we solve MeV at our application level? We could just sign some agreements with three or four builders and run this thing off chain. Is the TLDR what they're doing right now? The metamask smart transactions thing also, I legitimately did not even see it when they announced it. Someone told me about it a week after I completely missed it when they announced it. I mean, the TLDR for that one, for people who haven't looked at it closely, is Metamask announced like two weeks ago of their smart transactions, which is their new opt in product that they have for MEV production and reducing transaction reverts.
00:44:04.800 - 00:44:45.788, Speaker B: Typical permissioned private type of service. And the way that it seems to work is we just send the order flow to a handful of builders that we have agreements with, and they could bid for these things. This one, again, doesn't seem entirely clear. Who are the couple of builders that they're doing with this? What are the details of this? They also market it as front running protection, but not MEV redistribution, which would lead you to probably believe that they are not front running you. But hey, v that we are generating, that's probably not going back to users. That is presumably being split by metamask and a handful of builders that they have agreements with on this. There's not like a whole lot of detail about this.
00:44:45.788 - 00:45:24.228, Speaker B: Felix from Cal swap had a good thread on this where he was speculating about some of the details too, asking, hey, I need feedback on this. So that would be the other one that I would point to. Is this direction at a high level. The solutions to this, quote unquote, are one, the stuff that's not disclosed, I think should be disclosed, and there should be a public light on these things. I don't think this helps having any of the private stuff, especially when the few hundred people who are mostly working around these systems. I feel like most of us know what's going on anyway. And then the other side is fundamental market structure improvement, which is, I would say the harder question, probably, of figuring out a way to.
00:45:24.228 - 00:45:31.984, Speaker B: How can they privately and permissionlessly share order flow with each other? And that gets into the complicated.
00:45:33.124 - 00:46:25.212, Speaker A: How is this solved in traditional finance? It's solved by saying you can't front run users. And I, yeah, I've said this before, but like, I do think that it's a little bit, it's a bizarre paradox where like, users often get better execution in these private order flow deals. Right. Like, I had this conversation with Alex Nislobin and, you know, like, oftentimes if you're looking at like pure execution, like Robinhood traders get like very good execution usually and they get to trade for free. And it's just because these market makers have tons of liquidity on both sides and they know that they can quote against retail. Right. And so how do you solve this? Like, what do you think about like some of the solutions for MeV or is it like over discussed? Like, probably is, but yeah, what do you think about that?
00:46:25.308 - 00:46:55.428, Speaker B: I'd say the main problem that we have is I feel like most crypto users, quite frankly, don't get either they don't get the transparency aspect or all of that, but they also don't actually get the good execution for most of these things. That's the big first problem. And that's the thing that I think is quote unquote easy to address is, yeah, I'm not morally opposed to, yeah, we don't have a better solution to this. We send it to a handful of permissioned people and they run an auction on this thing. They pay you for it and they give you good execution. That can make sense. Yeah.
00:46:55.428 - 00:47:24.374, Speaker B: Here are the market makers that will give you good execution. That's how it works. If you're going to do that, actually give the users good execution and be transparent about what you're doing. A lot of the stuff today doesn't do either of those. It's just payment forward flow. But with bad execution and not with transparency, that's not great. That's what gets you at least on par, I would say, with tradfi execution and transparency is the other part of it, which is the more ambitious.
00:47:24.374 - 00:47:59.540, Speaker B: Hey, we want to be way better than tradfi. That's the very concrete, hey, can we get ways for people to much more permissionlessly and privately share order flow with each other? That gets into the complex? Okay, do we use some sort of NPC or do we throw all this in a te? How do we privately share order flow with each other? And that gets into the much more complicated mechanism design and privacy enhancing technology. Type of discussion. But the first part should be solvable. We can do that. We could just disclose, you know, people are doing and, like, give orders, give like, users good execution. Like.
00:47:59.540 - 00:48:02.300, Speaker B: Like, those are nothing magic. Like, we, like, we already know how to do those things.
00:48:02.452 - 00:48:30.774, Speaker A: Are there any interesting, like, there have been a lot of, you know, Mike from the EF writes these long blog posts with varying, like, different MEV proposals. Are any of those interesting to you? Like, Mev burn, PEPC, like, enshrined PBS? Like, just all these things they talk about that sort of surround the MEV ecosystem. Do you, would you, like, have any in mind that you're like, oh, this is actually very important in your mind?
00:48:32.034 - 00:49:13.374, Speaker B: The main ones are, I would say so. I mean, the high levels, some of them are important, but none of them, I would say, directly address some of the stuff that we're talking about here. They are more of the, like, okay, let's say that we have centralized builders and there's Mev, that's a problem. Like, we put that over there. How do we make sure the protocol isn't screwed because of that? How do we, like, ensure censorship, resistance, like, stuff like that? So some form of inclusion lists is like one strong one there of, hey, builders, how can we make sure that the bottlenecks of the builders and these relayers can't just arbitrarily censor users? So inclusion lists are a proposal there that makes sense to do. Over time, there's different variations of inclusion lists. Which one ends up in there and when? That is what I will leave to others to figure out.
00:49:13.374 - 00:49:53.144, Speaker B: But those are just a sensible idea that makes sense there. The other ones are more on the market structure of where do we stick the centralization and the effects that go from there. And so those are ideas like enshrined PBS and now the newer ideas of a task of proposer separation execution tickets, which is like, hey, maybe we outsource even more from the protocol because particularly timing games seem to be screwing everything up. So, hey, maybe you actually have to be really sophisticated even to propose the block. Maybe we should get rid of that, too. And you actually don't need that. All that we need to be decentralized is the testing to what are the blocks and potentially forcing inclusion on these transactions.
00:49:53.144 - 00:50:29.670, Speaker B: So it's kind of even, I would say, further acceleration of like, hey, we actually don't need much of this in the protocol. Like, we can kick even more of this out to the free market. So I think those are interesting ideas. With stuff like execution ticket, you basically get MeV burn out of the box. Because what people pay for these tickets for the right to propose blocks, like that's an oracle for how much mev there is, which is cool. Mev burn is. I've always been the same of, if you have this, you can click a button and just say all the MEV is burned and there's no negative side effects and the solution works.
00:50:29.670 - 00:50:52.154, Speaker B: I would click the button. All the stuff that I've seen historically is 80% works. We're not sure if it weakens the incentive compatibility to the system. Yeah, you can break it with an honest majority and all these problems around, it's not worth it. You're just trying to mess with the economics. Care enough about that. But if you can get it out of the box and it's a good side effect of this, I think it's cool, probably throw it in there.
00:50:52.154 - 00:51:05.914, Speaker B: But none of them are really trying to fundamentally address, do users get better execution? Is the builder market centralized? It's really on the protocol side of how do we deal with that? Make sure that users still get sensors of resistance and the protocol is stable.
00:51:06.614 - 00:52:02.868, Speaker A: Yeah, well, this may be a good opportunity to pivot to roll ups. You were quite like vocal early on. There's another thing that you said that you. Quite brave, quite brave. You said roll ups aren't real. Right? You wrote this blog post, so, but the reason I asked this is like, do you think that we can kick enough of this stuff to the trading and the financial activity down to these roll ups such that the l one can sort of become self sustainable and not have such extractive actors? On the grounds that like, most of what sort of centralized, well, may still be centralized, but at least this, like financial activity is occurring elsewhere and we don't see these like kind of order flow games and stuff. Like, do you think that we can sort of kick this down to the lower layers and then also if you want to start talking about like centralized sequencers, decentralized sequencers, you can run.
00:52:02.868 - 00:52:03.892, Speaker A: You can run with it.
00:52:04.028 - 00:52:42.094, Speaker B: Yeah. So I definitely think that, I mean, at least directionally, more of this stuff gets pushed to roll ups over time just because, I mean, at least simple back of the envelope math. If we think that ethereum remains enough throughput to, like, do most of the volume in crypto, I mean, like, we're kind of all screwed and probably out of jobs anyway, so I hope that's not going to happen. And roll ups actually get a bunch of users. And that means that like, at least directionally, most of the users start to gravitate towards these like cheaper, more usable environments. I don't think it solves the problem at all. For ethereum l one, though, there's still going to be a bunch of liquidity and activity in mev there.
00:52:42.094 - 00:53:13.146, Speaker B: Even if it's directionally, it comes down a good bit and more of it goes to the roll ups. It doesn't existentially solve any of the problems for the l one itself. You still need to address all of these things. I'll just put that there for that. Then on the roll up side, just high level. Like, it's nice. I mean, like, a lot of them get to deal with it in much more like simple dumb permissioned ways because, yeah, we don't have the constraint of like, ah, we've got like a million validators that we got to worry about them running on raspberry PIs and whatever.
00:53:13.146 - 00:54:00.604, Speaker B: It's like, no, we could just like have a set of like pretty sophisticated people that were like, hey, like, we trust you. Like, please don't front run me like this. In practice is how like, cosmos chains work. And like, it mostly works and there's bounds on this, and you can play with new things, but generally you just have a much more controllable environment to play with these things and try different stuff, which they'll do. Ethereum is, to be fair, the hardest place to try to solve any of these problems because you just gave yourself all of the hardest constraints possible. It's like, yeah, we want to solve all these impossible problems, but at the same time we want to make sure that a million people are running this system and they're running it on their cell phones. That makes it so much harder to run when you're like, hey, what if we have 15 guys that we trust who run this in a data center? That makes it a lot easier to solve this.
00:54:00.604 - 00:54:40.434, Speaker B: And so roll ups are kind of more in that direction of like, it's more tractable on the centralized versus decentralized side. I mean, roll ups are never going to, in my mind at least, they shouldn't go to the kind of extremes of what Ethereum is trying to do with hardware requirements and decentralization of the operator set and all of that. There's some reasonable bound on decentralization which is like, does this provide better reliability, censorship resistance, reorder resistance, et cetera, on your chain? You don't need a million operators to that in practice. Like, it could be ten, it could be 20, it could be 50. I don't know the exact number, pick your number. You could just run it totally centralized to. And I'm sure a lot of them will do that over time.
00:54:40.434 - 00:55:58.464, Speaker B: The main thing that I would say that you saw, at least recently, that can be the problem with that is particularly the super centralized operator, as we saw with, if you're using a raft service like conduit, which is like, it's a centralized operator running this thing, we saw this with Degen chain, and I forget one other chain, I think had a similar issue where they just had 500,000 block reorgs and they're just down for days, and it was like, hey, what's going on? That is just fundamentally you have a higher risk of that if you have a centralized operator who's the only one running your thing. They're going to internally run some sort of raft thing where it tries to give you better reliability, but there's no fault tolerance in there. Yeah, you can have reorders and stuff like that. So this is why, I mean, again, disclosure, like we're invested in Astria, but this is why I think this is actually going to be the simple bum use case for a lot of these. Everyone's so excited about shared sequencers and universal synchronous composability buzzwords, whatever. I feel like most of the use case for these shared sequencers and rasses is like, hey, I just want to spin up a chain and I want to make sure the centralized operator isn't running it so that the chain doesn't go down and I don't have to worry about regulatory stuff. And this thing just works well and it works the same as everything else.
00:55:58.464 - 00:56:28.062, Speaker B: And it's really cheap because the cost of replication of ten operators, one operator is honestly super cheap. It's running in box. It just makes sense. I think that is going to be much more of the use case of these kinds of things, as opposed to, oh yeah, we're going to solve all the interop problems on Ethereum. If we make this base roll up contraption, which at the end of the day amounts to, we just have a trusted third party, and then we call it base roll up. I think that's in practice. The use case for these things largely is permissionless deployment of reliable, fault tolerant censorship to systems.
00:56:28.198 - 00:57:30.670, Speaker A: Yeah, Vitalik tweeted something, or he responded, which got some fanfare, I suppose, about building a public good for interoperability amongst these chains. It was somewhat of an acknowledgement that we're seeing the silo effects maybe, of these roll ups. And yeah, I mean, this has been the discussion for like a year. It's nothing like really revelatory, but I think it's maybe the first time that Vitalik has sort of said like, yeah, maybe we should put people in charge who are going to like figure out some standards such that these roll ups, like all of these roll ups that spin up like seemingly daily can, can interoperate. Do you think that this is like a likely outcome? Like do you think that we are going to see base and arbitrum and ZK sync want to work together, right? Like, or is this sort of antithetical to their own business interests? And what do you think? Maybe a better question, like what do you think about like a public good interoperability standard or something like this?
00:57:30.862 - 00:58:23.262, Speaker B: I don't think it's going to happen is my general short answer, particularly on all this shared sequencer stuff of like everyone was trying to pitch from the start of like, oh, we're going to get the super chain to opt into our shared sequence here, we're going to get arbitrum. Like everyone's going to use this neutral thing. Like even if you can convince me that you solved all the technical problems and all these things, like, you even hear people say this today of like, oh, it's not like a technical problem, it's like it's a social problem. Like we just need to get people aligned and opt into it. I think that is the nice way of saying you realize that, you know, that they shouldn't opt to into it either because they shouldn't. If I like am optimism, like, and you have the super chain, like you should control your thing, like, there's no reason that you should be opting into this like other system with all of these other people. Like you want to control your own things, like a variety of like sovereignty and economic reasons around that that you could just imagine people want to own their own thing.
00:58:23.262 - 00:59:09.680, Speaker B: It's not hard to understand that intuitively. And particularly when people start to talk about in my mind these neutral kind of like this is the Ethereum shared sequencer and all of those things, all of this stuff looks the same again, at the end of the day, we're all building the same thing of, ok, you want to use based roll ups because it's neutral and you inherit the liveness and censorship resistance of Ethereum. Got that? That makes sense. But users want fast pre conformations. So how do you give them fast pre conformations? You run some trusted party service on top of that where the proposer can in theory give you commitment not the consensus of ethereum, just like literally the current active proposer. But we also want them to be decentralized too. We said, so what do they do? They actually just give that right to a relay.
00:59:09.680 - 00:59:44.942, Speaker B: And now the relay just gives you fast pre conformations to all the roll ups. So what do we do for a base roll up at the end of days? We just have trusted third parties give you guarantees to all the roll ups. Again, we've just changed the definition of base roll up in my mind at that point. So it's like, okay, now why am I using this thing? You just opt into someone else who's running a third party consensus anyway. And that looks the same as if you have a roll up that has their own shared sequencer or whatever, and then they just have a force inbox on the l one where after some delay, you can force it in. But the faster guarantee comes from router. Sequencer.
00:59:44.942 - 01:00:21.352, Speaker B: These look like the same thing. At the end of the day, you have a fast path. Yeah, you can go take the trusted third party and their consensus, and if you want to get slower one, then, yeah, you just use the slow path. Those are the same thing at the end of the day. So I'm generally pretty skeptical of anyone ever opting into these super, this is the Ethereum shared sequencer type vision. I think that people just have to understand that these shared sequencers effectively are, they are new ones that are made for base roll ups of their own. If you use a shared sequencer, you should use it generally with the understanding, like, I'm the base roll up to that shared sequencer.
01:00:21.352 - 01:00:41.834, Speaker B: And that could make sense. If you make a chain from first principles, the way that you actually make it is you just make a chain that has really big blocks and is really fast and you can just throw whatever the hell you want in there. That's all that a shared sequencer is. At the end of the day. It's like Solana needed to rip out the execution environment that is fundamentally the way that you just build the most scalable chain. It's a big dumb database. Makes sense.
01:00:41.834 - 01:00:50.670, Speaker B: But when we try to strap this onto Ethereum and say this is neutral and it's perfect for everyone, in practice, I just don't think there's a way to do that that actually makes sense.
01:00:50.822 - 01:01:19.944, Speaker A: Yeah. Okay, we're coming up on time now, but one last thing. We didn't really talk much about Solana. You've been, yeah, I would say support. We originally knew you as this Ethereum thinker, but then I think you were one of the ones during the bear market who was, you know, pretty interested in Solana. Um, how do you compare, like, a lot of these roll ups to Solana? Like, are you like. Or what problems do you see in Solana? Maybe is another.
01:01:19.944 - 01:01:42.924, Speaker A: Is it maybe another way to phrase this? Like, do you think that Solana has a pretty big competitive advantage against, you know, the roll up roadmap? And, I mean, obviously, like, this is Anatoly's kind of premise, is like, you know, I'm afraid of the chain that has not a thousand roll ups. The chain of one roll up. Yeah. So what are your thoughts on Solana?
01:01:43.044 - 01:02:17.238, Speaker B: So part of it is always just like, it's a time horizon question to me, because I think you could still make the strongest argument. If you were to say what ecosystem has closest to the right endgame from the start, I'd probably say it's cosmos. But in practice, that wasn't the right path to take from the start, obviously. And a lot of Solana is a timing question to me. I think it's a practical part of it. A lot of why I got interested in it last summer was it was very clear at that point that Solana had not died, for whatever reason. All of the really good builders, they stuck around, and they were all still there at the depths of the bear market.
01:02:17.238 - 01:02:54.616, Speaker B: And if you took the view, which I generally had, that I think that the market is going to come back pretty soon, I think that prices are going to go up, users will go up, all of that, and you just do the back of the envelope math, or try to use these l two s. Theyre going to get expensive, and its really difficult to use them. What is the best thing today for the amount of demand that we have in crypto? Is one really big, fast chain, does most of the stuff and gives you most of the throughput that we needed for what we have today. Solana does that. They were really just positioned as the best fast horse at that time. I still think that they have a very bright future because of that. Theyre going to be super important.
01:02:54.616 - 01:03:14.104, Speaker B: I have a lot of activity, all those things. Do I ever think that there's going to be similar to the reason that I don't think everyone's going to ever opt into the Ethereum shared sequencer. Do I think that we're always going to have just one chain like Solana? No, I don't think we're going to have that. We have a bunch of different chains. I think people are going to build l two s on top of Solana. It's going to happen. It feels pretty inevitable.
01:03:14.104 - 01:03:39.104, Speaker B: People are going to want sovereignty over their own thing. They're going to want some degree of customizability. They're going to want some degree of the really cynical argument of they just want a chain and they want to launch their own token and it makes it easier for them to do it. There's a lot of these reasons that are anywhere from rational to irrational. People are going to want their own chains. And so I think that we will have this longer march over time of there's going to be more chains and what's the right way to architect these things. And I think all of it will get better.
01:03:39.104 - 01:04:07.274, Speaker B: But in practice today, if you wanted to go use a few different Defi applications, what are you going to prefer? I go use Solana where they're all there and they all work, or I go use the one on base and then the other thing I want to go use is on arbitrum and I got to figure out how to get between them. You're going to do the first one. It's just easier, it's better, and there's going to be long term use cases for both. But yeah, we're going to end up with many chains for a lot of different reasons in my mind, and they're well positioned for that.
01:04:08.214 - 01:04:22.674, Speaker A: Yeah. One last quick question, because you mentioned what Defi applications get you excited these days. When you look at Defi, it's like, oh, this is very interesting because you come from a tradfi background. Where do you look at Defi and say clear unlock here?
01:04:23.764 - 01:05:07.954, Speaker B: I'll give a roundabout answer to that. It's not a thing that's live today. The thing that I've mostly gotten super interested in very recently is the bitcoin l two landscape, which for starters, I think everything that exists today, or I'll say almost everything just so I don't piss off someone that maybe I haven't looked at what they're doing. Pretty much everything today, just like it doesn't make sense. It's just like a dumb multi chain, multisig side chain kind of thing. They don't actually make sense. The thing that does make sense to me is the kind of long run where someone is actually able to build a very strongly trust minimized type of construction.
01:05:07.954 - 01:05:58.022, Speaker B: Back to the conversation we're having. The starters, someone like Alpen, I think they are a great team, and what they're trying to build actually makes sense in this regard of the longer term. I think that that excites me a lot because the whole ethereum kind of l two vision is it's just for scale. It's like l one is expensive, we need all these l two s to go make everything cheap. Bitcoin is still totally different in that it is still like the biggest and most desirable asset and you literally just have no programmability, there's no defi, there's no anything. So the thing that I get excited by is in the longer term which doesnt exist today, is when theres actually a real trust minimized bitcoin like quote unquote l two. I think that that will be huge because I dont even think of it as an l two, I think of the trust minimize probably one that wins that or maybe two.
01:05:58.022 - 01:06:40.974, Speaker B: Its really bitcoins execution layer more than it is just an l two. Its really adding the basic functionality and programmability of the main use case that I really want for that is super simple dumb defi. I want to just like people who have like I have a ton of bitcoin. Not me. I wish of like hey ive had bitcoin for like ten years. Im like I dont trust like celsius or blockfi or whoever with this like I just want to have like makerdao in a trust minimized way that I just go borrow against the bitcoin. Really simple dumb defi that is like the starting point that like im super excited for because yeah like most of the defi stuff that I say in practice today in this market I don't see a lot of super, super novel stuff.
01:06:40.974 - 01:07:14.808, Speaker B: It's mostly this is a better purchase exchange and you're adding like we have this cool privacy thing that we're adding which are interesting but there's no zero to ones to me that I see really today they're mostly restaking gimmicks built on top of that or this is a better perks exchange. We had this privacy thing and some of those are going to be really cool but they're not zero to one. The only real huge zero to one is when bitcoin, bitcoin defi to me becomes a real thing. And it's not like sidechain defi with like we have like some WBTC thing that'll be exciting to me. But as long ground.
01:07:14.936 - 01:07:46.064, Speaker A: Yes. I am also quite optimistic about pushing the execution layer to the l two s on bitcoin, which for what it's worth is long been the rationale of bitcoiners. And I think that bitcoiners get a bit of a bad rap in that. Ethereums are often quite convinced that they came up with modularism. Bitcoin has been modular in theory since the start. Right. And they have pushed all this expressivity off.
01:07:46.064 - 01:08:01.588, Speaker A: So, yeah, that gets me excited as well. I hope that we can figure out some way to do what you're saying. Like, dumb, dumb defi. That is at least very trust minimized. Well, we're. Yeah. Coming up on time here, so I really appreciate it.
01:08:01.588 - 01:08:06.060, Speaker A: I thought we got covered a lot of topics. Do you have anything else that you wanted to add?
01:08:06.252 - 01:08:09.024, Speaker B: No, that wasn't for me. It was a ton of fun.
01:08:09.364 - 01:08:19.212, Speaker A: Awesome. Okay. Where can people find you on Twitter? It's like. And then your website, if you want to show your vc.
01:08:19.348 - 01:08:38.286, Speaker B: Yeah, website is super easy. Dva xyZ. That's our website. Yeah, you can look me up on Twitter. And the main thing I'll show on Twitter is just like. Yeah, again, that we dropped our research day videos, I think, like a day or two ago, something like that, which I guess will be a little longer when this comes out. But highly recommend checking those out.
01:08:38.286 - 01:08:43.326, Speaker B: Really appreciate all the speakers. Did an awesome job. So super appreciative to them.
01:08:43.430 - 01:08:44.462, Speaker A: Awesome. Thank you so much.
01:08:44.518 - 01:08:45.054, Speaker B: Yeah, take care.
