00:00:00.200 - 00:00:20.234, Speaker A: Morning, afternoon, or evening, depending on where you are. And welcome to the workshop on the branch of next spaces. It's my great pleasure to introduce our first speaker, then, Tim Martin from Simon Stoil of Institute of Mathematics of the Romanian Academy of Sciences, and he will continue his mini course on the branches of mixed spaces.
00:00:21.414 - 00:01:39.114, Speaker B: Thanks a lot. So, as I was saying, I'm a little bit uneasy because some of my punchlines of today have already been shown to you yesterday, and even more than this, but, well, that's live. I have to continue. And the first thing is the basic dichotomy that the brown spaces present that already has appeared, I think, in more than one talk yesterday. So, as I say, you split in two the theory, because it's quite surprising how different things happen according to whether b is not an extreme point of the unit ball of h infinity. Now, extreme point, this is a geometric characterization, but in fact, what we are interested in is that it has an analytic characterization. You must have this inequality satisfied and the equivalence of these two things.
00:01:39.114 - 00:02:48.224, Speaker B: Sometimes it's attributed to the loo and Rudin, but in fact, it appears only in a note, in a note at the end of the paper that deals with extreme, with the unit ball of h one. And then at the end, they just say, well, it's just a complete things. This is a well known fact that in h infinity is extreme if and only if this happens. Okay, so, in particular, inner functions that we have met already at model spaces are extreme, because in fact, you have just zero everywhere. Here, you see that being non extreme means that this quantity here is not very often zero. For instance, if you just take a b, strictly smaller, h infinity strictly smaller, norm strict is more than one. Of course, it's not extreme.
00:02:48.224 - 00:04:13.864, Speaker B: Now, something that already, Alexandro Alleman stated yesterday that in a very rough way, you can describe the behavior of h, of b in these two cases. Like in the first case, non extreme, it resembles somehow h two, while in the extreme case, it resembles the model space ku. And from this point of view, in fact, we will see that somehow we will have more to say about non extreme case, because the extreme case, well, it's, you try to, you find out that you get more or less what happens in ku. Well, you can extend it often, and you have to work a little bit more to change a little bit some things, but it's not very different. While in the first case, I said it has common feature with h two, but also it's very different. So probably we will see during the course that we will have to say more things about the non extreme case. Okay, let's just check what happens when b is rational.
00:04:13.864 - 00:05:40.292, Speaker B: Then it has an inner outer categorization where both terms are rational and bi is a Blaschke product. And to get the other factor, well, you can. No, not to get, you get the other factor, of course, by looking at the zeros and arranging taking them outside the unit disk. But now, I was just, I wanted to make this remark, which is somehow a simple case of a more complicated description that will appear on the next page. Namely that because of the fairies theorem, you can find a trigonometric polynomial r with this property. So, in fact, you can immediately construct a rational function a with the properties that one minus b of e to the it squared is equal to modules of a to e to the I t squared there. So our integral that we were interested in here, sometimes I can put one minus b to the eit squared or without the square, because there is another factor that is surely finite.
00:05:40.292 - 00:06:25.016, Speaker B: So it doesn't change the basic condition, which is that the integral has to be larger than minus infinity. So this integral actually is precisely the. Yeah, so of course there's a factor here. Oh, I divided by two and I multiply by two. So there's no more two in the one over PI. So in case we have two cases, either b is inner, then a is identical to zero, or if this does not happen, then a is not identically zero. And being a rational function, not a rational function, this logarithm is surely greater than minus infinity.
00:06:25.016 - 00:06:57.656, Speaker B: Singularity is the a can be some multiple zeros on the boundary on t. And then if you take the log, then it's integral, you don't have a problem. So, in fact, in this case, you can. In the rational case, you can see that B is extreme precisely when it's inner. There are no other ways for b to be extreme. But of course, this is not true. In general, there exists extreme non inner function.
00:06:57.656 - 00:08:00.454, Speaker B: You can just, you may fix the modulus on the boundary as you want, and you can make it to be one on part of the boundary and not one on the rest. So this part gives you the integral of minus infinity, and the rest doesn't count. Okay, so we start, maybe for the reason that I said that they are a little bit more interesting. We start with the non extreme case, and we will try to see some of the properties in this case. Now, the first thing we do in the non extreme case is actually to repeat the trick that we had on the previous page. Mainly the trick with just one moment. Okay, so this construction of a that was done here somehow by hand, by use of the fair risk polynomial theorem.
00:08:00.454 - 00:09:22.294, Speaker B: Actually, you can do it in the general case for b non extreme, because once you know that this function here is integrable, you can construct the classical formula to construct the outer function that has this modulus. So this function is uniquely determined by these two properties. First, its outer, and the sum a squared plus b squared modulus on t is equal to one. Such a pair will be called a euclidean pair. And the first thing that we want to note is that from this relation, we can immediately obtain this relation between the tubeless operators. And since we know that the ranges of these tuplets operators are respectively the two spaces that appear here, we have m of a bar equal h of b bar. So this is an equality that is much used in the theory of non extreme, in the non extreme case for the brown spaces.
00:09:22.294 - 00:10:32.454, Speaker B: So we come back to this example, because I discussed the space corresponding to this example quite at length yesterday, and it will come back again and again. It's, it's a kind of the simplest non trivial example of the burger space. And when I say non trivial, this means that it's not something very trivial, and neither is it a model space, because we already had a whole course on model spaces. So in the case of B, we find a it's equal one minus z over two. Now, if you remember, I haven't written here, but when we compute it, when we get a formula for H of B, in this case we had one minus z that played main role there. And this is, as you can expect, it's not by chance, but we are not yet there. This will come later.
00:10:32.454 - 00:11:22.684, Speaker B: Okay. I mentioned also this fact that b rational implies irrational, which was on the previous slide. And now a first result. Let me put all the statements here. This is somehow a technical result that is quite important when you start to work with the case non extreme, namely, for each f in h of b, you can find some element which traditionally is denoted f plus in h two. With this properties, t b bar of f is equal to t a bar f plus. Now the importance of this element is in the, .2
00:11:22.684 - 00:12:53.494, Speaker B: where you see that the scalar product in Hfb and the norm in HfB, of course, can be written in just in terms of the usual scalar products and the usual norm if you apply it to the same function. Now of course, this doesn't simplify completely the computation of the norm, because you have to find f, but still in many cases you may find f, and then you have just the usual scalar product. As you remember that one of the problems that we have in the brown space is like in reproducing kernel spaces, is that we don't have a an explicit formula for the scalar product or for the norm. And in fact, this is, this has a kind of converse, namely, if we are given f in h two and we find f plus such that one is true, then automatically we know that f is in H of B. So what we will do soon will be to exhibit some elements of h of b by finding f plus. Okay, so let's prove this, or at least let's give a sketch of proof, because it's very simple. Well, part of it, I think three, I don't proof three.
00:12:53.494 - 00:13:47.074, Speaker B: We had a general theorem that said yesterday that said that function f belongs to the Baron Geroniat space if and only hfb, if and only if t b bar applied to f is in h of b bar. But on the previous slides we had just noted that h of B bar is equal to m of a bar. So of course, if it's m of a bar, it has to be of the form t a bar applied to some vector f plus. And this is also uniquely defined because a outer means that Ta has dense range, which passing to the adjoint means that Ta bar is injected. So f is unique. And we have basically proved one and two. Now, before we go further, let's do this.
00:13:47.074 - 00:15:04.354, Speaker B: Let's remind this thing, as I said, it's quite important to know which is f plus. We don't have a formula that tells us how we find f, except this relationship. So it's good to note that if we take an f that is in Hb and that has an f plus, then we remember that d phi bar f is also in H of B. This was a general effect for the branch Rovnya spaces that they are invariant to add joints of analytic operators. But not only is it there, but these formulas shows us that the plus corresponding to t phi bar f is obtained by applying t phi bar f to f plus. So this makes some computation easier, will see. Okay, now the first thing, as I advertise that I can obtain is that I can exhibit some elements that are in h of B.
00:15:04.354 - 00:15:58.128, Speaker B: For instance one, the constant function one is in H of B. This is quite nice, because you remember that it's not always in model spaces, only when b of zero is zero. But here it's always no matter which is b and how do we do it? Well, as I said, we just write this, just write this relation one by writing directly f. So our f is b of zero bar divided by a of zero bar. Remember that a is outer, so there's no problem in division by a of zero. So since this is immediately checked, it follows that one is in h of b and that we can also compute its norm, which is written there. Okay, b itself.
00:15:58.128 - 00:16:31.206, Speaker B: This is quite another thing. Interesting thing that B is an h of B. This is more surprising if you think of. Well, it's not surprising because the spaces are different, but in model spaces, B is never in H of B, it's always outside. Because remember that the orthogonal of the model space is bh two. Well, and this is also a computation. I just.
00:16:31.206 - 00:17:23.026, Speaker B: It's written here and we find that b plus is this guy, one over a of zero bar minus a. And again, this allows us to compute also the norm. Okay, something else. Remember that one is the Cauchy kernel corresponding to zero. Well, we have all Cauchy kernels corresponding to points in the unit disk belong to H of B. And this again, you have here the relations that ensure this. And the main thing is that you remember that the relation that we are interested in implies tb, bar and tabar, and kw is an eigenvector for both of them.
00:17:23.026 - 00:17:58.484, Speaker B: This is the general reproducing kernel space fact. So it's easy to obtain this relation. And as in the first case, we divide by a of w, which is different from zero. And. Well, I haven't written here the computation, but you can obtain also that here you have one b. Here you will have kw and bkw, which is also in H of B. Okay, something else about H of B.
00:17:58.484 - 00:18:45.164, Speaker B: No model space Ku contains a set of all polynomials. However, for being non extreme, the opposite happens. Bp is contained in H of B, and not only is it contained, but it's dense therein. And I give a proof which is not very complicated. So I know that a of zero is different from zero. So t a bar applied to the polynomial starts with you. See, if you apply ta bar, then somehow you have the, you go to the left with the problem with a.
00:18:45.164 - 00:19:43.842, Speaker B: And so the result is that you start with a of zero bar c n zn plus terms of lower degree. And so ta bar maps a polynomial into a polynomial of the same degree. Now I know that this means that. So if I start with the polynomial of degree n, I applied here a bar, I obtain also polynomial of degree n of the same degree. This means that n at a bar contains polynomials of all degrees, and if it contains polynomial of all degrees, it's easy to see that in fact it has to contain all polynomials. So even m of a bar contains all polynomials, which is equal to h of B bar. And there was a fact stated at the beginning that h of B bar includes h of B includes h of b bar.
00:19:43.842 - 00:20:28.494, Speaker B: So the polynomials are in H of B. Well, in this moment we might be surprised by the fact that polynomials are dense in Hfb because H of B bar is in principle smaller. It's contractively included. But this I will do immediately. First of all, note that since polynomials are dense in h two, they are dense also in m of a bar. This is just the computation of the norm. You see, the norm of t a bar applied to p minus f in m of a bar is just the norm of p minus f in the hardest space.
00:20:28.494 - 00:21:22.554, Speaker B: And then this means that on the other hand, ta bar p is also a polynomial. We just solved. So if we get epsilon smaller than epsilon in the first term, the same happens for the second term. And then I have a claim that, I claim that m of a is a dense submanifold in h of B, which would finish the matter. And this is a little bit of computation that you have to do. It's not so the previous points in this proof, namely we start with an h of b that with an h and h of b that we suppose orthogonal to m of a bar, and we want to show that it's zero. So if it's orthogonal m of a bar, it's orthogonal to all these guys here.
00:21:22.554 - 00:22:36.172, Speaker B: And now using this nice formula that I noticed on when I introduced the f plus and the formula for the scalar product, the scalar product in b is equal, can be written with the usual scalar product. If I use the pluses, then I obtain this relation. Well, this is quite okay. So here, of course it's product, it's not a of this. Okay, now this means that, you see, this is true for any, for all n greater than zero. So the, this means that the usual scalar product of this function with the monomials with exponentials with non positive degree is zero. So this belongs to the what is under the integral belongs to h two naught.
00:22:36.172 - 00:23:15.836, Speaker B: And now we apply a property of outer function. If we have a function g in l two, this is usually stated for h two, but it's the same thing for h two naught. If we have a function in l two and its product with an outer function is in h two, then the function itself is in h two, or in this case, in h two. Naught. Somehow we can divide by outer function, so to speak. So I just saw that. I have a question.
00:23:15.836 - 00:23:50.386, Speaker B: Of course, the polynomials are dense in the age of b norm. Yes, this is correct. Here they are in the first line. Here they are dense in m of a bar, so in its norm. And then the original statement was that they are dense in the h of b norm. Okay, so we have obtained a positive function in h two naught, which has to be zero. And the claim is proved.
00:23:50.386 - 00:24:31.770, Speaker B: And putting all pieces together, it follows that p is dense in h of d. So our debrajovniak space has the polynomials inside and has a dense set. Okay, now I get close to. Well, I will have a superposition with Alexandra. No, with Paris. Talk of yesterday. If I have a function in h of b, there exists a sequence such that PNS is zero.
00:24:31.770 - 00:25:49.452, Speaker B: But of course, this existence result. We should like to know how we can make this approximation. And more precisely, there are usual standard ways of approximating analytic functions by polynomials. We can take the partial sums, we can take the Cesaro means, we can take the dilations and tend r to one. Well, there is an example that, as I said, was quoted by Parisay yesterday. I was going to say yesterday night, which was the situation in here, but for you, it was yesterday afternoon, namely, that you may have an example where none of these ways is good for convergence, because all of all the approximants in the different types of approximations all tend to infinity. And in fact, this, as it's written here, is an example of 2016.
00:25:49.452 - 00:27:01.104, Speaker B: But last, in the talk of yesterday, we learned that, in fact, this example is worse than you can expect, that it's not good. You don't have convergence, even with a large class of summation method, that you might have expected to work better. And just, of course, I will not prove this here, but just one remark that the reason why this does not work is that precisely this map, f goes to f plus is bad. For this function, f may have small norm, and f explodes. Okay, so these are the main things about the non extreme case. And then I will speak a little bit about the extreme case. I won't speak very much about the extreme case, because, as I said, many things happen, like in the inner case, so they are not very spectacular.
00:27:01.104 - 00:27:48.544, Speaker B: But still, let's discuss a little bit. Analytic continuation. Analytic continuation of elements of HFB, because in the non extreme case, there are maybe many elements that can extend analytically in a neighborhood of the disk. Remember that in case normal v is strict is smaller than one, h of b is equal to h of two as a set. So it contains all kinds of functions that can be extended. Well, in the extreme case, things are much more restrictive. Namely, the following are equivalent.
00:27:48.544 - 00:28:38.024, Speaker B: F is in Hfb and can be analytically continued in a neighborhood of the unit of the closed unit disk if and only if f is rational and tb bar f is equal to zero. And in this case, for these functions, the norm in h of b is precisely equal to the h two norm. So for this type of function, you have equality. And I will prove the simple part which is two implies one. I will show that if two happens, then the function can be an itk. Continued. And the reason is that if t b bar f is equal to zero, then it's in particular, of course, it's in h of b bar.
00:28:38.024 - 00:29:10.274, Speaker B: So the result of yesterday implies that f is in h of b. So this is the first thing and. Oh yes, okay. And the rational function cannot have poles on t. And so it can be analytically continued. So it's rational. It can be analytically continued across all of t.
00:29:10.274 - 00:30:06.316, Speaker B: So we have both statements in one are true, and the norm, well, the norm is simple because we can compute it by taking the norm of t b bar f in h of b bar. But tb bar f is zero, so the second term is zero. Okay, so in particular, in case, I will just comment a little bit what this means in the case, in the inner case, because then td bar f is equivalent to f belongs to ku. So you just have this conditional irrationality. There is no condition about tb bar f anymore. And if you. So if it's inner, it may be a blaschke product.
00:30:06.316 - 00:30:43.856, Speaker B: Then all elements are rational. So all extend analytically in a neighborhood. Or if it's not rational, if it's not a Blaschke product, then there always are non rational elements in Ku. For instance, kuv if u w different from zero, and those do not extend analytically. So if u is not rational, I always have non rational. I always have elements in Ku that do not extend analytically. Okay, now this is an interesting corollary again for extreme functions.
00:30:43.856 - 00:31:38.940, Speaker B: Remember that for non extreme functions, all Cauchy kernels belong to the space. Well, in the extreme case only in the case b of lambda is equal to zero. And this is one thing. And the second thing is that if a monomial belongs to h of b, then b has to have a zero of order, at least m plus one at the origin again, remember that in the non extreme case, all polynomials belongs to h of b. And as I say, it's a simple corollary, because if b of lambda is equal to zero, then k, the Cauchy kernel, is equal to the Braun Romiak kernel. So it has to be there. And inverse v k lambda itself extends outside d.
00:31:38.940 - 00:32:32.084, Speaker B: So in order for it to belong to h of b, we must have tb bar k lambda equals zero. But we know that k lambdas are eigenvectors with eigenvalue b of lambda bar. So from q it follows that b of lambda is zero. Sorry, I have to drink a bit of water. Okay. For point number two, I just write b of z as a series. Then I obtain this formula, and you see that the tb bar zm is zero, which is the condition for z to the m to belong to h of b if and only if all these coefficients are zero up to m.
00:32:32.084 - 00:33:24.728, Speaker B: And you can check then that whole polynomials in degrees smaller than m are in H of B. Okay, now I have to go fast over this slide, because this is what appeared in Alexandro spoke of yesterday. But still, I thought that it's a result so nice, you may repeat it next day. It's not bad. So, in the non extreme case, polynomials are dense. Here, from the coroner, it shows that you cannot have a dense set of polynomials, except when h of b is finely dimensional, which has happens very rarely. And so I would like to have other dense sets composed of nice functions.
00:33:24.728 - 00:34:34.484, Speaker B: And you might think of continuous function, because you have Alexandrov's theorem that says that in the model spaces, the continuous functions that are in Ku are dense therein. Well, this is quite an interesting proof, because it's not constructed. And I just give you an example. If you have a singularity on the boundary, like the simplest thing we in a function, you don't have a concrete example of continuous function in Ku. And recently we had this extension of Arman and Malman that said that the same thing happens for b extreme. So they managed to also obtain bioduality argument, the equivalent of Alexandro's theorem. And in fact, yesterday Alemann talk of other generalization, and I understood that today we will hear about other generalizations from Baktosh Malman.
00:34:34.484 - 00:35:35.900, Speaker B: Okay, now here I make the connection with what I did in the first. At the beginning, I said that the interest of the branch and Rognia, when they introduced their spaces, was to obtain model spaces, to obtain functional models. So let's see what happens with h of b as a functional model. For this, I start with the model spaces, the Kus. Remember that u is inner. I have the ku, I have the compression of s to ku, or the compression of the separator corresponding to z, and ku is invariant with respect to the f joint. And these are the model spaces.
00:35:35.900 - 00:36:40.864, Speaker B: And of course, once you call them model spaces, the question is what are they models for? And this has appeared in Stefan's course there is a CRM. Now, I prefer to state it for the ad joint, because for the brown spaces it's more natural to write them for the adjoint. Namely, they are models of the following class, the contractions that have defect operators of rank one and tends strongly to zero. So such an operator is unitarily equivalent to the restriction of s. Start to model space for some inner function u. Well, now remember that our space h of b to the Bernard Robin space also is invariant with respect to s star. So I can take the restriction which I have already denoted by xb.
00:36:40.864 - 00:37:45.990, Speaker B: And the question is whether xb is a model operator. In other words, is there a class of operators such that whenever the, such that every operator from that class is uniquely equivalent to some xp? Well, the answer is partially yes. First of all, I have this theorem that is very similar to the previous CRM, mainly to have t unitary equivalent to x b for some extreme function b in the unit ball, it's necessarily sufficient to have again the defects of rank one. But then instead of t to the n tends to zero. You ask less. Well, it doesn't have to tend necessary to zero. But in any case, there must be no subspace, no invariant subspace such that it's restriction.
00:37:45.990 - 00:38:43.070, Speaker B: There is an isometry. So we have h of b's for extreme functions are functional models for this class of contractions. But if we, now you see both, in both cases we have this condition on the defects I minus t t and I minus t rank one. Well, we are still left with one case. What happens if there exists the subspace of h invariant to t and such that its restriction is an isometry? Somehow, if things were nice, it should have been equivalent to xb for some non extreme b. But the answer is, well, unfortunately, let's say no in this case. If you want to obtain a model space, a functional model, then it's more complicated.
00:38:43.070 - 00:39:45.114, Speaker B: You need a second space, and the model space you can write it is a space of pairs and functions. And with this very complicated definition I will not discuss. But it's, well, it's very non constructive. And maybe this is one of the reasons that the Nok Feuersch theory was more successful, because it captured this case in a easier visualizable way. Okay, so one thing before we go further, we still can be stubborn and say, well, I'm thinking of H of B for non extreme. Is it not a function model for a certain class of operators? Well, it happens that it is, but it's not a very nice class. First of all, there are two simple conditions.
00:39:45.114 - 00:40:36.234, Speaker B: These the defect condition. But you see that this defect has rank two. So we cannot expect it to be a model for the, for the contraction with defects of rank one and the dimension, the kernel one, t to the n tends to zero strongly. And then there are some other two conditions which are really complicated to state that appear in a paper by Javad and myself. And so we have identified this class only that it's, as I said, it's quite a weird class. And what happens now? The question is, if the defect ranks are higher, well, in fact you can obtain a model theory. But what you probably expect that you have to replace usual analytic function with vector valued analytic functions.
00:40:36.234 - 00:42:05.334, Speaker B: Okay, now we have discussed the relation with the function models, and in the SQL I will discuss a little bit operators on HFP. So first of all, I start with xb, which is the model operator. And we know that it's a contraction. And then you may ask yourself usual question, what is the spectrum? Well, we know, for instance, that for model spaces, there is the Lifschitz Meller theorem that says that the spectrum of the adjoint. So here always the adjoint appears because I have considered somehow the adjoint of the usual model for inner function. And so the spectrum of the operator is related to a behavior of the function, namely, in fact the spectrum are the zeros in u, which are eigenvect eigenvalues together with the points, the singular points of singularity of the function on the boundary. Well, what happens in our case for the Braun strognac spaces spectrum of, I will manage somehow to discuss together xb and xb.
00:42:05.334 - 00:43:08.684, Speaker B: But again, we have to split the discussion between extreme and non extreme cases, because in the non extreme case, it's very simple. These spectra do not depend on B. They are just as it's written here. The spectra are the closed unit disk point spectrum for xb is d, for xb star, it's the empty set. And so if you look at this, then we, okay, so you see that the eigenvectors of xb are exactly the eigenvectors of a star, because all the KW's that are eigenvectors for S star in H. Two, in fact belong to H of B. And so from here you immediately obtain that the spectrum of the point spectrum of B is the same as the point spectrum of s star, that is d.
00:43:08.684 - 00:43:37.770, Speaker B: And of course, the first statement follows, because you have, it's a contraction. So the spectrum has to be inside the closed unit disk. And from here you have the closed unit disk there. And three is also true. I don't prove it now. So this happens in the non extreme case. In the extreme case, things become very similar to the inner case.
00:43:37.770 - 00:44:16.994, Speaker B: It's okay. So I just write again, I have the spectrum of b, which is, I write it directly, the union of the zeros of b and d and the complements of the arcs I and t, through which b may be extended analytically. And the modulus of b is one. This is necessary. It's automatically set aside for inner function. So it did not appear there. This condition on the modulus of b on the circle, but for non inner functions, means that whenever you have an arc where this is smaller than one, it's bad.
00:44:16.994 - 00:45:00.618, Speaker B: And then the theorem is very similar. Okay, so for the moment, we just have x b star. The spectrum of x b star is this set here that is defined in terms of B. And the point spectrum is its intersection with a disk. Now what happens with xb and x, the spectrum of xb and the spectrum of x, the point spectrum of xb. So I thought this is the right moment to introduce a conjugation that is the equivalent of the conjugation on model spaces. You remember maybe that on model spaces, the conjugation was defined by u z bar, f bar.
00:45:00.618 - 00:46:09.124, Speaker B: And it had, you can define l two, but at least ku invariant. And then you have here a relation that says, in fact, that x u is complex, symmetric with respect to this conjugation. Well, in the general case, you still have a map, this one that extends to a contractive anti linear map from CB, from hmb into itself. And in the case B is extreme, it's isometric and on two, so it becomes a conjugation on Hb. So this map is the exact equivalence of the conjugation on the model space only in the extreme case, but this is the case that we were discussing. And then, of course, we can immediately obtain by means of this relation, the spectrum of x b and the point spectrum from those of xb. Okay, invariant subspaces, cyclic vectors.
00:46:09.124 - 00:47:09.530, Speaker B: What happens for S star? Because Xb is a restriction of X star. Well, they are the spaces, the model spaces Ku. Well, in the non extreme case, we know that the subspaces are exactly the ones that we have to have, in the sense that these spaces of the type Ku intersected with H of B are invariant subspace automatically. And so it happens that in fact, these are all. In fact, this map that goes from Ku to Ku intersected with H of B is even one to one. The lattice of the invariant space subspaces of the xb is isomorphic to the lattice at inner function. And cyclic vectors have in S star for s star and h two have a precise characterization.
00:47:09.530 - 00:48:19.090, Speaker B: They do not have a bounded type meromorphic pseudo continuation in the exterior of the unit disc. And I don't want to discuss too much this definition, but in the non extreme case, again, we have the same thing, the cyclic vectors, or the same thing, an analogous thing. The cyclic vectors for xb are precisely the cyclic vectors for a star that belong to h of B. Now remember that I have another operator in the case, in the non extreme case, I did not discuss too much that in the non extreme case. Okay, so sorry, I, we had, from this theorem, we had just the fact that one implies four, but we have also one implies two. Then I have a formula for s that shows that two is equivalent to three. So if b belongs to h of b.
00:48:19.090 - 00:49:47.488, Speaker B: So this formula tells us that the usual shift leaves h of b invariant. And then since one, this can be written as the sum of a kernel in h of b plus a multiple of b. Once b belongs to H of B, we have one belongs to H of B. And then applying s gives you all polynomials. And finally, the result that we have obtained that b is extreme z to the m implies that b has a zero order, at least n plus one at the original shows that if the polynomials belong to H of B, we are, well, we have to have b non extreme. Okay, so the importance, the consequence of this theorem apart, the fact that it's quite nice because it gives another characterization of non extreme, is that we may consider the operator S also as an operator of H of B, and we will denote it by s b. Now this is, you see, you are usually, in many cases, s is an isometry or a contraction, but this does not happen here.
00:49:47.488 - 00:50:43.404, Speaker B: In fact, one can compute the norm and it's strictly larger than one. However, the spectrum is just the closure of the unit disk. And why does this happen? Because I have this formula that tells you that it's a one dimensional perturbation of the contraction x b star. So any spectral points outside must be an eigenvalue, but s has no eigenvalue. So s b, which is the restriction of s, doesn't have. So once we know that we have this operator, we may think of invariant subspaces of sp. And with the usual argument that we have for xb, we have the invariant subspaces h of b intersected with invariant subspaces of s on h two.
00:50:43.404 - 00:51:27.008, Speaker B: Now what about the converse? Is every invariant subspace of this type? Well, a partial converse is true, but we need some supplementary conditions. Quite weird. So we have, well, we are, of course, we are working in the case b non extreme. But we have these two conditions. The enthemum of modulus of a of z plus modulus of b of z has to be strictly larger than one, which is usually said that a and b form a corona pair. And this condition about the operator t a over a bar. And then any subspace is of this form.
00:51:27.008 - 00:52:25.194, Speaker B: Now, the second condition, well, it's well known in other contexts. It happens if and only if a modus of a squared satisfied a certain health on segue condition. And so this is not very surprising that it appears here. And I have written here also a non trivial example, because if you try the usual example, the usual simple rational things, usually you don't get this, but in this case, you have an example where you take, we start with a of z and then construct b. Okay, I'm a little bit out of time, but I will present you now just one more slide where I revisit this example. One plus z over two. I said that it's quite important and we will come back to it several times.
00:52:25.194 - 00:53:39.806, Speaker B: And for it, the first condition is satisfied, but the second is not satisfied because ta over a bar is not invertible. Well, it does not satisfy the hypothesis, so it's not surprising that it does not satisfy the conclusion either. Remember now that in this case, h of B was the direct sum between c and z minus one h two. Then we look at this subspace, which is a closed subspace of h of the invariant for sbir, but it's not of the type that I said, because if it would have been of, uh, two intersected with h of b, I have z minus one z in e. So this equality would imply that u is just z, because the left hand side here has the inner function z. And then we will have to have, uh, belonging to this intersection, because obviously it's an h of b. But if the intersection would be e, we get a contradiction since z is not of the form z minus one times v times h two.
00:53:39.806 - 00:53:46.194, Speaker B: Okay, thank you. This is. I'm sorry for being a little bit over time.
00:53:48.134 - 00:54:02.894, Speaker A: Thank you very much. Questions, comments, suggestions? You can ask them in chat or shout them out.
00:54:03.674 - 00:54:33.414, Speaker B: Dan, is anything known about cyclic vectors of the forward shift? Cyclic vector of the forward shift for extreme, for non extreme? Because for non extreme. Sorry, sorry. For non extreme. I. So I don't know exactly in this moment. Okay. Maybe manu or Javad knows.
00:54:33.414 - 00:55:14.144, Speaker B: There are some results in the rational case. I think if I remember correctly, you have the cyclic vectors, maybe they should be outer. And also there is a condition on the point, on the boundary where a has its zeros. So I think the cyclic vectors shouldn't vanish at this point or something like that. And that's a characterization for rational. Yeah, yeah. Okay.
00:55:17.844 - 00:55:27.984, Speaker A: There is a question in the chat. Are there any references on results on extreme non extreme functions in unit ball of h infinity? I think you already mentioned them, but.
00:55:28.324 - 00:56:08.024, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah, I think. Well, all the literature of the brown spaces, it's full of this. So. Well, starting with paper, with the book of Sarason, for instance. And then if you have finished the book of Sarah son, you take the freehand Mashregi book, you can find many Russia, many results there, but they are related to, well, almost invariant substrates. And there are other things that usually they are mainly many such results.
00:56:09.124 - 00:56:16.644, Speaker A: Thank you. More questions? Comments? If not, let's thank them again.
