00:00:02.250 - 00:00:43.846, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news. Recap Celsius CEO dreams up a Hail Mary to skepticism Celsius CEO Alex Machinsky is pushing for a revival of the firm, according to a leaked recording handed to a Celsius customer who also gave it to the New York Times. According to the NYT, Machinsky outlined the plan in a meeting with employees last week. This CEO wants to revamp the company, building a business focused on crypto custody and charging fees on certain types of transactions. The plan's name, Kelvin Mushzynski, compared his firm's bankruptcy to other companies'bankruptcies. Does it make the Pepsi taste less good? He asked employees. Delta filed for bankruptcy.
00:00:43.846 - 00:01:25.560, Speaker A: Do you not fly Delta because they filed for bankruptcy? Thomas Brazil, bankruptcy expert, called the plan a joke and encouraged Mishinsky to step down. He also said, Delta is not a financial firm that operates on faith or trust. That's the big difference between financial and non financial bankruptcies. Even though Machinsky seemed enthusiastic, the plan would require approval by federal Judge Martin Glenn. In addition, the creditor committee has serious concerns about it and also about Machinsky's involvement with Celsius. On Wednesday, the judge approved an order to appoint a neutral third party as an examiner of Celsius's financials. Using an examiner in Chapter Eleven bankruptcies is not very common.
00:01:25.560 - 00:02:38.142, Speaker A: Lastly, on Monday, two lawyers from the Federal Trade Commission requested permission to represent the regulator in Celsius'bankruptcy case, though it's unclear what the agency's intention is. Treasury allows recovery of tornado cash funds, but leaves open questions. On Tuesday, the US Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, updated its Frequently Asked Questions or FAQ document, which provides guidance on how to remain compliant with the sanctions against tornado cash. As per the updated document, American citizens who used the virtual currency mixer before sanctions were implemented will be able to apply for a license to recover the locked funds. OFAC also provided an update on the issue of celebrities and famous crypto community members being dusted with small amounts of ETH from tornado cash and said it will not prioritize enforcement against them. However, OFAC did not address the sanctions compliance responsibilities of various participants involved in validating transactions under proof of stake the exact questions many members of the crypto community have been debating since the sanctions. This week, crypto venture capital firm Paradigm laid out legal arguments against the sanctions on tornado cash.
00:02:38.142 - 00:03:30.590, Speaker A: The company said, we believe that under current OFAC guidance base layer participants are not required to monitor or censor these addresses as part of a risk based sanctions compliance program. According to blockchain security firms Pexhield and Certic, a hacker laundered $500,000 through tornado cash on Tuesday. The exploit happened in August of 2021 due to a bug in the dow makers smart contract. A South Korean court wants Do Kwan arrested. A court in South Korea issued an arrest warrant against Doe Kwan, CEO of TerraForm Labs and founder of the failed Terra Blockchain last month. Kwon said in an interview with coinage that he was not being sought by investigators. However, after the news of the arrest warrant broke, Coinage tweeted that Kwon told the media outlet he has yet to receive any warrant from Korean prosecutors.
00:03:30.590 - 00:04:10.538, Speaker A: The warrant will be valid for one year, and authorities expect help from Interpol to carry out the arrest of Kwon and two other TerraForm Lab employees, all believed to be based in Singapore. In addition, South Korea's Ministry of Finance is looking to void Kwon's passport. Doing so would force him to return to South Korea, where he would most likely be arrested. During the week, the price of Luna has experienced a crazy ride. It rose more than threefold, from a dollar $91 to $7.06, and is currently trading at around $3. After the news of the arrest warrant spread, someone created a token called jail quan ticker J.
00:04:10.538 - 00:04:33.502, Speaker A: KWN inflation tanked Crypto. On Tuesday. The US. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported the Consumer Price Index, or CPI, for August. The numbers came in higher than expected, showing an 8.3% inflation rate over the last twelve months. The news was taken very negatively by the market, which started to price a higher interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve.
00:04:33.502 - 00:05:10.160, Speaker A: Consequently, all speculative assets plummeted, including cryptocurrencies. The price of BTC fell almost 10% that day, and ETH suffered a 7% drawdown as well. According to Coinglass, more than $110,000,000 was liquidated during the hour following the release. During this high volatility period, crypto exchange FTX's interface froze. Later founder and CEO Sam bankman Fried apologized for the inconvenience. Fidelity Investments plans to offer bitcoin trading. The Wall Street Journal reported on Monday that Fidelity Investments is planning to offer spot bitcoin trading to retail customers.
00:05:10.160 - 00:06:14.910, Speaker A: Fidelity handles over 34 million retail accounts on its brokerage platform and is one of the largest asset managers in the world. Earlier this year, the firm allowed companies to incorporate up to 20% of BTC into their four hundred and one K retirement plans. A day later, Fidelity Digital Assets, together with other investment giants such as Charles Schwab and Citadel, announced the launch of Edx, a new cryptocurrency exchange. This move follows BlackRock's decision to enter the industry by partnering with Coinbase to offer crypto trading to its institutional customers. It appears that despite the bear market and crypto prices, underperforming institutions are not giving up on crypto. In other adoption news, the Museum of Modern Art, or MoMA in New York, announced it might sell $70 million worth of art to expand the museum's digital footprint, which could include buying more digital art such as NFTs. The foundation plans to auction a number of masterpieces that were lent to the museum and includes paintings and sculptures by Picasso, Renoir and Rodin.
00:06:14.910 - 00:07:09.806, Speaker A: MoMA director Glenn Lowry said of the fact that the museum has so far resisted purchasing NFTs we're conscious of the fact that we lend an imprimatur when we acquire pieces, but that doesn't mean we should avoid the domain. Gary Gensler slightly changes his tune on Tokens. Gary Gensler, Chair of the securities and Exchange Commission, wants the SEC staff to recommend a pathway for crypto tokens to register as securities. In a written statement, he said, Given the nature of crypto investments, I recognize that it may be appropriate to be flexible in applying existing disclosure requirements. The news comes after Gensler's recent comments reiterating that he believes the crypto industry fits within the standards of current regulation and that nearly every token in the crypto market is a security as lawmakers are deciding how to regulate the industry. Coinbase added a feature for U. S.
00:07:09.806 - 00:08:40.878, Speaker A: Users to see the crypto sentiment scores of Congress members CEO Brian Armstrong said that it will help users get educated on the crypto positions held by political leaders where they live. Will Ethpow team make it? After the successful implementation of the merge, the Ethpow team released the main net information of the fork, including the RPC, the chain ID, and the currency symbol, which will be ETHW. The official Ethpow Twitter account previously announced that the fork would be deployed within 24 hours of the merge. However, as Justin Drake just mentioned earlier in the show, Poloniax, which is owned by Tron's Justin Sun, decided to list the coins of yet another fork called Ethereum Fair, which Polo has now listed with the ticker ETF. In its announcement, Polo said Based on the market situation and the consensus of users and the community, Poloniax has decided to choose the fork chain Ethereum Fair ETF, which is supported by the community's majority and more proof of work computing power as the main chain for ETHW tokens. In related news, Ethermind, the world's largest Ethereum mining pool, announced this week that it will stop offering proof of work services after the merge. Also, the hash rate of Ethereum Classic shot up by 280% following Ethereum's transition to proof of stake, which signals that miners are using their resources to mine other coins.
00:08:40.878 - 00:09:34.686, Speaker A: Another network that has apparently been chosen by miners is Ravencoin, which experienced almost a 100% increase in its hash rate within hours. Novogratz's Galaxy Digital gets Sued BitCo, a digital asset platform, filed a lawsuit against Galaxy Digital for breaking a merger agreement. Last month, Galaxy Digital announced the termination of its $1.2 billion acquisition of Bico. According to a press release, Galaxy is not going through with a deal because Bico failed to deliver audited financial statements for 2021 that comply with their agreement, Bico tweeted. Bico filed a lawsuit against Galaxy Digital seeking damages of more than $100 million arising from Galaxy's improper repudiation and intentional breach of its merger agreement with BitCo. Finance is another crypto company that's getting sued.
00:09:34.686 - 00:10:44.390, Speaker A: A group of Italian and international investors initiated a class action against Finance seeking to recover losses sustained during exchange outages time for fun bits Vitalik's Hammer Defeats Enemies to Merge Have you watched that final scene of The Avengers when thor comes with its freshly minted hammer to save the day. CMS Intern, a crypto account, released an edited version of that scene featuring Vitalik as Thor. The video is hilarious, and it shows Vitalik, who is buzzing off green tea and wine, defeating all the crypto problems and enemies, including Warren Buffett with his Merge hammer, aided by optimistic and zero knowledge roll ups. It ends with Vitalik jumping with his hammer, defeating the evil creatures, and then the words $10,000 ETH flash on the screen. How much would you pay for this vanity blocks? An NFT project paid 31 ETH, or around $50,000, to mint an NFT of the last Ethereum Proof of Work block. It was the sole transaction of the block. The NFT is now on sale on Openc.
00:10:44.390 - 00:11:14.218, Speaker A: And it's called the Last Proof of Work block. The best offer at press time was Ten ETH or $15,000. Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about the merge and Justin, check out the show notes for this episode. Don't miss my daily roundup of the biggest news in crypto in the Unchained daily go to unchainedpodcast.com to subscribe. Unchained is produced by Me Laura Shin with Hope from Anthony Yoon, Matt Pilchard, Watnavanovich Pama, Jimdar Shashank and CLK Transcription.
00:11:14.218 - 00:11:15.140, Speaker A: Thanks for listening thing.
