00:00:00.320 - 00:00:27.946, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 28 February 2022. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So, over the last, I guess a few days, I think maybe a couple weeks now, this has kind of been going on. There was a very, very hyped up NFT project called Pixelmon. Now, I think they've been hyping themselves up for many months now. They had their NFT mint, where they raised 70 million plus dollars worth of ETH.
00:00:27.946 - 00:01:03.772, Speaker A: So it was a. As far as I know, a 10,000 kind of like mint, 10,000 item mint at three ETH per item. So obviously raised a lot of money there. And what ended up happening was that the art got revealed for all the NFT, kind of like art got revealed for this project, and it was nothing like it was advertised. I'm sure you guys saw the memes. It was very, very low quality pixel art that looked nothing like all the marketing that Pixelmon had put together. Now, I put out a tweet over the weekend and I basically said, Pixelmon's $70 million NFT mint reminds me of the insane excess we saw in 2017 and 2018 from certain icos.
00:01:03.772 - 00:01:32.478, Speaker A: It basically always ended badly for the bag holders. Now, the floor price for these NFTs is about 0.36 ETH, so an 88% loss from mint price. If you got a floor, floor NFT, obviously the rares are probably going for a bit more, but still, I don't think they would be going for three ETH, most of them. So a loss for basically everyone involved except the people that did the race. Obviously, they're the ones who ended up with the money, they're the ones who ended up with the ETH, and they would be flying right about now. Right.
00:01:32.478 - 00:02:42.198, Speaker A: So I don't know if this project's a scam or anything like that, or an outright scam or anything. But yeah, the thing is, is that pretty much like everyone who bought into these things, or most people who bought into these things from the mint, would be completely underwater, which is the sad state of affairs. But the thing is, we've seen this play out plenty of times before, especially during ICO mania, during 2017 and 2018, where there were a lot of icos that, I mean, towards, I guess, like the end of ICO mania, they started going really bad, where they started selling below ICO price, and most of them did this, and there were so many scams. There was mega raisers that have tokens that over the years have just completely failed to accrue any sorts of value, have dumped really hard against USD and even harder against ETH, of course. So it just kind of like, this is all just reminding me of back then. Now, I think the most egregious example of the IcO mania going really bad and pear shaped for people was the EOS sale hosted by or run by block one, the company that was making EOS. Now, those of you who weren't around back in 2017 and 2018, EOS was the first, quote unquote ETH killer that people really talked about.
00:02:42.198 - 00:03:02.944, Speaker A: And that's because they claimed they were going to be super scalable. They were going to do everything that ETH couldn't do. They weren't going to have high fees, because even back then, during the icos, ethics fees would spike because of the fact that the chain would get clogged. Right. And, you know, they had all this fanfare around it, and they. What they did is they did a year long ICO. And while the ICO was running, you could trade the EOS token.
00:03:02.944 - 00:03:41.366, Speaker A: So you would throw in ETH into this kind of, like, into this contract. It would spit out eos at a certain time interval, and then the exchange price and the ICO price will get armed against each other, and there'd be a little bit of profit to eke out. Now, what this would do, it would encourage people to actually, to get that profit, put ETH into the ICO contract and keep doing that. But basically, a lot of wash trading going on. And what ended up happening was that block one raised over $4 billion worth of ETH for the EOS project. Now, obviously, as time went on, the EOS project has completely failed, and the EOS token is down very, very badly against USD at 90.7%, last time I checked.
00:03:41.366 - 00:04:13.822, Speaker A: And against ETH, it is down even more. Now, what happened to that ETH that block one raised? Well, that ETH went to go and buy bitcoin. So block one all throughout 2018, and I think some of 2019 were selling their ETH, and they had millions of it. And, you know, not just them, a lot of icos were selling their ETH. And this is a big reason why ETH fell so hard in price, fell 94% in one year, or less than a year in 2018. But I mean, to be fair, ETH going up so much was also due to ICO. Well, in large part due to ICO demand, I think.
00:04:13.822 - 00:04:48.230, Speaker A: So kind of like, give and take there. But still, what ended up happening was that block one obviously didn't do anything for EOS. Eos completely failed, and they ended up with 163,000 btC, which is $6.2 billion today. And now that is just sitting in their treasury. So really, at the end of the day, the EOS project took ETH from, you know, honest people who just wanted to kind of, like, invest in this sort of thing, traded it for bitcoin, and in the end, blocked block one, made it out with a massive bitcoin treasury. And all the eos, kind of, like, holders that didn't sell and still holding to this day, are completely wrecked.
00:04:48.230 - 00:05:15.138, Speaker A: And a lot of the people, I guess, trading eos and relying on and trusting in the EOS project were completely wrecked as well. So not to pick on EOS as a particular project here, there are a lot of examples of this during ICO mania, but they were the most egregious. I'm pretty sure they were the biggest ICO ever. There were others out there that raised hundreds of millions of dollars. I don't know if there were any other billion dollar icos. I don't believe there were, was, and there was some that kind of, like, delivered and are above ICO price even years later. The.
00:05:15.138 - 00:05:46.706, Speaker A: I can think an example of this is Polkadot, where Polkadot, I think, ended up raising two or $300 million in 2017 or late 2017, and it's still above ICO price today. Now, I don't know about against ETH, but against USD it definitely is, because the ICO price was about $0.30 if you adjust for the token split that they did. And current price of Polkadot is, what, between 15 and $20, depending on the day that you check. And it was higher than that during the mania. So I guess there are some out there that kind of, like, survived and some came back. I mean, Aave, for example, a perfect example.
00:05:46.706 - 00:06:14.014, Speaker A: Aave is one that came back from the depths of hell and ended up kind of, like, being worth a lot more than. Than ICo price, obviously. And it's kind of, like highs that it reached back then. But for the most part, for 99% of projects back then in IcO mania basically went to zero. I mean, given that, like, nothing ever goes truly to zero, but the liquidity just dries up, you know, there was a lot of just stuff that just completely died. Same is going to be true for most of the NFT stuff. And that doesn't mean that icos in particular were bad.
00:06:14.014 - 00:06:46.988, Speaker A: I think there were some icos that did really well. Obviously, Ethereum was an ICO, right. The first ICO, obviously, that's done very well for their investors. And then there a lot of NFT projects that have done quite well. But the thing is, is that because there's so many things coming out all the time, because the propensity for scams is so high, the losses are going to be high as well. And I guess, like, my overall point here with this sort of stuff is that this ecosystem has a really, really shitty problem with wasting money on shitty things. Like $70 million to this NFT mint, to these Pixelmon people.
00:06:46.988 - 00:07:25.932, Speaker A: The people behind it who I saw on chain have already started kind of like using that ETH to buy other nfts and just spending it as they so wish. The thing is, is that, like, when have you ever seen this amount of money raised for people like core developers who actually create the infrastructure that make this stuff possible? You know, even if they. These projects should be giving back to public goods? Like, could you imagine Pixelmon being like, okay, well, we're going to donate 1% of, you know, of this, $70 million to core developers, right? That's a. That's a lot of money. That's $700,000 to core developers. They could donate more if they wanted to, but I'm just using it as an example. Now imagine if every raise did this, just 1% to public goods.
00:07:25.932 - 00:07:41.644, Speaker A: Funny. Not necessarily core developers, just public goods in general. It'd be tens of millions of dollars, if not hundreds of millions of dollars. And one day, maybe billions of dollars donated to public goods. And we wouldn't have, you know, such an egregious thing going on here with these. With these kind of raises. But I guess the incentive is just not there.
00:07:41.644 - 00:07:59.034, Speaker A: People are super greedy. People just don't care about. About doing this. And it's kind of sad, really, at the end of the day, like, the amount of money that gets wasted here and the amount of money that gets sucked out of the ecosystem. Because, as I've explained before, the reason why prices come down so hard after going kind of like up. I mean, there's. There's two major reasons.
00:07:59.034 - 00:08:30.862, Speaker A: One, a lot of people want to take profits and, you know, there's never enough liquidity to. To kind of like, service all that, those paper profits or those pepper gains. And I think the second biggest reason is that it just, people run out of money, right? Like, we suck out all the noobs money the more experienced players take from the noobs, the scammers take from the noobs, and then we're back to square one where we're like, okay, well, everyone's gone now. I guess we'll wait around for the next cycle for people to show up again. And that's just an unfortunate reality of this ecosystem. It's been like this for as long as I can remember. Before Ico's birth thing, it was like this.
00:08:30.862 - 00:09:09.554, Speaker A: I guess generally a lot of different markets are similar where kind of like, the more experienced players will take from the noobs. I get that. But in crypto, it's just very transparent and it's, I guess, much more pronounced because it's so easy for people to spin up things like NFT mints and icos and build hype around them. Really, at the end of the day, all you have to do for to build hype, about to raise a lot of money is build hype around something. You just do some marketing, you know, even if it's paid marketing, you know, maybe get some bots to follow the Twitter accounts that you set up, because I think not Pixelmon, there was another NFT mean invisible friends or something. They had 400,000 followers. I'm like, yeah, they don't have 400,000 real followers.
00:09:09.554 - 00:09:25.664, Speaker A: No way. I know it was hyped up. There were a lot of real people behind it and excited about it, but a lot of that was bots. Now, sure enough, from what I saw, the mint from mint kind of like, dumped. It was too hyped. Like what happened with mechiverse a few months ago. It's just, it's so insane.
00:09:25.664 - 00:09:58.216, Speaker A: Like, the upside is insane for the people creating these things, and the downside is insane for the people participating in them. And it just keeps happening. Like, I, you know, and the reason it keeps happening is because it's particularly newer people, and then it's also people who are thinking that they can outsmart everyone else and be like, I'll get in this and I'll get out. Before, you know, everyone else has an opportunity to get out, I'll be the one who wins this musical chairs game. And maybe they will, right? But it still just perpetuates the cycle that we see with all these sorts of things. But anyway, going to leave it at that there for now. I just wanted to kind of, like, talk about that a bit today because it is an issue.
00:09:58.216 - 00:10:35.754, Speaker A: I think it should get better over time as the pro, the, I guess, like, opportunity for profit from these things gets, I guess, less over time. But, I mean, we're going to still be putting up with this for a while, I think. For the foreseeable future, at least. All right, so onto some more positive news. Another fresh post from Polynyar around the endgame bottleneck being historical storage. So Polinar shared a tweet saying, looking at the very long term, as roll ups and data availability service sampling in tandem reach massive global scale, the final bottleneck becomes historical storage. Now if you don't know what that is, definitely give Polynar's blog post to read.
00:10:35.754 - 00:11:27.150, Speaker A: But the TRDR is that blockchains traditionally have had to store all of their history forever, right? Like this is why the Ethereum blockchain is so big and it's, it's forever growing. Same with the bitcoin blockchain. Same with pretty much like most blockchains out there, they just grow and grow and grow and grow. If you want to sink a full node. Now the, I guess the ideas around kind of like pruning history or at least doing data availability sampling or doing kind of like data availability checks and things like that. And also, as I said, like wiping historical state and stuff, is that if something isn't being used regularly, then it shouldn't exist in the active state. It shouldn't have to kind of put the burden on all the full nodes to sync it every time a full node wants to come online or to hold it in its kind of like, I guess, storage.
00:11:27.150 - 00:12:06.900, Speaker A: Now, for example, there are a lot of dead smart contracts out there that got deployed once, they maybe got used once, and that's it. Or maybe people deployed them as kind of like testing in prod and no one ever uses them. Now, why do they belong in the active state? They don't. Right. And this is this whole kind of, I guess, like thing about historical storage and like pruning a lot of the old storage. Or if you kind of like, aren't keeping a contract active because it's just not being used, then yeah, as I said, it shouldn't be part of the active state. So this is definitely, you know, if we don't prune historical storage, it definitely becomes a bottleneck because what ends up, ends up happening is that you need to kind of like limit the size of the growth of the chain because, because there's no, there's no expiry happening.
00:12:06.900 - 00:13:04.996, Speaker A: So, for example, if the chain is growing a terabyte a year and there's no expiry happening, it means that you, if you increase the block size by 10%, you, you add another hundred gig on, but if the state is expiring every month, right. If you're kind of like expiring half of the state every month, then it kind of like works out a lot better. You can increase the block size, so to speak, and you can, you can store more because you know that in a month's time some, you know, the, the storage is going to be pruned there and you'll, you'll be better off for and the chain size won't get unmanageable. So anyway, I suggest reading Polynar's blog post here. This stuff about data availability, sampling and historical storage and stuff like that. This is, I think, one of the most complex things to do, like statelessness, as I've, as I've explained before, state expiry, all that sort of stuff is some of the most complex stuff within crypto. I believe it's going to take a lot of kind of like people's work and a lot of research development to get us to the stage where this stuff gets implemented.
00:13:04.996 - 00:13:27.786, Speaker A: But it's coming, it's coming along with all the other things that I've talked about, like dank sharding and stuff like that. But, but yeah, just stay on top of it. Polly Nar has pretty much been covering it a lot lately. Their blog on medium is obviously one of the best places to follow along with this stuff. I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to go give it a read. Alright, so fresh, what's new in ETH two from Ben Edgington over the weekend, I believe. So.
00:13:27.786 - 00:14:01.616, Speaker A: I've talked about Ben's newsletter a lot on the refuel, obviously, highly recommend you subscribe to it, but as I've said before, it's the best way to keep up with ETH two, or the consensus layer, as we're calling it these days, literally. I mean, I, I do a pretty good job of keeping you guys up to date with ETH two related stuff and merge related stuff and all that sort of kind of stuff. But Ben goes above and beyond. Like Ben. He's always surprised me with how much he's able to pack into this, and that's because he's much closer to it than I am. I believe he works for on the taeku client, so. And he's across like pretty much everything to do with ETH two.
00:14:01.616 - 00:14:36.244, Speaker A: So I mean, he is probably the number one person in the ecosystem to be putting together something like this, and I'm glad he does because it keeps me up to date. But I just wanted to give another shout out here because you guys just need to go and read this and get, and kind of like subscribe to this and, and keep this, you know, on your radar because this is the bleeding edge at the end of the day, like, I think the bleeding edge faith to at least, and it's going to keep you across everything. It's going to keep you a prize and everything. So you won't be surprised by any, I guess, like movements in the ETH two arena and even, you know, sometimes the 8th one arena as well. So definitely a go. Check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description.
00:14:36.244 - 00:15:10.604, Speaker A: All right, so a tweet here from superfuse over the weekend that he tweeted out that the beacon chain has raced reach 300,000 active validators. Now, I mentioned this, I believe last week that we had almost reached that milestone, but we're there. Huge milestone. 3000 active valid, 300,000 active validators, the most of any, I think, proof of stake blockchain in existence. Now for a fresh reminder here, a validator does not equal a full node. There are obviously two parts to Ethereum proof of stake, the validators and the beacon node. One beacon node can host many validators and last time I checked there, around 4000 beacon nodes.
00:15:10.604 - 00:15:44.780, Speaker A: So that's basically, I guess, 4000 beacon nodes is the full nodes of the consensus layer that we currently have. And 300,000 validators are kind of like talking to those 4000 nodes, so to speak. So that's kind of like how it works. But still, I mean, this is a huge achievement because it just as I mentioned last week, we achieved like the 10 million ETH staked, kind of like milestone, um, counting the rewards, the staked ETH, as in kind of like the effective stake is 9.6 million. That should be 10 million soon. And, uh, the beacon change just kind of like prodding along really, really nicely.
00:15:44.780 - 00:16:07.100, Speaker A: It's going very, very well. It's getting ready for the merge itself. Right. And everything's happening in that arena too. Um, and it kind of just came to be chugging along without, without instance now, without, without kind of events happening. So that's really, really awesome and awesome to see the 300,000 validator milestone. And speaking of milestones, Rockerpool has achieved over 100,000 ETH staked today.
00:16:07.100 - 00:16:49.106, Speaker A: So another awesome milestone for Rockerpool. They're growing really, really quickly for such a young protocol. I mean, as I've been saying for a while, they've been building since 2017, but they've only been live for, I think, three coming up on four months now on Mainnet and obviously a new protocol. People are kind of like weary about putting their Ethan, but a lot of people are putting their ETH in regardless. 100,000 staked a million hopefully soon, right? I mean, probably, probably another few months before we hit a million here. But it's great to see them growing because as I mentioned before, rocker pool is a decentralized ethereum staking protocol. They're trying to basically make it so that you don't have to stake with a centralized exchange or a centralized service provider if you don't have 32 ETH, which is obviously very, very awesome.
00:16:49.106 - 00:17:27.223, Speaker A: But yeah, congrats to Rockerpool on this milestone. And finally, with regards to proof of stake, we have a new fresh guide from Superfizz on Reddit called how to stake on Ethereum, March 2022 edition. So in this post, Superfizz goes through how to stake as a solo staker, as a mini pool operator, as part of Rocket Pool, as an Areth holder with custodial exchange staking. And, and then he's got a bit more information in here about other things. So I think you can go through the comments. Read Superfizz's post here. If you are getting started with staking, you should definitely give this a read because it gives you a breakdown of each of the different types and kind of like what he recommends, obviously being a decentralization maxi.
00:17:27.223 - 00:17:50.735, Speaker A: He recommends a staking on your own or staking with rocket pool. I'm the same guys like this. That's my kind of tier, like solo staking, rocker pool central or kind of like re holding re to get exposure to it. Centralized exchange or centralized service provider staking. Yeah, that's kind of like my hierarchy there. Now, obviously, solo staking is out of reach for most people. Totally understand that.
00:17:50.735 - 00:18:46.228, Speaker A: I mean, buying 32 fresh ETH today is not something that a regular person can do, but that's why rocket pool and other kind of like similar tools like that exist. So give this blog post from super Fizzer read if you're an aspiring Ethereum staker or ETH staker, because it's a really great one. All right, so I came across this blog post from average Dro's crypto going over the arbitrum ecosystem. So this is basically a post detailing everything happening on arbitrum, from its growth, kind of like what it's doing, what it is, how it works, a lot of the apps on there, kind of like you know how to access these apps, what each of them do. This is a very comprehensive blog post. So I definitely recommend checking this out for yourself, but I really like this sort of stuff because at the end of the day, we are still lacking, like, the Google of Crypto, where you can go to one website, you can kind of, like, type in what you're looking for and then get it. We don't really have that.
00:18:46.228 - 00:19:14.914, Speaker A: There are some sites here and there that list things. Obviously, arbitram has their own portal for the projects on there, and they have like a. A sorting list. But as far as I know, there is not, like a Google for crypto where you could say, okay, well, show me the protocols that I can use to, you know, lend my assets on, or show me the highest kind of, like, yield I can get in crypto right now, or show me this or show me that. As I said, there are tools out there that do some of this. And I think there's a lot of fragmentation there, to be honest. So I'm curious to see when we will.
00:19:14.914 - 00:19:54.956, Speaker A: When we will see kind of like a Google for crypto. Maybe we won't. Maybe the fragmentation will just exist and what will end up happening is that, like, third parties or other kind of like interfaces will just sit on top and everyone would just know about those. I've spoken about this before where I've said that something like a zapper, right, that tracks your portfolio, that lets you kind of, like, follow other people in a social way. And eventually, if they do their own kind of like, wallet and things like that, I mean, they let you zap into things right now, but, you know, basically acting as, like an interface for all of these things for you to get into. So instead of you going to the yearn website or the other website or the Uniswap website, you just use Zappa to zap in and out of these sorts of stuff or to. To basically swap on different dexes.
00:19:54.956 - 00:20:08.700, Speaker A: And, you know, I've used this tool plenty of times myself. It works really well. So maybe we don't need a Google for crypto. Maybe the google for crypto is the interfaces that sit on top of these things. But anyway, getting a little bit off topic there. I just wanted to. Yeah, give this blog post a shout out.
00:20:08.700 - 00:20:36.084, Speaker A: Definitely go give it a read for a pretty comprehensive overview of the arbitrary ecosystem. You know, as I've mentioned before, there's so much happening on these l two s now that one person can't cover all of it. So I'm sure there's projects missing from this blog post. But still, it's a great read. Definitely highly recommend going checking it out. All right, so Greg Vardy here put out a tweet from the nethermind team. Put out a tweet today saying that Aave is coming to stocknet because the governance proposal passed yesterday.
00:20:36.084 - 00:21:22.882, Speaker A: So next week, a bunch of people will start phase one dev, which will be followed by the deployment of Aave three, plus some goodies that are possible on l, where one on stage arc net. Awesome. I mean, as we know, rv three was deployed to the EVM compatible chain test nets a couple of weeks ago, I believe two or three weeks ago at this point. So, you know, the l two is like optimism and arbitram, the other kind of like EVM chains or EVM side chains, like polygon, Pos chain and other l one ecosystems as well. But now they're going to Stocknet, which is not, as you guys know, an EVM compatible chain. It is built on Cairo, where. But the thing is, the reason why Greg's helping with, with this and is because he works at Nethermind, who is building the warp tool which allows our solidity code to be transpiled into chiro code in order to work on Stocknet.
00:21:22.882 - 00:22:00.572, Speaker A: So this is going to be pretty big. I mean, if this becomes something that's relatively easy to do, like transpiling aave to Starknet, that I can see a lot of the EVM native apps being transpiled to Starknet and being deployed there. And then it really, at the end of the day, guys, it really just becomes a customer experience kind of thing between these l two s where they all compete on fees and they all compete on usability and user experience, and that's it, really. I mean, at the end of the day, look, most people aren't going to care about decentralization from the get go. I think they eventually will. But from, from like the surface, most people just care about cheap fees and ease of usability, which is totally fine. Like, that's what they should care about now.
00:22:00.572 - 00:22:43.144, Speaker A: That's what those l two s are all going to be competing on. They're going to be competing on basically the same thing. Fees are going to go practically zero, as polynomial has mentioned before. He also expects fees to trend towards zero. And then everyone, every one of these kind of like, as we call them, execution layers at kind of like L2 is just going to compete on user experience. So that's going to be really awesome to see how stocknet goes faring against some of these EVM compatible l two s, because as I've said before, we don't want everything just to be EVM compatible. We want to experiment with more stuff at L2, because you're not tied down to the EVM at L2, you can do anything at L2, as long as you settle your transactions and your call data and all that good stuff to Ethereum.
00:22:43.144 - 00:23:36.550, Speaker A: Layer one, as a settlement layer, you're free to do whatever else that you want, which, you know, which turns out is a lot. So very, very excited to see Ave go live on Stocknet, or I guess Ave v three, go live on stock net, because that'll be a big win for that ecosystem. All right, so speaking about Polygon here, so if you've been using the Polygon Pos chain over, I guess, the last few months, six months, maybe you'll have noticed that there have been errors with the public rpcs where you weren't able to get your transactions in, and increased reorgs on the chain as well. So the Polygon developers account has tweeted out an update here with, you know, investigating these issues with the Reorgs and the RPC issues. So if you're interested into why this is happening and what the Polygon team is doing to mitigate this, you can definitely check out this post. The reason I bring it up is because I see a lot of you kind of like complaining about this in the Discord channel. Obviously, a lot of you use the POS chain.
00:23:36.550 - 00:24:14.916, Speaker A: I mean, I use it as well, and I've experienced these troubles before, too. But, you know, this is kind of like, I guess what happens with more, quote unquote, scalable networks that rely on their own consensus mechanisms is that it becomes very hard for them to stay in sync. Sync. And that can lead to these long reorgs, where reorgs can happen like 100 blocks into the future. And if, for those of you who don't know what a real gears, it basically means that, and this is totally normal for blockchains, but it basically means that it reorganizes the chain, and the transactions that aren't included in the canonical chain don't ever happen. So it actually can affect users. Like, for example, you can do a trade, and then that trade could be real ten blocks later, like it never happened.
00:24:14.916 - 00:25:04.640, Speaker A: That's obviously a really shitty experience for users. And obviously exchanges have to be careful about this, because if they accept deposits and then people cash out and then it gets reorged, well, that's not good for anyone, right? So, but as I said, like, this is why this sort of stuff tends to happen on things due to consensus issues due to things not being able to stay in sync. And because of that, you know, there needs to be mitigations put in place. Now, long term, I don't believe any mitigations and any amount of mitigations can be put in place to stop this from happening on any of chains that deal with consensus. That's why we keep the Ethereum l one kind of limited, because we don't want to have these issues and everything will just be moving to l two anyway. And that's why l two is the kind of like long term goal here. I think that's a perfect example of everything that I've been talking about lately with regards to the modular stack, because it just makes so much sense to me.
00:25:04.640 - 00:25:44.362, Speaker A: Like, I've never come across something in crypto that makes as much sense to me as the modular scaling stack does. And I think a lot of people feel the same way. And really we're just kind of like arguing over the implementation details at this point. We really do know that splitting up the concerns can retain composability and interoperability while giving you the massive scale that you need without having to run into issues like RPC issues and real issues. You know, to be fair, you'll probably still see RPC issues on, on the L2s if they get really hit, because at the end of the day, an RPC is just a node that relays your transactions. So if they start getting hit and dossed, you can see these things kind of like fall over. For example, you know, arbitrary sequencer fell over because it got dos and things like that.
00:25:44.362 - 00:26:20.576, Speaker A: But real should definitely kind of like not really happen or, you know, kind of like, I guess. Look, I'm not totally sure how kind of like this works at L2, but there could be instances where things kind of like get, I guess, quote unquote reorg'd or kind of get dropped and stuff like that. But it's very different to how a layer one would handle it. And at the end of the day, if a theorem layer one had a 100 block reorg, yeah, forget about it. I mean, that's a long ass real guys. Like a theorem blocks are 13 seconds, so that's a 13 minutes. I'm not even doing the math right right now, I, I just did 100 times, um, times 13 there.
00:26:20.576 - 00:26:54.110, Speaker A: But that's, uh, that's a long, that's a long reel, that's a, you know, a few minutes or whatever it is. Uh, and, and that is really, really bad, obviously, because there's a lot of economic activity that happens on Ethereum layer one. So we obviously don't want that to happen. And the, the way to keep that from happening is by making it really easy for the, for full nodes to stay in sync and making it really easy for the miners that are talking to those full nodes to not kind of like go off and essentially reorg the chain. And as I said, realg is totally normal, but real of like a block, right? Or block or two. Within Ethereum's case, any more than that is pretty bad. And it works differently for different chains.
00:26:54.110 - 00:27:12.154, Speaker A: Obviously. The Pos chain has faster blocks. The polygon pos chain has faster blocks than Ethereum. But, but still, I mean, 100 plus block reals in polygon is not good for users either. So yeah, definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description, but I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:27:12.154 - 00:27:18.634, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
