00:00:00.240 - 00:00:29.254, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to the 17th episode of the daily Gwei AMA series, where I answer questions from the daily Gwei discord community. If you want to ask your questions for the next AMA, you can ask them in the AMA series channel on the Discord channel. And if you want to go back and read all the questions as I'm answering them, you can go do that as well. The video will obviously have timestamps, which you can check out too. But without further ado, let's get into the questions. So the first question here comes from Wackaro, who says, hey, Anthony, thanks for doing this. I'll kick off the question for the next one from ethereum.org
00:00:29.254 - 00:00:54.286, Speaker A: here, wondering if you have any thoughts or suggestions on how we could continue to improve Ethereum.org as a community resource, especially with Ethub being sunset. Curious if you've noticed any gaps in the information on the site or have any suggestions for future content. So I've been on record multiple times saying how much I love ethereum.org, and it's kind of one of the reasons why ETH hub was sunset was because ethereum.org just became such an awesome resource. There's a whole team on working on it.
00:00:54.286 - 00:01:19.534, Speaker A: It's obviously open source so people can go and contribute to it as they like. And Ethub was really something that was, I guess, like a bridge to that. Because back when we started Ethub, we being Eric and I, it was because ethereum.org was still very outdated. But I would say ethereum.org has some of the, if not the most up to date information on ethereum today. I mean, I can't think of another resource that is, that has as much information about ethereum as ethereum.org
00:01:19.534 - 00:02:04.534, Speaker A: has. In saying that there are always more things that the website could be adding. Now, I don't know. I haven't gone through every single page, every single section, and done like a detailed overview of the website, but I think that branching out and maybe you guys already do this, but maybe branching out beyond just the website and doing YouTube videos, maybe doing a podcast, maybe doing and doing videos on EIPs or teaming up with the Ethereum cat herders and promoting them. I think you guys already do this, probably have your bases covered there. But from my experience, what people really want to do is they want to dive deeper into things. They want to learn about the Ethereum governance process, you know, exactly how it works, Ethereum's monetary policy, how it came to be, maybe stuff about the history of certain parts of Ethereum would be good to add to the website as well, because there's a lot of history that I think people get lost on.
00:02:04.534 - 00:02:34.526, Speaker A: They don't understand why, you know, the ethereum is the way it is, why. Why we're doing things like the roll up centric roadmap, for example. I think maybe adding some context around that would be valuable. But in saying all of that, as I said, a theorem.org is already an amazing resource, but I haven't gone through with a fine tooth comb, I guess, like, if anyone in the daily grade Discord channel has any answers for whack a row here about what could be added to the ethereum.org website that isn't already there, I'd be sure to tag them in the Discord channel, maybe in the Ethereum channel there. And he'll probably.
00:02:34.526 - 00:03:10.414, Speaker A: Or he or she. I don't actually know who this is. We'll be able to reply there. All right, moving on. So there's a couple of questions here from Merlot, who is one of our resident accountants in the daily gray Discord channel. So they start off by saying, vibe check. Do you see value in a suite of free educational content on crypto taxation being made available to the general public, or do you think most people would prefer to rely on their trusted tax advisor to give them answers? And do you think people would contribute funding to something like this? So it's kind of hard to say because it really does vary greatly, I guess, like, from individual to individual, from country to country.
00:03:10.414 - 00:03:41.614, Speaker A: But for me, like, just given my perspective here, even if I had, like, all the information available to me, I would still seek advice from a tax professional. I would still go out there and ask them questions because I don't trust the information written down as much as I trust the person telling me about these things. Now, obviously, my situation is unique to me. I probably have a very different situation than a lot of people in crypto, the way. I mean. I mean, Australia, right? Most people in crypto are not in Australia. I have various ways of.
00:03:41.614 - 00:04:10.356, Speaker A: Sorry. I've set up my finances in various types of ways that probably other people haven't done. So. So it is a unique perspective that I'm giving here. Giving from my own perspective here. But, yeah, in saying that, I think that most people, when they're looking at these resources, they just want certainty. They just want something to point to where they can, you know, in case they get audited or something, where they can be like, you know, this is the guidance that I was following and you're always going to feel safest when it's someone who is regarded as a tax professional, for example, giving you that advice.
00:04:10.356 - 00:05:16.246, Speaker A: And that goes beyond just advice on, you know, what to claim, what not what, you know, what you can claim, what you can't claim, how this is treated. You know, how this asset is traded, how this asset is traded for tax purposes. It goes beyond that into the realm of how to optimize your tax, right? Whether that be setting up different kind of things like trust to optimize your tax or how to tax lost harvest the most in the most efficient way, you know what to claim in the most efficient way, how much to claim, how to avoid kind of overstepping your bounds and increasing your chance of an order, increasing your risk of an audit, and basically generally playing by the rules but making sure that you get what you're entitled to and you only pay what you're required to. I think those are the biggest concerns people have, but it will vary from individual to individual. And to answer your question, after giving that, I guess, context there, I think it's still valuable for, for these resources to be made available, especially if they're done on, I guess, like country by country basis where they apply to the various jurisdictions, whether, you know, within that country or for that country itself. But I don't know if people contribute funding to this. That's the thing.
00:05:16.246 - 00:06:00.022, Speaker A: Like you could kind of reason about this and say, well, if people are expected to contribute funding to this, then what? Then maybe they would just spend that money on getting their own personalized advice instead of funding something like general advice that everyone benefits from. This is maybe, maybe that's a selfish thing to say. But I think that depending on how much it would cost to fund something like this or how much it would cost to buy something like this, it would have to be like a cost benefit analysis for a lot of people on this front. But I do, I do think it would still be valuable for people because, I mean, in my case, I do look at the guidance online. Say I go to the Australian Tax Office website or the ATO website and I look at the guidance that they've given and I look at, there's, they've got a forum where they answer questions. I look at that and I'm like, okay, well, you know, this seems legit. You know, this seems correct.
00:06:00.022 - 00:06:37.354, Speaker A: This is how I think about it. But there are other things where I see it and I'm like, no, I don't agree with this. Right. And if I don't agree with it, I have to go to a real person, my tax accountant, and say, hey, I don't agree with this for this. And this reason is, are we able to do this as this? And then if there is an audit later or if I get questions about, about this, can I back it up with, with, with this argument? And obviously, there are different ways of doing that as well. Like there'll be simple questions that you get asked to justify things on, but then if the ATO wanted to, they could take me to court and I would have to defend my position there. So it definitely gets very murky when you start going into that realm of things.
00:06:37.354 - 00:07:12.460, Speaker A: But I think general advice is fine and advice for the general public is fine. But I just feel like most people would probably feel more comfortable talking to a person, especially if it's not going to cost them a lot to do that. Because, I mean, it obviously costs can vary, but if you're just wanting to go and to get like, someone to do your taxes for you rather than you doing it yourself, that doesn't cost too much to do, right. And it probably saves your ass. And you can probably claim things you didn't think you could claim. You probably save taxes in places you didn't think you would save taxes. Maybe you end up paying more than you owed because you missed stuff, but even that's a positive because you don't want to be missing stuff.
00:07:12.460 - 00:07:44.962, Speaker A: Right. You want to be making sure that your tax return, or I guess, like the taxes that you filed, I should say, are as accurate as humanly possible so that in case you get audited, you are covered from that. Because one of the worst things that can happen is you get audited because it's guilty until proven innocent. In that case, you have to, like, if the tax office really wants to push it, you have to prove to them why you aren't guilty, basically. And in their eyes, you are guilty depending on what kind of audit they do. But if they literally say to you, hey, you know, this is, you know, you have to explain this to us. Like, this doesn't make any sense to us.
00:07:44.962 - 00:08:21.146, Speaker A: How did you buy this when you only claimed this much income for, for the year? Right. And they kind of do that. They do that a lot, actually, with, they do patent matching and they, they have their algorithms that they run. They have their searches that they run. Obviously, Merlot, being a tax advisor, would know this. But, yeah, that hopefully that answers that question there with a bunch of nuance of how I think about it. And then you follow this up later on by asking, do you see new and existing crypto participants trusting an advisor, such as an accountant and financial planner solicitor to assist with asset custody? Now this is a funny topic because I don't think so, at least personally.
00:08:21.146 - 00:09:19.226, Speaker A: I don't trust anyone with asset custody except myself. And I have my own solution for this and I'm not going to tell people what the solution is, obviously, but I actually don't trust anyone but myself to custody my assets. And, and I guess, like, there are other things that people do, like they give part of their seed phrase to the family member or they do social recovery stuff. But in my case, I mean, it's not that I, like, maybe I should take a step back here. It's not that I'm the only one custodying my assets, but I do practice self custody in that it's not on a centralized exchange, it's not in some centralized service, it's not with a third party like a bank or something like that where they could unilaterally have control over it. I, my custody setup is, is pretty involved and it definitely, obviously nothing's foolproof, right, but it definitely works for my needs and I think everyone can tailor one for their needs. But, yeah, I wouldn't trust any other third party, like an accountant or a financial planner or a solicitor, to custody my assets.
00:09:19.226 - 00:10:00.568, Speaker A: I wouldn't even trust the bank. I don't trust bank deposit boxes. I sometimes get questions from my real life friends who say, you know, why don't you just keep your ledger or your hardware wallet in a bank safety deposit box? I'm like, well, no. Like, I know that they're in theory, secure, but in, you know, and in practice they're secure as well, to an extent, but still, that's still trusting a third party. And then they say, why don't you put your seed phrase there? I'm like, no, no way am I gonna put my seed phrase in a bank deposit box where I have zero visibility over it unless I go there, right? Like, okay, yeah, the bank is relatively secure, but it's still not enough for me. Like, I'm not gonna put a seed phrase that has, that has access to my funds into a bank safe deposit box. This is not what I'm going to do.
00:10:00.568 - 00:10:22.696, Speaker A: But maybe other people are different here. And then it brings up the question of, I guess, how can this scale to the world? Like, most people aren't going to do self custody. That's fine. Like, I've always reiterated, that's actually fine. Like, I don't expect most people to do what I do, but I personally just don't trust third parties to custody my assets for me. And I think we have a lot of evidence from last year as to why this is the case. Right.
00:10:22.696 - 00:11:00.424, Speaker A: And why this should be the case for most people. If you can, if you have the means to self custody your assets, you should be doing that, in my opinion. And then, Merleau, you continued by saying, you know, by no means should they be holding a client's keys on their behalf, but I can see potential for them to be on a multi sig on a client's nurses safe or a guardian on a client's argent wallet. This I agree with for sure. If they don't have unilateral control over the assets, then for sure, like, what I meant before when I was saying I wouldn't trust them, I wouldn't trust my accountant, financial planner, solicitor, whoever, with my seed phrase, I wouldn't say to them, hey, you know, keep this safe for me. No way. And I don't think you were saying that either, but I figured that that was worth clarifying for people.
00:11:00.424 - 00:11:38.896, Speaker A: But having them on a multi sig, that would be fine. I think that'd be actually pretty cool because you could have, for example, your accountant on the multi seq. You could have your, I don't know, if you trust your mom and dad, you can have them on there. Your siblings or your wife or husband, whoever else, right on there. And then, you know, unless your wife, if you do like, a two of three multi seq, for example, and the three sign is your spouse, your account accountant, and yourself, unless your spouse and accountant colluded together to get that money off of you, then you'd be fine. Right? But in saying that, like, it gets murky because your spouse also has access to those funds as part of being married to you. And, you know, so it starts getting, like, murky there.
00:11:38.896 - 00:12:05.524, Speaker A: And then your accountant, maybe, you know, they run off with your funds. There's always a risk. I'm not trying to paint a picture of some bad romantic comedy, right, but there is always a risk there. But you can do, like, a three or five multi seat. You don't have to do two of three where you could have, like, your best friend, your spouse and your accountant and, and you on it, right? So they would have to, they would all have to occlude against you for you to lose your funds. There. There's always a risk.
00:12:05.524 - 00:12:19.716, Speaker A: But, yeah, I think multi sigs are great. I think they're, they're perfectly fine. There are plenty of people in crypto who have lots and lots of money in crypto that use multi sigs and it's been fine for them. So. So yeah, I don't see any problems with that, that one. But yeah, hopefully that answers your questions. Merlot.
00:12:19.716 - 00:13:22.224, Speaker A: Moving on to the next one that comes from, let me just scroll down here comes from cuz who says, I plan to stake my ETH after the Shanghai upgrade when withdrawals are activated, but I definitely won't be able to place equipment at my home. I travel all the time and my best option would be to buy myself a remote server. So there are three questions here. Can I use a remote node such as Amazon service to become a validator? I understand this is not ideal for decentralization in general. Um, well, yeah, okay, obviously it's not ideal for decentralization in general, but if you are a frequent traveler and you were worried about your machine and not being able to access your machine at home in case of something like a power going out or your Internet going out, and you have to physically reset something at your plate at your home and no one else has access to that, then yeah, I mean, using a remote service such as Amazon Web services or another cloud provider is totally fine as long as you understand the risk. It's not just the decentralization hit that happens here. It's also a custody risk because by having your validator on Amazon, you, Amazon basically owns your validator, so to speak.
00:13:22.224 - 00:14:11.224, Speaker A: Right. There's a custody risk there, even though it's, I mean, it's a low custody risk. Obviously, there's a low chance that Amazon's going to try and steal your assets or rug you. But then you also run the risk of someone else accessing your server because they got access to your password, for example, got access to your account, got access to it, even though you have two fa on it. So there's always that risk there in saying that if you do have a way for someone to physically go to your home and reset something, if it was required, then you can still stake from home because it's quite resilient. So what I mean by this is that even if your Internet goes down at your home and then just comes back up like 10 hours later, your validator will still be running, it'll resync your node, it'll catch up to the head of the chain, which shouldn't take long after even like a 24 hours outage, and then your validator will keep ticking along. You can set up alerts for this there are.
00:14:11.224 - 00:14:38.370, Speaker A: There are various websites that let you set up alerts to see what happened. You know, what. What happened if your Internet went offline or if, um, you know, your power went off. Uh, obviously, in the case of your power going off, it's a bit more difficult unless you have some kind of setup that allows your pc to automatically, uh, restart itself. Uh, and that, that would. And then it would require someone physically going there if you don't have that set up in order to switch on your pc and make sure it's all well and good, but, yeah, generally, even if you're traveling, it's quite forgiving. I mean, I have traveled.
00:14:38.370 - 00:14:58.470, Speaker A: What's the longest I've traveled without. Sorry, away from my node before? I think it's two and a half weeks or something without my node, and everything was fine. My power didn't go out or anything. But I have an uninterruptible power supply as well, and I have a backup Internet connection, but everything was fine. My validator kept running all well and good, but you can use remote. No, that's. That's totally fine.
00:14:58.470 - 00:15:21.678, Speaker A: And your second question. I want to stake more than 32 ETH, at least 100. Is it possible for solo validators to stake more than 32 ETH? And if so, how can I do it? So you can stake more than 32 ETH, but doing so on a. On a single validator is worthless. It doesn't actually do anything. So each validator requires a minimum of 32 ETH, but if you add more than that, you can technically, but it actually doesn't do anything. It doesn't give you extra rewards.
00:15:21.678 - 00:15:44.066, Speaker A: Your rewards are still going to be the same, and it basically dead ethnic. So what you want to do is that if you have 100 ETH, well, you. That doesn't divide exactly into 32, you'll be able to use. You'll be able to get three validators out of that with some ETH left to spare. But you would set up three validators with 32 ETH each on them, and then your ETH that you've got left over. I mean, you could stake it with a third party. Maybe you want to buy some are for.
00:15:44.066 - 00:16:02.586, Speaker A: You want to buy some other LSD. You could do that as well. And it would technically be staking, too, but it wouldn't be solo staking, obviously. And, yeah, that basically adding any more than 32 ETH to a validator does nothing and it's dead ETH. It would literally just sit there until withdrawals are enabled. Then you'd be able to. To withdraw it.
00:16:02.586 - 00:16:38.076, Speaker A: But you'd have to, from my understanding, exit the whole validator, which would cost you time of getting rewards. So you just don't want to do that. So just send 32 ETH to the deposit contract. Don't send any more than that when you're setting up your solo validators. And thirdly, if I can't become a solo staker with a remote server, and to stake more than 30 tweets, what do you think about are, how safe is it? And could it be a good alternative for someone like me who travels the world all the time? I know about the re premium will assume I buy re when the premium drops. So I think it's an excellent solution because rockerpool really is the only decentralized LSD out there. I mean, disclaimer, I run a rocket pool, six rocker pool, mini pools.
00:16:38.076 - 00:17:13.276, Speaker A: I am an Odao member, so I'm a little bit biased here, but I only did that because I really believe and trust rocket pool that is actually decentralized. That is totally fine to stake with. So yeah, I mean, if you don't want to use remote server, if you don't want to be a solo staker for any other number of reasons, then I believe purchasing re is probably the next best solution if you don't want to run the hardware and, and software yourself. And I think it's the most decentralized solution out of all the other solutions out there today. So you can definitely do that. But yeah, hopefully that answers your question. All of your questions there, thanks for answering them.
00:17:13.276 - 00:18:04.730, Speaker A: They were great questions. All right, onto one from Vedanton ETH here, who says, can you please walk us through a future state of how all these ETH building blocks come together, such as DeFi, ens, nfts, etcetera. How will our web meta experience enhance due to this innovation? So the way these building blocks come together are the way they've already come together on Ethereum. So things like defi protocols, right? The smart contracts, they are the building blocks. They are the foundations that everything else is being built upon. So your uniswap, for example, is the foundation of most of the swapping infrastructure that happens on Defi. So, for example, if you need to get, if you, sorry, if you liquidate a position on Aave and you want to swap out of those assets you're going to be using, maybe you use Uniswap directly, but maybe you use an aggregator, but you are going to most likely be using a Uniswap liquidity pool, which is a smart contract, which is a building block there.
00:18:04.730 - 00:18:33.418, Speaker A: And that's part, that's obviously a core part of Defi. And then, you know, things like ENS, I mean we already use these in our day to day lives. If you want to send ETH or any other token to someone, you can get their ENS name and be easily send it to them without having to get their Ethereum address off of them and then make sure it's the correct one. Copy paste it across, you don't remember it. You know, if you want to send ease to me, you can just send east to sassle ETH, right? And I'll get it. And you know that, that's tied to me. Uh, because I verified that on, on Twitter and I can verify it on chain as well.
00:18:33.418 - 00:19:04.068, Speaker A: I can sign a message if you really wanted, proof that I own sassle ETH, right? And that acts as a building block to basically make it so that everyone on Ethereum, everyone who has an Ethereum wallet is. And, and everyone that interacts with L2s as well, can use their Ens names to do so instead of an Ethereum address. And the nfts, I mean nfts benefit from DeFi as well. They benefit from all these building blocks. You can send an NFT to someone's ens name instead of an Ethereum address. You can trade nfts or put nfts up as collateral within Defi. All these work together in tandem.
00:19:04.068 - 00:20:05.250, Speaker A: And because they're all built as a back end, so to speak. And as those foundations, anyone can build whatever they want on top of it and can daisy chain these things together, can build protocol, their own protocol on top of it. Can build a front end, for example. Like anyone can build a front end on top of uniswap contracts, anyone can build their own registrar for ensuring from, from my understanding, and anyone can make their own nfts or make their own NFT marketplace, obviously, because the NFT standard is an ERC standard, just like the ERC 20 standard. It's ERC 721 and ERC 1155, if I remember correctly. And, and ENS is obviously following the NFT standard because ENS names are nfts as well there. So in terms of like enhancing our existing experience, you know, our existing metaverse and web experience, I think that one of the biggest things is sign in with Ethereum, right? Like where we can basically have these existing web two services allow you to authenticate with Ethereum and then Ethereum holds your data, so to speak, right? Holds your social graph and a perfect example of this is all the that exists in web.
00:20:05.250 - 00:20:58.028, Speaker A: Three are all the decentralized social media profiles or services or protocols, I should say, that allow you to sign in with Ethereum, sign in with your Polygon address, sign in with an l two address, which is, I guess, the same thing as your ethereum address, and allow you to have your social graph tied to that instead of a, tied to a centralized server. And that really, that's really powerful. Like, for example, you can imagine a decentralized Twitter. So let's say Twitter, but decentralized. Instead of Twitter having a Twitter's database, having all of your information on there, your social graph on there, all the algorithms on there, what would happen is, is that the, all the social graph stuff would be tied to you, it would be tied to your Ethereum address, it would be on chain, and then you could bring that with you. So say you didn't want to use the official Twitter front end, you wanted to use another front end that taps into the same social graph that the official Twitter does. But it's tapping into the social graph that you bring with you.
00:20:58.028 - 00:21:26.638, Speaker A: That means you can use different Twitter interfaces because the backend is decentralized, the backend is on chain, and these services could use different algorithms. They're not just have to, they're not just forced to use Twitter's algorithm, for example. So all of this comes together and all these building blocks will come together to enhance that experience as well there. But yeah, there's plenty of other examples here, but I don't want to spend too long naming through them all because I could go on for a while there. But hopefully that answers your question there. All right. One here from G.
00:21:26.638 - 00:22:20.426, Speaker A: Garbi, who says, is ethereum scaling on l one out the window now? Or devs are researching some ways to do that too. So it's not out the window, it's just changed. So traditionally, or I guess like for quite a while, there was this notion of scaling Ethereum layer one via sharding. Now this included splitting up the blockchain into 1024 different shards that would be able to scale the blockchain 1024 times, essentially. Right? And this was the understanding that people had for quite a while. But then as things went on, as we got better at understanding how blockchains could scale, Ethereum switched to something called the roll up centric roadmap, where essentially Ethereum layer one is being built to serve roll ups as part of scaling Ethereum. So what this means is that sharding got changed into something called dank sharding, which has two parts to it, there is proto dank sharding and full dank sharding.
00:22:20.426 - 00:22:51.392, Speaker A: Now the main difference between dank sharding and the old world of sharding is that we're not splitting the blockchain up into different parts anymore. What we're doing is we're doing data sharding only. So it's just a place to store data on. It doesn't do execution of smart contracts, for example. And we're doing something called data availability sampling on that, where a subset of validated of data, sorry, can be validated by validators. So not all the validators have to hold all the data at once. But then you can sample that and be sure that the data is available.
00:22:51.392 - 00:23:44.786, Speaker A: Now this is quite complex, probably not doing the best job of explaining this right now, but that is what we pivoted to. Basically that helps L2 scale, because L2s are very data hungry and all the execution of transactions is done at L2 instead of layer one. Now recently we came up with something called proto dank sharding, which is going to hopefully be shipped this year, later in the year. And this is reference. This is called ERP 4844, which basically what it does is it allow, it creates a new transaction type called blob type transactions, which allows L2s to use as space for their call data or I guess like for their data space, right? And what this does is it scales L2s by up to ten to 100 times in that initial rollout that we're doing for proto dank sharding here. And basically means that the l one is servicing the l two. So that blob space can only be accessed by these l two s or by these roll ups.
00:23:44.786 - 00:24:07.178, Speaker A: It cannot be accessed by users on layer one, by regular users on layer one, I should say there's a specific use for it. So I would say that Ethereum scaling on l one is not out the window, it's just servicing a different entity. Now. It's not servicing the end user, it's servicing L2s. And then L2s are servicing the end user. So think of it like a business to business relationship. Ethereum is a business.
00:24:07.178 - 00:24:29.852, Speaker A: The L2s are a business. Ethereum talks to the L2s. It exports its block space to L2s. And L2s can buy a block space off of ethereum layer one. And then L2s are a business to consumer. So the L2s sell its block space to consumers. And then that way the consumers get like much cheaper blocks, pay, sorry, much cheaper fees, and get to do all their execution stuff on L2.
00:24:29.852 - 00:25:08.240, Speaker A: And then layer one became, becomes the settlement layout for L2 becomes this data availability layer for L2s. So hopefully that explains that there. Now that's on the sharding side of things. There are definitely other upgrades coming to layer one as well to scale it more, which will have a side effect or byproduct of layer ones being, sorry, layer one being more scalable, but still nowhere near as scalable as L2s, while also enhancing L2s scalability there. But yeah, you can go to l two beat.com to see all the L2s if you want to, but hopefully that answers your questions there. All right, a question here from the hd sync who asks? Hope you can help me find the answer for the following question.
00:25:08.240 - 00:25:59.692, Speaker A: What is the theoretical and practical maximum of ethereum network decentralization? Eg, is it 1 million validators or full nodes? What other constraints? So I think when talking about or quantifying decentralization, it goes far beyond just the number of validators or full nodes. And I've talked about this a lot on the refuel before, so I won't spend too much time on this, but I'll give a high level overview of how I think about it. Basically, there is two forms of decentralization, or I guess technically three, but two main buckets. You have technical decentralization and social decentralization, and the third one is economic decentralization, which I think is a subcategory of the first two categories. But just for the sake of argument, let's stick with the first two. So technical decentralization is what you're talking about. Number of validators, number of full nodes, number of different client implementations, for example, because we value client diversity in Ethereum.
00:25:59.692 - 00:26:36.804, Speaker A: How easy it is to run a full node, right? What are the requirements, how easy it is to run a validator, all that, you know, how geographically distributed it is, all that good stuff there. That's the technical decentralization side of things, which I think Ethereum does an excellent job on, right. Does a fantastic job. People can run. I mean, we could do better, obviously, but we do a really good job as compared to other chains. And I think the only other chain that's easier to run than ethereum is, is really bitcoin, right? And easier to participate in is bitcoin, because bitcoin inherently is quite limited, can't do what Ethereum does. It's not probably not even worth comparing the two but in terms of technical decentralization, I would say that bitcoin probably has this slight upper hand here.
00:26:36.804 - 00:27:30.428, Speaker A: Right? But that's how I think of technical decentralization. Then you have social decentralization, which is the social layer of Ethereum. What does a theorems governance process look like? Is it just a cabal of like five people making decisions, decisions? Or is it a vibrant community that come together and make decisions collectively, you know, at every pro, at every phase of the governance process? I think Ethereum has a very strong social layer from that point of view. But then it goes beyond governance. It goes into things like what are the Ethereum social layers, principles, what are their priorities? Like do we value open source? Yes. Do we value freedom? Do we value the ability for anyone to transact on the chain? Do you value censorship resistance? I would say yes, we're working on doing better on the censorship resistant front, but I would say that yes, we currently do. So there are those two broad buckets, technical and social decentralization, and you're going to get a biased and a subjective view of both of those things.
00:27:30.428 - 00:28:37.868, Speaker A: There is no objective way to measure, measure most, I guess like spokes of decentralization in my view. And there, it's funny because you can actually even say that the subcategory of both of those, as I mentioned before, is economic decentralization. And when I talk about that, it's more like, okay, what is the distribution of the token? Like, how much ETH is in the hands of whales, how much is it in the hands of VC's or how much is on exchanges, how much is being put to use, how much is staked, right. And what's the cost of attack on the network, which, as I said, like it's an economic thing, but falls into the technical aspect of it as well, because there are different chains that have different cost of attack depending on their consensus mechanism, depending on their makeup of how they look, depending on how many full nodes they have and validators they have, and all those sorts of things as well. So that's how I broadly look at it. And if you wanted to quantify that for every single chain, it's quite hard to do, because the ultimate test of something's decentralization is a nation state attack in my mind. And a theorem is the closest thing is, sorry, Ethereum has come closest to being, I guess, quote unquote attacked by a nation state with those OFAC sanctions.
00:28:37.868 - 00:29:10.664, Speaker A: And Ethereum's response has been amazing to it. I mean, yes, about around 65% of the network is, I guess, like producing OFAC compliant blocks because of mev boost, which I've talked about a lot before. So I'm not going to rehash it there, but there are 35% of blocks that will still process those transactions. So Ethereum is still censorship resistant. It is still fulfilling its promise here, and we are working on getting that number down as much as possible. And the theorem is really the only network that has been tested like that. How well would bitcoin fare in that environment? We don't know.
00:29:10.664 - 00:29:42.454, Speaker A: How well would any of the other chains fare in that environment? We don't know. So we only really know with Ethereum right now. And the OFAC sanctions aren't really a concerted nation state attack against Ethereum because they're only sanctioned tornado cash. They didn't sanction Ethereum. Now let's say a government or the US government wants to sanction Ethereum as a network. Could Ethereum survive that? If it did, I mean, it's debatable whether it would right now, but if it could survive that, right, that would mean that Ethereum truly is decentralized. That would, to me be definitive proof that Ethereum is decentralized.
00:29:42.454 - 00:30:10.434, Speaker A: Now, what does survive the, you know, us government sanctioning the Ethereum network itself mean? Well, it means that the Ethereum network runs just as it runs today, or I guess like a little bit less. Well, as it runs today, but it still runs, it still services users. People are still getting the value out of it that they are today. Now, would that be the case? I don't think so. I think that, because I think the ETH price would absolutely tank. Right. So there goes economic security out the window.
00:30:10.434 - 00:30:30.066, Speaker A: That would, a lot of validators would go offline because they wouldn't allow it to be validating on the network anymore. A lot of them are based in the US, right, gone. Right. Unless they wanted to risk it, which I don't think they do, because it's up to 30 years in prison or massive fines. If you're a us citizen, you definitely want to risk that. Developers in the US, goodbye. Or the developers building on the protocol and on the app layer, goodbye.
00:30:30.066 - 00:31:02.408, Speaker A: They're not going to be there anymore unless they want to move countries, which I, I assume the majority of them probably don't want to do. Right. And even if they do that, they're still a us citizen, so it's still legal for them to interact with Ethereum. So. Yeah, I mean, and obviously any network can be sanctioned, but if, by, by any government. But if the US government was to sanction Ethereum, I think the Ethereum network would keep chugging, but it would be a substantially different network than it is today. And you could argue that Ethereum is truly decentralized as a network in, you know, for, for all intents and purposes.
00:31:02.408 - 00:31:25.632, Speaker A: But practically, it doesn't really matter because most of Ethereum's value has evaporated because of the sanctions. Right? So this is a very multifaceted thing here. This is, as I said, very subjective. There's a lot of nuance here. It depends on a lot of different factors. But hopefully that has given you a, I guess, like answer that, that you can, that you can kind of get value out of. So, great question there, the HD sync.
00:31:25.632 - 00:32:08.588, Speaker A: Thanks for asking it. All right, we have a question here from Nick BK, who says, I just recently tried aztec network for the first time. It worked well. It seems like a similar concept to Tornado cache, but more advanced. I recall a while back on the daily where you mentioned privacy was a key area you'd be keeping your eye on in 2022 and beyond. My question is, can you comment on Aztec, how is it functional, how its functionality compares to tornado cache? And what is your overall take on the privacy landscape and development within the Ethereum ecosystem? So there's a major difference between aztec and Tornado cash to nano cash is a one trick pony, so to speak. It does mixing of ETH and, and some other assets, right? You put Ethan other assets in, it mixes it using ZK magic, and then you get them out.
00:32:08.588 - 00:32:46.566, Speaker A: And it is incredibly hard, if not impossible, to trace those funds back to its origin address if you did it properly. Right? So that's what Tonota cash is in a lot, in a nutshell. Whereas Aztec is going beyond that. What Aztec is doing is it's taking all transactions that it can, all interactions, all different kind of like defi things, things like NFTs, things like just sending ETH and trying to add a privacy layer to it. And the clearest example of this is something called Aztec Connect, which basically allows you to do the transaction on Aztec on the roll up. The Aztec roll up. Then Aztec will tap into layer one, liquidity.
00:32:46.566 - 00:33:26.084, Speaker A: Say you want to do a uniswap trade. It will tap into Uniswap on layer one, and then it will do the transaction privately at L2 so that you still get the benefit of uniswap liquidity on layer one with the privacy on L2. Now, this is not something Tornado Cash does. Tornado cash only mixes assets, whereas Aztec will allow you to encrypt or put privacy onto any transaction on potentially any transaction that you do. So aztec scope is much larger than Tornado Cash's scope in saying that in terms of, like, what the, the current privacy landscape looks like. Well, there aren't that many privacy tools available to us today because of, I guess, like, it's hard. I mean, privacy is quite hard to do.
00:33:26.084 - 00:34:03.274, Speaker A: Right. And also the sanctions have kind of put a chilling effect on that since don't cash got sanctioned in August of last year. But in, but, but I think on that note as well, I'm very bullish on privacy still. Aztec recently actually rebranded from, you know, saying the word privacy to saying the word encrypted, which I think was a pretty smart rebrand because even though encryption has been demonized by governments for the last 20 years, it's still a much less, I guess, like talk, not toxic, but much less loaded term than privacy is these days. And that's just the way of the world. Like, it doesn't matter if it's right or wrong. That's just the way it currently is.
00:34:03.274 - 00:34:43.640, Speaker A: So I think that rebrand is cool. Aztec have their own controls in place and their own monitoring in place in order to comply with any possible regulations. So I think they've announced before they have their own controls on their, that because they're the ones that running Aztec right now because Aztec as a network is centralized, but they have their own controls for monitoring for things like money laundering and terrorism financing and all that, all that other sort of stuff. Right. So just be aware of that, too. But I think when it comes to true privacy, true decentralized privacy, it's going to be an uphill battle from here because we've already seen that governments do not like this. The US government pretty much hated tornado cash because it allowed rogue nation states like North Korea, Korea to wash their funds.
00:34:43.640 - 00:35:21.150, Speaker A: And that meant the US government, meant the US government wasn't able to track them. There's been a war on privacy and encryption, as I said, for the last 20 years, especially because of the digital age. And I think that there's a stigma around it as well. But in saying all of that, businesses need privacy, businesses are not going to use these public networks unless they have guarantees that they are able to interact with it in a privacy preserving way, in an encrypted way, which is something that aztec is, I guess, like really building for. And I think we're going to find a lot of success in that area for sure. Hopefully that answers your question. All right, moving on to the next one coming here from DSI.
00:35:21.150 - 00:36:14.804, Speaker A: So they asked, could it be possible to hack a blockchain with simple node infrastructure? Like let's say someone bootstraps millions of full nodes on a proof of work network, but those nodes have malicious code that don't follow the correct rules. I know in the proof of work, the blockchain is the longest valid suits of blocks. So in theory, if someone was to run a miner associated with millions of invalid nodes, if this person proposes an invalid block, for example, moving coins out of an address without the correct signature, it would be written on the blockchain, wouldn't it? No, that's not how it works in proof of work or proof of stake. So I'll just use the proof of work example because I think it's simpler here. So in proof of work, the canonical chain is the chain with the longest accumulated proof of work on it. So just because you're running millions of full nodes doesn't mean anything, right? You have to do the proof of work in order to become the head of the chain. So for example, if you only have like one miner associated with it, your accumulated proof of work would be very, very low.
00:36:14.804 - 00:36:57.900, Speaker A: You wouldn't have more accumulated proof of work than the canonical chain, the canonical bitcoin chain, for example. So it wouldn't do anything. Now the way you would do it is that you would need to have 51% of the hash power of bitcoin. You would need to build a chain from a certain block. Maybe you change something in that block, and then you would need to become what's called the heaviest chain to replace the existing chain and become the canonical one that the full nodes agree on is the canonical chain, right? So you can't just do it by spinning up full nodes. Full nodes have to be a comp, sorry, full nodes are not going to agree with your version of the chain because it does not have the most accumulated proof of work. And it doesn't, it is not the heaviest chain, so to speak.
00:36:57.900 - 00:37:35.110, Speaker A: So hopefully that answers that. In terms of proof of stake networks, I mean, there are so many different flavors of proof of stake networks, but in terms of how it works in Ethereum proof of stake, this was actually discussed quite a while, quite a while ago in the initial designs, something called a long range attack, where how do you stop someone from forking the chain and then basically staking their same ETH on, on that chain, right? And say they have like a million ETH stakes, just for an example here. And that's 51% of the network how do you stop them from forking the chain? And then how does the chain know that the. The chain. That. That their fork isn't the actual real chain? Because there's no proof of work, right. There's just.
00:37:35.110 - 00:37:52.278, Speaker A: There's just kind of like, attestation of blocks, and then there is finality after the 12.8 minutes or whatever, 13.8 minutes, whatever it is. Right. So the way we deal with that is with slashing. And slashing doesn't solve every issue, because there's the issue of. Of kind of like finality not.
00:37:52.278 - 00:38:29.778, Speaker A: Not being met, maybe because the. Most of the chain isn't attesting to the. The blocks, and then this chain splits off. But we handle that with both technical in protocol slashing and the possibility of social slashing, which I've explained a bunch on the refuel before, and the in protocol stuff, as well as the finality gadget. So, once it's finalized, you, if you try to, I guess, go back on history, it would erase a crap ton of, like, 67% of 8th would be burned. I think all of it gets burned or most of it gets burned if you try to do that. So, it's extremely economically costly to try and revert anything or to try and change anything after finality.
00:38:29.778 - 00:38:48.496, Speaker A: Now, during finality, the cost is lower, but still, it very costly to do so because you'd have to acquire the ETH, you'd have to acquire the validators. It gets. Gets very costly from there. So they definitely differ. And that's just a theorem proof of stake. There are other proof of stake mechanisms that work very differently to that, but that is a general kind of gist there. So, hopefully that clears things up for you.
00:38:48.496 - 00:39:42.742, Speaker A: Dsi. All right, a question here from alcoko. No. Who says is the purpose of checkpoints on the polygon pos chain to basically finalize the chain up to that point to protect against reorgs? Can you talk about this and explain a scenario in which the checkpoints give polygon an advantage over the EVM side chains? So, I wouldn't say I'm an expert on this, but from my best technical understanding of how this works, the checkpoints will finalize the state of the chain to and, but they can only be used to recreate the chain extra protocol if something was to go wrong with the polygon pos chain. So what this means is that I believe there is no in protocol mechanism to go grab that checkpoint from Ethereum and use it to restart the chain. It would have to be done manually by the polygon pos chain validators themselves. So what they would do is that they would say, okay, we all agree that this checkpoint on Ethereum is the last healthy checkpoint of the chain.
00:39:42.742 - 00:40:18.222, Speaker A: We're all going to start building on that checkpoint again, right? We're going to start from that checkpoint, and that's how it would work. That's because the chains are separate. The polygon Pos chain, for all intents of purposes, even though it checkpoints, is functionally its own layer one. It's not like a L2 on Ethereum that relies on Ethereum's validators. It has its own validator set to do that. So I would say that it has a slight advantage over other EVM chains, but it's not like it has the same advantage as a roll up does or a L2 on Ethereum does. And I would say it only marginally increases the security benefits of the Polygon Pos chain.
00:40:18.222 - 00:41:10.836, Speaker A: Hopefully that clears that up for you. But as I said, I'm not a technical expert on that, but I think that's the way it works from my understanding. All right, a question here from zero x four a four c. Who says what is the cheapest, most efficient way to go from fiat in my trad five bank account to eat in my hardware wallet? How can you optimize price? I've heard of some defi services that will find the cheapest ETH price for you across multiple exchanges. How can you optimize fees from fiat conversion and wallet transfers? What about set it and forget it ways to set up recurring buys transfer cheaply efficiently? I'm curious what workflows people are using and how to improve mine. FYI, I'm based in the US, so this is going to vary, obviously, depending on which country you're in, depending on what exchange you use. They have different fees depending on how comfortable you are with setting things like limit orders rather than doing the classic market buy on an exchange.
00:41:10.836 - 00:41:44.266, Speaker A: So it's going to be hard for me to tell you exactly what the best way of going about it is for you. I know that Coinbase's retail, I guess like buy and sell has a lot of fees attached to it, but Coinbase Pro has less fees attached to it or is fee free because you can set limit orders on there. So I would, you know, you would use Coinbase Pro instead of Coinbase, but there are other services that have less fees. There are some that do flat dollar fees. There are some that do percentage fees. So percentage fee would make probably more sense for a smaller buys but a flat dollar value would make sense for bigger buyers. So it really just depends.
00:41:44.266 - 00:42:07.656, Speaker A: And you have to look at the different platforms and look at what fees they charge you in order to see. But that's for fiat to, to ETH or fiat to another crypto. In terms of crypto to crypto on chain, I would say you have two main things to consider, or three actually. You have the gas fees, you have the protocol fee. So for uniswap it's 0.3% for most pools. On other amms, it might be less than that.
00:42:07.656 - 00:42:34.336, Speaker A: And then you have the slippage that you would incur. The difference between these is that the gas fee is paid to the Ethereum network. Whether you're on a theorem layer one or a theorem L2, that gas fee is paid to the ethereum network. Ultimately there, or at least most of it, is on L2s, right. And some of it goes to the L2 sequences. So you have to consider that fee, then you have to consider the protocol fee. So as I said, uniswap is 0.3%
00:42:34.336 - 00:42:57.334, Speaker A: flat for fee. You can't get around that on Uniswap for most pools. That's what the liquidity providers are set up to charge. That's what you're going to be charged as a flat percentage fee on that and then slippage. So say the token that you're trading has a very low liquidity. Say you want to buy $1,000 worth of it and you're going to incur 2% slippage. That means that you are going to lose 2% of your value instantly.
00:42:57.334 - 00:43:24.188, Speaker A: So that's 2% there, 0.3% on the Unisop trade. That's 2.3% that you're losing to feed slippage. And then on top of that, you have the gas fees to consider, which aren't a percentage thing. It's a, it's a dollar value thing. And they can vary, obviously, depending on what network you're using and depending on, you know, what, what gas, what the gas price is at the time and also depending on the, I mean, if you're measuring in dollar value, depending on the dollar value of ETH as well.
00:43:24.188 - 00:44:01.496, Speaker A: Right? So those are all the things you have to consider in terms of the most efficient way here. I would suggest using a decentralized exchange aggregator such as matcha or one inch. But then I would even say you could air even further and use something called cow swap or cow protocol, which is mev, which protects you against Mev, which gives you even better, an even better fill on your order. And I've used cow swap a lot recently and they've been excellent. I've been very, very happy with the service there. So I would say that cow swap is probably your best bet for most efficient swaps. But one inch and matcha and other aggregators like Slingshot as well, they're just fine too.
00:44:01.496 - 00:44:59.120, Speaker A: But, but yeah, that's been my experience there. But in terms of fiat to crypto, it's going to vary depending where you are in the world and depending on which, which exchange you use for sure. All right, a question here from Ripperdoc, who says my question is which conference or conferences are the best to attend for enthusiasts, not necessarily the builders, developers or VC's. So from my experience in terms of ethereum conferences themselves, for enthusiasts, I would say ETH Denver, ETH Connect or, sorry, Dev connect, I should say, and, and, and Devcon itself. So Dev connect and Dev con are run by the Ethereum Foundation. East Denver is run by the Denver people, I think the spork dow they're calling themselves these days. But there are a bunch of other smaller events that are run through ETH Global, which definitely are more on the builder side of things, but the larger ETH global events, they definitely cater more towards enthusiasts as well.
00:44:59.120 - 00:45:52.474, Speaker A: But then there are other, there are other events like permissionless, the bankless runs, which are probably much more enthusiast driven than builder driven. And then there are other cryptos, wider crypto events that less focusing on the builders and developers and more enthusiasts. But your mileage may vary because some of them are just shield fests, you know, some of them are NFT specific, for example, some of them are specific to other things like defile Web three, but in terms of like a broad Ethereum based conferences, ETH Denver, dev Connect, Devcon and some of the ETH global events depending on where they are in the world, depending on, on the size of it, I would suggest going to. And in saying that, I mean, I'm going to be at ETH Denver, I don't know where Devconnect and Devcon are yet, but I'm hoping to get out to at least one of those. And I may, may be at permissionless. It just depends if the dates work out for me. And that's, I believe going to be in September this year and that's run by bankless and blockworks.
00:45:52.474 - 00:46:14.114, Speaker A: But yeah, other than that, like I tend to avoid most conferences, not because they're not good, but because I'm not a builder or developer, not a hacker or anything. I don't participate in the hackathons. And also traveling from Australia can be quite exhausting, especially to places like Europe and the US. So. So yeah, hopefully that answers your question there. Ripperdoc. Right onto the next one from Destroyer.
00:46:14.114 - 00:46:46.370, Speaker A: Who asked do blockchain projects definitely have generally have SD ets working on them and do they test automation and CICD? I actually don't know what an SDT is. I'm going to assume I'm just googling it now. Software development engineering in test, which I guess is something to do with testing. This is a developer question, I think. Destroyer. Unfortunately I'm not a developer so I can't really answer this. But I would say that anything that you're used to in the web two world when it comes to this sort of stuff would translate over into the web3 world because it's just code at the end of the day.
00:46:46.370 - 00:47:29.808, Speaker A: Doesn't matter if it's decentralized or centralized code, it's the same. It's still code, still needs to be tested, still needs it still needs to run through automation platforms and still needs to have DevOps behind it. And it may be different to how you do it in web two because of the decentralization things to consider, but it's still very similar from my understanding. But maybe you can ask in the developers channel, in the discord channel and you'll probably get a better answer there than I can give you one here from a j mil es who says you often talk about the discount that LSD's trade to eat, but Reth actually trades at a premium, if I'm not mistaken. Could you talk about why maybe some advance advantages? I love rocket pool, but that's a pretty significant hit to potential gains. So the reason why there's a premium is because people want re. Basically.
00:47:29.808 - 00:47:55.782, Speaker A: Like that's, that's the really short and sweet of it. There's more people that want re than there is re supply available. So there is a premium. Now where the opportunity lies here is in people spinning up mini pools. So for example, a mini pool requires 16 ETH and about 100 rpl to spin up. But if you spin up a mini pool using something called rocket Arb, you are able to actually arb that premium and get the reward for yourself. So I've done this five times.
00:47:55.782 - 00:48:26.932, Speaker A: So I set up six mini pools. The first one I didn't do it on, but I've done it five times with rocket ArB and I've gotten on average 0.33 ETH free ETH for doing that aRB there. Now that ARB has remained because there is so much demand, because the, the staking pool is full. That has a limit of 5000 ETH in there and it's full right now. So how does that come down? Well, more people need to spin up mini pools which will mint more Reth, which will make the Reth premium go down. And that will happen over time, especially, I believe, post withdrawals.
00:48:26.932 - 00:49:13.004, Speaker A: So I understand that, that this kind of like limits the rocket pool growth because people don't want to buy R 8th if it's at a premium. But there is also other solutions coming as well, not just withdrawals. There are, they are going to be lowering the amount of ETH that is required for mini pools so it can become more capital efficient for our 8th to be minted. So this is going to go down, I believe, in February to eight ETH instead of 16 ETH per minipool, and then hopefully down to four ETH per minipool, which will yield a lot more efficient rETH minting, which will allow re to come back to parity instead of trading at a premium and allow Rocketpool to scale better and Reth to scale better. So hopefully that answers your question. But if you want to ask more about this specifically, I highly recommend joining the Rockapool Discord channel. They are very, very helpful there and they'll be happy to answer any questions you have about Rocketpool.
00:49:13.004 - 00:49:48.308, Speaker A: All right, another one here from Destroyer, who asked, do you think that any tokens on Ethereum could accrue value in a similar way that ETH does? Maybe l two tokens. So I generally don't give investment advice and I generally don't talk about tokens other than ETH for maybe obvious reasons. I don't want to be seen as giving the investment advice. I don't want to be seen as shilling any particular token. I have positions in tokens other than ETH. I'm an angel investor in a lot of different projects. So it's very hard for me to talk, you know, in an unbiased way about tokens, but in terms of something that it can accrue value in a similar way that ETH does, I don't actually see any other token doing that.
00:49:48.308 - 00:50:39.200, Speaker A: And I can safely say that because ETH is such a unique and amazing asset and it has worked so long and so hard to get to that point that I believe it's going to be extremely hard, if not impossible, for pretty much any token to get to that point. Now, the major reason why I say this is because ETH is a store of value that has a monetary premium. Most assets. Doesn't matter if it's a blockchain based asset or digital asset, doesn't matter if it's an NFT, doesn't matter if it is a real world asset, doesn't matter if it is a real world commodity or currency will never achieve a monetary premium or a store of value status because they're simply not enough room to have, you know, 100 different stores of value in the world because that would dilute each of them, right? And that would just share value across of them. Across them. There can only be a handful of them that exist in the world. In crypto, there are only two, BTC and ETH.
00:50:39.200 - 00:51:06.034, Speaker A: The rest of the assets are not store values. They do not have much monetary premium, if any at all. And most of them are not even tied to an entire ecosystem like ETH is. Most of them are an app token or a L2 token. So. So from that perspective, they will never accrue as much value as ETH, in my opinion. So a useful analogy here is something like the US, right? The US has the US dollar and it has companies within the US that.
00:51:06.034 - 00:51:35.450, Speaker A: That have their own, you know, stock tied to them, right? Or publicly traded stock or equity. And that's worth a lot less than the US dollar in terms of market cap. But in saying that as well, the US dollar is not a store of. A good store of value because it loses value over time. And these company at stock prices go up over time. But in terms of just looking at it as a total market cap thing, the US dollar has a much greater market cap than any of the. Of the, of the businesses in that, that work in the US, right? That exists in the US.
00:51:35.450 - 00:52:09.156, Speaker A: So it's a crude analogy. It's not a perfect analogy because as I said, us dollar is not a store of value. It has a monetary premium because us dollars are accepted everywhere. People want us dollars, but it is not a store of value because it loses value against everything else over time. Or not everything else, but like a lot of, a lot of other assets over time. But it is the best fiat currency today that exists today, right? Because it loses value, let's say other fiat currencies lose value against it over time. And the US dollar is a pretty good, sorry, has a lot of monetary premium because of the fact that it is a global reserve currency.
00:52:09.156 - 00:52:33.044, Speaker A: So that's a crude analogy there. So from taking that point of view, I don't think any asset is going to accrue value the way ETH has in saying that. That does not mean that ETH is going to be the best investment going forward depending on what your investment goals are. If your investment goals are wealth preservation, and now I'm giving investment advice, this is not investment advice. Right. This sounds like investment advice, but it's not. This is just how I view things.
00:52:33.044 - 00:53:04.976, Speaker A: I'm not telling you what you should or shouldn't do. It's going to be very clear on that. But the way I view things, if your goal is wealth preservation, then you are not going to be doing Djen stuff, right? You're not going to be yoloing all your money into some random defi protocol or some random NFT, hoping that you get 100 x out of it. You're going to be trying to preserve that wealth. Now, that could become in the form of buying ETH. That could come in the form of buying real estate, buying stocks or buying less risky assets. Even though you know the growth isn't going to be 100 x from there, or even ten x.
00:53:04.976 - 00:53:35.500, Speaker A: Right. Over a shorter period of time, even though you know it's going to just grow your wealth. Well, hopefully grow your wealth slowly over time. You do it because you want to preserve the wealth you already have. Now, if you are someone who doesn't have much wealth to preserve, if you are just starting out in your investment journey, well, then it doesn't really make much sense for you to go into wealth preserving assets because you have better, more of a risk appetite, right. You can afford to lose more your small amount of money that you're putting into it for the chance of getting 100 x. So let's put some dollar values here.
00:53:35.500 - 00:54:17.114, Speaker A: If you have a million dollars, right, and you've worked your way up to a million dollars, are you going to risk that million dollars that you've worked your way up to by yellowing it into things that give you 100 x? No, most people aren't going to do that. Right. I'll give you a potential for 100 x, right? Yeah. Okay, you can make $100 million, but how much risk are you taking? Are you going to hold it for until you get to $100 million? No, you're probably not, right? There's a lot of different things that go into this, but just as a simple kind of answer here, that million dollars, you're most likely going to put that into something that preserves your wealth. Now, you don't have to do all of it. Maybe you only do 80% of it and you use 20% on your degen gambling stuff that you want to do to grow that wealth. That's fine, but you're probably going to put the majority into something that you think and you have relative confidence in that is going to preserve that wealth.
00:54:17.114 - 00:54:45.630, Speaker A: Now, let's say you have $10,000. Well, you're not probably, and you're young. I mean, this is an age thing as well, because as you get older, maybe you have a family, maybe you have more commitments, like a mortgage. Let's say you're under 30 years old, you don't have a mortgage, you don't have a family, which, I mean, under 25 obviously applies more to. But under 30, I think there's a large chunk of people that do that and say you have $10,000 you want to play with. Well, in that case, you're not going to be preserving your wealth. You're going to be like, well, I need to generate wealth here.
00:54:45.630 - 00:55:20.314, Speaker A: So you're going to be taking riskier and riskier bets. Yes, your chance of blowing up is a lot higher. Yes, your chance of making it, getting that 100 x is quite low, but you're still going to do that because that is the way that you think that you believe is a way to grow wealth, much, you know, in a much quicker way than you would putting it into a wealth preservation asset. Right. So from that point of view, you can. Other other tokens can easily outperform ETH over time, but it's a lot riskier. You're not, you know, you're not gonna pick the winning one most of the time, and it depends on your situation.
00:55:20.314 - 00:55:39.620, Speaker A: So for me, as it exists today, I'm not doing those yolo bets anymore in any kind of size. Definitely not. Most of my wealth is in ETH because I believe that ETH is a great way to preserve my wealth. Now, that's my crypto wealth. Or I guess, like, what's in crypto. I also have my house. I have, like, a car.
00:55:39.620 - 00:56:03.916, Speaker A: Right? A car is not a store of value, but I have other assets that are not crypto that I'm using to preserve wealth. So it just depends what you want to do. Depends on your level of wealth, depends on your risk appetite, depends on your commitments. I mean, I don't have a family, but still, I plan to have a family relatively soon, hopefully. Right. So I don't want to be yellowing to things and be like, oh, God, I just lost all my money. What? How am I going to feed my kids? Right? So there's that to consider.
00:56:03.916 - 00:56:32.640, Speaker A: And everyone's situation is different. That's why I say I'm never giving investment advice. I'm not an investment advisor. And you have to really consider your own situation. So hopefully that answers your question there. I'm going to move on to the next one here from. I'm Aaron, who says, is the fact that Internet providers slash telecom providers control the ability to access the Internet a looming long term centralization concern for you? How can we decentralize Internet access before the telecom monopolies can censor our industry? So this is a bit of an elephant in the room.
00:56:32.640 - 00:57:09.884, Speaker A: I think that generally Internet providers are quite decentralized across the globe in terms of how many there are, right. But when you look at a nation in a vacuum, they generally only have a handful of major telecom providers. In Australia, for the longest time, we only really had one called Telstra, which was very dominant. And then we switched to something called the NBN network, which marginally improved competition. But still, it's just a handful, right, of companies that control this year. And then when you're talking about the actual infrastructure, I mean, it depends if it's government owned, right? It depends if it's, it's, it's, it's pub. It's owned by private companies.
00:57:09.884 - 00:57:44.836, Speaker A: And, you know, how many of private companies own it? There's a lot of nuance there, but it is still the elephant in the room. It is still a big centralization vector. And the way we rectify this, well, it's very hard because decentralizing infrastructure is quite difficult. So let's take something like Elon Musk Starlink, for example, that is an alternative to the, to the telcos you have in your country. You can hook up to Starlink and get access to it, but that Starlink is still controlled by Elon Musk. Elon Musk is still at the mercy of the US government. If the US government told Elon Musk to do something with Starlink by a legal order, he would probably have to follow it.
00:57:44.836 - 00:58:20.444, Speaker A: He probably would, right? And even if he wanted to do it himself, right, if he wanted to cut off access to some country because he just felt like it, he could do that as well. So decentralizing infrastructure is very, very hard, if not impossible. Rolling out infrastructure at scale is extremely difficult. And that's why it can't really be decentralized thing. I know there are some projects that are trying to focus on trying to do this, like helium, for example. But helium, their main incentive was that you could quote unquote mine with the helium boxes and earn tokens for it. But then that relies on the tokens being valuable to drive demand for the helium boxes.
00:58:20.444 - 00:59:01.992, Speaker A: Because if the helium boxes cost, let's say dollar 400 and you can't even recoup the cost because the token price is so low or because too many people are on the network are trying to earn the rewards and it diluted your share, well then people, most people aren't going to buy that box because there's no incentive for them to do so. So an infrastructure rollout, whether it's centralized or decentralized, is incredibly costly. But a decentralized one is even more costly because of the fact that you need the incentive there and you need the incentive people to want to provide that, provide that at scale. So yeah, hopefully that answers a bit of your question there. As I said, it is an elephant in the room. There's no good fix here really. At the end of the day we just need to kind of accept that this is a potential risk.
00:59:01.992 - 01:00:17.970, Speaker A: This is one way nation states can control the chain and work towards I guess just making people more knowledgeable about this and also maybe doing stuff in your own country, maybe voting in governments that will work to break up any kind of monopolies that exist on telecom providers, making sure that they do things that encourage competition for them. And maybe even to a point where the government doesn't own all the infrastructure either, right? I mean technically if you really wanted to go to the end state of this there, if the US government wanted to, they control the army, they could just tell the telecom providers hey, you know, all of your infrastructure are, belong to us. If you disagree, we're gonna throw you in jail. If you try to fight back, we're just gonna squash you with our army. Like I'm talking about the extreme here. So when you're looking at like physical infrastructure, it's much harder to decentralize that than it is software in my opinion, because software, yes it lives on physical infrastructure, but the software that Ethereum lives on, like having a full node, anyone can have that on a solid state drive anywhere in the world. And, and there's, I mean there's lots of different solid state drive providers, but that no one has access over that drive that you have locally on your own physical machine unless they hack you, right, and unless they come into your home.
01:00:17.970 - 01:01:08.726, Speaker A: But it'd be impossible for that, for I guess like millions of full nodes for example, to be seized or even tens of thousands to be, to be I guess like found and seized even if they were people around the world could just spin up new ones. It's very easy to do that because it's software rather than hardware based. And, yeah, hopefully that answers your question. I went off a little bit of a tangent there, but I think that answered the question. All right, we have one here from defern ETH, who asked, do you have any perspectives on the cosmos ecosystem? Ethereum people and cosmos people seem to get along quite well without the kind of combat seen between ETH and other Ethereum killer alt l one s, if my perception is in crest is correct. Why do you think this? Why do you think this is? Well, okay, I think Cosmos is more friendly than the other ecosystems, but I don't think that Cosmos and Ethereum really get along that well. Cosmos fundamentally is being built in a way that disagrees with the Ethereum vision.
01:01:08.726 - 01:01:42.410, Speaker A: Cosmos wants a central hub with all sovereign chains hanging off of it, whereas Ethereum is the central hub for L2s, which aren't sovereign chains. Layer twos are inheriting ethereum security. So it's a very, very different model to Cosmos. Cosmos wants every one of their spokes to be sovereign, to have their own token to secure themselves, to be able to do what they want. Whereas a theorem doesn't believe that that is actually scalable, doesn't believe that's the right way of. Of scaling a blockchain. They believe that we should have roll ups, but then these roll ups shouldn't be sovereign.
01:01:42.410 - 01:02:08.316, Speaker A: They should just tap into a theorem security to get all the benefits of that, tap into a theme validator set to get in, to get all the benefits of. Of that. So, my general perspective on the cosmos ecosystem is that I'm bearish on it. Like, I'm not very bullish on it all. I think it's an inferior ecosystem to Ethereum, by far. I think it's inferior technically, because it's, I believe in the Ethereum roll up centric roadmap. And I believe that there are perverse incentives, like, there's a reason why the atom token hasn't accrued much value.
01:02:08.316 - 01:02:35.844, Speaker A: And, for example, Terra was built on Cosmos technology, but Adam didn't accrue any value. The luna token accrued all the value from the growth of Terra. So there is that as well. Whereas a L2 on Ethereum, properly constructed as a roll up, it doesn't leech value from Ethereum because it still pays Ethereum for its security. It still uses Ethereum as an asset on there, as a unit of account, as a fee token. It's still the same set of users. Ethereum users are L2 users and L2 users are Ethereum users.
01:02:35.844 - 01:03:17.170, Speaker A: So hopefully that explains that one there. All right, onto the next question from noe one who says, can you briefly outline discuss Ethereum governance? Recently, during a discussion I had, I couldn't comprehensively rebut the accusation that ETH was mainly governed by a team of devs as either conform or fork would value your thoughts and ways, if, if any, we could improve. So the ethereum, you, governance process is quite involved. It's mainly captured by something called the EIP process or the Ethereum improvement proposal process. So when any change is made to the ethereum network, it has to go through this EIP process first. And this ERP process has a bunch of different stages which you can go and look up on the ethereum.org website if you want.
01:03:17.170 - 01:03:50.820, Speaker A: I don't know all of them off the top of my head, but basically the high level overview of how this process works is that someone comes along and says, hey, you know, this is my idea. This is the EIP that I've created with the, I guess, like details of this idea. And then they work through that and work through the different stages to get that to Mainnet. It is a long process to get it to Mainnet. It doesn't just happen overnight. It requires a lot of work, both on the research and development side as well as the governance side. Now, to give you some examples of how things get accepted or rejected.
01:03:50.820 - 01:04:52.410, Speaker A: So there is an infamous EIP, which is ERP triple nine, which was submitted by a core developer called Afri. Afri, sorry, I should say, who worked on the parity Ethereum client before parity was sunset back in, I believe, 2018 or 2019, where the ERP suggested unfreezing some amount of ETH, I think was 300,000 ETH, or probably more than that, that was frozen as part of the parity multisig bug, where essentially these funds were frozen forever because someone deleted a library contract that was needed by this contract by the multisig in order for people to be able to access their funds there. Now, 300,000 of that ETH actually belonged to parity's sister, a company called the Web Three foundation, which was building Polkadot, which is something parity was heavily involved in. Now, at the time when this EIP was submitted, people were like, well, no, straight away, like, soon as we saw the EIP, the governance process started from there. The Ethereum community was like, no, this doesn't make any sense. This is a slippery slope. If we unfreeze these funds.
01:04:52.410 - 01:05:40.702, Speaker A: That means we have to pretty much go back and through the chain and unfreeze everyone's funds, and it becomes very subjective. Do we, do we reverse hacks because of this? Other hacks because of this? Do we unfreeze funds that people sent to, to the burn address? Do we unfreeze funds that were, that were sent to the burn address as a means of sending them there in order to delete them forever? Right. And there's all these other subjective stuff that comes into it. So even before this EIP entered any kind of like, research or development phase, the social governance stepped in and basically said no. And the social governance is the Ethereum community itself. It includes everyone in the Ethereum community, whether they just be casual community members, whether they be core developers and researchers, infrastructure providers, other stakeholders, like exchanges. None of them really chimed into this, but it was really the core of theorem community that just outright rejected this before it even got off the ground.
01:05:40.702 - 01:06:17.978, Speaker A: Basically said no, right? So that was rejected. Now, let's say it wasn't rejected at that stage. Let's say it went through the research and development phase as time went on, and it got to the point where it was slated for inclusion and the community was still saying, basically, no, we don't want this. This actually happened with something called prog power, where essentially it got to the, some of the final stages of getting included in on the Ethereum main net, but then it didn't, because social governance got really loud about this. It got to the point where social governance was like, we don't want this at all, right? This is not something that is going to benefit at the Ethereum network. We believe that there are perverse incentives here. We believe that there are backdoor deals going on.
01:06:17.978 - 01:06:55.548, Speaker A: We don't believe Prog pal is an upgrade that should come to the Ethereum network. And ultimately it was decided by the community that this was not going to happen. The people that were supporting it, even in the, the core dev arena, who I would say have, I mean, they're not, they don't control the chain, but they do have more influence than just your casual community member because they are core developers, right? They do have more of a say that we have merit to their words. Even they back down because they're like, you know, this is, this is not popular enough in the community. This is not something the community wants. So this is not something that we feel comfortable supporting anymore. And even if they did feel comfortable supporting it, even if they all wanted to just push it through, even though the community didn't want it.
01:06:55.548 - 01:07:37.658, Speaker A: The community and the people running the infrastructure and the full nodes don't have to adopt this code. They can basically say we're not going to run the code that contains this upgrade because we do not believe that this is something that the community wants, is not something that myself as a node runner or as a miner or as a staker wants in the network. And you can run the software. That is the last line of defense if all else fails. But that. But to get to that point takes a lot of work, right? And it takes basically if you wanted to get something pushed in to the network, you would have to convince over 51% of the full nodes to upgrade to this. And if the majority of the community is against that, then you will never convince the, the full notes to include this.
01:07:37.658 - 01:08:11.054, Speaker A: And even if the core developers wanted to happen, it wouldn't happen. So that is the, the governance process in a nutshell. From a high level overview there of how things work, how things have been stopped and how things have gotten really far and been stopped, and what would happen if things had gotten so far to the point where it was slated for inclusion and then people just didn't run the nodes and then it just wouldn't get included on the network. The network rules would not change because it didn't go through a network upgrade or a hard fork. Or if it did only say only like 20% of the nodes were upgraded, then that would fork off. And that wouldn't actually be the real Ethereum chain. The real Ethereum chain would be what the community said it was, would be the 80%.
01:08:11.054 - 01:08:50.164, Speaker A: So that's how it works from that perspective, in saying all of that, even the most popular upgrades take a long time to come to the network. EIP 1559, the most popular Ethereum upgrade by far, besides the merge, took two and a half years to get into the network, right? Two and a half years. And I can't stress how popular this was. Literally everyone in the Ethereum community wanted this. There was probably maybe 5%, if I had to put, put a percentage on it, of people that didn't want this. And guess who those people were? Miners. Why didn't miners want this? Because it cut directly into their profit margins.
01:08:50.164 - 01:09:25.164, Speaker A: So we can just do a one to one mapping there of why they didn't want it. There's no, there's no kind of like a shady backroom deals being done here. There is no guessing here. We know exactly why miners didn't want it, because it hurt their bottom line. But other than that, everyone wanted, it still took two and a half years, right? The merge, everyone wanted proof of stake since day one, still took an extremely long time to get into the network, right? So when looking at things, when looking at how to change the Ethereum, change the Ethereum protocol rules, it is an extremely involved process. It takes a lot of move, a lot of input from a lot of different people. There are a lot of moving parts here.
01:09:25.164 - 01:09:51.148, Speaker A: And if all else fails, if every single other stage fails and the upgrade gets coded up, it gets put out there, then people can just simply say, I don't want to run this software, and that's it. It wouldn't happen. The chain wouldn't upgrade. The chain would be the same old Ethereum we're used to without that upgrade included. And then we'd have to deal with the fallout from that, right? There'd be social fallout, but the Ethereum network wouldn't change. It would still be the same Ethereum network that the community wanted to stay on and that the community all loved. But yeah, hopefully that answers your question.
01:09:51.148 - 01:10:21.364, Speaker A: No one, I know it can be complex, but this is exactly how it works in bitcoin as well. It's just that bitcoin doesn't want to do any upgrades on its network. So with ethereum, we don't do that. We do want to do upgrades. So there is a precedent to upgrading and there are, there is a governance process that needs to be adhered to. But this is the same in bitcoin. The bitcoin core developers could tomorrow code up a change to bitcoin, push it to the, to the branch, and then the bitcoin users or node runners could decide, or the community could decide on whether they wanted to actually go through with this or not, the same way the Ethereum users do.
01:10:21.364 - 01:11:02.192, Speaker A: All right, some questions here from Shawman, who asks question about the ultrasound money site. The only section I don't understand appears to be the most important with respect to the ether. Long term price is the monetary premium. I see gold is estimated at ten in the chart. How is that calculated? How can we calculate track ether's monetary premium? So a monetary premium is quite a debated thing in the world. My definition of it is an asset that has a strong network effect, but also has a way to accrue value from that network effect. So a asset that has a monetary premium, that is not a store of value, I think these things go hand in hand, is the US dollar.
01:11:02.192 - 01:11:37.790, Speaker A: The US dollar doesn't accrue value into itself. Right. But it accrues value for the US, which is what it's supposed to do. Whereas the ETH as an asset accrues value to itself from its monetary premium, from its network effect, from its use in defi as money, its use in staking its use. And as that usage grows, ETH as an asset accrues that value and then that passes that value to the ethereum network. Whereas the US dollar doesn't, it doesn't. Even though it has a monetary premium, it, because of its network effect, it doesn't hold that value.
01:11:37.790 - 01:12:26.446, Speaker A: It drives that value back to the US government, back to the US as an entity. And the US dollar obviously has value as a reserve currency. And its network effect keeps growing, but it loses value against, against like other assets over time because of its inflationary nature, right? And because of its not just inflationary nature, but because of the fact that us dollars are not saying people want to hold, they want to use it as money, right? They want to spend it. It has a very, very high velocity, it moves very like it changes hands a lot, whereas ETH maybe necessarily doesn't do that, right, because it's used in a bunch of different ways as I outlined. So that's my own subjective view of things. And I think ultrasound money, the website has its own view of this as well. But in the reason why gold is it has such a large monetary premium is because gold has a massive network effect that's, that's built up over thousands of years.
01:12:26.446 - 01:12:56.068, Speaker A: And it also has, is also like ETH, where it's network effect brings value to itself and it increases its monetary premium, which, which makes it a store of value as well. Whereas the US dollar is not a very good store of value, has a strong monetary premium. So in my eyes, those two go hand in hand. That's why gold is rated so highly. But I mean, I obviously think ETH is a better asset than gold. So I think that it should be worth more than gold and ETH should be, should have a high score like gold. But ETH needs to have more of a network effect.
01:12:56.068 - 01:13:40.876, Speaker A: It needs to have nation states buying it, right, and storing their value in it. That is really the thing that it needs. Because to beat gold, because gold obviously is held by nation states, they collect it, they keep it in their own vaults. Whereas if one day ETH is, and I'm not talking about like small nation states like El Salvador with bitcoin being on their balance sheet, I'm talking about like big nation states, ones that have huge economies, right? That, let's say the top ten nation, say the top ten economies in the world. If they start putting ETH on their balance sheet you bet your ass its monetary premium is going way up and its store of value properties are going way up as well and it's going to get closer to gold in terms of its score here. All right, your second question regarding LSD's. I do believe they will follow a power or distribution where the top LSD takes 80% plus market share.
01:13:40.876 - 01:14:13.354, Speaker A: Long term. If so, hasn't Lido already won? So I struggled to answer this question because it's hard to say and there's not really a precedent here. So right now if you look at the way LSD's, the LSD market share is as you mentioned, Lido or it already has a very large market share. You could say that it's a winner take most market. But I don't think it works out like that. Long term. I think that there are going to be a handful of big players.
01:14:13.354 - 01:14:51.292, Speaker A: I think Lido will be one of them. I think that Rockerpool will obviously be one of them. But then you can look at the exchanges like Coinbase and Binance that have their own LSD's as well. And then if you count those as LSD's, right, then Lido's market share isn't actually that big compared because these exchanges have lots of eats staked with them. So I think the line between, you know, pure LSD's and exchanges with, with LSD's is blurred now. And I think that you have to basically lump all staking services that have an LSD attached to it as an LSD service. So from that perspective it already isn't a power law.
01:14:51.292 - 01:15:34.794, Speaker A: But if you want to take just pure LSD's like Lido, like rocket Pool, like a couple of others out there then yeah Lido has the biggest market share right now but that's because it had a big head start. It's because withdrawals aren't enabled and I believe longer term one, once withdrawals are enabled we're going to see a much healthier ecosystem there. I believe that once rocket pool becomes more efficient we're going to see a better ecosystem. They're going to see better growth with rocket pool. But the way I look at it is that LSD's and centralized exchanges or centralized services staking providers are very blurred because when you look about look at it lighter. Yeah okay it's 29 different operators but they're all centralized, right? Lido is just the entity that sits above it. And then from that perspective light.
01:15:34.794 - 01:16:19.070, Speaker A: Oh, the LSD looks, looks very much like a centralized exchange, except it just distributes at stakeout. But then it depends on what those, where those operators are, you know, how detached they are from each other, how independent they are from each other. And yeah, I mean, it gets very murky from there, gets very nuanced from there. But hopefully that gives you my view of things. Another question here from Videnton ETH, who says, anthony, do you get approached to participate in other crypto podcasts out there? Haven't seen you on others except bankless. Do you avoid many of these podcasts on purpose? You have a strong voice, and it'd be great for you and Ethereum to share your perspectives on other well known podcasts, such as Unchained and Empire, amongst others. So I have been approached by other ones in the past, and I've been on other ones other than bankless in the past as well.
01:16:19.070 - 01:16:44.690, Speaker A: I mean, I recently was on whack whack attacks, rocket fuel. I've been on Altcoin daily before. I've even been on Ivan van Tek's podcast before or YouTube channel before. But yeah, I mostly have been on just bankless and obviously daily Gwei and not on too many others. I haven't been approached by unchained an empire yet, not that I know of, at least. But I would go on Unchart Unchained an empire. But in saying that, there are a lot of ones that I avoid.
01:16:44.690 - 01:17:10.158, Speaker A: I avoid most of the crypto youtubers. For example, I probably wouldn't return to Ivan on Tech's channel altcoin daily. Look, it's kind of a fine line because pretty much all of them do the same thing, right? They play the algorithm, they do the clickbait, they shield tokens, but they have a lot of reach. And the altcoin daily folks are actually really friendly. I like talking to them both. I really. I thought the conversation was really great.
01:17:10.158 - 01:17:41.764, Speaker A: But they definitely are slaves to the algorithm, right? And I don't fault them for that. That's just the way things are. But people have nuanced views here, and me being me, and me being, I guess, as protective of my reputation as I am, I just don't feel too comfortable going on many of them. I'm happy to go on bankless because I believe bankless is aligned with my values. I believe David and Ryan, absolutely awesome. But the majority of podcasts out there, I probably wouldn't ever go on. I know it would be good for reach and would be good for educating the masses.
01:17:41.764 - 01:18:09.722, Speaker A: But I would take a reputation hit for doing it. For example, if I went on Bitboy's channel, I would take a massive reputation here. I would feel gross doing it and. But in saying that he has a massive reach, I'd reach new people and maybe guide them and maybe get them onto daily Gray where they can actually learn the proper things about crypto without being shield tokens. But I don't think it's worth the reputation hit for me. I don't think it's worth me feeling like shit about it because I would honestly regret it straight away. And I'd feel disgusting doing it because I have zero respect for bit boy.
01:18:09.722 - 01:18:38.306, Speaker A: I think he's one of the worst actors in this space. But yeah, I mean, it would be good for reach, right? It'd be good for reaching new people, but that's the fine line that I have to unfortunately tread. Oh, fortunately. And that's just the way I view things. All right, one here from Este Benu. Hopefully I said that name, right? So, hi Anthony. How do we ensure that the usability of ethereum as an ecosystem, especially l two s, doesn't suffer due to fragmentation? Things such as the need to bridge between l two s and scattered liquidity, seems like bad user experience.
01:18:38.306 - 01:19:40.136, Speaker A: How can we Internet interconnect these layers better and abstract the infrastructure away? So we end up just using ethereum again? I think that it'll all be abstracted away by the front ends, by the wallets that build on top of the protocols that do the abstraction, such as the bridges between these different l two s. And then when we have things like proto dank sharding or dank sharding on ethereum layer one, you'll be able to do cross roll up communication atomically, right? But in saying that, I think the crypto ecosystem has over obsessed about atomic transactions and composability, the web as it exists today, like Web two, doesn't actually work like that. Web two is very asynchronous. So synchro synchronous means that things happen at the same time. Asynchronous means that things happen in a linear fashion where basically you say, hey, I want to do a thing. And then you wait like 5 seconds and get a reply from the other side says, okay, you can do the thing, and then that, that replies to you. I mean, this is exactly how the Internet works.
01:19:40.136 - 01:20:15.056, Speaker A: And there's, there's an act to it, there's an acknowledgement when you send a ping, then it pins you back. It's very, it's very asynchronous, right. Rather than synchronous. And I think in crypto, we've been spoiled with synchro, with synchronous transactions and composable composability that stems off of that. But things can be built in a way where it's composability and synchrony is not assumed. You can do them in an asynchronous way where essentially, for example, you could do a transaction from arbitrum. You could say, hey, I want to buy this token on Uniswap, but I want to do it from arbitrum, but, sorry, I want to buy this token on Uniswap.
01:20:15.056 - 01:20:57.348, Speaker A: That's on optimism, but I want to do it from arbitrum. Well, you can do a thing asynchronously. You know, do an async transaction where essentially arbitram says, okay, initiating transaction to the, I guess like Uniswap, or through a, through a bridge, for example, through hop, for example, do the hop transaction. Then the hop transaction gets finalized on optimism. Then optimism gets the message and says, okay, I'm going to do the swap on Uniswap, and then it does the swap. And then once that's completed, the, the optimism that we gets the message again and says, hey, send this, these assets to back through hop to arbitram to this user. And then all those steps happen in an asynchronous fashion, but the end result is still the same.
01:20:57.348 - 01:21:23.966, Speaker A: So maybe you have to wait a minute for this to happen. I don't know. It's hard with finality as well, because it depends on the bridging, it depends on what the roll ups allow for. But say you just wait a minute for that transaction to finalize. That's still the same experience that you would have, or a similar experience that you would have on Ethereum. Layer one with doing everything in a block where you have to wait maximum of 12 seconds if you pay the right fee, because that's the Ethereum block there. So I think that's going to be the end, going to be a very popular end state.
01:21:23.966 - 01:22:11.646, Speaker A: I do think there are going to be some ways to do it faster than that, where the service that you're using takes on the risk, for example. So it basically acts as a, okay, well, I know this transaction is going to complete in like ten minutes, but I know my user wants their assets now, so I'm going to front the assets for them, take a small fee for doing so, and then I'll settle it with the, the back end later, so to speak. And that's actually how a lot of the banking system works today as well. Obviously it's inefficient, but we can improve it drastically with on chain stuff, instead of it taking, you know, three days for settlement and only takes ten minutes for settlement, and then the provider fronts the settlement for the user if the user doesn't want to wait for that ten minutes, for example. So those are some ways it can work. But yeah, I think we're going to get there. I think we're going to improve the user experience to the point where the user doesn't see any of this happening, and they're going to have a wonderful experience that we're all used to on Ethereum.
01:22:11.646 - 01:22:47.334, Speaker A: Layer one. All right, one here from Dev 22 x long ETH. I hope you're not 22 x long ETH. That's probably going to get you liquidated. But they ask, what's your view on Starkware as an Altoo can? Will it become a threat with increased adoption for Ethereum, or will add more value as it sits on a theorem? Curious, as they seem to be developing a different design compared to other zk l two s. So they are definitely developing a different design where they're not focusing on ZK EVM. And even though they're building a ZKVM, they are focusing on building their own ecosystem built on the Cairo language, on Stocknet, which is not an EVM network.
01:22:47.334 - 01:23:16.314, Speaker A: It is their own network built on Stark X, I believe. And they have Cairo, which is not solidity, it's their own language. I don't think they're a threat to Ethereum. I think they're maybe the least Ethereum aligned l two, not just because of their architecture, but also just things that I've seen over time. I think that their token distribution is pretty bad. But if I had to pick up negatives about starkware, but generally I think Starkware is a net positive. I think they're doing a lot of amazing work.
01:23:16.314 - 01:23:57.600, Speaker A: They're doing different architecture than the rest of the Altus or most of the other l two s, but that's totally fine. We want different things to blossom. We don't want just everything to be EVM. In saying that, I do believe there isn't going to be that many other ecosystems other than the EVM ecosystems that actually take off, that actually accrue network effect. I think starkware will probably be one of them. But they definitely focused on a different market share segment, a different, I think, type of user then the other l two s are focused on also, mainly because of the lack of EVM compatibility, but also because they seem to be focusing on more, I guess like b two b relationships rather than b two c. But it remains to be seen, kind of like how that shakes out as well.
01:23:57.600 - 01:24:39.220, Speaker A: All right, one here from rh who says, what are the Ethereum values principles that resonate with you most on a global perspective? What some, what are some of the things that you wish to see ethereum solve for the world? I'm interested in your take for the long term horizon, ten to 20 years and beyond. So I think the principles that resonate with me most, if I had to pick just a few of them, would be obviously decentralization. But I guess that's a bit of a cop out. Census chip resistance, because I believe without censorship resistance, a blockchain is useless. Freedom to transact, which kind of comes into sense, super resistance, open source. I believe open source is a must. I believe everything needs to be open source on a chain.
01:24:39.220 - 01:25:41.370, Speaker A: We need to be able to verify what you're interacting with on that chain. And I believe the last principle, which I think is more of maybe a meta principle on top of all the other ones, is I believe that a strong sense of ownership over not just the network, but of your own assets. And that's why I'm such a big proponent of self custody, because without a strong sense of ownership and without a strong sense of like a stake in the network, I don't think you can actually care about the other values that much. Because if you don't have a personal stake in the network, whether that be emotionally, financially or some other way, then you probably aren't going to care about the fact that Ethereum is, you know, censorship resistant. It offers freedom to the world, freedom to transact, you know, it's open source, it doesn't discriminate. You probably don't care about those things as much that if you do, if you have a stake in the network. So I believe that ownership is incredibly important here, and that's the meta, I guess, value that probably sits on all of them, that resonates with me most.
01:25:41.370 - 01:26:23.512, Speaker A: Now let's break the ownership value down a bit more here. Do you feel like you have a strong ownership over the, the network or in the network? Do you have a strong stake in the network if it's VC infested, for example? No, I don't. I don't feel like I would have a strong stake or a strong ownership of the net, of the network in pretty much any other l one s because most of them are VC infested. They have very big investors in them that have the majority of the token supply, that have outsized financial influence over the network, that basically influence the development of the network. And from that perspective, I don't feel any ownership over it at all. I don't feel like I could have a stake in that network, so I don't. Whereas with Ethereum it's the complete opposite.
01:26:23.512 - 01:27:07.336, Speaker A: There are no big vc's in Ethereum. The biggest ETH holder was Joe Lubin, who has basically been whittled down on his ETH from funding consensus, which was helping the Ethereum ecosystem grow, especially in the early days. But other than that, you know, the ETH is very well distributed compared to these other networks. There is a very vibrant community of ETH holders, a very vibrant community of people that stake ETH that they've held for a long time, that participate in staking as solo validators or as running something like a rocker pool mini pool. There is a very vibrant Ethereum community that takes ownership over governance and participating in governance, that's another big thing as well. So from that perspective, that's why ownership for me resonates so strongly and applies so strongly to Ethereum and basically lifts up all the other values because of that. Right.
01:27:07.336 - 01:27:26.294, Speaker A: Because of the way Ethereum is. Can that be bought? No. Can that be, I guess, like developed over time? Yes. Are there going to be other networks to develop this? Maybe. Is a theorem the only one that has this right now? No, but it's the only smart contract chain that has this right now. The only other network that has this is bitcoin. And bitcoin's actually losing this over time.
01:27:26.294 - 01:27:50.894, Speaker A: It's losing its sense of ownership, I believe, and sense of stake in the network. It's losing its other values over time. It's eroding them by being so ossified, so, so kind of like, I guess, cult like, so steadfast in just sticking to one thing, and that's it. I believe it's losing it. I believe a theorem is doing the opposite of that. I believe Ethereum is embracing its values and its principles and its ownership. I believe Ethereum is becoming more widely adopted with people.
01:27:50.894 - 01:28:09.378, Speaker A: It's becoming more open to things than it was in the past. It's because of the l two rollout as well. We have all these expressive l two s on top of a theorem layer, one that can do their own things, have their own community values. I think that all adds to the bottom base layer of Ethereum and adds to Ethereum's value. So hopefully that answers your question. I didn't really have that prepared. That was just off the cuff.
01:28:09.378 - 01:28:58.304, Speaker A: But that's what resonates strongly with me. You had a follow up question where you said, in a future where the Ethereum roadmap has been completed, what would you like to see happen? So I actually answered this on refuel from I believe last week where I was talking about Domothy's tweet where he said that he believes long term Ethereum is going to enter a status, sorry, enter a phase of homeostasis instead of ossifying once its roadmap has been completed, where essentially it, it doesn't upgrade as frequently. But if something needs to be fixed or something needs to be upgraded, the Ethereum community is open to doing that instead of just being like, okay, well, no, we're not doing any changes. No changes. We have to deal with this in other ways. But, and, but for my full answer to that, to that question, you should definitely go check out one of my refuels. I don't know which one it was, but it's timestamped where I talk about Domothy's tweets about homeostasis.
01:28:58.304 - 01:29:29.342, Speaker A: All right, last few questions to get through. Arjun here asks, when you participate in all these private rounds, do you use your ETH? No, I do not use my ETH. I use fresh fiat every single time. I convert the fiat to a us dollar stable coin and I send that us dollar stable coin to the funding rounds. I have never sold any of my ETH. The only ETH that I have spent has been eat for gas fees, obviously, and eat that I've used to pay people. In terms of ETH that I used to pay people, I replenished that ETH straight away with fresh fiat.
01:29:29.342 - 01:29:47.816, Speaker A: Now I do that for tax purposes because under a certain amount, using ETH as, as money is tax free. It's a small amount, but it's still better. It's more tax efficient for me to do it like that. In terms of gas fees. Sometimes I'll replenish it, sometimes I won't. Just depends if I've got the money to do so. I do regular ETH buys anyway, so it doesn't really matter in my mind.
01:29:47.816 - 01:30:36.768, Speaker A: Maybe I just delay the replenishment there. But no, I never use my ETH. I've already said that I'm never selling my ETH. I stake most of my ETH, but yeah, I would never think of using my ETH to participate in these rounds. Next one comes from Flyer 897 who says, what are your thoughts on staking as a service and what provider is regarded as the best? Why is this rarely talked about compared to liquid staking providers? So as I mentioned before earlier in the, in the AMA, I believe the lines are blurred between these kind of staking as a service providers and LSD's because some of them have LSD's, right? Like Coinbase is a service staking as a service provider, but it has an LSD called CBE, then you have binance. That is the same thing has be, right? So the lines are blurred there. But if you're talking about like pure staking, service providers that don't have LSD's actually think that they're going to die out.
01:30:36.768 - 01:31:09.272, Speaker A: I actually think that they're going to lose to the ones that do have LSD's because there's no real reason for you to stake with a service provider that does not have an LSD because it limits you. It's capitally inefficient. So I actually think they're going to lose to these ones that have LSD. So I guess in taking that point of view, I don't regard any of them as the best. What I regard as the best in terms of the staking service providers that have LSD's attached to them is rocket pool first and foremost. Like at the top of the list. Like there's no second best when it comes to that, right? Solar staking obviously is above there.
01:31:09.272 - 01:31:29.544, Speaker A: But solar staking isn't an LSD or isn't a service provider. Staking as a service provider. Rocker pool number one, buying re or spinning up a mini pool doesn't matter. Number 1. Second would probably be lighter. Even though lighter cops a lot of hate. I think it's still marginally better than a coinbase or a binance, right? And then third, I would say Coinbase and binance, but it's up to you.
01:31:29.544 - 01:31:52.422, Speaker A: Maybe you don't want to go with Lido because they already have too much control over the control over that they have too much market share of the network, right? Or too much influence on the network in terms of their e staked. Then you go for another provider. Or maybe you don't trust Lido for whatever reason, you go for another provider. But maybe you don't want to go with rocket pool because you don't trust rocket pool. You go with another provider. Right? So it's up to you who you want to go with. But my ranking is definitely, obviously, solar staking first.
01:31:52.422 - 01:32:27.806, Speaker A: But on the LSD front or on the staking as a service provider front, it would be. It would be your rocket pool, lido Coinbase, Kraken, I don't think. I don't know if Kraken has an LSD token, but I would trust Kraken over binance personally. And then binance. Right. So, yeah, hopefully that answers your questions there. Alright, so one here from Shaw, man, who says, even though you are not a huge NFT collector, if you had to, what NFT would you buy with 110 and 108? Um, I mean, because I'm not a huge into nfts, I don't actually know the landscape very well.
01:32:27.806 - 01:32:44.914, Speaker A: I would never use my ETH to buy any of their nfts directly. Obviously. They're priced in e, so I'd have to buy a new east to buy it with. But I don't know. I don't really have a good answer for you here. I would probably buy a punk because I think punks are cool. And I know that they've got a big community behind them.
01:32:44.914 - 01:32:58.014, Speaker A: Maybe a doodle. I like the art behind that. I like the community behind it there. But other than that, yeah, I'm not. I don't pay much attention to. To NFT, so I can't really give a good answer here. And by the way, that's not investment advice.
01:32:58.014 - 01:33:24.410, Speaker A: Don't go by these just because I said so. I don't have a good rate on it. I can safely say, enough. I'm a noob when it comes to nfts. All right, last, a couple of questions here from two people. So, Finch, should a staking noob start out with vanilla solo staking or rocker pool? Any reasons to prefer one way over the other? Well, I mean, if you don't have 32 ETH, you already can't be a solo staking operator. So I guess you're basically assuming that this noob has 32 ETH.
01:33:24.410 - 01:34:13.756, Speaker A: I would say that if you're a complete noob and you're just starting out, it's kind of hard to say, because are you a noob to staking, or are you a noob to both staking and computers in general? Because to be a solo staker, you need to have least basic understanding of how computers work, even if you're following the really basic guides. Are you scared of using terminal? Right? Are you scared of using the command line? Are you scared that you're going to screw something up? Well, in that case, if you're scared at all, you're not, you don't want to take the risk then. Yeah, it's not worth starting with solo staking. It's probably worth going with rocket pool. Right? But even then in rocket pool, are you just buying Areth or are you setting up a mini pool? Because setting up a mini pool, I would say, is probably. I mean, I'll admit this, I think setting up a mini pool is easier than solo staking, but it's still using the command line. Are you scared of doing that? Then you're not going to be setting up a mini pool.
01:34:13.756 - 01:34:48.160, Speaker A: You just going to go buy ra, which, which is fine, but right now there's a premium, premium on RS. Probably don't, maybe you don't want to take that hit. But in terms of reasons to prefer one way over the other. Look, this is an ongoing debate in the community and I actually don't know my total, my kind of like, I guess strong, I don't, maybe don't know, not the right term. I don't have a strong view on this. Solar staking, in my view, is the most decentralized, self sovereign way that you can stake on a ethereum, right? There is no second best when it comes to solar staking. But, but it depends what your goals are.
01:34:48.160 - 01:35:28.898, Speaker A: If your goals are maximizing your yield, rocker pool is going to give you more because they pay out rewards for you staking with them, right? Solar staking doesn't pay you anything out except the staking rewards you get from the ethereum network itself. Whether they be consensus layer execution layer rewards doesn't matter. Whereas rocket pool right now at least gives you, if you spend up a mini pool today, what it gives you is it gives you, if you use rocket Arb, you get the instant premium arbitrage. From that you get the normal staking rewards. Right from, I guess if, depending if you opt into the smoothing pool or not, it can be different. But you get the normal staking rewards. You get the RPL rewards, which is already going to be more than the normal, than the normal staking rewards.
01:35:28.898 - 01:36:04.832, Speaker A: And if you buy RPL and you, and, well, you have to buy RPL to collateralize the mini with, and that goes up in value over time against ETH, you have also made money that way too. So in terms of if you're a profit maximalist, probably rocket pool is better for you. If you're a decentralization maximalist, probably solo staking is better for you. But then there are other considerations as well, as I outlined before, so it's not black and white here. It just depends what you prefer and it depends what you want to do with rocker pool. Do you want to just buy are ETH, or do you want to be a mini pool operator? You're going to earn more as a mini pool operator than you are is just holding re. So, yeah, it just depends what you want to do on that front there.
01:36:04.832 - 01:36:35.884, Speaker A: And then you follow it up with Finch, with do you think they will ever cap the maximum number of valid 8th validators allowed? I think I heard Justin Drake toss the idea out one time on a podcast. I think there eventually will be a soft cap in terms of active validators. So, for example, let's say the soft cap is 30 million active ETH staked at any given time, but there's 60 million each staked. Well, that would mean that only 30 million ethics is active at any given time. Which means that six months of the year, you wouldn't actually be actively staking as a validator. Right. Half the time you would.
01:36:35.884 - 01:36:56.734, Speaker A: You would just be idle as a validator and your rewards would reflect that. Right. Um, but they're in saying that we don't know what, what this is going to look like yet. There has been discussion around this. I think they will cap the max number of validators, aka the max number of each staked on the network. But whether it's a hard cap or a soft cap remains to be seen. I think a hard cap would actually be pretty egregious.
01:36:56.734 - 01:37:24.648, Speaker A: It wouldn't actually work, especially with LSD's, because there'd be premiums everywhere and the premium wouldn't go down unless that hot, unless the arm, unless the, the east stake went down, which we don't know when would happen. So it would actually, I don't think a hard cap would work. I think it's much more likely that we get a soft cap or we just rotate validators through. Who knows what that soft cap is going to be. Is it going to be 30 million ETH? Is it going to be 50 million? Is it going to be 60 million? We don't know. We'll have to see how that plays out. But I don't think the cap will come anytime soon.
01:37:24.648 - 01:38:03.860, Speaker A: Maybe when we get to 30 million easy stake, there'll be serious discussions about it. But, yeah, I don't, I don't see it happening within the next, probably two years, but maybe it'll happen after that. But, yeah, I think it eventually will happen, though. All right, last, I guess, question from, or I guess clarification that Christy cloudy wants so they said, I would like to ask about Dank sharding and how it will work. Do I describe the process correctly? L two s will send their bundles of transactions to L1. The specialized builders create one large blob of all the data. We will extend the data by using read Solomon code based on polynomials, which allows us to reconstruct all the data even if we know only a portion of it, which is called data availability sampling, or Das.
01:38:03.860 - 01:38:32.024, Speaker A: Each validator will download 50% of the whole extended batch. Each of them will have a bit of different portion from these. From this data, they can attest that all data is available. This is, from my understanding, a pretty good summary of how it works. And this is full dank sharding, not proto dank sharding. So the main difference between full dank sharding and proto dank sharding is that full dank sharding has data availability, data availability sampling, and proto dank sharding does not. And I believe the expiry of blobs.
01:38:32.024 - 01:39:08.440, Speaker A: I don't know for sure if blobs to expire under dank sharding, under full dank sharding, but even if they do, the expiry would be longer. But yeah, that's, that's basically how it would work, is that the, the whole network does not have to store all the data, only I have to store a port, they only have to store a small portion of it. And then we do data availability sampling on it to make sure that data is still available, even though we only have a portion of that data using the polynomials that you mentioned here. So yeah, that was a great little explanation there. I think that does a great job of explaining it. But I'm not an expert on dank sharding, that's for sure. So if you want to read more about it, everyone just Google dank sharding.
01:39:08.440 - 01:39:24.932, Speaker A: Google EIP 4844. It'll give you a better breakdown there. But yeah, that's it for the questions for today. So thank you everyone, for listening to me ramble on for what is it, an hour and a half? Just over an hour and a half here. Hope you enjoyed this. Ama. I think I previously said that the cadence of these things would be every two weeks.
01:39:24.932 - 01:39:50.988, Speaker A: I might stretch that out to like every month cause I think every two weeks might be too frequent, and it's a bit hard for me to do them every two weeks. So I may stretch that out to every month. So don't be surprised if there's a month that goes by before another AMA comes out, but you can start asking your questions today if you want. So join the delegate Discord channel. Link is in the YouTube description below. Go to the AMA series channel, ask it there and I'll be sure to answer it on the next AMA that I do. But thank you everyone for listening and watching.
01:39:50.988 - 01:39:58.204, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you on tomorrow's refuel. Thanks everyone.
