00:00:05.290 - 00:01:12.094, Speaker A: The state of DeFi today can be found mostly flourishing on Ethereum. One look at DeFi pulse and you'll notice right away not only is DeFi flourishing, but it's growing and changing daily. New applications launch faster than you can keep up with. So if you think about DeFi today, the largest landmass and empire is definitely on Ethereum, but that empire is only going to grow. The network effects of developers working together and building composable tools that can be stacked and benefit one another is one of the competitive modes no one expects any other smart contract platform to be able to compete with anytime soon. If you consider bitcoin, it's kind of like the precious treasure that helps to fuel this DFI adventure because it's the most liquid store of value project in the world, with $200 billion in BTC, and given the global popularity of bitcoin, its role is set to continue growing or maintain its popularity as a store of value. But it's a less elegant piece of the story, as the most urgent heavy lifting in the DFI community still revolves around the development of money applications at breaknet speed, while ETH, two developers, scale Ethereum to overcome gas costs.
00:01:12.094 - 00:02:12.726, Speaker A: But the more bitcoin value tokenized and collateralized and provided as liquidity on Ethereum, the more liquidity available to trade, borrow and transform with new money applications. And in the future, we can expect blockchains like Polkadot Cosmos and Binance smart chain, which already have their own DeFi efforts underway to release their own DeFi applications, and these will offer greater opportunities as DeFi users discover more interoperability solutions. For now, most alternative blockchains powering DeFi primitives will remain siloed from the majority of activity on Ethereum and the newly introduced liquidity from tokenized BTC. But with bridges like Solana's Wormhole, NIA's Rainbow Bridge, and Harmony Horizon, there's increased opportunity for value to transfer easily and cheaply from one chain to another. And the key takeaway here is we all play a part in the future of DFI. But for now, Ethereum will carry most of the weight, trailblazing with unstoppable network effects and innovations releasing daily. You've been watching DFI 101.
00:02:12.726 - 00:02:20.900, Speaker A: Do be sure and check out the other videos in this series and subscribe to the channel so you don't miss the new videos as they drop. And above all, stay safe out there.
