00:00:17.170 - 00:01:31.250, Speaker A: Hey folks, my name is Vasilisha Pawalaf, I work in Lido and what I want to talk about today is what I think will be the future of liquid staking. Really love the crowd. By the way, there's so many of you a bit about us and about me, why I'm talking about this. I'm a tech lead at Lido, which is a Dao that headquartered on ethereum, that makes liquid staking protocols and Int maintains the largest liquid staking protocol in existence, lid on ethereum, which has a bit more than 4 million other in it. Currently the number two DeFi protocol by TVL and I am co founder tech lead. So I guess I know a couple of things about staking for folks who are not really familiar with the topic. Liquid staking is when a staker gets transferable voucher when they lock up their stake and a staking protocol so it can be used in DeFi, it can be transferred, sold, bought, collateralized, et cetera, et cetera.
00:01:31.250 - 00:02:29.682, Speaker A: And liquid staking is a small but growing and pretty significant in size part of staking economy. All the staking economy without 80 billions and liquid staking protocols together are about eight billions or so. And if we add to the liquid stake protocols also liquid staking on exchanges, which I think we actually should count among the liquid staking options, it will be closer to 20 billions, I think. So large but not overwhelming part of staking economy. So I'm not going to do any deep insights here. Don't pretend there is something I am going to say that is not pretty obvious, I think, but I'm going to say it anyway. I'm going to make three predictions basically.
00:02:29.682 - 00:03:27.106, Speaker A: One is that protocol based liquid staking will grow alongside DeFi ecosystem. When DeFi ecosystem growth, liquid staking protocols grow with it. When it doesn't grow, when it stagnates that liquid staking will not protocols will not grow, people will use staking exchanges instead. There will be a lot of options for liquid staking but few of them will be linus and who will be the winner? Who will be the winners will be determined by stakers. They will be the one who vote with their money about what the future would look like. Now, in a bit of more details area of this statement, I'll talk about it. So our experience at Lido building liquid staking protocol is many chains.
00:03:27.106 - 00:04:28.730, Speaker A: We have like one on ethereum, one on solana, on polygon, on polkadot. The thing is liquid staking protocol growth is driven by DeFi ecosystem growth whether when there is low amount of DeFi penetration, liquid staking will also be pretty small. And when there is a very strong economy like an ethereum, liquid staking will be very popular. There are other factors, but that's primarily the thing. When people want to use the other in DeFi, they will rather use some kind of stake in liquid staking token in DeFi when they don't want to use ether in DeFi, they don't care about staked, rocket, pool, leather, et cetera. Et and the main competition are the wallet gardens of CFI. Exchanges have liquid staking since forever.
00:04:28.730 - 00:05:18.890, Speaker A: It works very seamlessly, it's very easy for the user. They just deposit the tokens that they used to if they are working with exchange and it's automatically staked, it can be often used as collateral for margin trading. Like it has most of the users that people want liquid staking for. And if you don't care about being in decentralized finance, if you don't care about these being not your keys, it's perfectly serviceable and the product is just better than regular staking. Liquid staking is better for users than regular staker. The adoption barriers, that like a major problem for liquid staking. Protocol growth is smart contract risk, governance risks and sometimes tax implications.
00:05:18.890 - 00:06:24.666, Speaker A: The smart contract risk and governance risk on one hand they go down with time. So like with time people starting to trust more the protocols for good measure because they haven't been hacked, they are less likely to be hacked in the future. Same about governance and still it's not worth it if you're not using to use the token in DeFi, if you're not going to trade the token collateralize it you don't want to take this additional risk. And there are multiple options for building liquid staking protocols and like liquid staking in general, not just protocols that are going like exist already or will be existing going forward. And to talk about them, we need to understand what is liquid staking as a product. Like, who are the users, what do they want? And there are three kind of users, like three kind of stakeholders for liquid staking. One is the stakers.
00:06:24.666 - 00:07:31.810, Speaker A: They are most important here and they want staking rewards, they want security, they want liquidity and usability in finance. Basically protocols community want the best validator set for the protocol that is decentralized and social resistant and node operators in protocols. They want to run a stable staking business if they are professional and if they are hobbyists, they want to be like, I don't know, respected. They are not rational, they just do it for the fun and for the feeling of contributing to decentralization, which is great. And the options that are available or will be available in the future are broadly it's custodial option, exchange based liquid Staking or custody based liquid staking. It's protocol that are based on risk management, it's protocol that are based on bonds for security. They're hyper compliant protocols and marketplace types type protocols.
00:07:31.810 - 00:08:32.786, Speaker A: I'm listing them in the order of adoption. Custodial liquid staking like exchange liquid staking is like the largest one if you combine like even on ethereum, but if you combine together all the exchange station options, it's like a lot of market share. They are exchange or custody based. Very simple to use for users because centralized solution are very good for user experience. Usually you can do a lot to make it simpler. They have no additional risk if you already trust the exchange in question with your capital often have included the options for margin trading, lending, money markets et cetera. And because the operator of custodial liquid staking like change or something, they are double dipping.
00:08:32.786 - 00:09:45.550, Speaker A: So they are getting staking rewards and like fee on staking rewards and they are also getting fee on trading on maybe custody fees or something like that. They can offer very competitive rates compared to other this option will likely win on profit liability going forward. It's not the case right now because Coinbase takes a lot of fees but they have much more options to go lower on fees because they can double deep in vertical integrations. They have usually supervalid data sets so they don't provide that much value for the like as much value as they could for the protocol because they select few operators with little diversity in jurisdictions, physical locations, et cetera, et cetera. And it's not transparent and they are suspectable to regulatory capture because CFI solution are extremely regulated risk management based protocols. They are non custodial. They manage slash and risks protocol wide by creating credit validator sets that minimize slasher risks.
00:09:45.550 - 00:11:01.154, Speaker A: Therefore they are usually capital efficient store, they're easy to grow, they're easier to accept stake and for the competitive advantage on the user side, they rely on DeFi ecosystem. So like when DeFi ecosystem is better than any single wallet garden of exchange they can offer a good alternative to centralized exchanges. Valid data set they have are very different in design and in quality. They can be big they can be small they can be like consist of one operator which is like the same the protocol operators basically and that's because the managed protocol set is the validator set is basically the major part of the product here, and that's where they differ very much. It can be good, it can be bad. It depends on the protocol. Bonded protocol are also noncustodial.
00:11:01.154 - 00:12:19.870, Speaker A: They manage slashing risk by requiring validator bonds that makes them capital inefficient. Because validators like the good validator not operators community, they don't usually have a lot of money and when they are required to provide bonds this is limited by basically the amount of capital of operators or the amount of debt they are willing to take from outside sources and the validator set management is left to the market. Like basically if you have capital, you can participate as an operator, you can provide your own validation and that's the only thing that is required. Which I think at scale delivers centralized already assets because capital is centralized. Like if you take a look at genius coefficient of ethereum for example, which is like one of the best ones, it's really high. Like most of the wells are vaulted by few dozens of wells when the protocol is at scale that they are either providing loan or they're operating cells at scale and take the majority of the validator set. This option of hyper compliant one is not very different in tech side from risk management.
00:12:19.870 - 00:14:07.460, Speaker A: It's different approach because its selling point and main feature is that the Validator set is extensively VKIC and certified and regulated and they are likely to not deliver. Valida said that the protocol community want and I don't think there will be much liquid at Usable because usability in DeFi requires my clients people who are very scary of regulations. I think that's like selling through lawyers type of things that are averse to participate in much of the DeFi. And the last type is marketplace is when there are multiple options for staking in one place different risk profiles, features and costs and when they do a liquid staking token they have to fund it in some way. Like either they do risk management on options like to make a fungible basket of different options in the marketplace or do the bond type or just do naive like assuming every risk profile is the same current state on ethereum is that risk management is the largest protocol like it's Lido, it's risk management type. The second by size is custodial but it will very quickly jump to one by one when withdrawals are possible. And on every any exchange can be staked more safely than right now.
00:14:07.460 - 00:15:07.910, Speaker A: And the third type is bonded. It's rocket pool. It's the third position. And by growth speed right now coinbase Liquid Staking Token grows the fastest, lido has the second place and rocketpool is the third. So this is the current trend. I think that the only noncustodial trust minimized options can be designed with the Kando evil principle in mind. So liquid staking protocols that are sufficiently limited in what they can do though like to stake those validator set selection to force or entice operators to operate in a certain way when they are limited in that they can be entirely harmless for the protocol and not a threat.
00:15:07.910 - 00:16:53.110, Speaker A: Custodial Solutions can't do that because they can act with their values but they are extremely suspectible to regulations which can be not aligned with companies value. I think that only risk management based protocols can deliver a good validator set at scale because at scale, the main thing that you deliver for a protocol is a good validator set. And if you don't have an opinionated selection algorithm that says that the good validator set should be defined like should be diverse, should be diverse in jurisdiction, should be pretty flat in distribution of stake, should be diverse geographically and in cloud and on premise operations, et cetera, et cetera. That's essentially what risk management is you manage the risk for the protocol as well. So I think there are two possible outcomes for the future of Ethereum is one is that most of the stake is in the risk management protocol that provides a good quality asset. Minority is in custodial and bonded is like on the third place and the better outcome is vice versa when most of the stake is custodial and the rest is in protocols. So anyway, whatever I think on that, it doesn't matter much because I am not the one who decides who will win and who will lose and what will be the largest options.
00:16:53.110 - 00:17:37.510, Speaker A: It's the stakers who decide that outcome, not operators. They are agents. They operate either very small amounts of their own stake or large amounts of other people's money. They do not decide who is going to be the winner. It's not stake aggregators like protocols or custodies because users stakers actually decide which aggregator to use. It's not protocol researchers or developers because they design like a neutral protocol that can be used by other people which are stakers to have the desired outcome. It's not voices on Krita, Twitter or like protocol governance, it's going to be their stakers.
00:17:37.510 - 00:18:17.780, Speaker A: Current state of ethereum staking is a direct result of stakers making the choice in the past. Why is lido big? Because people staked with lido. Why is coinbase big? Because people decide to stake with coinbase. The future will be a result of stakers making the decision going forward. So what I'm asking you folks is to select the vest to stake based on your ethos, your needs, your capabilities, if you want. And you can run your own node. Run your own node if you see a good option for staking with the protocol, like stake with the protocol or with the not operator you trust or something like that.
00:18:17.780 - 00:19:38.910, Speaker A: Because stakers will be deciding the future of validator set on ethereum like how the ethereum will be operating in the future. As a bonus thing, I have made a few predictions but there are a few curveballs that can invalidate all of that. Very unexpectedly, one thing that obviously can change the escape very much is regulations. Like regulators can force most of ethereum stakers and a lot of ethereum is like in regulated jurisdictions. A lot of other holders are in regulated jurisdictions to comply to local rex and if localrex say them to stake in a specific way they will likely comply the funds like the custodies, et cetera, et cetera, they will have to. The second curveball is restaking shout out to angular. It's basically using the same stake on multiple protocols.
00:19:38.910 - 00:21:17.914, Speaker A: The main idea is like you can stake either in ethereum protocol and then can use the voucher to the stake state like stacked other token or like eris token or something as a stake in a different protocol that does something different and it's subject to additional slashings if something goes wrong. That leads to a combinator explosion in potential risk and rewards profiles. So right now it's pretty easy to fund the unfungible staking positions. Like you manage the risk and rewards and you can get liquid token out of it or make it bonded or something when there is a lot of options for getting additional rewards, for taking additional risks which is going to happen if Nglays takes off. That makes the space very diverse and for possibilities of using your other in different ways and it's becoming much harder to fund than fungible and it makes risk management based protocol harder to design and marketplaces more suitable to the state when there is a lot of differentiation in different options for staking. Marketplaces are better suited to that than risk management and the elephant of the room in the room is second order effects of mev because that's a very filled with emergent rules. We don't understand how it works until it works in a specific way.
00:21:17.914 - 00:22:25.300, Speaker A: Usually we can predict some things, but not all things and it's hard to see the future clearly. And it clearly has a lot of requirement for latency and benefits a lot from excludes, which can force centralization somewhere in some place and it can happen that it will force centralization like on protocol management, on stake management level or like on stake and layer or wherever. We don't know yet. At least I don't know. I don't quite understand how it will end up and I think we will see it when we'll see it, not before. I think the best way to counter that on staking level will be to transform validators and protocol to dump pipes that don't make any decisions basically or can opt out of making decisions at least something like PBS design with Cr lists for example. But as I said it's curveball, I'm not completely sure how it's going to play out.
00:22:25.300 - 00:22:33.110, Speaker A: So that's it. Thank you for coming. I'm really hyped with seeing such a good crowd.
00:22:33.850 - 00:22:48.570, Speaker B: Hello, sorry you mentioned Lido of the risk management reference of LST. How is this related to the insurance of Lido in relation to the TBL?
00:22:50.110 - 00:23:44.890, Speaker A: I don't quite get the question. I'm going to answer as best as I can. So Lido is a protocol that takes stakers ever and it distributes to a validator set in a specific way. This valid data set is selected in a way to derisk the staked other holders so like reused slashing risks and to make the validator set of ethereum better as well. So we try to distribute in a way that will be increase the diversity of validators and the stake distribution make better stake distribution. We don't require operators to bond their capital to operate. And that makes scaling for Lido really easy because all the operators need to do is to upload some more keys into Lido and accept more stake.
00:23:44.890 - 00:24:22.774, Speaker A: And that's why when there was a lot of demand for staking in the ecosystem, it went to Lido and not, say, to Coinbase, when the growth is limited by not operators having enough capital or having enough cheap loans options or something like that, it's not being able to ride these waves of staking demands. So I guess the TVL of Lido is direct results of the design. Okay.
00:24:22.812 - 00:24:39.390, Speaker C: I was wondering one of the curveballs that maybe could happen is what if it becomes dramatically easier to operate nodes? It's pretty complex to spin up your own beacon currently, but what if it was much, much easier? How would that impact the overall market in your opinion?
00:24:41.890 - 00:25:43.700, Speaker A: So I think that it's not going to become dramatically easy for a long time. The reason is before protocol specification it's really hard to maintain the nodes in a good state because there are a lot of grades and hot fixes and stuff. But imagine it is becoming dramatically easier then on liquid staking. I think it will result will be that there will be more solo operators. Every protocol that will be big enough will converge on some hybrid model of having most of the stake in risk management and less stake in bonded solution for permissionless operators just to promote the solar stakers. And the removing of barriers will lead to more solar stakers and a bit more importance to have in this feature. That's my guess.
00:25:45.590 - 00:26:04.440, Speaker B: Hello Vazili, it's really nice to meet you. I have two questions actually. First one, I would like to understand what do you see as the biggest risk for the liquidity staking industry or the staking industry as a whole right now? And second one, what do you see as the biggest risk for Lido right now?
00:26:05.470 - 00:27:03.770, Speaker A: I think the answer to both is smart contract risk. DeFi protocols are very robust. I think it's the most bugs free code in the world, like right now. Better than aerospace, better than medical code, et cetera, et cetera. But it's like existing in a very toxic environment where any mistakes gets exploited very fast. So smart contract risk is probably the major risk. And on a more economical side, I think, I'm really thinking that exchanges WalletGuard like CFI are really like a very strong competitor to protocol based liquid staking because centralization is more like it's cheaper and people care a lot about Apr.
00:27:05.710 - 00:27:35.560, Speaker D: I have some statistics on the Lido's tokens emission. It's kind of like outdated, but it's something to mini. So the token incentives that the emissions in the last seven days is 5 million in terms of TVL while the revenues is only 600K. Do you think it's that people actually value the governance of Lido itself as an electric sticker or it's kind of like being overvalued? Do you see any attack factors or governance if it reverts to kind of go down if people don't value it as much as right now?
00:27:38.250 - 00:27:54.250, Speaker A: Let me rephrase and say if I understood it right. So you're saying that we have a lot of incentives and Lidos TVL is probably because of incentives and not because of people because of the fact that people want it. Right, okay.
00:27:54.320 - 00:27:56.940, Speaker D: While the token incentive is 5 million.
00:27:57.570 - 00:28:59.450, Speaker A: So the incentives are not that beacon in the overall protocol like compared to overall protocol revenue and they are needed to maintain good liquid pools for liquidations to happen. That's the only reason they exist. The staking rewards are the main reason people have staked it. There is over 4 million of feather in Lido. I think about between 200,600 thousand of staked other is locked in maybe 700, I don't know is locked into incentivized pools. So think that when withdrawals are in that will be completely unnecessary and will change everything. Like the incentives will be slow but the protocol will be just as useful.
