00:00:00.730 - 00:00:54.358, Speaker A: Oh, there we go. Okay. Hi everyone. We can just keep this as kind of a very intimate and small talk to just like let me know if you have any question at any point and happy to answer any of the question you may have. So this talk is going to share a little bit about the experiences we had running one of the largest, I think the world's largest generalized HL net and kind of analyzing the process of user growth and what happened during that process and what are the things that we're doing try to handle that. So before we go into that detail, I'm just going to kind of quickly introduce what is Setter and what is exactly stuff that we are running test on which is kind of user facing application called Setterx. And we'll talk about why should developer care about what we are building and what we are bringing to the table as value add.
00:00:54.358 - 00:02:01.742, Speaker A: And finally we will talk about the lesson learned over the past five months since we launched the two version of our testnet and we will talk about what's next for Setter basically. So what is Setter is L2 scaling platform that is operating on top of existing blockchains as additional layer. And right now we are mostly focusing on the underlying technology of generalized state channel as a scaling tool and at the same time we are also having a side chain called state guardian network with plasma semantic side chain. It's not plasma but with plasma semantic of the past history attribution where we run all the security aspect of this like the watchtower services of the estate channel. Right. So if you're offline who will be watching for your state and ensuring the security of the entire network that part we implement as kind of a staking based side chain but with platform semantic. Currently we have a bunch of dev tools available with like iOS, Android and SDK all available and we went through a bunch of hackathons.
00:02:01.742 - 00:02:43.742, Speaker A: There are very interesting things built like games, micro payment services, L2 decentralized financing processes and messenger integrated payments and stuff. So that is seller the backend or the network. But in addition to that we also released something called Seller X which is a user facing application that everyone can download and kind of act as a user accessing point to the Setter network. This is like a mobile app. So within the mobile app you can do you can actually download this here. Yeah, what you can do this is like the old version already. We actually just launched the private Minnet in this event.
00:02:43.742 - 00:03:11.290, Speaker A: It's just nobody knows it. So anyone who downloaded the app at our booth is actually running on Ethereum minat right now. But this is a testnet application. You can kind of see this has what it's feeling and you can do this kind of instant payment without any transaction fee. Of course it's off chain and state channel. But what you can also do is this generalize the state channel capability that you have the application built on top of this state channel. Now this application itself is a very simple game.
00:03:11.290 - 00:04:02.214, Speaker A: It's a board game that is interactive. Now you can kind of play with your friend very easily by joining a game. And now what you're seeing here is we are kind of putting down the stake, right? So we're putting down stake. Now what is a stake? And what happened just now is that you send out a conditional payment towards each other off chain and that's kind of the beautiful part of this. That is when we're distilling down the nature of generalized day channel to the payment network level you basically enable additional semantic of payment that is conditional payment and that conditional payment is going to conditionally depending on the result of the game. The conditional payment is going to often conditional payment is going to be depending on the result of the game. And the game itself is also implemented as a generalized state channel.
00:04:02.214 - 00:04:59.674, Speaker A: It's still fully decentralized, there is no server and that's why the interaction is extremely fast. You can see that the state progression is fast and there's no fee involved when you're doing this kind of smart contract transaction. So what really is good use case for Setter is to realize seamless user experience for human to human interaction applications. Either that is a micro payment based streaming or just kind of extremely interactive games or things like a decentralized finance system where you can do like off chain order matching, off prediction market and stuff like that. So this is the nature of Setter that is when the people are interacting with each other, there is no fee because the computation effort is carried out entirely by the state channel participants and it's extremely interactive. So we launched two testnets so far. The first testnet was actually launched in Ethereum, San Francisco last year.
00:04:59.674 - 00:05:52.986, Speaker A: And this is where this nice t shirt thing come from by the way. Everyone in the room gets a t shirt. If you're know, in East Denver, around East Denver time, actually a little bit before East Denver time, we actually launched the second version of the testnet. There's a huge list of features that we can support multi node, non cost study and generalized payment. You support any ETH in the ERC 20 means that once we launch, I mean that you kind of natively support all sorts of stable tokens as well. And we have generalized state channel support. Of course you can build this kind of games and applications on top and we're going to wrap that up into an even simpler interface for the application developers to build so they don't need to worry even about the payment process part, just only the application logic.
00:05:52.986 - 00:07:04.610, Speaker A: And in terms of state channel contract interfaces we provide both functional and the imperative state channel contract interfaces, the list goes on, right? But in the end of day you can check out this lisk on our GitHub. But why do you actually care? Why should developer even care about what we're building here? Well, because of this. So this is the monthly active user that is on our platform for that one. Simple, in fact, not that even fun game for the game. And the interesting thing we see that is unlike many of the decentralized applications that are running today, the user growth trajectory of the existing things like today is kind of tanks, right? So it dies. But here we are seeing a sustainable and faster and faster growth process for this one application that is built on top of a setters platform and you can see there are some bouncing on the road and I will talk about what exactly happened during that process. Feel free to take a seat here or anywhere.
00:07:04.610 - 00:07:36.720, Speaker A: And the interesting thing is that this is like the beauty of a blockchain in general, I guess, that is immediately global. We have a Firebase enabled so we see where our user coming from and it's literally like all over the place in the world. So it's extremely exciting, including this very interesting place. I don't know if anyone can see where this is. It's Madagascar. Yes. And this is like beautiful place.
00:07:36.720 - 00:08:44.802, Speaker A: We have about ten users in this beautiful place and seriously considering hosting meetup there. All right, so not only the user numbers, user numbers are definitely not like the single characteristic of product growth or product market fit. I came from traditional to consumer product facing side. So some of the interesting this is of course not the exhaustive list of the user analyzing that we did, but right now we have roughly about 1800 monthly active users. And the good thing about this is it's extremely engaging comparing to traditional decentralized applications because of this interactiveness enabled. So roughly speaking, for every active user per day they spend about twelve minutes on the app, which is like pretty long comparing to even some of the very popular wallet applications today. And the day seven retention is consistently high and we process like 4 million of off chain smart contract transactions monthly and that is entirely free.
00:08:44.802 - 00:09:58.954, Speaker A: Like even if we launch on main net, those transactions are effacely going to be entirely free because it's not like involving any kind of network resources of the entire blockchain network. These numbers that I just talked about resembles not a decentralized application, but an application that with like a proper growth trajectory. The interesting thing is that just one note here is that this is just one application built on top of setter and on a paper money testnet. The token you just saw called a game token is on Robston and that token we printed on Robson. So it's like literally double fake money, right? But still this kind of a smooth interaction attracts people so that many of the users we have do not even know how L2 works or state channel works. And I think their knowledge level about blockchain is at the point of exchange buying and selling at most. And some of them are not even like understanding that part, but still the stickiness is actually pretty good.
00:09:58.954 - 00:11:13.950, Speaker A: So we believe that this kind of smooth interaction plus the extremely high transaction volume we see will turn into a very sustainable monetization path for setter developers. And on that point we will be launching the Minut on end of June and not only with the bare bone setter minut but also with a kind of a middleware or infrastructure build around it so that people like game developers can very easily onboard their game. Onboard like a single player game, very simple single player game or multiplayer game into a state channel game and kind of start to harvest benefit from running this. By the way, how many of you guys are developers? Okay, all right, so, yeah, now I can talk a little bit more about this. You know, during the five months we have some interesting lessons learned. This is the same graph draw in logarithmic scale so we can see these kind of interesting bumps more clear. So what happened? So we launched on Ethereum San Francisco.
00:11:13.950 - 00:12:07.010, Speaker A: Here we kind of grow a little bit and here we did some promotion on WeChat platforms. But then this area of user kind of died down and I will talk about why that happened. And then we released a kind of a challenge or kind of a gamify process online to help people to promote or try to play this game to gain some more users. And then we launched the second version of the testnet. It is about to go up very well and then suddenly dropped. I'll talk about what happened then. And by this time, so this is not very clear, we had about roughly 4000 monthly active users basically by the time of another big event of the big jump.
00:12:07.010 - 00:14:11.830, Speaker A: Another big jump here is that we did our finance launchpad sale and that helped us boost a lot of users as well and they are pretty sustaining basically. So what happened to some of these bumps, this part? What happened to this user drop? This user drop mainly happened because in the beginning of the development we rely heavily on event monitoring because something like you open a channel on chain and that opening channel event will monitor event there. And when the event happens, we say that in the SDK scenario the channel is successfully opened. Right? So we had some external dependency to infura back then and we were using Infura's WebSocket like interfaces to kind of monitor those events. And if you guys considering doing anything like that, I strongly recommend against it because that's horrible experience we had once we started to scale up to users and here we launched on WeChat platform, right? Remember WeChat is like this Chinese kind of a blog platform and people can go and download stuff but after that it worked for a very small amount of time the connection to Infura and then I'm not sure whether that connection or that connectivity get identified as kind of a hostile connectivity. So the connectivity to Infura in China went black overnight. You cannot access to Infuria anymore and this is a general problem if you're deploying your stuff on AWS and without all these regulatory approvals in China as external website if you have some irregular packet patterns going on and this resembles that I guess, but I'm not sure what happened exactly but basically China went dark.
00:14:11.830 - 00:15:38.018, Speaker A: So basically we did the promotion, the user is growing and then it dark. Nothing happened after that. We changed some strategy there and switched it to not only not using WebSocket but also some other providers. I'm just not going to advertise who we are using right now but if you guys are interested in knowing and finding out what are those providers that we use in terms of the ethereum endpoint I'm happy to share about the experiences we had. Now this part is good, it's growing and growing, growing, growing and we didn't do many promotions of course in terms of marketing because it was fake money, text matter and people are kind of slowly going down in terms of user numbers and then we launched the setter acts. Before this there was no Setter acts, it was like a very simple single page app that you can download and play and we launched the Setter X but with the second version of the testnet but the testnet actually triggered something of a settlement storm because of a protocol small protocol failure. We actually had a lot of people start to instantly citize their channel because they think that the counterparty is becoming malicious, which it's not.
00:15:38.018 - 00:16:50.798, Speaker A: Just like a very small arrow in the code. And that settlement storm basically triggered a significant pullback of the user count because once the channel is settled, people kind of lose interest to this process and it creates additional barrier for them to come back up into the state channel. Right. So that cost us something and we quickly fixed that and on East Denver we kind of relaunched this thing and if any of you have attended the East Denver you probably saw us like all this awards and stuff we still have those by the way if you're interested, playing the game. And now fast forward to end of March. In end of March we did a binance related event and the event is basically just like the first AirDrop event of any real know monetary motivation that we had for users. And they're extremely powerful in the sense that I think it's a go to marketing channel for crypto community.
00:16:50.798 - 00:17:41.838, Speaker A: Like if you could get there because within 15 minutes of the posted at Twitter about this event. We received 30,000 requests to open channel. This is like insane. But you didn't see a 30,000 jump there because the time to open a state channel actually takes quite a long time to open a channel. And also gas cost, right? So the result of that is that we basically congested the entire Robson for about 18 hours still. It does not match the speed of people flowing in. About 80% to 85% of the people who downloaded our app just couldn't even open the channel with the application.
00:17:41.838 - 00:18:30.014, Speaker A: And then people are starting complaining, people are calling our scams, all that stuff start to happen. It's pretty stressful. 18 hours. Our team basically didn't sleep for like 24 hours or even longer than that. But the problem about that though is there's literally nothing we can do, like fundamentally back then because of the fundamental slowness of the underlying blockchain. Now we have this huge creation storm to Mitigate and we are putting a lot more considerations in that process because once we launch on mainnet, this thing is likely to become problem if we put any of the big event or user growth event out there. So hopefully in the main net launch, no one will even feel the slightest friction there.
00:18:30.014 - 00:19:06.554, Speaker A: And we have some nice tricks to do about that, basically. So this is like the technical part so far. Any questions? All right, okay. I can move on to the user experience part. So these are the literal word by word recording of what people are saying about our app. It's very encouraging if you look at these and the kind of app I would use in future, instant payment, final instant lay I deploy. The transactions are there.
00:19:06.554 - 00:19:51.740, Speaker A: Experience is pretty awesome. Yeah, we're like super awesome. This L2 UX turns out that we're in a bubble. So those feedbacks we got from East Denver, east Denver is I would say, like a relatively highly technical crowd with a crypto background so they understand what's going on. They kind of suffered from blockchain already. We all did, right? So because of the slow, us now slight improvement, make them think, oh, this is nice. But once we start to push this to broader audience who has not deep technical knowledge about L2, scaling, limitation of scaling and stuff like that, all sorts of questions start to pop up.
00:19:51.740 - 00:21:06.034, Speaker A: And in fact, I would claim that L2 getting L2 UX right, is even trickier than getting layer one UX. Correct? Those are the questions now coming from not the East Denver crowd, but the binance AirDrop activity crowd. And the biggest question we get asked is because in state channel or any kind of like off chain solutions, even with plasma and sidechain and stuff, there's a process to move your fund from the wallet that you hold to an external contract, right? So there's unavoidability that process. So that process feels to a lot of no more user like a process to a lot more user feels like a process of depositing to exchanges, right? It feels very much like depositing to a centralized exchange that is kind of managed by us. So that puts a lot of responsibility to us. And they are saying, are you actually holding Costarina for funding and stuff like that. And we're even worried the regulator may think about that.
00:21:06.034 - 00:22:11.238, Speaker A: And that's a big different story. Another thing that some people found out that once I open a state channel, the promise that I can send instant payment with low transaction fee and all that stuff, right? So now I have my friend's address, wallet address. I'm just putting my friend's wallet addressing and click send. There's an arrow pop up saying that okay, your friend didn't open a state channel. Look why they kind of are very angry about this. Why can't I just use state channel and send the payment to anyone? And another thing is that there are cases where the connection broke between these two participants of a game, right? So in that case, one party or the other party, actually, both of them probably want to go on Ching and settle the game. But during the settlement process, their money or their initial deposit or fund assignment to the game is stuck in between.
00:22:11.238 - 00:22:59.702, Speaker A: And many of the question we got is like why my money is stuck while my opponent actually went offline. Because I started the onchain challenge. Yeah, all right. I started on chain challenge, but it didn't actually go through. Basically, I'm waiting for that timeout, basically. So there are many questions like this and I think to really leverage the power of L2 scaling so that it delivers fully end to end the level of user experience everyone would expect these kind of user experience questions that I think are very important and need to be addressed. And what's next for us is that on the technical side, we are building a coherent L2 platform using different technology pieces with a mass adoption rather UX, and that including State channel.
00:22:59.702 - 00:23:41.378, Speaker A: But we are also looking at side chains as well. And our Minet launch is coming on Q two 2019. And this is something we'll have some exciting activities and hopefully we fix many of the UX problem and it'll be great to have you guys feedback and try out then with that. This is our website and any questions quick, maybe one or two questions. Did anybody ask you questions about I will still probably ask you later about how you incentivize watchtowers and how actually that works. Yes. So that whole construct is called C economy.
00:23:41.378 - 00:24:00.380, Speaker A: That's where you use the setter token and that is kind of like a staking process. We have that on our YouTube channel about the full description of the economic construct. Yeah, of course. Thank you guys.
