00:00:00.640 - 00:00:46.654, Speaker A: Okay. I'm extremely honored for a number, actually, not just to be invited here, but also that we got this, whatever you want to call it, yesterday. That was completely unexpected. You know, from that sense, it was especially nice to see that. But I am, I must say that when you invited me, I said that I would do something, but that I had been working on already. I'm not going to prepare something new. I had to send this paper, more or less, for a conference that was in Mexico online at the end of March.
00:00:46.654 - 00:01:50.924, Speaker A: And my opinion hasn't changed that much because we updated the data, the text, Guillermo, and updated it. And really, you know, yeah, it's changed a little bit from then because we updated it, meaning we put in 2022 there, the first six months, as well as we're going to see for certain data, or 20, in the case of some other data, whatever it was available, the latest. So just to kind of. But it's really a kind of. What do you want to call it? It's an empirical, somewhat empirical, with some ideas. There's no pretense that it's a new theory of anything or breaking the frontiers of knowledge of anything, but it's an attempt to come to grips with what has been happening and to sort of come up with some, both stylized facts and some possible theoretical analysis of what, in fact has been happening, because it's extremely puzzling, some of the stuff that has been happening, and we'll see why in a minute. Now.
00:01:50.924 - 00:02:38.852, Speaker A: Yeah, I was invited. I mean, I've been thinking about this for a while because we got a project going on with Imit, and that was one of the things I had mentioned there as well. But it was only in January when I was invited by Lisa Guillaume to speak at UNAM conference, that I started thinking, sort of working a little bit on that. And, you know, really, at the time, I must say, I mean, until, let's say, certainly until January, I would argue central banks in particular were not what they were concerned. Obviously, they have to be. That's their mandate kind of thing. But they thought that the inflation would be some sort of temporary phenomenon.
00:02:38.852 - 00:04:04.878, Speaker A: So, in fact, when you look at the interest rate policy, there was absolutely no change. They stuck through it until the beginning of 2022, and then it became a hysteria, in a sense, after they started seeing increases, much of it, in fact, I mean, especially because of the ukrainian situation that kind of really led to huge up in oil prices and all that which were going already before, but not to the, to that extent that then it turned out to be as I said, they really reversed. We see a complete U turn here in the policy view, both on the fiscal and monetary policy, by the way, the only difference with the fiscal process is that while they were now getting towards austerity, we're coming back on the dust of dramatically Canada particularly run huge deficits in 2020, but then very quickly brought it down. And it's not part of that was just natural thing going on because of higher growth. But nonetheless there was this attempt until the ukrainian war again, because then you're trying to get up muscle military spending and all that and that sort of somewhat mitigating that tendency. But since March, what we see is a huge jump in the interest rates and all that. I mean, really a very dramatic increase.
00:04:04.878 - 00:04:50.724, Speaker A: Some people say, yeah, it's only 300%, which is true. It's not that it's still too low kind of thing, right. But at the same time it's a huge jump in a period of six months that had never in fact done that, which showed that we have never seen a huge jump in the interest rates that much without engineering some sort of recession. And I think that's what's happening anyway in the US it was not as dramatic, but we'll see soon federal funds rate. So it's important to see this. Now. What we're seeing therefore, is this attempt to apply some sort of austerity here.
00:04:50.724 - 00:05:30.216, Speaker A: Part of that is because there's this belief that we're now really hit full employment kind of situation in these countries. In Canada as well. You hear it everywhere, from the central bank, from all these policy analysts. You hear that we have extremely tight labor market situations. That's what we wanted to explore. But what I'm going to do first though, is to give you a bit of a historical kind of overview of what happened. And we have to, if we put in a historical perspective, it's not so easy to conclude some of that, as we'll see in a minute.
00:05:30.216 - 00:06:06.454, Speaker A: Okay, but let's look at what I call some stylized facts. For Canada at least. You know, you could do that. For the US, it's not that different, you know. Now what we can see here, I go back 75 and a half years, six months of 2022. So it's over 75 years, three quarters of that, of the evolution of both the unemployment rate and the inflation rate CPI. And what we see is some interesting phenomena here.
00:06:06.454 - 00:07:08.450, Speaker A: The first thing on the inflation front, you see some really dramatic fluctuations, a lot of see these high amplitudes literally right after the second World War. This has a lot to do with the tremendous dislocations that were going on with troops coming back. I mean, this whole situation where they're getting geared up now for no longer a real economy kind of environment, but to peacetime kind of. And there was a whole problem, what we're facing even now into supply chains, bottlenecking, and all this kind of stuff was going on there, exactly the same kind of thing. And you see this huge inflation rate. And then, of course, as you could see, once they stabilize right after the war, the inflation, there was a korean war, which is a bit of a bump there, but it's not. Things got down, stayed pretty stable until.
00:07:08.450 - 00:08:09.598, Speaker A: When was it the disruptions in the 1970s there with the oil price shocks and all that? We see this huge jump in the inflation rate, then this inflation comes back down. Indeed, as you can see, this is what the central bank goes around saying that it's proud of, but it's all because of that, which I think is a little bit of baloney here, but it's really the silverware factor in this whole thing. And guess when until we get to the not to the pandemic. Because initially we had a kind of almost deflation in 2020, but then it ended up leading to 2021. We started seeing rising inflation. And then in 2022, it's kind of exploded in a sense. But all of this, again is during period of significant dislocation, significant restructuration, whatever you want to call it, that is going on.
00:08:09.598 - 00:08:53.904, Speaker A: And that also sit in the labor market. We'll get that later. But the point being that if you look at it over a long historical period, for a country, for industrial, whatever country like Canada, the general tendency is for low inflation, except JP's, of disruption. That's the reality. What about the unemployment rate instead? Well, the unemployment rate, as you could see, it's interesting. It used to be like down as low as 2% here in the forties and fifties, like two and a half, 3%. And then it stayed relatively low, except during certain things, like in the late fifties, early sixties, where we had a recession.
00:08:53.904 - 00:09:25.254, Speaker A: Yeah, but if not, there's a normal thing. Until again, the 1970s, there was a big jump, and guess what? It went up, but it pretty much stayed up. Okay. I mean, that came down a little bit. But now we're back to the levels, you know, that we used to see in the 1940s and fifties and sixties even, I would say. So there's a huge. So there's a kind of discontinuous jump.
00:09:25.254 - 00:10:19.714, Speaker A: And again, we must try to figure out what the heck happened there? So, I mean, I just summarized here with what was going on. So what I'm saying here is that there is this kind of almost long run, I call it disciple here in the sense that it seems to be, what's the, you know, visually what you see there, in a sense superficially, which is this kind of long run inverse relation between inflation, unemployment. But at the same time, what we could see is that there's no simple, there's no inverse relationship here. If you look at the short, I'm not going to go back to the graph, but you will see that sometimes it's positively related, sometimes it's negatively related. It's all over the map. If you did a scattered diagram, it would look more like a blob there. It wouldn't be so easy to conclude that.
00:10:19.714 - 00:11:59.384, Speaker A: But if you look at it until the longest vertical periods, you tend to see this kind of relationship. So as I was saying here, it goes all over the map and you cannot conclude that it's like the old Phillips curve kind of thing at all. Now what we have seen, therefore, over this whole 75 and a half, 75 year period, is that except for these fluctuations, reciprocal fluctuations here, the long term behavior of the unemployment rate shows what I call the ratchet effect. It just jumped up and stood, stayed pretty much up, and it took a long time to decline. The fact that we see growth kind of establishing itself and what happens is that except for some major shock on the demand side, I mean, we saw this, well, we didn't have data way back there, but during the Great Depression, what ended it was the war, in a sense. It was another shock on the demand side that ultimately brought down what otherwise would have been a long term kind of high unemployment, stagnant system once again. And I think this is important to understand that you got this kind of hysteresis sort of phenomenon for the unemployment rate, that even though the inflation rate will start to either rise or fall, you won't see the unemployment rate going exactly that way at all.
00:11:59.384 - 00:13:27.044, Speaker A: Now, what about trying to make sense of the theories here? What can we possibly understand about these beast dialogues, what I call them theories about what is going on here? Well, I'm not going to tell you this. Everybody knows what the, until the global financial crisis, everybody pretty much believed in some sort of natural rate of unemployment hypothesis. There wasn't any question. Inflation targeting was in a sense based on this idea that there was a sort of natural rate, either a natural rate of interest, natural rate of unemployment, they somehow put them together even though they're not theoretically the same thing at all. But somehow there's a confluence of using that kind of got together and questioned around inflation targeting and all that, and that became the norm. There was obviously some rather important evidence that clearly questioned these theories. And even though that was the case, that we see a defining unemployment, especially after the global financial crisis, what's interesting is that you start only after, then you start seeing people raising questions, significantly questions about the validity of that standard theory.
00:13:27.044 - 00:14:23.000, Speaker A: I just mentioned one here at Blanchard here, for instance, where he talks about the breakdown, whether the end of the acceleration is curse, he calls it. That's a curse on our profession. What we start seeing is a number of economists. I mentioned one, Chrysler Lavoie here, just to highlight the fact that they wrote a paper which they talked about flat, but it's something that many in the introductory would be comfortable with, in a sense. Everybody would have subscribed to that view. And historically there were many going back really to the early 1960s. I could give you some, some references there of economists who questioned this sort of Phillips curve thing, which was a bit of an aberration statistically, the way the whole thing was calculated by.
00:14:23.000 - 00:14:50.324, Speaker A: I'm not going to go into all that here, but I'm just saying here that this is something that was questioned before. But there were also a lot of studies. I just mentioned some here, this from the real fed, this one's a league or whatever, they end up finding the same kind of flat thing. But he got it even from the horse's mouth. You're talking about Janet Yellen. There's. She was defending the idea that we've now got a flat PHillips curve, you know, so, I mean, it's, it's something that became really established almost.
00:14:50.324 - 00:15:22.434, Speaker A: It's amazing. You can go from a beautiful one to horizontal one. You know, you would think somehow you gotta get your mind. I don't know how it's screwed up then, because I can't. You know, it's quite easy to reconcile these things. And obviously you get this kind of flat, but with only these sort of the edges. I could go, yeah, I could get even deflation at one extreme or the other one that could kind of shoot up there at some point.
00:15:22.434 - 00:16:24.424, Speaker A: But there's a wide range where no matter what happened to unemployment or demand in the economy or growth, it did not impact at all. It gets stuck at that norm, and that's it until you get some really major shock. And indeed, the only way for that curve to rise is when you get some kind of supply shock, whether it would be like oil prices, as we saw in the seventies, for instance, or of course, because the wage, nor because of the breakdown in the way collective volume, whatever, there could be conditions, as we're starting to see right now. The way I see it, then you got into this kind of wage price spiraling as well. There is such a thing that could happen yesterday about that. But it's clear that, yeah, when things destabilize, then you could have the shifting of it. But it's because of what I would call supply side factor on the demand side, you're never going to see this kind of thing going up or down.
00:16:24.424 - 00:18:09.934, Speaker A: So, I mean, I've written a bit about this and then certain papers, and even with the same, for a net that we put together that highlights this fact, which is that this relationship was, if you look at historically, literally for about 30 years or 30 years, I would say at least even before they started doing inflation targeting in this country, it kind of got anchored close to that 2%, but it then became officialized through the inflation target because it established itself almost like a norm in the, remember all the issue of the central bank is about credibility and how they could somehow embed these expectations, inflation, that the central bank is credible at that 2% north. So in that sense it is. This is what you could see happening. It's a kind of income spouse, as I said, where they try to provide guideposts, in this case, in the realm of collective bargaining in particular. And therefore, as I said, even though you're going to get growth, it did not lead to this kind of thing. But I want you to take note of these two points here, these specific unemployment rates. On the theoretical plane, these are important because I'm going to associate this now with the beverage full employment situation that was supposedly reached or done further, versus what I call a more, I would call it veritable full employment.
00:18:09.934 - 00:18:48.754, Speaker A: Now, we'll get to exactly what this means later, but it's important to see that it's going to be different than this one, than the beverage one, which many in the US as Michael and what have they say? They've been writing a lot about this. They're trying to argue that we're way over that right now, which is true. If you look at the data for the US, there's some. We're over the. We'll get to that because I have the data there. But it's important to understand here that these two are some critical importance going to see in terms of what I got to say about it. Okay, yeah, I got lots of what I said here.
00:18:48.754 - 00:20:10.834, Speaker A: But you know, what's important here is that this kind of bias in the policy realm just to. Oops, wrong. Yeah, in the policy, if you believe, if you were like in the 1990s, let's say early 2000, before the global financial crisis, and you're the central banker and you still have in your brain this idea that we're in some sort of vertical Phillips curve, then what's happening and what would happen is that they will. So if you're here, they don't, they fear that you shouldn't accelerate growth too much because it's going to lead to inflation right away, even though we could see perfectly well there that if it is flat, this is not going to happen. So the bias is always going to be closer towards u two rather than to u one, just simply because what they have in their brain and what in reality are obviously, there's a disconnect there. And indeed this is, as I said, is what you see. So they're going to keep unemployment rate as high as they can here, despite the fact that inflation rate did not really change at all and it was well anchored, almost, as they call it there, at that 2% level.
00:20:10.834 - 00:21:01.446, Speaker A: Okay, so you got this policy bias here now. So what we see is during that whole year, of course, of austerity, more on the fiscal and the monetary side, at least in Canada, absolutely. Very tight, both on the fiscal side, on the monetary side. And of course, the only time that you see a significant change was during the global financial crisis where they gave up the sort of austerity thing there. They started running deficits despite themselves, their own ideology, because we had a conservative government there. And clearly he had to put a spoon feeder to him that we got to run a deficit now in 2008 because otherwise we may end up really facing difficulties. And we did.
00:21:01.446 - 00:22:08.020, Speaker A: But he was, Canada and Germany were the only two countries who had agreed in 2010 at the G 20 meeting who had all agreed at the time to run Daxis, but on, but then go back to balance budget by 2015. And Canada and Germany were the only countries that did at the time in reality. But it came from the sort of need to run deficits, so they became more credible. And the same thing, of course, in terms of monetary policy, it became the principal instrument of macroeconomic policy. And what we see, of course, is in terms of interest rates here, they cut them just like they did recently during the pandemic, same kind of thing at the bottom there and stayed for a while then kind of just mildly went up, but not very much. It stayed down for a long time now. Plus, with COVID needless to say, there's a big shock here.
00:22:08.020 - 00:23:35.994, Speaker A: Unemployment jumps up now for two reasons, obviously. One was really because demand shrunk, consumption spending declined dramatically, the saving rate went through the roof. And at the same time, also because there were program kind of increases in the unemployment rate, just purely for pandemic kind of health kind of related reasons here, they closed down, locked down certain sectors where it could spread more quickly. So this is what happened in 2020 and then in early 2021. But you also, of course, see that inflation started to rise in 2021, but in 2020, it actually collapsed the range. So all of that, to say that all of this happened there. Now, my point about this is simply to say that the actual, the high unemployment that was characteristic of that whole period was really not necessary, I would argue, to get that inflation right now because it has a rather quite independent relationship with that.
00:23:35.994 - 00:24:15.314, Speaker A: And it's important to see how this happened. Now, this brings me to the important thing of what I want to show you. This is a kind of stuff I remember as an undergraduate when I took a course in labor economics. They used to have, it was mostly micro step in labor economics as it still is now. It's almost all micro. But then they used to have a chapter at the end of macro analysis, and guess what was the macro of labor economics? There was a Phillips burn and there was the uv relationship. They never even called them the beverage burn until later.
00:24:15.314 - 00:25:14.424, Speaker A: But it is this relationship, and I think most of you are familiar with the idea, which is simply that obviously, as the man grows, if you're on some kind of relationship like this one, then if the mind grows so you get unemployment, it will be associated with growing vacancies, and it will be non linear, basically. Now, we can get into the details of how it works in terms of the hires and the recalls versus the fits and everything else, and how this could impact on these vacancies. But we're going to try to connect it. Now, these are the points that I was mentioning earlier. You recall from that Phillips curve. And you can see here there's a 35 degree line that cuts this beverage curve where the u equal v. Okay, where the two are equal.
00:25:14.424 - 00:26:26.878, Speaker A: And this will call it the beverage full employment. Now, Beveridge himself, he wrote this book in 1944, which basically argued that he thought the full employment would be where either vacancies are equal or greater than the number of unemployed. Now, the problem is how you define them or anything which is not so easy, excuse me, in the case of vacancies and all that. But the point being that he had this kind of definition which became, you know, for someone, we're going to see the goal, literally there at least is something you can anchor, you know, to have that information. But obviously you could get to what I call more vertical form point when it becomes, you know, not quite vertical there, but it's getting very much, you know, closer to that vertical because it only touches it asymptotically there. Okay, so, and moreover, importantly is that obviously, if you have growing problems with mismatching, whether it's regional industrial occupation, whatever, then you're going to have a shift in that relationship. So you could have both more vacancies and more unemployed if there's just no matching going on.
00:26:26.878 - 00:26:56.214, Speaker A: Okay? And that's why if you get the shift, you can still get full employment, but it will be more structural unemployment, let's say, associated with that, you know, level. Okay. And we'll still call it a full employment. Okay. Now let's look at it empirically here, what happened, and if there's any problems, bring the EM. We have to go the data. Thanks to him there, they pulled it up.
00:26:56.214 - 00:28:25.968, Speaker A: What we have here, that whole period, I don't have it going back to the 1940s, because in Canada they calculate it wasn't even vacancy rates as they calculate them now, they use the help wanted index, it was called. I won't get into the detail, we don't have time to go through all that. But there's a help wanted index even in the US, which goes back to 1951, they started it. They're able to get these series all the way back to there and then construct it and then link it up with the current vacancies, where they overlap and so on, somewhere, which is kind of linkage here in a brick, as we say in French, and try to put them all together, right? And that is important to notice here, because as you can see here, these, now, it's too bad that a person like Andrew Sharp, who's a colleague, a good friend of ours, who's the director of the center for the study of Livingstone, because I got it from him originally, the idea, in the 1980s, he wrote an article, an article brochure that came out from when he was heading the center for labor market and productivity or something like that somewhere. Exactly. And I had until I retired, I still had the copy, but I retired. I figured it all out because I was going to bring all that stuff in my home.
00:28:25.968 - 00:29:00.530, Speaker A: I didn't have enough space for all this after 40 years of accumulating stuff that you just didn't. And I asked him if he had a copy and he can't find any site, cannot cite him directly, but came up with the idea. Let's imagine that 1966, because we were looking for the 60, what was the lowest point for the 1960s, the other fifties. Let's imagine that that was close to what we call more veritable. Not veritable. Not the veritable. I want to be careful here.
00:29:00.530 - 00:29:31.154, Speaker A: Okay, so this is the. We were at the. I think it's a hundred here. Okay. This is the 1966 point. And then everything else is defining relationship to that. So in the 1950s especially, we see some of them that were even, you know, further up there on the left side of the 45 degree line, but the many that were clustered in that direction.
00:29:31.154 - 00:30:14.534, Speaker A: And then we got the 1970s. All the wrong things there. And what's important to understand, the last time that we got close to it, a la beverage, was this is in 1974, the last time. And then we could see we were still floating about there until we hit. This is approximately a 30 year period of x's here, all clustering. And then we got the pandemic data. Now until 22, this is what we had.
00:30:14.534 - 00:31:06.224, Speaker A: And for this first six months, we don't have the year. This is all annual data, by the way. Yeah, because that's how you could get way back there. Okay, but the point there is that what we see a number of things, there are cholesterol, but there are like three cholesterol, you could say, okay, so two important ones are either outliers or an aberration, but there's only three observations that. But what we see is that there's a kind of shift. Now it is because it's an index of the actual vacancy numbers. This, of course, you would expect if you had a kind of natural growth rate of an economy, this type of thing, then these things would kind of slowly, incrementally, would be shifting up a bit.
00:31:06.224 - 00:31:20.968, Speaker A: Okay, but that's not what we see here at all. What we see are discontinuous jumps, basically. And it happened. Oh, boy. Use your problem. Okay. Discontinued junt.
00:31:20.968 - 00:32:33.310, Speaker A: Okay, but anyway, just to finish here. So we see these clusterings, and there are a number of things to emphasize here, because the way I see them, they reflect almost labor market states of the economy, but they kind of hang on to the. Because there's no reason why for 40 years, it would be kind of gravitating around here, but more importantly, what we see, except for the 2022, which is getting close to the beverage, full employment, what we could see is that everything didn't just shift upwards, but it all kind of swung into problems of long term effective demand. You would argue that's all it is because it's just coated. As you can see, it's swinging off to the right, which is highly problematic for an economy. Second thing also is that you can see it's a problem of distinguishes here. Remember we said the earlier data was kind of, it didn't come down here easily and it's the same thing there, but also the slope.
00:32:33.310 - 00:33:33.188, Speaker A: Slope. One observation to take note of the slope, as you could see here, is interesting because what you see here, this is a relatively flat slope. It means that for a small jump in vacancies, it led to a fairly big reduction, reduction in unemployment. But it's getting steeper all the time. Now this was a little, but it's always the same kind of slope as the other one. It got a lot steeper. And I think it has to do with these hysteresis kind of effects, because even if you're going to raise vacancies, it would be more difficult to get that unemployment rate down, despite the fact that it was actually, it should have been easier because if you have more spending in an economy in a world where both the growth rate, the natural rate of growth, that is labor force growth, all the productivity growth was actually coming down.
00:33:33.188 - 00:34:03.168, Speaker A: So all of the things equally would have said, well, it's a lot easier, yet it was more difficult. Okay, so again, these are now, I had more to say here, obviously a lot more. But how is it. Okay, well, this is for the US, actually. Interesting. You can see for the US that it actually swung up to that side. I'll just say one other thing.
00:34:03.168 - 00:34:38.570, Speaker A: I'm not going to get to the long term and the income distribution part. I'm just going to leave that. But I'll be happy to send you what I did originally for the units, in Spanish even, but I could send it to you. I'd be happy to. Anyway, just to get back to these here, I'll just say this and then I'll stop. There's a lot of work recently. When I got started last year, I had no idea that there was a lot of stuff going on in the US already about this.
00:34:38.570 - 00:35:45.748, Speaker A: They're talking, if you need some of the stuff that Michael and Sarah, what are you debt at the time? For instance, in 2021, there's another article that some of the data for the US was from there. And what we have is they argue that what we're actually seeing is that we are actual leverage for employment. And we call this the efficient unemployment point kind of thing. Okay? So in a sense they try to downgrade or reduce the importance of this unemployment because of down vacancies. That means of course they're getting cheesier, in a sense, workers. But let's put it in the context of the pandemic. A lot of these vacancies, there's a lot of vacancies, but they tend to be clustered, concentrated in sectors that nobody wants to work in for reasons of fear of health kind of concerns.
00:35:45.748 - 00:36:38.438, Speaker A: Healthcare is a good example. And most important, of course, in all the restaurants and all this sort of stuff in the service is nobody wants to work there. It's more difficult to find people, not because they're being choosy for reasons that are just. We're waiting for the right reservation wage kind of arguments in terms of the standard, a mainstream view of it, but because they said we're not going to work for these kind of wages to risk our lives, basically. But they argue that this is clearly we're at the super level of. And it's interesting that because I would argue because of the dual mandate, the US, they haven't reacted as badly or I would call as strongly as the bank of Canada has in dealing with it in this problem of inflation. Because in fact Canada, as you could see, was not.
00:36:38.438 - 00:36:51.854, Speaker A: We were still not at the beverage full employment even. We're still on the right side of our problem. Okay, I'm stopping there. I'm sorry, that took too long.
