00:00:07.860 - 00:01:41.540, Speaker A: You welcome tonight. This evening I just wanted to take a quick tour to enjoy about site and talking about what is the status, what was pretty much what happened in 2019 and what will be maybe in 2020 and maybe later about regulatory and compliance, more technical, but will be in a highlight about what happened and what would be regarding the low regulatory and compliance stuff to just give you what is my thinking, what will be next? I'm from safefish. We are leading a validator and also we are a moderate operator for Chenik. We are now validating on Cosmos, Tesla, Cyrusnet, Kusama, Loom, Aum, the AOR network and also KaB. And we are also starting to validate also in several other projects that will be this year. Or let's see, sometimes projects just push and pop up and then stop to work. So 2019 was the year of defy.
00:01:41.540 - 00:02:36.608, Speaker A: I think that every one of us, we know what is defy. So it's a decentralized finance and it's supposed to be the alternative to the traditional finance that we have so far. So we can see that about borrowing and lending. We have Makerdao that was, let's say, a big player on the market, except from one bleach. That happened to Makerdao several months ago, probably was last year. And on this side, as you can see, we have on the borrowing and lending, we have the top player that we had in 2019 that went, and they said they took a lot of markets in 2019. It was Nicadao Compound protocol, Bulkhum, dharma.
00:02:36.608 - 00:03:30.340, Speaker A: And for exchange, trading, investing, we have the centralized exchange that we have, let's say top of the big player, that is finance with Phoenix, Coinbase and Crockett, of course, we have several centralized chains, but this is the most important and also the one that has the biggest trading volume, for sure. Then we have decentralized exchange that we are also here. We have a lot of names there. But if you look also on inter scan, if you look on the trading volume, Oniswap was one that recently pushed at the top of the trading volume. So it's one of the most. Then we have also keeper and other digital price exchange. And of course we have UMA and synthetics, also for synthetic practices.
00:03:30.340 - 00:04:19.032, Speaker A: And of course we have also just staking. Staking is a part of Defy. We have individual staking where people can just take and delegate the tokens to validators. Then we saw recently in the late 2019, that the biggest centralized exchange, for example, binds coinbase and Kraken, created validators on Cosmos and Tezos, and they started to propose to their user. You can log in directly in the exchange and you can stake directly from there. You don't have to create another wallet and delegate from a wallet. You don't have to think about anything else.
00:04:19.032 - 00:04:55.090, Speaker A: But they're trying to, let's say, take the market, but it's not real like this. They are still, let's say, adjusting how they promote. Also about marketing. And then also the last one is the non exchange custodian. That is some independent project that they are creating some platform that people can stake and delegate from, directly from there. So this was quite a bit. Mostly what happened in the 2019 FMT five.
00:04:55.090 - 00:05:25.048, Speaker A: I don't know if you can see directly. This is an image that talks pretty much by itself. That was taken in May 2019. And this was the interaction about the user and the protocols in the device basis. I don't know if you can read in blue. There is maker down compound uniswap. This is the interaction between each protocol and the user.
00:05:25.048 - 00:06:01.924, Speaker A: And if you can see here, it was in inos. So three months later, you can see that the market exploded a bit. And you can see also that there is syntax there, other several new projects. There is also OCo there. That is a prediction market that comes into the market. But we can see that also the interaction between the protocol, it multiplied a lot. And there is a very huge trading wall and also traffic between each protocol.
00:06:01.924 - 00:06:59.450, Speaker A: So we can see that DeFi, effectively in the 2019 exploded. So what it means, this is the same thing that I said before, so I can make a skip. So what means about risk management and regulatory? I mean, normal people that thinks about traditional finance, for example, we can say that there is not much transparency. I don't know how many of you open in a bank account. In traditional bank account, when you go, you have maybe 20 pages of terms and condition, and you don't even read it because it's too much and you don't know what is you are signing. So there is not a lot of transparency there. So they have a proprietary system, so you don't know what is behind your banks until they breach the bank, probably.
00:06:59.450 - 00:07:44.980, Speaker A: And of course, I wrote here fully regulated, but I was a bit insecure to say fully regulated, but let's say officially fully regulated. Traditional finance, where we have the sea, and there is a lot of regulatory authorities that is regulating each country. For example, in Germany, you have the Baffin. I don't know if it's correct, but mostly the finance has to be controlled. There is no way to escape. But we know that every time there is a way to escape. But mostly the traditional finance has to be regulated.
00:07:44.980 - 00:08:17.876, Speaker A: You have to sign everything. If you are moving funds between banks who are transferred. You know that some countries don't like cash, for example. So that's why I say fully regulated. On the other side, we have decentralized finance, the trade off of the decentralized finance. So talking about risk management is that that could be smart contract bus. So we don't know effectively if the company that produces smart contract audited that piece of code.
00:08:17.876 - 00:09:10.636, Speaker A: At least it's not effectively listed on the website. And you know that it's audited from a third party and not the same company that audited. Of course, the code. We know that there is a liquidity risk from decentralized finance because typically in traditional finance, if you open a bank account, you know that the bank is insured or backed by the government. So you know that pretty much your funds are secure. Let's say this is not always like this, but it should. And of course, I wrote there that it's partially regulated because, for example, in some countries, they are growing and also they are creating new law regarding the crypto company and also exchanges.
00:09:10.636 - 00:10:38.784, Speaker A: Something like this I wrote here that is partially regulated because you know better than me that some country, like, I don't know, Singapore or some offshore other countries, that is not completely regulated. They are in the blacklist, for example, for European Union and other big countries. But at the end of the flow, we can see that there is a piece of regulation that is the anti money laundering that is the key and the main part that all the world is working and fighting to avoid that funds are moved from terrorists or crime, for fraud, et cetera. So talking about recently, at the beginning of the month, the European Union taken into force, they are enforcing now the Fifth Amendment directive that was created in 2000. It was drafted in 2016. That was written in the law in the regulation proposal in 2018. And now it's into action from the 10 January this year.
00:10:38.784 - 00:11:42.480, Speaker A: And they are pretty much trying to take control also of the crypto company. And I just highlighted the end bond. They want to try to limit the anonymity related to virtual set and wallet providers. And also for premade card, for example. This causes, for example, if you read also, I guess, Coindesk and other crypto news website, that several crypto startups had to shut down the business because of this, because they had to produce a lot of paper, ask their user to give them a lot of information to comply to this regulation. And it was too much for them, then they just shut it down, the business and they want to increase the transparency between who is the legal entities. They want to give also better access to information via centralized bank account register.
00:11:42.480 - 00:12:50.680, Speaker A: This is pretty huge because they are trying to centralize at the end. So there is also another one that is not listed here. But they are also trying to give more power to each financial authority in each country, for example. So they are delegating, for example, to the Germany financial authority to check and look for these kind of things and to enforce also. And they can also do fine, for example, in other two countries there is already some fine that if you not comply to this, you can also pay up to 200,000 euro, something like this. So you can imagine that for some startups, anyway, is the finish of the business. Yeah, this is going back to regulatory and compliance.
00:12:50.680 - 00:14:31.370, Speaker A: This is the traditional science that it should be this report that is public and transparent, so you can check if they are treating your data in a safety way or not. And then the last part is the GDPR and the private shield and several other regulations that it's delegated to each country to have its own data protection role. So you know that this part of GPR, for example, that was also in 2018, the most important things that happened because also this regulation shuttle down several companies because they cannot comply or they were not able to comply with that, because technical problems with this, and I'm just mentioning this because, for example, if you look in the decentralized bias, it should be pretty much the same, because we have each step that can be the same. But the only problem is that a lot of these points could be too much work. For example, for small companies, for example, it's a very long journey that could take probably one year. So not all the companies can get the certificate for sure, but they can work to show that they are following this best practice. So it's always good anyway.
00:14:31.370 - 00:15:29.212, Speaker A: And it should be like this in the same way. I mean, it's not that this has to be, it's just the way I'm trying to visualize what will be in the next future. Because if I want to try to open up and take a lot of people out from traditional finance and not rely on banking accounts, this could be something that could be a potential scenario. But it's not like this. But this will have a lot also new companies that are doing a lot of business. Because, for example, for ISO 27,000, there is a lot of exchanges that they are trying to comply and get the certificate. I know that for example, finance has it, probably Gemini and another few more.
00:15:29.212 - 00:16:55.976, Speaker A: But it's something that is still work in progress because it's not strong. But it's a difficult journey because for example, in South Korea after the there is now a kind of hype that every exchanges and businesses want to comply to ISO to get a better security. Here you can see for example that there was a lot an increase of request and certification during all these years. For example, the Asia is the top one that got the certification, China and Japan is the most one. And Japan is one of the countries that is keeping up with the isofence talents since very long ago that are strictly regulated. But if you can see there is an increase during this year that most wars caused by a lot of data breach that happened in the past. So everyone was trying to get into business, but there was a grace to the government that they are doing good.
00:16:55.976 - 00:18:16.470, Speaker A: And some other is because of the GDPR. Because if you are certificate with the you are pretty much already okay with the GDPR. Because mostly of the it points that are in the GDPR. It's mapped correctly with the ISO 27,000. So last thing that I want to share that is the key part is there is some point in the Indo 27,000 that is talking about supplier relationship. And it's also mentioned in the GDPR what it means that if I am trying to reach the certification, I need to take care also about my third party and partner, that they are interconnected with me or I'm exchanging the data. So that means that if I'm not auditing or something happened on a third party that is interacting with me and I'm certified and I am not a breach, I'm responsible and not the third party because it was my duty to also audit the third party that worked with me.
00:18:16.470 - 00:19:47.568, Speaker A: So that means if we think, for example about training and node operators and for example, we talk about synthetics, it should be for example that synthetics got a certification for ISO 27. But at some point we start to ask each third party that they are interconnected to be compliant or to demonstrate that they are doing or following the best practice. So this is something that also was introduced by the GDPR because the GDPR also said that if you are protecting the personal data of your customers, but there is a chain or there is a third party or partner that is not compliant with the GDPR, you are not compliant. So this is your duty and the same for. So in my mind when I think about DeFi, I'm thinking that at some point there will be something that could be a little more about business and marketing, because if I will market myself, my company, that, oh, we are certified and blah, blah, blah. So at some point I will need to take care, for example, about my cloud provider because it's a supplier. But for sure, Amazon is not behind me, but it's more forward.
00:19:47.568 - 00:20:25.900, Speaker A: So they are 27,000. A lot of other certification. I don't have to go to bedroom and say, okay, demonstrate that you are certified. This is the part, but it's more about the small business, the small company that we are. For example, in the crypto space that interact. For example, in DeFi, there is this kind of interaction between the protocol. It's not strictly one to one, because we know that data on chain is kind of different between interaction between API or normal web services.
00:20:25.900 - 00:21:31.532, Speaker A: But it's something that probably could happen and it could drive probably also all the market. I don't know. It's something that we need to think about and doing the best to for sure secure our data and be compliant with the regulation, because the government for sure will try to block and tackle or control as we know that, for example, the last Fifth Amendment that they want to try to centralize the bank data, not so good. But we need to understand how we can bypass this kind of regulation, but do in the correct way. And yeah, that's pretty much what I wanted to try to explain. If you have questions later, I will be happy. And I hope that was not so complicated, but it was just a kind of overview to see something that was not technical about Defi.
00:21:31.532 - 00:21:32.110, Speaker A: Thank you.
