00:00:01.600 - 00:00:30.492, Speaker A: What is up, guys? Taiki here, back from vacation. We're doing farms of the week, where I'll go over the farms I'm currently in as well as the farms I'm watching. So if you like the content, please like and subscribe and leave a comment in the comment section below. So let's get started. Okay, I'll briefly touch on Vegas just because, you know, I was there on vacation, my brain's a little fried because I partook in some Dijon activities. So hopefully I can make it to the end of the video without like, like stuttering and whatnot. But to anyone that's interested, I was there to, like, play poker with the boys and essentially started out pretty rough.
00:00:30.492 - 00:01:07.084, Speaker A: I was down 2300, but, you know, I. This, uh, I managed to inflict some pain on boomers. And at the end, I closed out with the monster session at Bellagio 510. And that was a nice $68 on a trip, right? So I tipped the dealers $1 too many. But I'll take it, right? I'll take. I'll take a slightly profitable session. And the one thing that also surprised me was that there was, like, a lot of boomers that was talking about bitcoin and ETH because, I mean, I guess for crypto to gain, like, widestream adoption, like, this has to happen, right? So I thought it was a pretty promising sign that there was a lot of talk around crypto.
00:01:07.084 - 00:01:51.372, Speaker A: Or maybe, you know, maybe like, Vegas is full of, like, risk seeking Djan, so it's not really special. Or maybe this is a top signal, right? So those are the two things I thought was interesting, like my poker and, you know, just people getting the crypto. So that being said, let's actually get into the farms, right? Because that's why you're clicking this video. So I'll first go over the terra ecosystem. The cool thing about terra is that, I mean, there are only like two apps on terra, so it's kind of an easy set it and forget it type of ecosystem where you'll just park your capital and you'll earn lots of money, right? Because the cool thing was that, I guess when I come back, came back from vacation right before I sold all my mirror tokens, but I came back with a mirror, I'm like, oh, wow, like, that's actually pretty good. So. And my gold short is printing just because, I mean, gold doesn't do anything, right.
00:01:51.372 - 00:02:24.940, Speaker A: So I'm just collecting the aprs and my galaxy long is printing as well because stocks go up. So, you know, not financial advice but if anyone wants to use mirror deform, check out my terra playlist. And I think the best way to think about it is like shorting precious metals, right, gold or silver and then longing either gold or silver or a textile, right. Because that's what I'm doing. That's what I'm. So there's that. And I guess the one thing I'll touch up on anchor is that, you know, if you haven't staked your anchor, right, you really should do it because they're going to be a snapshot taking in September.
00:02:24.940 - 00:02:46.132, Speaker A: So I don't know when this is. It might have happened already, but it's September 6. Maybe they haven't taken this snapshot because, you know, sometime they're going to, like airdrop. The Nexus protocol is going to airdrop tokens to anchor governance stakers. So, you know, if this isn't enough, I guess, incentive to stake. I mean there's also like, you're in 6% APR. So I encourage everyone to do that as well.
00:02:46.132 - 00:03:19.752, Speaker A: And I guess in the past week I've earned 17 anchor, right? So back from vacation, I made $160 in mirror and anchor as well as 19.5% on my dollars. Right. So terra, really cool ecosystem. I can decide to forget it and not really worry too much about it. Okay, so let's touch on avalanche, right? Because, you know, people in the comment section are saying, yeah, avalanche is a really good stable coin at like roughly 40, $46. And if you like the metrics, the numbers have kind of gone down, right? So this is like the total bridge transactions, it's kind of just gone down.
00:03:19.752 - 00:04:01.670, Speaker A: And if you look here, this compares the bridging to avalanche and bridging out of avalanche, right? So in the past week, the withdrawals have outpaced deposits, which is something you do not want to see. However, I'm not really too worried about it because if I think about it, like two months from now, if I look at this, I mean, this is going to be like, like a not negligible dip right in the entire thing. Because when Aave and curve launches, there's going to be a flood of liquidity entering the ecosystem. Because, you know, in my interview with Luigi from Eva Labs, he said that avian curve, they're going to be launching in a couple of weeks. A few weeks. I don't know what that means. Maybe mid September, later September, like, who knows? But when that comes, there's going to be a flood of liquidity.
00:04:01.670 - 00:04:34.012, Speaker A: So I'm just going to be banking on that but you know, right now what I'm doing is I'm just, I have most of my assets on Benki, right? Just earning yield. Because you're still going to be paid to borrow and lend, right? So if you want to. Okay, I can't look at it now because this is my public account. But no, you can still be paid to borrow on dollars, which, you know, I'm just, I have most of my assets on Benki and I'm just, you know, sitting comfy. Sitting comfy. Just waiting for the pump, I guess. For anyone that are interested in farms or I guess like the other native avalanche ecosystem tokens, I've always recommended Yieldiak and Trader Joe.
00:04:34.012 - 00:05:09.334, Speaker A: I'm more of a fan of yield yak because it's not inflationary, right? Because Trader Joe is. It's a farm token, right? People can farm it. So, you know, I'm not doing this, right. When I went on vacation, I kind of ripped off to just hold a bunch of avax. But if you're bullish on yak and Avax, you can provide liquidity on Trader Joe and be paid 95% APR, paid in the Joe token, right? And you can actually take your lp tokens, stake it on yield the exact. So, you know, that's something that you might be interested in. Okay, so what's it gonna say? Yeah.
00:05:09.334 - 00:05:31.924, Speaker A: Oh, speaking of avalanche rush and native ecosystem tokens, it has been announced that Pangolin will have avalanche rush tokens. Sorry, avalanche rush. They'll be supported by avalanche rush. Sorry, my brain is fried. They're gonna have Avax tokens allocated to it where you can stick your PNG in your Avaxen. Pretty cool video. I'll provide a link to this in the description below.
00:05:31.924 - 00:06:40.872, Speaker A: But this is coming September 8, right? So this will incentivize people to not farm and dump PNG, which may or may not be bullish for the price, right? I'm not going to make calls on the price, but it's something that you should consider because, you know, when I first covered avalanche, I was pretty bullish on PNG, but I quickly changed my tone when I saw that Trader Joe flipped them in terms of TVL. And you know, now, like, Trader Joe is like, PNG is not even close, right? So I still think that at this point, Trader Joe is a better hold than PNG. But hey, if you can take your PNG that you've been forming and stake it to earn Avax, maybe that's something that you're interested in. Okay, one last bullish news. I guess is they're working on a binance supported BSc to Avalanche Bridge, right? Just because if you look at the metrics, if you go here, BSc is the second largest in terms of TVL with like roughly $20 billion of assets. So a bridge opening from BSC to Avax is pretty bullish, because if they can launch this when curb and Alva comes, then that could be something that's really, really cool. And I guess one thing that I always like to touch on is whether you should investor trade native tokens or the Avax token, the gas token.
00:06:40.872 - 00:07:27.068, Speaker A: And the reason I'm so bullish on Avax is comparing it to Polygon, because Polygon launched their liquidity mining program and everything just went up, right? I mean, Polygon went from like thirty cents to two dollars, seventy cents when it actually peaked after they announced their liquidity mining program. And the market kind of priced that in already. So you're not going to get the same upside. But I guess always the question is like, should I hold, let's say, Trader Joe or should I hold Avax? So the one data point that I like to look at. So I mean, it's only one data point, so you can't take it to the bank. However, quickswap, which is the largest decentralized exchange token on polygon, peaked on April 30 for $1,400. It like ten x'ed in like two weeks, which is pretty nuts.
00:07:27.068 - 00:08:00.214, Speaker A: And then it kind of just didn't do anything, right. It's just a farm token, right? And. But Matic didn't on April 30, they were trading at roughly eighty two cents and it three x'ed in the next couple of weeks to $2.45. So, you know, just looking at this data, I mean, who knows what's gonna happen? But it might like, I don't know where we are in the cycle. Like maybe we're here where like, you know, Joe has more room to run, or maybe we're here where, you know, this is the time for Avax to outperform. But since I'm not sure, I'm just gonna be mostly focusing on Avax. Just because, you know, Avax will give you less upside, however.
00:08:00.214 - 00:08:33.460, Speaker A: Well, it'll usually give you less upside, but it'll give you less downside as well. So now, on a risk adjusted return basis, I think Avaxenhe, this might be a better hold. Not financial advice, but that's how I'm thinking about the markets. You know, just taking Avax, taking it, earning yield, that's fine by me. Alright, so where else do we go here? Yeah, I guess Phantom. Because if you look at the price of Phantom, it's been like insane, right? I mean, what the hell? Like I talked about it like roughly here saying like it's going to take a little more time develop. But like, I guess I was wrong and everything just pumped crazily.
00:08:33.460 - 00:09:17.936, Speaker A: This is obviously because of the Phantom foundation with the liquidity mining programs. And I thought that, you know, it'll take a few months for, you know, these tokens to do well, but maybe the market is pricing the Phantom foundation, those liquidity mining incentives already. Who knows? But obviously, like anyone that like bought the phantom token or, you know, the native gas tokens, sorry, native farm tokens are pretty happy. And the one thing I like to highlight is that spooky swap actually flipped curve in TVL, which is really, really impressive. So I'm not going to go over the farms on Phantom in this video just because tomorrow I'll be recording a video with FTM alerts discussing everything phantom. So I don't take up too much time in this video. But you know, I guess if I were to pick one farm to focus on, right.
00:09:17.936 - 00:09:50.258, Speaker A: If I bridge funds over, well, when I bridge funds over, like, right, I'll definitely be bridging funds over. It's spooky swap, right? Because I mean, it's the winner, right? I mean, this is like the best way to pick winners. Just looking at TVL, right? Like 351 over like 116 people have this mentality of like, hey, like, I think spirit swap has more upside because there's less TVL. But I think the better way to think about it is like just pick winners, right? Like if you, would you rather invest in Amazon or Walmart, right? Walmart. I'm sure they'll do well. But I think Amazon's the winner. So I mean, that's like a simple way to think about it.
00:09:50.258 - 00:10:36.176, Speaker A: So I'll probably be bridging funds over and if I do, I'll be putting it into one of these forms and not, I mean, I might do spirit too, but I think the spirit, they have this in spirit where you can lock up your spirit to earn more tokens. But with spooky, you get, there's this Xboo where you can stake your boo or next boo and earn some transaction fees. And I like how Xboo, you don't have to, there's like no time lock, right? Whereas with inspirit, you're gonna have to lock up your, you're gonna have to lock up your tokens for particular, like, I guess some time range, right? And I don't want to do that. Like, I think something like Xboo will do better. So, you know, if I farm, it's going to be on spooky swap most likely, right. So look out for the FTM alerts video on Wednesday. I'll be recording tomorrow, uploading it on Wednesday.
00:10:36.176 - 00:11:13.662, Speaker A: And make sure to give him a subscribe. Give him a subscribe. Because I mean, he, he's been like a phantom Super bowl for a couple months now, posting videos when Phantom, like, wasn't doing anything. So, you know, it's always good to, it's always good to see, like, people that are, like, focusing on one ecosystem, right? Because I guess the phantom. I guess the Phantom ecosystem is so good that there's someone out there that are willing to spend so much time covering one ecosystem, right. This is one of the reasons why I was so bullish on terabytes, or, sorry, on Luna, just because, like, terabytes, they were making videos when, like, Luna wasn't really doing anything. And obviously Luna has done really well, right, and Phantom also doing really well.
00:11:13.662 - 00:11:49.328, Speaker A: So, you know, make sure to check out his video. Videos and wait for the video I'll be posting on Wednesday. Lastly, I'll be covering Solana, right. Because Solana is something I also missed. I mean, I didn't miss it in the sense that, like, I, like, I wasn't watching it. Like, I was definitely watching it. But, you know, I thought that it would take longer for this ecosystem to, I guess, reach, like, I guess, critical mass liquidity, because, you know, they're not, they're using a different programming language, right? Like they use rust instead of solidity, that phantom, avalanche, ethereum, binance, marching Polygon, all those ecosystem use.
00:11:49.328 - 00:12:23.324, Speaker A: But I guess with all those hackathons, I mean, there's a hackathon right now, right? So with all those hackathons that they've been launching and all the money that they have, there's been lots of development, lots of development in this ecosystem. And radium is a farm. I've covered. Sabre is another one. But I like to go over sunny, right, because this is something that's pretty new. And they've been climbing up the ranks in terms of TVL. They're a yield aggregator, right? So they're essentially an auto compounder where you can stake your saber, LP tokens, for example, and you'll earn both saber and sunny yields.
00:12:23.324 - 00:13:09.144, Speaker A: And they take a performance fee. But, like, look at these rates, right? I mean, these are not sustainable right? They're going to go down because they're mostly being paid out in the farm token. However, I mean, I think it's a good opportunity for anyone to take advantage of this while they last. So if I were to make a recommendation, I guess, like, I would just farm and dump this to oblivion just because, I mean, I don't know, like, you'll see bullish posts about it online, but it's a farm token, right? Like, think about it. Like, everyone's being paid in the sunny token, right? Like, who's, like they're gonna sell at some point and saver. I touched on it briefly, but they're kind of like, they're kind of like a curve, I guess, on Solana where you can like swap between like assets, like with USDT, USDC, etcetera, can kind of go through all the rates here. Like 50% on UST, USDC, that's pretty good.
00:13:09.144 - 00:13:30.240, Speaker A: 20% on serum, 45% on Sol, 33% on bitcoin. Right? That's still pretty good. So I hope this was a good overview. Went over Phantom, Solana, avalanche, terra. I think those ecosystems are just going to do well because I love Ethereum. I hold a bunch of ETH, but, like, using EtH based e five is kind of unusable. Arbitrum.
00:13:30.240 - 00:13:54.904, Speaker A: An optimism like ETH L2 doesn't really scale yet. Right? I'm super bullish on ETh long term, but I think in the short to midterm, these other ecosystems will just do really well. Just do really well, because retail investors like you and I, we can actually use them to make money. So that's a good overview. So tomorrow, just make an announcement. I'll be launching my paid discord. I've been kind of alluding to it for the past couple of weeks, but I'll finally do it.
00:13:54.904 - 00:14:16.830, Speaker A: So look out for that announcement. So yeah, thank you guys for watching. Hope this was a useful video. I know a bunch of people will like, point at me, say, haha, you missed Phantom and Solana. But hey, like, I still think we are early, right? If you take a macro review in the markets, I think one good thing to look at is where is it? Uni wheels. Right. You can also track the bridging from n two Phantom.
00:14:16.830 - 00:14:38.212, Speaker A: Let's see. And obviously it's been pretty bullish. I mean, more deposits, them, withdrawals. But, you know, like, I think I do expect this continue, but, you know, this is a good, useful tool to keep track of all the bridging that's happening on like, avalanche, for example, right. I kind of showed us already, so. Yeah. Thank you guys for watching.
00:14:38.212 - 00:14:47.260, Speaker A: I'm glad I made it to the end of the video without, like, collapsing, so hope you guys enjoyed the video. Like, and subscribe. Leave a comment in the comment section below. Yeah, bye.
