00:00:00.090 - 00:00:28.066, Speaker A: Alright, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Before we jump in, quick disclaimer. The views expressed by my co host today are their personal views and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. Hey, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve.
00:00:28.066 - 00:01:11.502, Speaker A: In this episode, Miles and I are going to be talking with the founder of FRAX finance, Sam Kazmi. And this is going to be a great episode. FRAX is an extremely interesting protocol with many different moving parts. And part of the reason miles and I were so excited to talk to sam, outside of just the furious work that he has executed with an eight person team, which is astounding is he's got, in many ways a very similar as you'll hear in this episode, similar view on what makes liquid staking protocol successful but also has a very different strategy. Just in terms of the breadth of complexity, I would say that he has embraced in terms of all just the different product lines and moving parts on FRAX finance. So this was a fantastic episode. I hope you enjoy it as much as the two of us did.
00:01:11.502 - 00:01:37.750, Speaker A: Hey, everyone, we've got a great episode here, but before we do, I just wanted to give a quick shout shout out to permissionless. This is the biggest and best conference in all of DFI. It's the one that we do with Bankless, who's a great partner for us. Last year we had almost 7000 people there in west palm beach. We are moving this year to Austin, Texas from September 11 through the 13th. And if you are a listener of Bell curve, any of these last five seasons, this conference is basically custom made for you. We're going to be talking about liquid staking, the theme of this season.
00:01:37.750 - 00:02:04.306, Speaker A: We've got a bunch of great panels on mev. If you listen to the app chain thesis, we've got a bunch of Cosmos folks out there in full force. We're talking about the converging architecture of Salana, the roll up space in ETH and cosmos. So I would love to see all of you there and to reward you for being such great listeners to Bell curve. You get a special 30% off code. It's bell curve 30 that'll get you 30% off tickets. Click the link in the show notes and then head over to the permissionless site and make sure that you get your ticket today.
00:02:04.306 - 00:02:15.222, Speaker A: Again, that is bell curve 30. Click the link in the show notes. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Today, miles and I are joined by Sam Kazamian who is the founder at fracs finance. Sam, welcome to the show.
00:02:15.276 - 00:02:16.582, Speaker B: Hey, guys, great to be on.
00:02:16.636 - 00:03:01.878, Speaker A: Really looking forward to this conversation. I think of all the protocols that we've talked to so far this season, FRAX definitely has one of the most intricate designs and there are a lot of moving pieces, for sure. So I think we want to start off by actually just describing almost chronologically when I think of Fracs, sort of my core memory of Fracs is of the stablecoin. But obviously since inception, FRAX has evolved quite a bit. And obviously there's a relatively large liquid staking component. I think FRAX actually is the largest or the fastest growing liquid staking protocol since it launched back in October of 2022. So maybe you can just kind of take us through sam, the evolution of fracs is the stable where you've expanded into and then we can kind of tease apart how all of these different components of fracs finance today kind of work together.
00:03:01.964 - 00:03:47.614, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. So exactly as you said, FRAX first launched in December 2020, like kind of at the end of DFI summer. It was a hybrid algorithmic collateralized stablecoin. And since then it's just the whole ecosystem has grown. So I think it's probably better at this point to kind of call it an ecosystem or universe of things. But I think the most important thing that we'll probably get into is how the kind of ecosystem expands because a lot of people think like fracs kind of is doing everything or might be doing too much or how do you decide where the ecosystem expands to right. And as you said, now it's not just a stablecoin.
00:03:47.614 - 00:04:16.798, Speaker B: There's FRAX ether, which is a LSD kind of system. We like to call it an ETH pegged stablecoin. And it's kind of like the same thing. At least that's how we think about it. There's also FPI, which is a CPI pegged unique pegged stablecoin. It's not pegged to the dollar or another currency. And then there's a series of stuff we call Subprotocals, which help kind of run the stablecoin products, which is like Fraxlend, which is an isolated lending market.
00:04:16.798 - 00:04:41.494, Speaker B: There's FRAX swap. And then recently we are looking into launching FRAX chain towards the end of the year, which is a kind of hybrid roll up. And that's going to be very cool. It's probably the biggest thing we're going to be launching since FRAX ether and the stablecoin, the dollar peg stablecoin itself.
00:04:41.612 - 00:05:46.890, Speaker A: Nice. Walk us through. I think the vision is extremely bold and I want to tease out what exactly that looks like sort of best case in your mind, but walk us through that first decision in order, the transition from being fracs the stablecoin into doing some of these other things. And in particular, maybe we could talk about some of the similarities in between managing a stablecoin and being a stablecoin issuer operator and a liquid staking token issuer. And we had Adrian from Steakhouse Finance on one of the early podcasts of this season. He was describing the operations and sort of the balance sheet management of with staking token is actually being very similar to a stablecoin because what you're doing is you have a liability that you're issuing that is subject to a deposit that can be withdrawn and then you're managing assets that have to match up with that. So was that part of the initial inspiration or help us walk through what was the decision making process from expanding to stable into liquid staking as well?
00:05:46.960 - 00:06:31.994, Speaker B: Yeah, one thing I actually call myself, and a lot of people also say it is like I'm a stablecoin maximalist. I think a lot of stuff in DeFi looks like stablecoins and you described it really well. It's a lot of balance sheet management, right. You issue like a liability, you can call it an LSD, you could call it a stablecoin. And the idea is the way that you essentially get traction is people use your liability as currency. Whether that's if they're doing their accounting in dollars, whether they're doing their accounting in ETH and they want to earn some interest rate on the ETH, you can call it like liquid staking interest rate or reward rate or whatever. The economics of it are the same.
00:06:31.994 - 00:08:11.846, Speaker B: It's basically like decentralized banking, right? You're doing some kind of banking operation using autonomous smart contracts and you're designing protocols that keep the balance sheet liabilities of your protocol in check in most scenarios, hopefully, right? And so one of the things is that I think a lot of things in crypto not everything, but part of the whole stablecoin maximalist thesis is a lot of things in crypto are just stablecoin issuers. And they might not realize it themselves, but their business model or like the way that the protocol gets traction and actually captures value is being a stablecoin issuer. For example, one thing I always say is bridges are stablecoin issuers. They just happen to issue a stablecoin that's the same brand as the native asset that they're bridging, right? And then the only way that they can get long form traction is if their issued stablecoin actually is used like as if it's the native stablecoin that they took a deposit in, right? Like for example and that's actually why I think bridges are really dangerous. But that might be a discussion for another time. But for example, let's say that there's a bridge that takes in Dai, right? Like some other chain wants to use Dai stablecoins. Well, the bridge takes in one to one deposits of Dai and it issues like wrap Dai, whatever their bridge is wormhole dye or whatever, right? And the only way the bridge gets like sticky traction is on the destination chain.
00:08:11.846 - 00:09:15.274, Speaker B: If everyone treats this wormhole dye as real dai and actually basically uses it in liquidity pools and basically uses it, holds it and all of these things, and then the bridge itself will then be forced to decide kind of how it wants to monetize that monetary premium, maybe it'll go and deposit some of its real dai. Right? That's like idle in this bridge into the DSR or something that maker is like giving yield on. And so they'll try to just like you said, really well time duration match the liabilities that are coming back from the other chain, right, and want real Dai. They'll maybe deposit the dye that they've put into a close to risk free place like the DSR or some other thing that maker might have like a subdow that they're creating recently and stuff, right? A lot of these things look exactly the same. Just like you said, LSDs are the exact same thing. They're basically ethpec stablecoins. They're backed by validators, or more specifically the ethereum that are locked in those validators.
00:09:15.274 - 00:09:33.474, Speaker B: Right. And the withdrawal queue is variable. Right. You can't really exactly predict the withdrawal queue that it's gone from three months down to 3 hours. Right. And so it's variable based on macro market conditions and the global kind of ethereum space. Right.
00:09:33.474 - 00:10:38.450, Speaker B: And so you have to build a protocol that's pretty reliable in like a spectrum of these situations that keeps a tight peg on your LSD, continues to give decently good interest rate. Because that's kind of the reason why people want LSDs. Otherwise they would just hold ETH, right? And then you hope that your LSD, the token that you issue gets included in things like in liquidity pools and lending systems as like a native kind of currency, right. Essentially replaces ETH in a lot of these places because it's so good that it's basically like earning extra yield with minimal extra risk. That should be the goal. Right? And so in that view, we expanded to FRAX ether because we think we know how to keep a very good, decentralized stablecoin at Peg, like at a dollar to the CPI, right. Inflation resistant peg.
00:10:38.450 - 00:11:18.598, Speaker B: And also to ETH. And so, so far it's not only worked really well, but also just it's proven like you're saying our design philosophy has proven correct. Because I think a lot of people have come to see LSD kind of game theory and issue and says the same thing, matching balance sheets. Whether they say it or not, that's what they're doing. Right. And that actually kind of maybe in the next few questions talk about FRAX ether V Two, which goes into our second way of thinking, which is LSDs essentially are lending markets behind the scenes, at least decentralized ones are.
00:11:18.684 - 00:12:45.410, Speaker C: It's super interesting, I think. Just so I got the sequencing of these product lines correct. It was first we have a fractional collateral or fractional reserve stablecoin, right? And that's mainly collateralized by other stablecoins as well as ETH, right? And then the thinking was, okay, we have core competencies in collateral management. Stablecoins don't look that different, I guess. Was there ever? So basically we have the ability to launch our own and it can be super complementary with the other products that you have, was there ever thinking around just maybe converting as much of the collateral for the USD stablecoin as possible into your own liquid staking product versus completely separating the two products? Or maybe if it's not that synergy was the thinking around, okay, we have maybe FRAX lend coming out, it would be great if we could have our own stablecoin to be the canonical collateral for FRAX lend. Yeah, I would just love to hear kind of like the sequencing of the product rollout. We can get to FRAX Chain because I'm fascinated as well in a bit, but just to make sure that I've got this correct.
00:12:45.410 - 00:13:02.338, Speaker C: Because from the outsider's perspective, there's a lot of products right, there's a lot going on and just would love to kind of get a perspective of a fly in the wall in some of these discussions that led to the product expansion.
00:13:02.514 - 00:14:10.154, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. So the main thing going back to kind of our view that the largest kind of protocols will be things that issue a liability and their liability will be used as money across a large range of the digital economy. And so in that we think the most important units are dollars, right? I think that's a multitrillion dollar opportunity across the next five to ten years. And then the second most important unit I think is probably ETH. We're very big on ETH itself as like a unit as like money or store value. And I think the next most important stuff is either bitcoin even like we've talked about fracs BTC as another thing, but also inflation resistant units or something pegged to a non nation state kind of currency that is not volatile, right? BTC and ETH are volatile. They don't actually track kind of consumer goods things that you need to keep your standard of living the same.
00:14:10.154 - 00:15:16.482, Speaker B: So those three or four currency units, like units of stuff I think is the most important for the 21st century. That's just basically our kind of first principle thinking. And like you said, lo and behold, we have stable coins essentially in each of those units, right? And so we think that the way to become like a multi trillion dollar kind of protocol, right? Something as big as bitcoin ethereum. And the largest things that are systemically important in crypto is to be able to service those largest units that are the most relevant for the coming decades. Right? And that's why we have a dollar, that's why we have ETH as a unit, a CPI based unit, basically a non nation state unit. And then probably in the future fracs BTC which internally it's been something we've been working on, hasn't been released and stuff, but that is something we're pretty big on. So that's kind of the logic for it.
00:15:16.482 - 00:16:18.198, Speaker B: The other thing that you said is backing fracs with our own LSD. There's actually a lot of liquidity forks and new types of projects like, I think it's called Ethena or something, which is like a delta neutral hedged with LSDs or something. There's like a small but growing ecosystem of kind of LSD based dollar stablecoins. Fracs actually is probably like the biggest along with dai of LSD utilizing stablecoins like dollar peg stablecoins because like you said, we have FRAX lend. The largest FRAX lend pair is staked FRAX ether. And so there's a lot of over collateralized positions that back the FRAX dollar peg stablecoin with our own LSD, in fact, that's so profitable for the protocol itself because we get interest rate for people borrowing the fracs. We get fracs ether TVL, like the amount of the total supply that goes up.
00:16:18.198 - 00:17:10.280, Speaker B: We also get the protocol fees, which is 10% overall from the POS rate of the validators. So there's like basically every single layer of the stack. FXS token holders essentially capture value, the protocol captures value. And I think we're like the only ones that can do that right now. I think Maker does a lot of steep over collateralized positions that back die, but they obviously use steep, right? And so Lido gets all of the admin fees. So the answer is 100% yes. Not only have we thought about it, but this is another one of those examples where when you build one thing and then you build the other thing exactly according to a plan and a reason rather than just because it's cool.
00:17:10.280 - 00:17:28.470, Speaker B: It makes every part of the stack better, it makes it more profitable, it makes it more synergistic, it makes it more useful and it creates more utility. And so there's a lot of stuff that we're trying to do that expands on everything that's already out. So like fracs chain and these kinds.
00:17:28.470 - 00:18:27.934, Speaker A: Of things that are coming just to make sure that I've got a sense here and it's a very interesting vision. Sam and then, Miles, I know you've got a question, so I'll let you jump in. But essentially what you're looking at is, and I've heard you talk about this, the value of something that's of true organic demand is that someone wants to hold something, right? Someone has to really view this as money and ultimately want to hold it. So it seems like what you've done is looked out into the world and said, hey, there are kind of these buckets of things that people want to hold, right? And some of that is this inflation hedge type bucket. Some of this is an actual US dollar, right, which is medium of exchange, may be a little bit less inflation hedge, but still something that people want to hold. ETH is something that people want to hold. And if you can sort of stand and be this issuer of sort of synthetics of that asset and successfully manage the risk on the back end, man, what a great business that is.
00:18:27.934 - 00:18:59.240, Speaker A: If your competency is managing risk multitrillion and then even on top of that, what you also need is for those things to be liquid, right? The liquidity and the trust sort of build simultaneously, right? So that's where FRAX Len sort of comes in and says, hey, we will help facilitate that and we'll take fees at the same time which will accrue to this single instrument which is FXS. Is that about the size of the model?
00:18:59.930 - 00:19:23.440, Speaker B: That's actually that's correct. And so that's actually very well said. Right. And so I think something that's unique here is a lot of this stuff just has FXS as the governance token. And for example, MakerDAO. Recently you guys probably have read Rune's Endgame Plan which is very ambitious. It's very cool.
00:19:23.440 - 00:20:06.062, Speaker B: A lot of the parts look kind of similar to the way that we view stuff at Fracs. Which means we're thinking about stuff probably correctly, just like they are. A lot of this stuff is actually different. So for example, Maker has this idea of a lot of subdou tokens, right? Like there's going to be all of these small different subdaos actually we call our subprotocols. So there's some similarities, but they have the view that a lot of or all of these will have different tokens, right? There's like Spark protocol which is similar to kind of their Fracs lend. And then Runes made it clear that there's going to be like a Spark token. We structurally don't think so.
00:20:06.062 - 00:21:28.994, Speaker B: We think that this is all part of kind of infrastructure that is made for issuing liability like currency that will be used. And part of the reason is I just personally think that for FRAC's share like FXS to become like a top five top ten digital asset, it has to actually embody economy and like an ecosystem as large as for example, ethereum itself today. If it's going to actually get ethereum's market cap in the next like five to ten years, if you kind of think of the counterfactual for a second, right? Think about for example, if Vitalik was like, I'm releasing a new token, it's called roll up. And it's like the token that's supposed to scale ETH or whatever, right? And all of the DA is like you need to pay half of it in Roll up token or whatever. And some in Ethan stuff, he could probably raise a couple of billion dollars, right? He's Vitalik like one of the co founders of Ethereum, right, and it would be super lucrative. But he doesn't, right. There's probably like ten other examples I could give of I'm sure if he sat down he could probably think of tokens to launch or something, right? A sharding token.
00:21:28.994 - 00:22:20.902, Speaker B: I don't know, there's probably some ways to do that, right? And you could maybe make some reasonable arguments of like, well imagine if there was a Sharding token. Think of how much fundraising you could do. And the Sharding team at the Ethereum Foundation could be 1000 people rather than like 40 people or something, right? And it sounds really good. But the reason ethereum is the number two crypto asset behind Bitcoin is that universe, that alternative timeline didn't exist. He decided not to do that, right? And so our view is kind of the same way. In fact, for a while, actually, we kind of had the view of the subdoub stuff because when we launched FPI. So FPI actually has a different governance token called the FRAX price index share.
00:22:20.902 - 00:22:58.674, Speaker B: It's the only other governance token in the system. FRAX, lend, FRAX, Ether stuff, none of them have a governance token. And the reason for that is the peg for FPI is pretty risky. It has to keep up with inflation. And it's like the only other token we've ever released to kind of separate the risk. And my belief actually is that as the risk for FPI and the whole Fracs ecosystem becomes less and less because it's more established, I actually think possibly it's a good idea to merge the FPI share back into the frac share to just general Frac share. And so almost kind of like a merger of the two token distributions.
00:22:58.674 - 00:23:34.770, Speaker B: So later, if it makes sense, right, if FXS holders vote and FPIs holders vote, just merge them back in in some way, some kind of bonding algorithm or something, and merge them back into one token distribution. Because I think that that's much more powerful and that's how FXS actually becomes like top five digital asset. And that's actually what we're going for on a five to ten year time horizon. So that's how we think about it. It's not just that hopefully it'll work out or something. We're trying to systematically get there.
00:23:34.920 - 00:24:47.830, Speaker A: One thing I want to ask you about is just kind of compare and contrast the Frac strategy for growth and this plan for global domination here with some of what we've heard from sort of the lidos and the eigen layers of this season, which is a little bit of a different strategy, which know, if I had to try to sum up the way Lido views the world, it would be we want to actually reduce the surface. Level of what we do to a point where and decentralized governance so much to the point where it's basically viewed as an extension of ethereum. And they view that as sort of a defensible moat that will allow them to expand and scale their market share. So it sounds like you have a different approach, which includes encompassing a little bit more risk potentially on the back end, which is sort of the other half of the ledger of doing more activities. How do you kind of compare and contrast this idea of really trying to do less flattening the surface area of your offering and minimizing governance versus doing a little bit more on the protocol? And the advantage is you get those fees from Fraxlend and you get to do multiple different assets, but there's a little bit more risk to manage on the back end.
00:24:47.900 - 00:25:12.766, Speaker B: Yeah. So I would separate it into two things. One is like the governance and decentralization. And then two is like the scope of stuff we do. One is I totally agree with Lido. Our goal is to build each of these things in an entirely decentralized way. If we didn't think so, we wouldn't do FRAX ETH v two, which is fully permissionless anyone can run nodes and these kind of things.
00:25:12.766 - 00:26:08.434, Speaker B: FRAX lend itself as a protocol is more hands off and decentralized in terms of its interest rates than kind of like makers interest rates which everyone has to vote on if they want to change it and stuff on the utilization curve if they want to change it. Ours is time dependent. So we actually did that to minimize governance. It just doubles after a certain utilization every single day. And basically a lot of what we do, especially with the new FRAX Gov module, which is a fully on chain, decentralized, no MSIG at all way of running all of the FRAX ecosystem of stuff is to minimize basically trust, right? Like you shouldn't have to trust the core team to do anything or to not be malicious. For this stuff to work. Right, there will always need to be smart contracts managing again, like liabilities to assets and stuff.
00:26:08.434 - 00:26:57.678, Speaker B: So that's obviously totally fine as long as the management and running of those smart contracts is actually autonomous. You don't have to actually trust that. For example, I don't get compromised whether that's like I lose my keys or something, or I get pressured under duras by the government or something to do whatever, like shut things down or whatever. Right. So we totally agree with the first part, right, which is like everything should be as trustless and autonomous as possible. In fact, I think we've done a really good job of being one of the most autonomous kind of protocols, given how much we've built. And the stuff we're pushing out actually is completing that vision rather than centralizing it.
00:26:57.678 - 00:27:57.430, Speaker B: We're actually decentralizing it. I think the second part, which I actually don't know if I even read it in the way that you said, which is like, do less stuff. I think it's more about just how big you already are and what your ambition is. So for example, you were like, well, Lido just kind of wants to go back and just be like part of the whole thing. The ethereum ecosystem. It's funny for Lido to say that they're like literally the largest thing in the entire Ethereum Ecosystem, which is great, congrats to them, right? But I think the bigger you get, if you have ambitions of continuing to grow in a decentralized way, obviously in an autonomous way, pushing out protocols that are decentralized, you will branch out to a lot of different stuff. Think of uniswap, right? They now are doing NFT stuff.
00:27:57.430 - 00:28:43.330, Speaker B: They recently launched Uniswap X, which is like a totally different paradigm of how to trade based on what a trader intends rather than on chain orders. Who knows what they're doing in the back, right? They're very good at working on really big stuff quietly and then boom, coming out and being like now there's a UniChain or something. Obviously they didn't say that and I don't know anything, but who knows, right? And so, same thing with Maker, right? Maker is doing so much stuff or trying to accomplish a lot of stuff because they're already so huge, right. In the end Game Roadmap that Rune published, there was also talk of Maker chain. I don't know if it's as far along as FRAX chain. It doesn't seem like it. I think it's like a multi year project.
00:28:43.330 - 00:29:34.660, Speaker B: But they obviously are eyeing growing in that way. So the main thing that I just like to stress is if you're going to grow and if you're going to, as you were kind of saying, take over kind of the world and expand, you need to do it in a decentralized way. Yeah, right. But you need to do it in a way where the stuff you're pushing out is continuing to actually be more and more trustless over time, which is very hard, rather than gravitate to more and more trust because it's easy to basically be like, oh, now, in order to do this next step, instead of actually launching FRAC's governance, which removes our ability to do anything, we could be like, well, we need this extra permission just for a little while, right? We don't ever do that. We're actually going exactly the other way. Right.
00:29:34.970 - 00:31:12.306, Speaker C: That's super interesting and obviously very thoughtful about as you expand horizontally, making sure that it's done so in a way that doesn't centralize a lot of subjective human decisions. Right, and I think that to your point, once you get to a certain size with any of these product lines, you get a lot more eyeballs on you. And if part of the value prop of interacting with on chain protocols in the first place is counterparty risk mitigation trustless interactions with these decentralized markets, you will get pressure at some point to decentralize any sort of central point of risk. Right? And so maybe that leads us to fracs V Two and where you see the liquid staking side of the protocol going and maybe this is first of all, I'll ask you to just kind of lay out exactly what V Two looks like, what you're opening up now versus current state. So this is on the validator side, I'm guessing, and then what the implications are from a risk management standpoint. And Lido is in a similar position, right, where they've gone from a curated set and now they're opening it up to basically anybody can propose a staking module which could be permissionless to join for certain conditions. And so, yeah, I would love to.
00:31:12.306 - 00:31:21.750, Speaker C: Kind of hear just a general overview of V two and then with the implications of V Two, how you think about managing the additional risk that comes with it?
00:31:21.820 - 00:31:58.494, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a good question. So FRAX ether, V two is a totally revamped version of the FRAX ether system. So right now, the current way the FRAX ether system is there's FRAX ether, the token that doesn't yield anything, it's like the stablecoin and there's stake FRAX ether. And then when people mint FRAX ether, they get to decide what they want to do with their Ethpex stablecoin. They can LP it in AMMS that are incentivized like curve or they can stake it as Sfax ether. Right. And those people that stake it get all of the proof of stake yield from validators.
00:31:58.494 - 00:32:35.262, Speaker B: Now, validators in V one, they are ran by the core team, aka. The other way to say that is it's a curated list of people like us that can run the validators, right? Just like Lido, they have a curated list of groups that can run these validators. That doesn't mean that there's anything else that's like off chain, right? Like the withdrawal address or is it like a smart contract of the treasury, of the protocol, all of these things. The rest of it is entirely on chain. There's amos that balance and keep the collateral of FRAX ether token there. Everyone can audit it. There's like a balance sheet and all this stuff.
00:32:35.262 - 00:33:19.866, Speaker B: However, the validators are not able to be ran by everyone in V One, right. It's not like what rocket pool is. Like v Two, anyone can come and run validators in a permissionless way. They don't have to be curated or even voted on. And the main way they do that is they post some ETH collateral, right? And then they get to borrow essentially a validator by basically putting their validator's address. And then it gets spun up and then they get to control the validator. As long as they're paying this kind of interest rate, which is an open market interest rate of what the market is willing to pay to run validators and get the rewards themselves.
00:33:19.866 - 00:33:48.902, Speaker B: Right. They get to run those validators. Right. They basically pay an interest rate and put up some collateral. Sounds a lot like just taking out a loan, right, except the difference is instead of taking out a loan of like dollars or something, the loan is the right to control, like a validator yourself. Right. The reason we built it in that way is we actually think that's the most generalized way to build a fully decentralized LSD system.
00:33:48.902 - 00:36:15.854, Speaker B: Like, for example, like you said, Lido has the system where people can propose staking modules, right? Which is like the way that they want to essentially define what they will do, what collateral they'll put up, or how they'll guarantee something and then be able to run some validators, right? That's like the same thing that's basically like writing the terms of some loan and then being able to actually run the validators, get basically 32 ETH allocated to you and you can repay that, hopefully, right, without getting slashed and losing the value anytime that the protocol wants you to repay it. So the reason we built Frac CV Two this way is we think it's actually the most general way to do it, just an open ended lending market. If you think about, for example, how Rocket Pool works right now, right? People come and they give their ETH and then they mint wreath tokens, which is like their LSD token, right? The wreath token is basically like a lending receipt, right? If you go to Ave and you deposit ETH into Ave, right? What do you get? You get a ETH, right? And what happens in Aave is someone borrows the ETH and then they start paying interest. Your A ETH that you got for lending into Ave, it slowly goes up in value, right? Because you're earning the interest someone else is paying, right? This is exactly what a decentralized LSD system is. It's just a lending market. You go and you can call it something like, hey, mint, REIT mint our LSD token. What you're doing is you're getting people to give to you your protocol ETH and then they get an LSD AK, a lending receipt, right? And people, whether you curate a list of borrowers or you let anyone be a borrower, they get to come and then they take the ETH and they get to spin up validators, right? Otherwise you wouldn't be an LSD protocol, you'd just be a lending market like Ope, right? So they get to spin up a validator and then those people, whether they're decentralized, you don't know them or they're people you've whitelisted and curated, they have to pay back some of what they earn to the lenders, the people that minted the wreath token.
00:36:15.854 - 00:37:25.802, Speaker B: Otherwise, why would people mint wreath tokens, right? It doesn't even make any sense, right? So basically that dynamic between Minters of LSD Tokens, aka lenders of ETH, that put it into the protocol, and the other side, people that come in, take that ETH, spin up validators and run them well, run them competently, run them efficiently and earn a bunch of rewards and pay some of it back to the LSD token. Minters, aka the lenders, is how this healthy two way market actually works, right? And you can kind of call it again, we can go back to stablecoin maximalism or whatever. You could call it whatever you want. I think when I first started talking about Fraxi theRV two this way, a lot of people in Rocket Pool were like, rocket Pool is not a lending market. You totally don't even understand anything. Like you're so stupid because they have these different names for them, which is fine. You could call it like there's Node Operators and then there's Reith Stakers, which means you just swap your ETH for wreath at the virtual price exchange rate.
00:37:25.802 - 00:38:21.578, Speaker B: The same virtual price exchange rate you get like compound C tokens or a tokens in Aave, right? And so structurally they're identical. They're structurally, economically, if you abstract it away, they're the same thing. So then we asked how do you optimize this in such a way that it is perfectly optimized for LSD markets, for people to come borrow validators and then the people that come and borrow them, they can be anyone. They can be from anywhere. You don't have to trust anything or anyone to curate these people. And there's some actual market mechanism that makes sure that these people are always at the cutting edge. There's some incentive for people to be actually competent run these things at good market scale, right? There's an efficient market there.
00:38:21.578 - 00:39:36.654, Speaker B: And for example, the way that ours works is there's a dynamic interest rate, the same way we've designed it for Fraxland, where as long as you're a competent validator person running a validator and you are okay with paying the interest rate, you get to keep borrowing them and you keep running them profitably. You take a lot of the profit yourself and you pay whatever the interest rate is at the market. A lot of what some people criticize this for that I hear is like oh, only really competent or like a small cabal of very low cost. It destroys the hobbyist at home or something, right? This is the main thing that people said. I think a lot of it was even from the rocket pool community, which has a lot of hobbyists. I actually don't think it's going to do anything to that because I think generally most hobbyists are pretty competent and if they're not, this is like bitcoin mining, right? It's an efficient market and you want to basically reward people that are the most efficient as part of the design. But I actually think that most hobbyists are pretty efficient.
00:39:36.654 - 00:40:09.134, Speaker B: So I don't even really see it as an issue. But that's like one of the only things that I think people have said is possibly a concern. I don't even really think it's even a concern because the protocol is trustless. Almost like saying, I don't like how it's trustless. We need to make sure that we need to intervene to make sure other people do it. So that's kind of the general overall aspects of it. Maybe the most salient critiques of it I tried to include in there as well.
00:40:09.134 - 00:41:08.946, Speaker B: And so that should entirely decentralize any kind of trust assumptions. Right? Now, when Lido has the curated list of validators that run their validators for all of the amount of ETH that people mint Steeth with, right? They mint Steeth by putting in ETH, right. Lido has to take that. The lender is whoever's minting Steeth, right? And they have to take that and they have to give it to a curated list of validators. Lido basically hopes that they are totally good, they're not malicious or compromised, and they're correct because they do a very good job of curating it. However, the thing is, you have that specific trust assumption in that model, so that's the main difference. So Fraxe v one is like, lido, right? Now.
00:41:08.946 - 00:41:18.306, Speaker B: Fracs V two is kind of like rocket pool in the sense that it's totally decentralized and then there's just no more press assumptions.
00:41:18.418 - 00:42:20.362, Speaker C: That's the big trade off, right, is when it's completely curated, you can rely on reputations as being actually an extraordinarily valuable amount at stake, right? Reputation as like I think it was John Charboneau said, is basically equal to your future discounted cash flows, if that's your business. Right. And that scales really well when you open this up to be permissionless. I think that that's where you run into some friction on the scaling side. And I'm curious just to make sure I understand, it sounds like once we open this up, so maybe beforehand it's just the Fracs team that are running these validators, right? Full 10% commission goes to the protocol and there's no bond that's associated with the validators. And that makes sense because it's a curated set and it's not only your reputations, it's the entire protocol. Right.
00:42:20.362 - 00:42:46.078, Speaker C: You open this up and just so I understand, what is the magnitude of the bond that validators will need to post to join the set? And then is this lending rate basically the equivalent of a floating commission fee off of the staking yield? Just maybe to make sure I understand the change in the economics, it's the.
00:42:46.084 - 00:42:49.442, Speaker A: Same as the rocket pool, right? It's four E that they have to post.
00:42:49.576 - 00:44:07.654, Speaker B: So rocket pool right now, as far as I know, it's eight E. They lowered it from the original 16. And for us, in our modeling, we've seen that we were able to actually service this kind of decentralized lending market with four ETH. I think rocket pools also started saying that they think that they can do four ETH as well, which I expect them to go down into. However, just as an aside, this should be obviously set through VFXs governance and the community, because the risk is the slashing conditions, right? The risk is that usually the slashing conditions for almost everything is like one or two ETH max, because you either accidentally double sign something or like, you're behind in some way that you attest that you weren't supposed to. Right. But the way that the slashing penalties are calculated in POS is how contentious is something? And so, obviously, we haven't seen any event at all where there's like a partition of like 20 or 30% of Validators that sign something wrong and then they lose.
00:44:07.654 - 00:44:28.418, Speaker B: And then the other 50 60% sign the majority. Right. The canonical chain. And then they keep their ETH. In those situations, the slashing penalty goes up a lot. Instead of two e, it's like 4812 in crazy scenarios. I actually saw this tweet the other day.
00:44:28.418 - 00:45:17.102, Speaker B: I forget who put it out, but if, for example, the majority client, I think it's Prism right now, if I remember correctly, I actually don't even know if they're majority anymore. That means by over 51%. But if there's a client that's like around that, there's like a bug where everyone in that client double signs. They don't mean to, it's just like it's some crazy weird bug and they all double sign, so they all get slashed. But it's 51% of or like 50 something. The majority amount of the clients in the validator set that do this, they lose nearly all 32 E, which is insane. I don't think it'll happen.
00:45:17.102 - 00:46:01.294, Speaker B: Right, but in crypto risks, yeah, but there are scenarios where you can get almost all of your things flashed. So the only way to be safe in every single possible modeled out scenario that's possible in the universe is to ask for 32 ETH of collateral, which rocket pool never did. They're only at eight. Now they're thinking of four. We're thinking of starting the system with four. And so it's a trade off. It's a trade off for how capital efficient you want to be with your decentralized lending market, of your LSD market, how much capital they put up the bonds, so to speak, as Miles said.
00:46:01.294 - 00:46:10.046, Speaker B: Right. But they can definitely be insolvent in certain kind of black swan scenarios.
00:46:10.158 - 00:46:53.066, Speaker A: Sam, maybe to close, we could talk a little bit about FRAC's chain. And it was funny. One of the reasons Miles and I were really excited to chat with you is just it seems in many ways you agree with kind of the dogma, I would say, of LST providers. But you've also taken some very different design decisions as well. And you use the example of uniswap before, but uniswap, I think, is a phenomenal protocol. But I do think what they're doing is kind of like they're taking every layer of the stack, right? There's the wallet and front end that they've got. They've got their desktop front end now they've got uni wallet, and then they've got the aggregation layer.
00:46:53.066 - 00:47:24.454, Speaker A: At uniswap X, they've got the liquidity layer at four. And then there's been speculation forever about the last layer, which is settlement. I'm not sure if uniswap X makes that redundant or something, but who knows? But I think what they're doing is vertical integration, right? They're taking every single layer of the stack. Would you describe that as the strategy for fracs moving forward? Would you describe your strategy as something outside of vertical integration? And if so, where does fracs chain sort of fit into that whole strategy vision?
00:47:24.502 - 00:48:06.646, Speaker B: I think it depends on your definition of vertical or how high is it that it's horizontal, basically, in your view. Because with fracs, like I said, we're kind of stablecoin, maximalists, so we think there's a few units. If those things become ubiquitous in the digital economy. The things that we issue that are pegged to those units, like CPI, dollars, ETH, Bitcoin, right. Then we essentially are ubiquitous. We're just the Frac system is kind of everywhere, kind of like Ether, which is what Vitalik named Ethereum after. Right.
00:48:06.646 - 00:48:53.814, Speaker B: It's just it's kind of flowing everywhere. Right? And so we don't actually do anything or too much in terms of payments or trying to get payment apps or something. PayPal recently is launching their own stablecoin, which I think that's really cool, but we're never going to release like a FRAX PayPal app or something that's outside of the scope that I think matters. Because I think, again, the most important thing is that people use your unit and then everyone else will build like payment systems or they'll build like an NFT marketplace that uses your thing. That's why OpenSea uses Ethan USDC. Right. They will use it.
00:48:53.814 - 00:49:57.238, Speaker B: Right. Because everyone uses units and dollars. Right. And so if you look around, the most important prize is to become the unit or become the issuer of the unit, no matter how you call it, whether you say you're like a bridge or you're like a LSD protocol, or like a decentralized stablecoin, or like a CPI inflation resistance stablecoin or whatever, right. Uniswap actually is taking, like you're saying, an interesting approach because they're like, this is our silo, like trading high frequency trading, like mev capture or return to users, mev protection, the wallet kind of stuff, right? Like their phone app, which is really nice, actually. I like it. And then it goes to be seen if they ideologically think that settlement like UniChain or their own kind of block, like monetizing block space into their protocol is part of their vision.
00:49:57.238 - 00:50:51.402, Speaker B: I don't know, maybe if Hayden comes on here, you guys can ask him. It is part of our vision. That's obviously why we're getting ahead of stuff in launching Fraxchain. It'll have our own LSD like FRAX ETH as gas, right? And so it'll also have extensive usage when account abstraction is possible. You can pay with Fracs, the dollar peg stablecoin, or you can hold FPI to get yield and also pay for gas when that stuff is possible. Right, but we think that that's a huge part of our stack like block space, making sure that people that are using your currency also have a Turing complete ledger to also build on top of that has native issuance of your currency. It's not like a wrapped bridged version that someone else gets to issue on your block space.
00:50:51.402 - 00:51:06.234, Speaker B: Right, but that's interesting. I don't know. And actually, I'd love to know what Uniswap like the team there thinks about their own kind of do they see it as vertical, the way that you're talking about it? Or do they kind of see it as a circle or more horizontal?
00:51:06.282 - 00:51:28.854, Speaker A: I have no idea. They have multiple entities that are involved. They have the labs, and they've got the foundation. And from my understanding, those are pretty separate at this point. But I'm not speaking on behalf of Uniswap. I just want to make clear this was my own just looking at it sort of thought. But yeah, Sam, look, I appreciate the time.
00:51:28.854 - 00:51:39.674, Speaker A: I know you're a busy guy and you've been super generous. If people want to find out more about you, follow you, figure out more about sort of FRAX and get involved or whatever, what's the best way to do that?
00:51:39.712 - 00:52:07.538, Speaker B: Yeah, I'm always on Telegram and Twitter, and both Frax's Telegram and Twitter and my Telegram and Twitter are at the same mine's at Samcasmian for both, and then FRAX is at FRAX Finance for both. And so I'm always around unless I'm working or coding or on a podcast. So literally anytime, if you hop in the FRAX Telegram or hit me up.
00:52:07.544 - 00:52:12.722, Speaker C: On Twitter, what's the timing for Fracs ether V Two and FRAX Chain?
00:52:12.786 - 00:52:17.254, Speaker A: Give the listeners a little bit of alpha here, Sam. You got to drizzle out the alpha, definitely.
00:52:17.452 - 00:52:54.738, Speaker B: So for Fraxes V Two, we have the audit final audit lined up for early September, very early. So hopefully if nothing goes wrong, which usually doesn't, so that's a good thing with our releases towards the end of September maybe, or early October after the audit is done. And then for FRAX Chain, we are looking at at least a test net by the end of year for sure. And then the goal is main net by January 2024. So that's coming up very soon.
00:52:54.824 - 00:53:02.694, Speaker A: Nice. And that's just around the corner, basically. Well, congratulations and good luck on everything. And we'll have to do this again soon, of course.
00:53:02.732 - 00:53:03.654, Speaker B: Thanks for having me, guys.
00:53:03.692 - 00:53:30.446, Speaker A: All right, Miles, what an interesting mean. It was great to hear from Sam himself, and this was a really interesting episode because in many ways, I think he affirmed some of the ideas that we've been talking about all season. But I think in many respects, FRAX has a very different approach to liquid staking than many of the other protocols that we've talked to this season as well. Obviously, they started as a stable coin. So, yeah, it's just a lot to dig into in this episode, I think.
00:53:30.628 - 00:54:56.780, Speaker C: Yeah, I wouldn't view this as a project that, as you mentioned, started as a liquid staking protocol and is now expanding into other verticals. This is a project similar to Maker, right? It was a CDP protocol that produced a stablecoin they looked at kind of what their existing core competencies are, which is managing collateral and issuing something that people want to hold and can be used in lots of other DeFi protocols. And they said, that sounds a lot like liquid staking, sounds a lot similar to what we do already and is highly complementary with the other products that we want to launch, like FRAX Lend. And so instead know, I guess he made the point that they partner wherever it makes sense, wherever it grows the pie. But in this one case, I guess the bet is that they can create the most usage of a liquid staking protocol within the Fracs ecosystem if it's under their own control, right? And then they can decide exactly how to create the most utility for it. And again, we talk about training wheels a lot this season. And the training wheels initially were that you had to trust fracs the protocol to manage the validators on the other side.
00:54:56.780 - 00:55:50.478, Speaker C: And if you're already trusting FRAX the protocol to say, manage the collateral for your stablecoin, then you probably can get around with this idea of fracs the protocol, managing the validators, but that's not sustainable to make this a multibillion dollar, maybe even trillion dollar, as he said, liquid staking protocol. And so that's where Fracs V Two comes in and gets super interesting about how they can maybe make it. Open up permissionless supply side for the LST, but leverage some of their existing capabilities in terms of having a lending market and things like that to make it more scalable than, say, rocket pool. And the challenges that they've faced in scaling that permissionless supply side.
00:55:50.564 - 00:57:16.850, Speaker A: Yeah, well, I think one of the most interesting insights of that podcast was sort of where we started about the back end and the operational sort of competencies that are needed to manage a stablecoin are very similar to managing liquid staking token. And maybe to connect that insight into a trend that's happening across the rest of DeFi, that many of these protocols are converging on the same sets of offerings. So I wonder if many protocol operators out there had a very similar realization to Sam that we made this analogy to Prime Brokerage in 2019 before where everyone starts from a different part of the stack and maker started from the stablecoin part of the stack, ave started from the borrow, lend part of the stack. And probably at some point all of them woke up and said, you know what, really what I'm doing is managing assets and liabilities here for Maker, that is liabilities in the form of dai and assets in the form of whatever gets deposited in Maker. For Ave that is you're matching up borrowers and lenders and then you're taking on the liability of defaults and Ave is the equity cushion essentially. But it's a very similar skill set and I think Sam probably cottoned onto that long before many others in the space ultimately did. And that's probably why you're starting to see many of these different product lines converge.
00:57:16.850 - 00:57:45.042, Speaker A: I think an open question for me is how they are complementary to one another and I think that has still to play out. That said, I think Sam painted a very clear vision of wanting to be the issuer of many different assets that people want to hold and finding a way to balance sheet manage the risk on the back end of that, but in the sort of curve versus maker versus ave go wars. I am yet undecided on that.
00:57:45.096 - 00:58:28.160, Speaker C: Yeah, no, it is funny. I think you're right between both protocols that facilitate borrow and lending CDP protocols, and I would say like liquid staking protocols and bridges, as you mentioned. Right. A lot of this is inventory management and I think it's trying to weigh the trade offs against saying, okay, this is a core competency. Here's how launching this synergistic product could actually make the other products better. The sort of concept of cross selling is not new. Right.
00:58:28.160 - 00:59:47.062, Speaker C: And the benefits of control that you get with that to actually execute on it are significant. But again, I think we tried to tease this out. On the surface, it seems to fly in the face of, hey, here's what protocols do really well, which is being super dumb and unappinionated and minimizing the amount of subjective human making. Right? That's kind of like, I would say, the consensus way to build a protocol that will last for decades or hundreds of years. And yeah, I think that we're going to see this a lot going forward as some of these winners start to emerge and look at other adjacent areas and see core competencies. We've talked about Lido and restaking as one that could be, just from an outsider's perspective, an obvious synergy, but weighing those trade offs against increasing the bloat and scope of governance will be super interesting. But I think it's a bold bet to manage all of this under the purview of one governance and I think that they're making that bet.
00:59:47.062 - 00:59:56.550, Speaker C: So it's interesting to hear maybe what would seem to be a little bit more of a contrarian perspective versus a lot of the folks that we've talked to this season.
00:59:56.630 - 01:01:02.030, Speaker A: I think that's a fair thing to say. I think one of the other points that you made was Sam probably did figure out there's maybe an operational model of fully in sourced LSTs versus completely outsourced partnering. And then a middle ground done in the form of anchor, which looks more like a whitelisted sort of model, where you have a protocol like lido or rocket pool operating the backend validator set, but then it's branded as the Anchor protocol or whatever. And if I had to guess, I bet you FRAX will not be the first protocol to, first of all understand that the core competencies that makes a DeFi protocol successful today are much more widespread and apply across many different product sets. And we'll probably want to control a little bit more of the risk around liquid staking delegating to validators that you don't trust. I mean, Miles, what's the best way to mitigate the principal agent problem? You make them the like. That's not I feel like that's not going to be just fracs that takes that approach.
01:01:02.030 - 01:02:00.994, Speaker A: The other interesting point I thought I was finding myself thinking that the FRAX lend part of that business looks a little bit like it's similar to the concept of protocol and liquidity in a sense, because one of the things that you have to do as an issuer of something that you want to be as liquid and fungible as a money is. You need to be liquid. And a great way to do that is Sam said this in his own words to control your own destiny. So instead of hoping know ave adopts Steeth, which is really what helped propel lido into the stratosphere, I think you could have your own borrow end protocol and control your destiny a little bit more. Even having staked FRAX ETH as a gas token on the chain, on FRAX chain, that would also be a source of demand. So you kind of got demand and liquidity there and I don't know, it came to me after the interview so we didn't get a chance to ask Sam if that's the correct mindset. But that was something I was thinking about.
01:02:01.032 - 01:03:50.120, Speaker C: No, I think that's totally like at Reverie, we work very closely with Osbosis and I think that a lot of these themes are similar to sort of the cosmos mindset. Maybe not in the sense of hey, let's do one thing, like one app and do it amazing, but hey, let's really leverage governance and we'll take as much control as possible, right? And with Osmosis, we have things like superfluid staking, which is a type of liquid staking in a sense almost reverse liquid staking that helps the protocol. And I think that that's things that you can do really when you have a diversified product set and also control the block space is super interesting. That's where it seems like they're going here with FRAC's chain. Of course, the main difference being that the liquid staking component is not their own chain, it's actually the base layer and they're making a bet on that as an asset that people want to hold. But yeah, I think that this is as close to a full vertical and horizontal integration like basically a DeFi chain that you will see on ETH for a little while and it's again like a bold swing and it will be super interesting just to see how those trade offs actually play out. Maybe if the trade offs, the downsides are not as apparent as people think that they're going to be, we'll see more of this, right? Like I could totally see synthetics moving to its own DeFi chain or something like that.
01:03:50.120 - 01:04:00.346, Speaker C: But yeah, a very different approach than everybody else that we've spoken to and I think that's why we wanted to have them on.
01:04:00.448 - 01:04:31.314, Speaker A: I would imagine that many of these like synthetics, I guess I'm going to blank on the name, is it Vertex? Whatever their sort of aggregator, their aggregated liquidity layer is maybe negate. That is the one thing. Let me see. Do you view. It this way. In a sense, these aggregation layers, which end up doing a lot of things off chain, might dampen the value proposition of having your own app chain. In a sense.
01:04:31.432 - 01:05:25.266, Speaker C: Yeah, I think they do. I think that's right. It's chain abstraction. It's chain abstraction versus aggregating everything to your chain, right. And making your chain kind of the center of activity. And I think that both are going for this general play of aggregation because both understand the challenges of UX today. But are you going to deal with that complexity off chain and maybe even at the wallet level, or are you going to basically vertically integrate to have the amount of control you need to abstract all that complexity? Even outside of liquid staking, that's like a broader trend that we see especially straddling both sides between ethereum and cosmos.
01:05:25.418 - 01:05:41.460, Speaker A: I mean, by the way, whenever we say, how is this going to play out? People tend to put these things in very binary terms, right? The answer could be both. And there's room for multiple models, so it's tough to say. All right, buddy, this was a fun one. I will see you see your same time this week, my friend.
