00:00:00.200 - 00:00:39.782, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Datagrade refuel, where we capture the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan Denise, designer, and today's the 9 February 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So a bit of regulatory news over the last 24 hours. So it was announced here, while I guess Brian Armstrong put out a tweet thread here where he starts off by saying, we're hearing rumors that the SEC would like to get rid of crypto staking in the US for retail customers. I hope that's not the case as I believe it would be a terrible path for the US if that was allowed to happen. And on top of this as well, the DB account here on Twitter said that staking made up 11% of Coinbase's revenue in Q three of 2022.
00:00:39.782 - 00:01:29.880, Speaker A: So obviously Coinbase has a big vested interest in staking. Not going away, right, just in of themselves, not just eat staking, but all of the chains that they support there, because it is a huge revenue driver for them and it is something that doesn't rely on exchange trading fees, which is what the majority of Coinbase is a revenue right now relies on. So obviously it's a great little, little business for them. But I want to talk more broadly about what this actually means and what I guess, like the SEC may be trying to do here. Now, obviously I'm not a legal expert, and I've talked about this a bunch in the past. I don't think that this, what the SEC is doing here is trying to get ETH and these other tokens labeled as securities. What they're trying to do is get the products offered by these centralized institutions like Coinbase, the staking products they offer, and label those things as securities.
00:01:29.880 - 00:02:30.790, Speaker A: And to be fair, and to be totally fair with respect to the, the law, or I guess some interpretations of the, of the law, the how he test those products can be considered a security like ETH. The asset isn't a security. And ethios, it doesn't have to be a security for the products offered by these institutions to be considered securities because they are products that may, you know, use ETH as the underlying asset or an underlying part of that product, but the product itself is the security, not the, you know, the parts of that product, if that makes sense. So from that lens, definitely, you know, I sympathize with that view. But at the same time, it doesn't really make any sense because staking through a centralized exchange is a very low risk thing to do, really the only risk that you're taking for, I guess, like most of the networks, or pretty much all the networks, is custody risk, where you're basically handing over custody of your funds to this exchange to stake on your behalf. But people already keep their funds on exchanges anyway. So the.
00:02:30.790 - 00:02:48.318, Speaker A: The extra risk that they're taking on is very minimal. In Ethereum's case, they're taking on potential slashing and offline risk. Right. But for that to happen with something like Coinbase, it would be. I guess it would be for quite something to happen with. With Coinbase, with like a slashing event, for example. It would be a very rare event.
00:02:48.318 - 00:03:04.274, Speaker A: You know, Coinbase is really great at infrastructure. They've been doing this for a very long time. So for something like that to happen would be a rare event. Going offline doesn't really penalize you that much at all. And I'm sure Coinbase has the funds to cover any of these scenarios to a point. Right. So to cover that for their customers here.
00:03:04.274 - 00:03:42.860, Speaker A: So by putting their funds into staking, if their funds are already on centralized exchanges, the extra risk that they're taking is very, very minimal here. Whereas the SEC and other regulatory bodies, what they're meant to do is to protect investors. Right? That's their mandate. So by going after these staking products, they're not really protecting anyone. Because as I just explained to you, the risk that these people are taking to stake with. With Coinbase or whatever other centralized us based institution is very marginal compared to the risk that they're already taken by having these exchanges custody of their funds. But on top of that, Coinbase and Kraken and other us based exchanges are already regulated to the fullest extent of the law.
00:03:42.860 - 00:04:23.884, Speaker A: And as I've said before, they are regulated more harshly than banks at this point, then bank than traditional banks at this point. So what exactly is the SEC doing here? Well, the SEC is following in their long pattern of just being very hostile towards crypto. And there is a larger issue at hand as well. Nick Carter put out a post, I don't have it handy. He did a guest post on someone's substack about how the Biden administration has been tightening the noose around crypto, generally from all fronts. Right. Not legislatively, like not creating new laws around it, but essentially doing enforcement through these different agencies and basically having chilling effects on the industry.
00:04:23.884 - 00:04:52.224, Speaker A: Right, chilling effect with tornado cash, for example. That's one of the most extreme examples with. With OFAC sanctioning tornado cash. But other examples include going after the banks that service these crypto exchanges and basically scaring them into not wanting to service these exchanges anymore. They're not basically telling them they can't do it, they're not banning them, they're not writing laws. But what they are doing is that they're essentially scaring the banks into compliance, essentially, which is a really shitty thing that happens with, with governments and nation states. And it doesn't just happen in the US, obviously, it happens everywhere.
00:04:52.224 - 00:05:30.408, Speaker A: But that is what's happening here. And Nick Carter does a great job of explaining this. You can go to his Twitter profile and check it. Nick's normally a bitcoiner, but I think what he wrote applies to all of crypto, doesn't just apply to bitcoin, obviously, here. And what the SEC is doing by going after staking products in the US for retail customers, that's, that, that's actually the key term here, fits in with that. Now, on that key term being retail customers, this means that what they're trying to do, basically is lock this product into just institutions and corporates being able to do this because they have much more visibility over institutions and corporates. They do over individuals.
00:05:30.408 - 00:06:13.296, Speaker A: And obviously, if you buy into, I wouldn't call them conspiracy theories, but if you buy into the theories that generally the, you know, nation states and the ruling class don't want the wealth to be transferred from the quote unquote plebs, you know, from, sorry, from the ruling class to the quote unquote plebs to increase their standing in society, well, that falls in that as well. So unfortunately, this is just what we're going to have to deal with. You know, crypto was obviously founded on being anti government, anti nation state. Like. As I've explained before, Ethereum is definitely not like anti nation state, anti government, but Ethereum allows people to route around governments, allows you to do regulatory arbitrage. That is its main use case. I mean, Ethereum is a censorship resistant blockchain.
00:06:13.296 - 00:06:49.760, Speaker A: Even with OFAC sanctioning tornado cash, it hasn't stopped people from being able to use tornado cash because the Ethereum network is censorship resistant. So from that lens, you can understand why these, these regulatory bodies are doing this, and you can also understand why they're doing it from so aggressively, is because it works. Works. Scaring people into compliance works. There's no need for them to go through the pesky and time and very time consuming process of getting things legislated and getting things written into law. All they have to do is use their existing power and keep kind of gaining more and more power through a creep of sorts. And who's going to stop them? Right there? Unelected bureaucrats.
00:06:49.760 - 00:07:30.666, Speaker A: At the end of the day, they don't have to answer to anyone except. Except, I guess, like the, uh, the elected politicians. But they've got so much other things to worry about, and a lot of the time, it's very rare for them to fire the people that they appointed themselves because it looks bad on them. Like, for example, if, I believe Biden did appoint Gensler to the sec as chair, if he was to fire Gensler, which I'm not sure if he can actually do that in, in so much of, in so much of that sense, but if he was to do that, it would obviously reflect badly on him. It would cause him to lose some sort of support and lose political points. So again, it all comes down to politics now there. So when you look at it from, from that point of view, these people being unelected is really bad.
00:07:30.666 - 00:08:10.362, Speaker A: And I've always thought this is really bad. The fact that these unelected bureaucrats have so much power to. To set policy and to use that policy to scare different entities into compliance, which is obviously very damaging to the crypto space because crypto space doesn't want to lose its banking license, doesn't want to fall afoul of the law because the penalties are quite high, especially for things like the OFAC sanctions and stuff like that. But, but, yeah, anyway, I'm going to leave that at that one there because, as I said before, I'm not an expert on any of this stuff. This is just my general read. I'm taking in as many inputs as I can around this to understand it better. But I did want to get through the main point here was that the, you know, sse isn't going after ETH specifically here.
00:08:10.362 - 00:08:46.664, Speaker A: They aren't going after Ethereum staking specifically. They're going after all staking, but they're specifically going after staking products and trying to basically say that those things are securities, not necessarily saying that the underlying assets are securities. Now, of course, they have alluded to that, or at least Gary Gensler has alluded to that in the past of basically saying that he thinks that everything except bitcoin is a security. But that's a whole nother topic, and that doesn't really fit into this. I think that they're two distinct and separate things here. But, yeah, hopefully that gives you a bit of a summary of what's been going on there. I will definitely keep on top of this and update you guys as more updates come out.
00:08:46.664 - 00:09:36.784, Speaker A: Oh, and actually, finally here, before I move on from that stuff, Paul, who is the chief legal officer at Coinbase, also put a tweet out where he, quote, tweeted Brian's thread and said, staking is not a security validators form no horizontal community or commonality. There's no vertical commonality either. Validators don't expect rewards from significant managerial efforts of other validators. They expect spect rewards primarily from their own efforts and funds. So he's basically arguing that even the staking products that these, that these institutions offer, such as Coinbase, aren't security either. Doesn't make sense for staking to be considered a security. Now I did mention before that the argument could be made that some of these products are, and it really depends on a case by case basis and what these products look like and what kind of mechanisms they use under the hood, because there are some products that are just, hey, you know, we'll take in your assets, we'll stake them on your behalf, and then we'll pay out the rewards and take our own fee.
00:09:36.784 - 00:10:32.880, Speaker A: But then there are other schemes where different things can go on, like the assets get staked and then the LSD's get kind of like Lent out here or there's something else that gets done here and then the yield that is promised is more because of that and then that starts looking, you know, more like a security than then, then just kind of vanilla staking here. So it's definitely on a case by case basis. But I do agree with Paul here that just vanilla staking products that these exchanges offer definitely don't look like securities, at least in the Howie test terminology there. All right, Peter from the Geth team, he has announced today that they've merged into Geths master branch, a new database backend which is called pebble from Cockroach database. So while Peter, Peter says here, whilst we don't expect improvements, improvements, it's an active project versus go level DB, which became problematic from a maintenance perspective. You can try it yourself if you're running get with this, this kind of flag here. Dash dash db dot engine equals pebble, but it will require a fresh data directory.
00:10:32.880 - 00:11:05.504, Speaker A: Otherwise, if a level divi database exists, revert to using that. Take it for a spin and tell us if you see any errors. Just a pretty big update there to Geth today. But as Peter says, they don't expect any performance improvements right now. But this is the database architecture that they definitely want to move towards going forward for Geth all right, just wanted to give a shout out to a call that's happening between 8th staker and Eigen and the Eigen Lair team on February 9 at 10:45 a.m.. CST, which is 04:45 p.m.. UTC.
00:11:05.504 - 00:11:44.960, Speaker A: Eigen layer as Superfood says here, Eigen layer is a really interesting concept that he's excited to learn more about. You can watch the call live on the YouTube, live stream on the Eatstegger YouTube channel, which of course, I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to set a reminder. The reason I bring this up and the reason I give a shout out here is because a lot of you are still asking about Eigen layer. A lot of you are still asking about, you know, how, how you'll be able to be part of the Eigen layer network, how it works, you know, what, what's the potential risks with it all? That's those sorts of questions. Well, hopefully they'll be answered as part of this call, which you can go check out. As I said, it'll be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, so a bit of a discussion around ultrasound money again today.
00:11:44.960 - 00:12:22.438, Speaker A: So I put a tweet out earlier today or yesterday where I said the ethereum network has been above the ultrasound barrier for almost every hour of the last seven days. This means that ETH has been net deflationary for that entire time, and it's still a bear market. This is ultrasound money. Now you can see the screenshot I've taken here off the ultrasound money website that basically shows the ultrasound barrier at 16.7 gray and all the orange above the line is basically when more ETH is being burned than is being issued. And the little bits of blue that you can see is when more ETH is being issued than is being burned. So I've talked about this a lot recently and how we've basically been above the ultrasound barrier with sustainable demand.
00:12:22.438 - 00:13:10.642, Speaker A: Well, it seems that we're like so far above the ultrasound barrier now that we haven't actually gone into inflationary territory very much over the last seven days at least. And if we kind of look at, look at that on the ultrasound money website and look at the last seven days again, you can see that as the new days come in, the older days are getting pushed out and this blue is basically getting pushed out as well. So if the current trend continues with gas prices in the next few days time, we'll have a full week of net deflationary ETH, which is just insane, right? And what's really cool about this is you can actually see that it comes in waves. You can actually see that obviously people, you know, sleep. And I think the Ethereum gas market is definitely dominated very heavily by the US time zone. And the time zone here is done in UTC time. So you can see that there are peaks during the day.
00:13:10.642 - 00:13:27.946, Speaker A: And then if we look at the timing here, you can see that the quiet period starts at around what, 11:00 a.m. UTC time and then continues to around, I guess like midnight. Midnight or 01:00 a.m. So quite a. I guess like a longer period of a quiet time. It depends where you take it from, right? I mean, if you take it from. From here, it's about 01:00 p.m.
00:13:27.946 - 00:13:51.854, Speaker A: UTC until what? 01:00 a.m. So about, you know, not even about 12 hours of quiet time here. And then it spikes back up. So there are quiet periods, there are spiky spike periods. So that obviously, definitely coincides with waking hours for most of the world here, which is a positive development. I think it means that this activity is actually real. It's not just driven by bots, because obviously bots don't need to sleep.
00:13:51.854 - 00:14:27.182, Speaker A: There's a lot of activity driven by bots. But you know, if there is these kind of trends here on when people are actually awake, it shows that the activity is more than just bots. The activity is actually people interacting with the chain and doing many different things on the chain, which is obviously very, very cool to see here. Now, if we go and sort by the last 30 days, we can see that it's the same kind of pattern here of, of these peaks and trows. I mean, it's basically been the same pattern for a little while. Hasn't always been like this, by the way, but it's kind of hard to see on the longer timeframes. But definitely you can see over the last seven days it very clearly and over the last 30 days as well here.
00:14:27.182 - 00:15:01.184, Speaker A: But yeah, I just wanted to mention that because I've seen a lot of people talking about this lately and it's definitely something to keep an eye on. The cool thing is that we are, you know, we have been in net deflationary territory for, I guess, what, since January 16, which is, I guess, over three weeks now, we've been in net deflationary territory and we have negative 14,000 ETH. Now, the really cool thing since the merge, I should say. Now, the really cool thing here is that if you go and take the simulate proof of work toggle here. We would have issued a net 1.7 million ethics. So this is including the burn since the merge.
00:15:01.184 - 00:15:31.378, Speaker A: We would have issued 1.7 million ETH since the merge if we hadn't merged. Whereas now we are basically a more than 100% reduction here because we have only, we have not issued any. We've actually burned more, about 14,000 more ETH than has been issued since the merge, which is obviously very, very exciting. Now, will this continue into the future? I don't know. I mean, I suspect it will, considering, as I said, it is currently a bear market. So what happens when demand really starts coming back in and a bull market starts, starts happening or something like that.
00:15:31.378 - 00:15:45.614, Speaker A: Right. And as I've said before, this is actually a sustainable demand now. This isn't just Ponzi's anymore. Like, you go the last seven days and look at the burn leaderboard. All of these things are sustainable. It's uniswap, it's opensees, ETH transfers. It's stable coins, it's metamask swap.
00:15:45.614 - 00:15:57.500, Speaker A: It's. It's NFT marketplaces. Right? It's. It's L2s. So people can't just say, oh, well, this is just a flash in the pan thing. It's just a ponzi or it's just an NFT mint. That was true in the past for a lot of different days.
00:15:57.500 - 00:16:24.324, Speaker A: But over the last seven days, over the last 30 days, it's been very sustainable demand in, you know, in, on the ethereum network here and in USD, you can see how much we're burning. I mean, it's kind of crazy when you look at the last 30 days, opensea alone has burned $9 million worth of ETH, which translates to 5700 ETH. And they're the number one gas guzzler. And then they're. I think they're. Yeah, they're only second behind ETH transfers for all time. ETH burned as well, which is, which is pretty crazy.
00:16:24.324 - 00:16:59.254, Speaker A: But. But essentially, you can see that the leaderboard is looking very sustainable right now. So really, really great to see this. I think it fits in with a lot of the thesis that, or thesis that people had when it came to post merge burning, and it comes to kind of gauging the demand here versus the price of ETH. And obviously, it hasn't been reflected in the price just yet. I think that it's kind of hard to say when or when it's not reflected in the price because some people will say, well, until ETH is back at all time high, then it doesn't really matter. Or, you know, ETH hasn't actually been, you know, doing much lately.
00:16:59.254 - 00:17:29.840, Speaker A: It's only up, what, two x from its bottom there, but it's still below two k. And although, you know, people just come up with random numbers, but as I've said for a little while, and as I've maintained for a little while, I think the biggest story of its performance is not against USD. It's in this bear market is not against USD, it's against other assets, especially BTC. Go look at the ETH BTC chart. It is pretty much flat on, on, you know, for this whole bear market still. And, and when, when demand really comes back, I expect the ETH BTC ratio to rocket up. I really, really do.
00:17:29.840 - 00:18:11.120, Speaker A: I think that for a number of different reasons, but I'm not going to detail them now because I have detailed them in the past, and if I don't continue on from here, I'm going to run out of time for today's episode. So moving on from that onto the next update, which comes out of flux finance. So this was basically them announcing that they are now live. So what flux is doing is that they're bringing us treasury yields on chain to permissionless lenders everywhere, creating the substrate upon which a new on chain economy can form. So essentially what they're doing is bringing more of these kind of real world assets, like products, into the ethereum ecosystem here, which I've talked about before. And obviously, real world assets are just becoming bigger and bigger as time goes on. And I've discussed all the reasons before about why I think that's happening.
00:18:11.120 - 00:18:44.624, Speaker A: But basically what flux allows you to do is essentially leveling the playing field here for investors. So any investor with any check size anywhere in the world can now access yield from us treasuries. This yield comes in the form of a stablecoin loan against OUSG, a form of tokenized us treasuries from Ondo finance. So, as I said, real world assets coming on chain here. Lenders can earn interest on their stable coins by supplying them to flux. Those stable coins can only be borrowed by users who post OUSG as collateral to flux. Supply and borrow rates are algorithmically determined based on supply and demand, similar to compound.
00:18:44.624 - 00:19:21.860, Speaker A: So, you know, this obviously answers where the yield comes from here. For you guys, it's coming from the official US treasury bond yield here, because I know everyone's going to ask that, you know, where's the yield coming from? That seems to be everyone's favorite question whenever the word yield is uttered these days. But it's pretty transparent about where this is coming from. Now, what are the risks? Well, of course there are custody risks here. Of course there are risks with something happening with the, the Treasurys that Ondo finance has tokenized because it is just an IOU. It's definitely not a digitally native thing, but still, I mean, generally, if you're going to get access to Us treasuries anyway, you'd be going through a custodial service. So the risk is basically the same.
00:19:21.860 - 00:20:03.018, Speaker A: The benefits are vast here. It means that you can basically do this on chain without having to go through the traditional system, which, as you guys know, is very inefficient and very slow compared to crypto. So I think this is a great little thing that flux Finance has been able to bring on chain here in partnership with Ondo. But if you want to learn more about that, I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, a big announcement out of the maker ecosystem today. So Sam McPherson from the protocol engineering team at maker announced the launch of something called Spark Protocol today, which is a growth focused arm of maker. So the first product is as part of Spark protocol is Spark lend, which builds upon Aave V three to bring the best lending market features to maker.
00:20:03.018 - 00:20:33.668, Speaker A: So spark lens advantage over Aaver is a credit line from maker called a DAI direct deposit module, or D three m, which I've spoken about on the refill before. Mecca does not need to pay liquidity providers, so users will be able to borrow any amount of DAi at the DAI savings rate, which is currently 1%. And this is by far the best rate in DeFi. That is actually a crazy rate to be borrowing DAi at, I mean, 1% when rates are generally quite high. And, and this is the borrow stable. You know, borrow a stable coin against. That's, that's a really good rate there.
00:20:33.668 - 00:21:23.562, Speaker A: And then Sam goes on to say, pending approval from maker governance, Sparkland will launch in April with an initial debt ceiling of 200 million Dai. And then he goes on to say a missing piece of DeFi is fixed rates that work in a capital efficient way. So Spark protocol is actually going to achieve this by partnering with fixed rate, fixed rate protocols such as element finance and sense protocol to offer market driven fixed borrower rates at scale. So this is really cool. I talked about how element finance launched their hyperdrive thing yesterday. Well, essentially, Sam is hoping that an integration with the hyperdrive architecture that element finance built for Sparkland will allow borrowers to take a three to six to twelve month term without needing to attach to, sorry, to attach an arbitrary maturity date to it. So basically getting a fixed rate, potentially a fixed 1% rate there on their dai borrower.
00:21:23.562 - 00:21:51.038, Speaker A: And there's a graphic here explaining how this could potentially happen as well. I mean, a bunch of different graphics explaining how this can happen, and a detailed Twitter thread from Sam McPherson here. So you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But great to see maker making some innovative moves here. They definitely are the slower moving defi protocol, but they're still kicking, they're still out there, they're still growing, and they're still doing a lot of interesting things. All right, so I should have talked about this at the start of the refuel.
00:21:51.038 - 00:22:55.534, Speaker A: Actually, I should have talked about this yesterday, but Tim Bico published a blog post about the interoperability, I guess events that happened with all the core developers on top of a mountain in Austria. So this is a week long event with core developers from all over the world coming together and all the different teams coming together to discuss all the things. All things protocol development, basically. So obviously the major things they discussed were the Chappella upgrade or the Shanghai capella upgrade for withdrawals, proto Dank sharding, the EOF update and everything else from verkle trees to SS SSD encoding and more. So if you want a quick recap of exactly what was discussed and a bit more details about that, you can check out the blog post that Tim put together here. But you know, generally this was just really great to see that the teams and all the individuals were able to get together here to talk about the next big part of Ethereum's future. Obviously, with the merge behind them, there is now a focus on all these other things on the Ethereum roadmap, and there is a, there is a strong focus on getting these things done much faster than we've done things in the Ethereum ecosystem in the past.
00:22:55.534 - 00:23:32.490, Speaker A: Because obviously, as you guys know, a lot of things in the Ethereum ecosystem have taken a long time to get to Mainnet, especially proof of stake. And I think that all the core developers want to avoid making, you know, avoid having things take that long to get to mainnet again. So kudos to them for doing this, and I hope they had time in Austria here. All right, so a new Seismo ETH badge is now available for ZK developers and contributors. You can showcase your contribution to the bright future of zero knowledge by claiming your badge here. And this thread from 21 40 explains exactly what this is. I just wanted to shout this out here that you can.
00:23:32.490 - 00:24:13.098, Speaker A: That you can essentially claim this badge. I'm not sure what the exact requirements are, but I think that here he's the requirements. So basically, contributors to ZK development on GitHub, maintainers of ZK information portals and dedicated users of ZK products eligible to claim this badge. The badge supports GitHub, Twitter and wallet based eligibility criteria. So yeah, if you think that you are eligible for that, you can definitely go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, Brendan from the Polygon, one of the Polygon ZK team teams here put out a tweet thread where he said a year ago, Polygon was seen as a stopgap, an EVM side chain that served an immediate need before we all transitioned to l two.
00:24:13.098 - 00:24:43.026, Speaker A: And I've talked about this a bunch on the refill before. I mean, I've talked about this for a very long time, about how the Polygon PoS chain definitely is a stopgap solution until these ekvms come online. And then Brendan continues by saying today Polygon has the fastest ZK tech and the first production ready ZK Evm how. And then he says, with a thread on feedback loops and specialization. So it's a short thread here explaining how this has come to be. So I definitely recommend checking it out and giving it a read. But it has definitely impressed me the pace at which Polygon has achieved this.
00:24:43.026 - 00:25:40.312, Speaker A: Now, you guys know I'm an advisor to Polygon, have been for quite a while, so just wanted to disclose that there. But the pace at which the ZKVM's not just from Polygon, obviously, but from the other teams as well, has come together, has been staggering. I mean, as has been said plenty of times before, many people thought in 2021 that DK vms were at least, at least three years away. Well, I mean, they're not. Within a couple of years, we've gotten to the point where they're basically going to be production ready live on Mainnet, you know, this year, um, whereas before it was thought that at least it would take three years, with more realistic target of five years. So 2026 ish, which is definitely not the case here. I think this definitely speaks to the builder culture and the innovation culture within all of these L2 teams, obviously, the ZK team specifically, but the other L2 teams that don't do z, don't specifically focus on zkvms, such as optimum optimism, have also been working on this front and doing a lot of improvements to their core architecture to support this stuff as well.
00:25:40.312 - 00:26:16.806, Speaker A: And obviously things are happening at layer one to support this too. But yeah, I mean, this is the fruits of all that money that Polygon invested in ZK tech, really. I mean, and it's not just Polygon that's going to benefit from this, it's all of the community that's going to benefit from this. It's all of the ZK ecosystem that's going to benefit from all that money that's been spent hundreds of millions of dollars, I mean, over $500 million, I believe up to a billion dollars probably at this point, of money that was spent acquiring and funding VCK research, which is going to pay dividends for decades to come, I believe, here. So anyway, you can go give Brendan's three thread a read if you like. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so a bit of.
00:26:16.806 - 00:26:40.424, Speaker A: I don't know if I'd call it drama, but a bit of talk of the town of the last day was that etherscan changed their user interface. And I said here, you know, I like the new interface, but. And the only reason you don't like it is because it's different. Don't at me. I think generally with interfaces that you're used to, when it changes even slightly, it can throw you off. Right. And because you're so used to, you know, the previous interface, you can, you can just automatically think that the new one is bad.
00:26:40.424 - 00:26:56.456, Speaker A: But I don't think it is. I think the new one's actually really cool. And I've got it up here. If you haven't been on either scan website since the update was made, you can go check it out for yourself. But I've got it up here. So basically, I mean, you can see it better in light mode. So if I switch to light mode here, you can see that it's become a lot more, I guess, bubbly of an interface, right.
00:26:56.456 - 00:27:37.768, Speaker A: It's become a lot more modernized than it has been in the past. And there are a few different things depending on which section you go to here, but there's not actually that much of a difference. And that's why I said that people seem to really only dislike it because it's a change, right? It's something that's changed on them and they didn't expect the change to come. Now, if you click into the usual things, you'll click into like blocks and transaction ids and things like that. It all looks very similar, right? Like latest transactions you can see here all looks very, very similar. It's just a lot more bubbly, a lot more modernized. And then if you go to a specific address, for example, the there is a bit of white space that's wasted up here where you can see that you know the additional info is wasted unless you've actually added a private name tag and other info as well.
00:27:37.768 - 00:28:10.676, Speaker A: I think that's a valid criticism of it, but generally I thought it was a really great update, so just wanted to highlight that and explain some rationale there. I actually use either scan in light mode most of the time. That may seem crazy to people because I think the dark mode is actually a bit too dark and I can't really get used to it. So but they have both options anyway, light or dark, whatever your preference is. And obviously you can change between different test nets as well on on either side scan too, as you normally could with the top right option here. But anyway, I'm going to leave it at that for today, so thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:28:10.676 - 00:28:15.924, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
