00:00:00.800 - 00:00:58.737, Speaker A: We're seeing an increasing number of. First, if I go from gaming, right, we see an increased number of games who have gone to try things and other platforms who have been promised scale is going to come in years time or scale is here now and as soon as it gets a taste or hint of success, the gases go through the roof and the game is no longer workable. We've been able to show them and they've been able to demonstrate on SUI that it's a platform of choice and once they start building whatever happens in a chain, the chain can handle the throughput and needs that they have. So naturalistically, the platform is seeing product market fit because it can do things other platforms can't do. And if I go to Defi, for example, we had Bluefin, who was previously an Arbitrum and started out of their own volition to build on Sui and realized that traders were 20 times more profitable trading on SUI than they were on Arbitrum. Less fees, faster finality, opportunities to do more arbitrage, ultimately to better platform as a whole. So I think PMF is what's causing this growth.
00:00:58.737 - 00:01:28.341, Speaker A: And of course we're not going to ignore the fact that we're seeing a growth and frenzy and people creating memes and things like that as well. Again, for me, I don't think it's a first use case. You want to onboard the masses too, but it's also part of a culture and that's happening on SUI as well. Without what you're seeing in. I mean, you have safer tools to make sure that you're not falling into scams. You have the ability to trade and not be front running, buy med bots continuously. You have the ability to use aggregators that allows you to execute trades at the best price possible.
00:01:28.341 - 00:01:53.441, Speaker A: That is very hard to do in other ecosystems. You can do that in a fully permissionless way. So I think a lot of value in the sw, the fact that you can always trade and your trade will work right, you can always gain access to the network, it's not going to go down. You can build a community. That's natural. We did not do an airdrop like other ecosystems did because we felt it's going to attract the lowest common denominator of users. And I feel our ecosystem, it's been better for.
00:01:53.441 - 00:02:30.105, Speaker A: If you benchmark SUI against any other ecosystem that launched in the same timeframe, SUI is monumentally ahead in every single metric in that sense. So that was the right decision and now we're seeing a really organic growth in this ecosystem. In addition to all the things I've mentioned as well. And even before having native usdc, swe's TVL volume and everything was way higher than majority of chains have been here for the last three to four years. And now with USDC being live, I think we're going to see a rapid growth in the defi liquidity and ecosystem. So very, very proud of that. We have three native stablecoin, usdc, Agora, USD and fdusd.
00:02:30.105 - 00:02:50.485, Speaker A: And we think that's going to keep growing in the space. So very, very proud that we're attracting some of the best partners, some of the best builders in the space. It's really an adoption thing. Developers try sui, it's hard for them to go back to other ecosystems. Consumers try using SUI and realize it just works. And they find also they're met with a very friendly non toxic ecosystem, which I think all those things really matter.
