00:00:10.170 - 00:00:42.454, Speaker A: Backstory on us, really, for, for those that do not know. So Linkpool was founded in 2017. You know, really just sort of after chain link came on the space, like, to sort of see ourselves as like the OGs within the space, really. You know, we've been doing this a long time. We was one of the first three node operators on main net. So back in the day in 2019, when ChainLink launched, it was one of the first ones. We're proud to say as well, we are one of the largest node operators, and we serve pretty much every main net that there is on the chain link network.
00:00:42.454 - 00:01:18.486, Speaker A: Are not happy to sort of scale as Chainlink does. We're really well positioned to sort of build on that and help Chainlink grow as a network over the years. We're not just an order operator, but we're a platform developer as well. So it's three foundational community tools that we've been building over the years. The market, which is, we sort of see it as like a bi platform, like business intelligence, great for analytics for us, it's good for sort of seeing future trends and sort of where things are going within the network. NAS, which is a nice infrastructure place. So, like two click deploys of Chainlink nodes for us.
00:01:18.486 - 00:02:35.914, Speaker A: It's great to see that sort of develop. And even though we don't really actively advertise it, it sees great usage. And it's a fundamental tool for people, hackathons, and sort of developers getting on board with Chainlink who don't really have the DevOps experience and the sort of up and coming platform, sort of highly anticipated, but obviously something that we've been working on for a long time, the staking platform. But it's important to stress that everything that we're doing within the ethos of the Chainlink network, we have our vision, and we're an independent platform developer on the Chainlink network. So for an economy of scale and the way we think about Chainlink, and if you think about Sergey's presentation yesterday in the first day, and also the value and the industries that are going to be revolutionized by Chainlink in the future, it's like how we best position ourselves to help that and lower the barrier of entra. One of the first things that we sort of talked about back when we first started is lowering the barrier of entra and sort of helping the adoption of the chainlink network as a whole. So for us, if you think about the core premise, like Chainlink Labs as a whole, it sort of builds the foundation, right? And the protocol the core services and the product within any network.
00:02:35.914 - 00:03:38.802, Speaker A: Like if you think about any blockchain network, you need a community of developers and builders on top of that to really help the network grow and to scale. And so we see ourselves being a big part of that. And that cycle is what creates a positive feedback loop. You see more people getting involved, creating more tools and services, it helps adoption, it creates new use case, more people get involved, and you get in a never ending cycle of positive feedback with new use cases and things going on. And that's sort of what we think about as an economy of scale, right? I think a good example of this loop is you think of the dFI summer, what happened in late 2019, 2020, and through the years, Chainlink revolutionized crypto price data on chain, which was the entire catalyst to the DFI boom, right? Without chain link, DfI boom wouldn't have happened at all. It was that revolution that sort of helped DFI scale as a whole. And for us, it was crazy.
00:03:38.802 - 00:04:32.434, Speaker A: We've been working on this for a long time, since 2017. And whenever your people sort of ask you about what you're doing, especially like pre mainnet, you talk about it, everyone sort of thinks you as a bit crazy and you talking weird stuff. But the whole D five boom and sort of the revolution of price fees really sort of validated a lot of how we think. And sort of chainlink as a whole, it really kicked off the actual use case of the crypto industry for us, the progress and what we do. We've been working on this a long time and thinking about different problems and how we can help scale and lower the barrier of entry for the chain link network is plenty of things that we've worked on over the years. Obviously, being a node operator is a core part of that. We're one of the biggest ones.
00:04:32.434 - 00:05:41.210, Speaker A: We're proud to do what we do across all the networks on Chainlink. There's plenty of other things from a lot of the open source tooling that we do with new adapters which drive new use cases, and sort of more of the client facing work that we do for them guys to actually bring on new things on chain like Thalay's been an example of one with overtime markets and sort of like binary options recently with market link. That was a powerful tool for us to have a window into. The Chainlink network really creates an aspect of transparency that sort of really helped people visualize the growth and how chain link sort of scale and has grown over the years for us, over the next six to twelve months. I always keep on saying this, it's a pivotal moment for us. We often say, like, the past four to five years that we've been building has been leading up to the amount of growth and scale that we're going to see over the next two years and beyond. So it's all about how we sort of execute on the fundamental ideas that sort of create the business in the first place.
00:05:41.210 - 00:06:27.400, Speaker A: Which leads me on to the next slide. So, the staking platform, obviously, we've been thinking about crypto economics for a long time on the Chainlink network, sort of, hence the name of the company in the first place. For us, seeing all the announcements and sort of the run up of economics 2.0 and what Sergey talks about in the presentation yesterday is very exciting. We see sort of the increased security and the value within economics 2.0 being a big step within the chainlink network. And really, we're happy to sort of create our vision and independent ideas on sort of how we can sort of build on that and really sort of propel chainlink and increase the security and value.
00:06:27.400 - 00:07:53.074, Speaker A: So to talk about us and sort of how we've positioned ourselves, we really see ourselves as an index on chainlink growth, sort of like we've got our fingers in every pie, so to speak. And we do that really because we've made a big bet on Chainlink. We see ourselves being a catalyst to infrastructure players and really the next steps in blockchain adoption, which Chainlink is going to power. Like, if you think about CCIP and everything that's coming on with, like, message buses and the pioneering efforts, it's great that we're on the forefront of that and thinking of sort of new ideas and sort of help the community and the ecosystem in general grow. Chainlink is the service mesh, really, of the blockchain sort of world. And really, if you think about the next iteration, the next cycle of blockchain in general, the infrastructure development really is going to become from simple ux with cross chain messaging and token bridges, and really a unified experience because it's an easy example to think of. If you think of the price feeds and the defi boom, that was all because it was easy for Chainlink, for developers to use Chainlink on chain with price feeds and different types of data.
00:07:53.074 - 00:08:34.670, Speaker A: And if you think of CCIP and how that's going to unify, like cross chain messaging, it's the exact same premise. Developers don't have to worry about actually building infrastructure anymore. It's all about just building apps and new use cases which is the whole play here. And for us to be at the forefront of that and to do what we do and think of new ways of lowering the barrier of entry essentially creates an economy of scale, which is we're super proud of what we do. It's crazy to see people here and over the years that we've been doing this. Linkpool started as a bedroom project. It got traction and a lot's happened since.
00:08:34.670 - 00:09:36.280, Speaker A: And for all the team to be here and watching and sort of the experiences that we've had over the past couple of days, it really is great to see. So I suppose thank you for everyone that has been supporting and following us over the years. I really do appreciate it just meeting everyone here as well and doing smart con in person and everything else. It really is great. The next six to twelve to 24 months for us is going to be pivotal in terms of how we do and approach things and thinking about creating new use cases and how we can help chain link scale onto new networks and everything else, and really sort of just allow Chainlink to grow and capture and sort of energize the adoption of new use cases for us. Three quart focus. So it's essentially a simplified roadmap, but it's the core principles for us.
00:09:36.280 - 00:11:07.040, Speaker A: What we've just talked about with the ideas of the staking platform, self service, which again is empowering an economy of scale and allowing developers to just use Chainlink and sort of get on with what they need to do to build their apps, data analytics, which is how we can sort of analyze what is going on and the usage, to be able to help people further, to make it easier to onboard people onto chainlink, basically, and even internally as well, in terms of how we manage infrastructure and really having a global presence, which is the next step up for us because it makes us more reliable, it allows us to scale more and really sort of, again, be well positioned to be able to adopt to the scale that we're looking to see years and beyond. So the team, I mentioned this before, but the team is in the audience. It's the first time we've all got together. We've had an off site prior to this event. It's only a subset of the team on this slide, but if you see us hanging around and anything else, just feel free to say hello and ask any questions. But for us, it's amazing really to be part of this and to do what we do. And again, thank you to everyone's familiar faces and people I've met over the years and everything else to be part of Chainlink and to be in the position that we're in is really good.
00:11:07.040 - 00:11:31.420, Speaker A: Thank you. If you're new to Linkpool and everything that we do, feel free to follow us. I've got around three and a half minutes left. I can keep talking about some things, but feel free to ask me any questions after the presentation. But, yeah. Thank you. Thanks to everyone, again, thank you.
00:11:35.230 - 00:12:00.766, Speaker B: Yeah, there is time for us to take a couple questions from the audience, if there is any. Johnny, do you want to. Actually, I have a pretty quick question, which is, I think Market link is a really cool project. If you guys haven't seen it, please check it out. So how do you see market link continue to develop as the chainlink ecosystem and services grow even bigger?
00:12:00.878 - 00:12:37.390, Speaker A: Sure, it's a good question. Obviously, a simple one is sort of growing market link with the new networks that Chainlink supports. You know, Solana is a key example of that. For example, because we currently only support EVM chains because the technical complexity, but also things like CCIP and the new initiatives that Chainlink are going to do for us. Providing that level of transparency and window into the chainlink network is very important, and it allows us, again, to just evaluate the data and best position ourselves in terms of how we can help grow the network further.
00:12:46.550 - 00:12:56.150, Speaker C: Johnny, thanks very much. Just wanted to know, have you got any advice for going zero to one from, like you said, the bedroom sort of node operation to building out a company like Linkpool?
00:12:56.490 - 00:13:54.510, Speaker A: It's a good question. I suppose you have to put in the graft to do something like this. Really having strong beliefs and a vision, sort of a core philosophy and ideas, is always really the bedrock, really, of doing something successful. You don't want to jump from one thing to the next. You'd really have to sort of act and do something that you really believe in. So it gives you the passion to really sort of drive innovation and what you want to do in that space, you just want to sort of stay in the same position and almost like build a mortar around yourself to make sure you can actually execute on your vision and what you're looking to do. Hello, MP over in telegram over here wants to know if staking starts over at Linkpool.
00:13:54.510 - 00:14:19.060, Speaker A: If what? Sorry? If staking starts over at Linkpool. It's not something I can really talk about today, but, I mean, with the run up to economics 2.0 and the new innovations with Chainlink in the increased security and value, you can obviously expect more from us when it makes sense for us to do. So I.
00:14:21.810 - 00:14:30.954, Speaker B: I think this is all the time we have. And feel free to take the questions offline. And again, let's give another round of applause to Johnny.
00:14:31.082 - 00:14:31.726, Speaker A: Thank you.
00:14:31.828 - 00:14:32.460, Speaker B: Thank you so much.
