00:00:02.840 - 00:00:51.667, Speaker A: Hi everybody, pleasure to give this talk to you today. My name is Kamil Gursky, I'm the CEO and co founder at TokenGuard. And today we're going to discuss how cross chain traffic actually boosts web free ecosystems and DAPP, especially DeFi protocols. And we're going to discuss it on an example of real life data coming from multiple protocols. And we're going to compare some of the web free ecosystems in terms of cross chain traffic coming to these ecosystems. But before we start, I would like to just have one important question. So how many of you here are builders, like Web3 builders? Okay, are there any on chain applications, protocols? Cool.
00:00:51.667 - 00:01:21.365, Speaker A: Wonderful. Great. Okay, so a small introduction about myself. So my name is Kamil. I started coding pretty early, being around nine years old. I did a lot of code creation but most importantly I think exploits writing buffer overflow exploits in CN assembler for very old Apache servers and breaking into some random stuff. And here in Poland at the time.
00:01:21.365 - 00:02:16.537, Speaker A: And then in 2018 I decided to get into blockchain and I'm working in this industry since 2018. We started with doing manual and automated smart contract audits for web free dapps and protocols. Afterwards we founded tokenguard as a automated solution for security measurement. However, because of the 2022 crypto crash we decided to pivot and what we're doing now is basically analysis of wallet's activity and influence of this Wallet's activity on DApp and protocol revenue and conversion. And I think that discussing cross chain is very important for this matter. So let's get started. So first of all, how many of you has ever used a bridge? Oh awesome, awesome.
00:02:16.537 - 00:03:00.711, Speaker A: Was it an easy experience? Yeah, as usual in web 3. Great. So basically what bridging is and we need to remind ourselves what it actually is. So let's assume that we have two separate Web3 networks. First of them network A, let's assume it's Ethereum. The second network, it can be anything, it can be EVM based network it can be WASM based network, it doesn't really matter. So in order for these two separate networks to be able to communicate with each other, you need to have a third party solution that will basically connect two different states of networks because these networks, they cannot communicate with each other out of the box.
00:03:00.711 - 00:04:19.385, Speaker A: So basically when you're sending out, assuming let's say 100 ethical to a network B, you need to firstly send it out to a smart contract deployed on a network A and then you assume that this amount of 100 ETH is going to show up on network B in a separate smart contract deploy there. But what happens behind is that these 100 ETH has to somehow be transferred or at least abstractly communicated to the network B, that this transfer was actually sent out. And there are two ways to achieve this, which we are going to discuss in a second. However, getting back to the bridging mechanism, when you send out this 100 ETH, these tokens are firstly locked up in the network A, in this case Ethereum, for further redemption. And they show up in the smart contract deployed on the network B, and you can redeem them there as a usually wrapped ether. And of course you can reverse the whole transaction. And once you reverse it, you basically burn those wrapped eth tokens on network B and you can unlock these tokens on network A and use them further.
00:04:19.385 - 00:05:27.821, Speaker A: So when it comes to types of crosschain solutions, there are, I think tens of these, because this is also fresh and bleeding edge, that basically each of the solutions that is being created right now is something completely new and different. But I think that we can structure all these projects into two most important groups. So the first group is going to be centralized, religious and cross chain solutions. So basically products that do not have any public blockchain that allows you to preview all the transactions and all the magic that is happening behind those two smart contracts that we have just discussed. And a wonderful example of such a product is Wormhole. And because of the fact that you don't have a side chain that needs to manage all these transactions, this brings you much lower complexity, but also lower security. The fact is that it usually doesn't require any token or coin because you don't have any blockchain attached to it.
00:05:27.821 - 00:06:23.545, Speaker A: And what we see on the market right now is that most of these centralized solutions are basically moving towards the decentralized side. That's because of the nature of how it all works in web 3. Right? So a great example of a centralized product is Axelor, where you have a sidechain that basically allows you to preview all the cross chain transactions that are happening behind those two smart contracts that we have just given as an example. But because of the fact that it's a separate blockchain, you have much higher complexity, but at the same time you have higher security. And usually you have a token or a coin, because of course you need to incentivize node operators to operate the nodes. So it's usually the easiest way is to produce money out of finer. Right? So this is how decentralized cross chain solutions work.
00:06:23.545 - 00:07:24.409, Speaker A: Here are some differences by Courtesy of Goodness UC. If and as you can see, in case of XLR, you have around 75 node operators that manage the whole network. You can preview all the transactions in the blockchain, XLR, blockchain explorer. So basically when a transaction goes through smart contract A, you can preview it, show up in the XLR network and then move to the network. B, in case of wormhole, you basically have a kind of guardian model. We as token guard, we also operate as a guardian of one cross chain solution for a blockchain network. And this basically means that a team of 10 to 20 different companies is managing this cross chain product, this bridge, by governing a multisig wallet where everybody agrees on the state of this cross chain bridge.
00:07:24.409 - 00:08:50.359, Speaker A: And these are the most important differences other than there is no token in coin to shill for wormhole currently. So when you get to their telegram group you can see like hundreds of messages of people asking where token, where binance? Right? So before we move further, what I would like to underline is that if you have a web free ecosystem and you manage a web free ecosystem as a product manager, growth manager, ecosystem lead, whatever, you want to have a thriving defi segment still in Web3, DeFi produces around 90% of the volume overall volume that happens in Web3. Even though that defi has around the same number of users as gaming segment. DeFi produces 90% gaming segment produces around 6 to 7% of the volume. That's because usually you don't transfer $1 million to a gaming protocol to buy NFTs, armors, whatever there is in this protocol, right? So in order to have a high TVL that will support the demand for your underlying coin, you need to have a thriving defi segment. But in order to achieve that, you firstly need to have stablecoins. There is no way for web free ecosystem to basically build a thriving defi segment without stablecoins.
00:08:50.359 - 00:09:47.243, Speaker A: And you need to remember that integrating circle or tiffer, it's not cheap, this is not for free. Basically you need to outreach to these companies, they need to integrate your web free ecosystem. And doing that is a big hurdle for your web free ecosystem budget. So important thing is that with cross chain solutions, and we're going to talk that in a second, with cross chain solutions, you get an instant stablecoin integration because these stable coins are going to show up on your network as wrapped USDC or wrapped usdt. And that is very important thing to remember. And why are stablecoins important for defi growth? I guess everybody understand this More or less because of the volatility of native coins. Usually if you have like a small web free network, it's going to be pretty volatile compared to USDC or usdt.
00:09:47.243 - 00:10:56.535, Speaker A: So if you want anybody to invest in Defi protocols inside this Web3 ecosystem, you need to give them an alternative solution to your volatile coin because they do not want to lose money on the speculative nature of your asset. So do you have any questions maybe about what I just said? Okay, so let's move on. So what we're going to look at today is an example of cross chain traffic that is coming to Moonbeam. And why are we discussing Moonbeam? I believe that it's a great example because that was a network coming from a polkadot ecosystem that once was pretty, pretty big. It had EVM virtual machine, it had very low gas costs compared to Ethereum, it gained a lot of momentum, but somehow at some point it lost its momentum. But currently it's basically this is true for most of the Web three ecosystems. So I wouldn't be very sad about it.
00:10:56.535 - 00:12:00.875, Speaker A: But nevertheless, Moonbeam has free cross chain solutions, like third party crosschain solutions because there is also cross chain messaging coming from Polkadot, but that's, that's a different thing. So it has three cross chain bridges, wormhole layer 0 and accelar, with Wormhole being the most popular. It also has a DEFI segment of around 20 operative protocols with the most important ones mentioned here. Moonwell is a defi landing protocol that is basically designed with multi or being cross chain in mind because it's available on Moonbeam and Base. So we're going to take a look at stellaswap, which is a totally native to Moonbeam product. So it doesn't operate on any other blockchain. It's only available on Moonbeam and usually has mostly polkadot related assets and tokens, some nice mint.
00:12:00.875 - 00:13:02.031, Speaker A: So let's start with analyzing the data that we can take a look at when it comes to incoming traffic through Wormhole to moonbeam and then Stelaswap. So Stelaswap currently has around 6 to 7 million dollars of TVL which is pretty small compared to let's say GMX or any bigger protocol. But what is really surprising, if you take a look at stellaswap's data like this is the screen from our Tokenguard application. We operate as a public good tool, free for everyone. So you can take a look at this on our website below the screenshot. You got a source? Yeah. So what is really surprising, if you take the last three months of wallet interactions with this protocol and sorted by the volume of this interaction.
00:13:02.031 - 00:14:02.141, Speaker A: So basically the third column here you can see that the top wallet has generated a volume of deposits of $15 million. And you're going to notice that 50% of these top value users are basically using wormhole. These interactions on the right, they show all the other dapps that are being used by this wallet on Moonbeam network. And as you can see, 50% of these are using wormhole. And of course if you download the CS file, you're going to summit all up, you will see that this number, of course it's kind of volatile, but it moves around 50% of the top 30% of wallets. Another really interesting insight, and that insight is basically true for all defi protocols. Almost all defi protocols in web free space is that around 5% of users are responsible for 80% of the volume of each of those defi protocols.
00:14:02.141 - 00:15:40.231, Speaker A: So this kind of brings the question whether it actually makes sense to invest in, for example, Kols marketing campaigns or affiliate marketing campaigns that are targeted at regular users on Twitter or in other social media channels. Because if you have only a small group of very wealthy users that are generating most of your revenue, why not focus on these users and acquiring more of these users rather than focusing on small users that invest $110 in your protocol? And also an important note, interactions on the screen that we're discussing are based only on externally owned accounts triggered transactions. What this means is that many cross chain solutions allow debt builders to use their SDK to connect seamlessly so that when the user triggers a transaction at stellaswap, he may not even know that he's using Wormhole behind it. This is how, for example, LiFi works and it's a wonderful product, which is basically, I think, unicorn already. But in this case we're talking about direct interactions of wallets with wormhole, which means that all these wallets that have this wormhole icon here are basically manually sending the money to Moonbeam Network and then investing it in the Stella Swap protocol. It's not under the hood usage of wormhole. It's a direct usage of wormhole by these wallets.
00:15:40.231 - 00:16:29.365, Speaker A: So this is just the beginning and it's really cool information for stellaswap. And I think that stelaswap should really be happy about Moonbeam investing into wormhole integration. So let's get a little bit deeper how it looks from the USD deposits volume perspective. So as you can see, around 70% of USD deposits is coming from wormhole users, mostly from users who only use Wormhole and stellasub. Of course there are some exceptions to this but most of these USD volume is coming from from these users. Regarding Most popular tokens, 45% of deposits to swallow swap are cross chain tokens. And this is data for the last three months.
00:16:29.365 - 00:17:28.415, Speaker A: Pretty real time data. And of course these are not only wormhole tokens because you can see I think 7th or 6th is AccelrusDC. So there are also other wrapped wrapped tokens coming from different from other bridges. But nevertheless the cross chain transactions and cross chain exchange of assets is something that basically drives this protocol because if it weren't for cross chain tokens we could safely assume that those 45% of deposits probably wouldn't happen. Probably because we cannot compare it. So what about Moonbeam itself? Like how Wormhole actually influences the Moonbeam network? So what you have here is a list of top Moonbeam only projects. So basically projects that do not exist on any other network.
00:17:28.415 - 00:17:59.513, Speaker A: There is BMEX which is a perpetual Dex, pretty small protocol but very fast growing. You can see the growth index 83 superb and 90% of top wallets is using wormhole. Beamswap, 40% of top wallets is using Wormhole. And of course wormhole where 100% of wallets is using Wormhole. There is also Erlot which is a gaming product. In this case the percentage of wormhole users is much smaller. I think it was around 20, 20%.
00:17:59.513 - 00:18:51.255, Speaker A: There is Telesop and Solar Flare which doesn't have really much influence in here. But this is of course all kind of estimates that I'm showing. So let's take a look at detailed data. So within the last three months Moonbeam had around 120,000 active users. So users that some kind of interaction of the network, a transfer or interaction with a Dapp. 72,000 of these users had no DAPP activity which means that they means they only use transfers or some kind of governance extrinsics needed for the DAO voting at Moonbin network. Then there is 41,000 users that didn't use Wormhole or Stellaswap and there is only 1000.
00:18:51.255 - 00:20:23.249, Speaker A: So basically 1% of users that used wormhole and stellaswap and this 1% within the same timeframe has generated around 75 to 80% of USD transfer volume on the Moonbeam network. So I think that pretty much sums up and confirms the thesis that in case of smaller web3 ecosystems which are kind of exotic to Ethereum users or to EVM users, having a cross chain solution integrated into this exotic network is a must have because without it you wouldn't even open your network to the external assets and external users. And of course important thing here is that stellaswap has a pretty big share in this volume, but wormhole has around 60%. Which means that Wormhole itself and apps that people use through wormhole generate most of this important for one beam traffic. Of course we could calculate the fees that are being generated to the ecosystem by all of this traffic, but usually these fees, they not access more than tens of dollars. So it doesn't really make much sense. So yeah, as I already mentioned, Moonbeam is a very, very alternative coin.
00:20:23.249 - 00:21:34.857, Speaker A: Right now it had I think around 2 billions of dollars of market cap at some point. Right now its market cap today is around $140 million. But its TVL is basically $40 million. So it's up to 15 times lower than Optimism, much, much lower than Arbitrum and basically not comparable to Binance smart chain. Why do we mention these three other chains? Because we're going to take a look at how the traffic for these three chains basically looks for wormhole as well. So knowing that Moonbeam TVL is 40 million, we could expect that the traffic of users transferring their assets through wormhole to all of these four networks will be kind of similar, but it's basically not. So if you take a look at the data of how many users generate traffic for wormhole on these four separate networks, you will see that 30% of new wallets, of new acquired wallets are coming basically from Moonbeam.
00:21:34.857 - 00:22:36.259, Speaker A: So wormhole and of course wormhole supports many more chains than this, but it would basically be very hard to read here. So basically Moonbeam generates around 40% of new acquired wallets for wormholes for wormhole, and 50% of interactions within the last three months compared to these four chains. Yes, it is, yes, yes. These are all new acquired wallets that are starting to use Wormhole product. So we don't differentiate here whether it's usdc, whether it's a different asset. We basically measure the number of new wallets that are starting to use Wormhole at this specific network. So we mentioned those smart contracts A and B.
00:22:36.259 - 00:23:09.519, Speaker A: So these are all smart contracts A and B on those networks. And we measure how many new wallets interact with these smart contracts for the last three months. Doesn't matter the type of asset. And when it comes to tvl, it's also kind of surprising because as we already said, Moonbeam currently has around 40 million of dollars. It had, sorry, by the end of June, around $40 million of TVL and wormhole itself generated 7 million of those 40. Which is a lot. Very, very a lot.
00:23:09.519 - 00:24:38.843, Speaker A: Right. So this again confirms the thesis that having a crosschain solution on well known crosschain solution on an exotic web ecosystem such as Moonbeam is extremely important. So to sum it who wins the first? What we I think and safely assume of course because we don't have all the data coming from all the networks, from all the aggregated data wouldn't make much sense. What we want to see here is, what we want to get here is get an insight for Web3 ecosystem that is emerging to help it grow. So who wins in such a case when you smaller network using cross chain solutions such as Wormhole or Axelog. So basically the smaller network it gets an inflow of new active users, it gets a new source of liquidity and TVL and most importantly it gets a instant stablecoin integration which of integrating TFIR and Server. What the bigger network gets is access to new exotic assets that wouldn't basically be available for users on this network without the crosschain solution or for these users because of these exotic assets.
00:24:38.843 - 00:25:39.501, Speaker A: And again another assets being deployed on the bigger network is a higher user risk because probably these assets are going to be more volatile than the bigger network itself. And you can basically see that on the Moonbeams price chart. But it would be kind of surprising if everybody was winning. It's like who loses here? Do you have an answer? Maybe who loses in case of using cross chain solutions like where is the money moving from whom to bridges? Not really. Not really. Think about who can. Who was the first to give you a possibility to move money between blockchains? Perfect.
00:25:39.501 - 00:26:32.537, Speaker A: Yes, that is the exact answer. So centralized exchanges are the biggest loser when you have cross chain solutions available on the market. And that's because centralized exchanges were the first to actually allow you to quickly move money between different networks. So you could exchange Coin A to fiat money or to stablecoin and then exchange it to Coin B and move it on the network B within a matter of few minutes. But the fact is that using centralized exchanges is basically extremely expensive. If you're going to transfer money from Ethereum to Polkadot, you're going to pay around 4, 5% of fees based on depending on the centralized exchange that you're using. So this is more or less true for Kraken.
00:26:32.537 - 00:27:31.847, Speaker A: Of course you can use Gate IO or you can use okx or you can use maxc. But the fact is that we have already seen that big investors whales digital asset funds. They are transferring more than $1 million at once, for example. So you can either minimize the risk of losing that money and then you're going to pay a lot in fees. For centralized exchanges, you can minimize the fee, but then you have a higher risk of losing money. For example, at Maxc, our company personally, we had a situation with Kraken Wallet at Polkadot where we lost almost 1 million zlotys and basically Kraken retrieved those money for us and it was their fault because they didn't integrate Polkadot extrinsics properly. And our developers basically were talking with their developers to retrieve the money.
00:27:31.847 - 00:28:16.541, Speaker A: So this is what you get when you pay like 4 or 5% of fees. But if you pay 1, 2% of fees at Max C, you may be fucked up in that situation. So then most of these users are going to use cross chain solutions such as wormhole accelar layer 0, because basically they are cheap and they are safe. Thank you very much. I'm not sure if you have any questions, but I know that we're out of time, so do you have any questions maybe? Oh, really? Yes. Okay. Okay.
00:28:16.541 - 00:28:38.117, Speaker A: Okay. So I made a mistake. Really. Thank you. Thank you for mentioning that. So basically, yeah, they were probably going to move to the decentralized model because of that and they had a tg. Okay, okay, okay.
00:28:38.117 - 00:28:46.145, Speaker A: So thanks for mentioning that. Yeah. So moving to the decentralized model. Thanks. Okay, cool. Thank you very much.
