00:00:00.200 - 00:00:24.766, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Delegway refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Zosano, and today's the 12 December 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So in case you missed it, I put the AMA live yesterday. The recording that I did, it's about a 90 minutes long video that you can check out on the YouTube channel. Of course, it was meant to go live on Saturday, but had scheduling issues, so I put it live yesterday. So you can go check that out.
00:00:24.766 - 00:00:51.262, Speaker A: The next AMA will probably be in the new year at this point. I didn't realize how close we were to Christmas and New Year's, so there won't be one in two weeks from now. It'll probably be in three to four weeks. But I'll, I'll do an announcement in the Discord Channel about this, but you can get your questions in before then if you want to anyway. So if you have any questions that you've thought of, we have follow up questions for me. You can go get them in at the AMA series channel in the Discord channel, which you can find a link to in the YouTube description below there. But yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description as well.
00:00:51.262 - 00:01:36.102, Speaker A: If you want to check it out for listening to the podcast, it's also available on the podcast too. And on top of that, you can just go navigate to it in the channel. Now, before I get into the rest of the news for today, I wanted to quickly mention something just to, to get ahead of it before people start asking questions about it. So if I'm accepted into the rocker pool, Odal, I need to put up a bond of 1750 rpl to be part of to be an Odao member. Now, me being the silly guy that I am, when I set up my mini pool, I staked my entire RPL holdings. I have 1100 rpl right now, and I was going to buy the other 650 to make it 1750. But what happened was I staked the entire amount and I can't actually unstake for a few weeks and I actually need the RPL bond before I can unstake.
00:01:36.102 - 00:02:10.246, Speaker A: So what's gonna happen is I'm going to be lent some RPL from the rocker pool folks and then I'm going to pay back that loan via the rewards for being an ODA member. So I know I said that the rewards are going to go to the protocol guild. They still will, but after I pay back the, the, the debt that I'm, that I mean, that I'm getting here from borrowing this RPL to become part of the Odao. So just wanted to get ahead of that and make sure that people understood that because, yeah, you might see that these rewards are going somewhere else. Well, no, it's not going to me or anything like that. I'm not rugging anyone. It's just going to pay back that, that loan there.
00:02:10.246 - 00:02:43.768, Speaker A: And when I can unstake the RPL from the mini pool, I will unstake a portion of that and obviously pay down the debt with that as well. So I can quickly pay that off and then get back to having the RPR rewards go to the protocol guild. And I'll obviously let you guys know when that happens. So just wanted to get ahead of that one there. But moving on. So Liam from the optimism team put out a great thread on EIP for 4844 over the weekend. So he said yesterday, being last week at the all core devs call, it was decided that ERP 4844 will be included into Ethereum.
00:02:43.768 - 00:03:10.342, Speaker A: It will be in a fast follow fork, hard fork after Shanghai. This is a huge win for Ethereum. It makes me so excited for the future of blockchain. Blockchain scalability. Here's what's next. And then you can just read this thread to get a, it's a short thread, but you can read this thread to get a little bit of an overview there. I think something that I haven't clarified for people that I should clarify is that just because 4844 isn't coming in Shanghai doesn't mean it actually hasn't been accepted to be included into a future fork, which it already has.
00:03:10.342 - 00:03:31.358, Speaker A: So it doesn't need to go through that process again. It has been accepted. You know, remember I said to you guys it was considered for inclusion? Well, it has been accepted for inclusion. So it's just about whether when it's going to get included. Now, as Liam says here, it's probably going to get included in a fast follow hard fork after Shanghai. Now, fast follow. Who knows what that means, right? Like, I take it to mean three months.
00:03:31.358 - 00:04:04.046, Speaker A: I kind of struggle to see us being able to do another hard fork three months after Shanghai, but especially one that includes a pretty big upgrade like 48, 44. But it can happen. And even if it doesn't, like, even if it takes six months and say so, say we get Shanghai in March, April and it takes six months from there, I mean, it's not too long of a wait from there. But if we can do it in three months? Yeah, I mean, awesome. I'd love to, to have it done in three months after Shanghai goes live. But regardless of that, it has been accepted for inclusion and we're going to get it. And you guys know 48 44 is proto dank sharding.
00:04:04.046 - 00:04:41.282, Speaker A: It's going to lead to dramatically lower fees on L2. And honestly, even if it happens in like Q three, Q four next year, I think that's still fine. I honestly don't think there's any rush right now. I know people have different opinions on this and that's fine. But I know I've said before that we don't plan upgrades around, you know, when the bull markets, you know, depending on the market conditions, like when the bull market's going to come back or otherwise. But this isn't planning 48 44 around a bull market or not. It's literally the reason why 48 44 isn't going into Shanghai is because the core developers don't feel it's ready to go in in Shanghai and they feel like waiting a bit longer for the fork after Shanghai would be better.
00:04:41.282 - 00:05:25.848, Speaker A: It's got nothing to do with the market being hot or not. I'm adding my commentary on the market conditions to basically say that I don't think it's that big of a deal that it's been, I guess, like not included in Shanghai because of the fact that I don't expect one of those, you know, really high demand bull markets to come back till at least late next year or even 2024. Now, obviously, I can be completely wrong. Maybe we get like a spike in activity next year, but I would want to see like sustained spike of like three plus months of high activity on layer one to actually say, okay, well, the bull market seems to be back right now, right. And I just, I'm not seeing it. Honestly, I'm really not seeing it. What I'm seeing right now on, on a market's perspective is what I saw in 2019 and even half of 2020 where it's this accumulation phase where people are just like trade.
00:05:25.848 - 00:05:47.730, Speaker A: The only people trading right now are just like scalpers trying to make a bit of profit here and there. And that's why you see the price keep bouncing between 1312 hundred. It's literally like, it's just accumulation. The long term buyers are buying, but there's not that many of them. Of course the traders are scalping. You have, you know, short squeezes, long squeezes either way, and then we get this, this price action. Um, so, yeah, it remains to be seen what happens there.
00:05:47.730 - 00:06:39.050, Speaker A: But the, the Ford f 44 is not, has not been delayed or, or I guess like not included in Shanghai because of market conditions or anything like that. It's literally because of the fact that the core developers and researchers didn't feel like it would be ready for Shanghai there and it kind of missed that window. But definitely will be. I mean hopefully not, not 100% chance, but a very high percent chance it will be in the fork after Shanghai. Alright, so I put this tweet out over the weekend just, just kind of linking to a new staking survey where I said there's a new survey developed by James on behalf of the Ethereum foundation that aims to understand the attitudes of those that stake their ETH. And you can fill out the survey at staking survey paperform Co. So if you are an Ethereum staker in any capacity, solo staker, sticking with an LSD, you know, mini pool kind of someone who runs a mini pool, right? You can fill out this survey.
00:06:39.050 - 00:06:57.954, Speaker A: I think you can even fill it out if you're not a staker. I'm just actually going to check out the survey now here. Yes, you can actually fill it out as a non staker too. So it basically applies to everyone. So definitely go fill out this survey. I think it's going to give the Ethereum foundation a lot of good data to work off of. And obviously they're going to publish their findings when, when they're finished here.
00:06:57.954 - 00:07:18.194, Speaker A: They're closing it on the 20 December. So you have about, I don't know, eight days or so from now to fill this out. And it's not that long. It actually doesn't, I mean, it takes a very short amount of time to fill this out. More options come up. If you click, you know, click solo staking, there'll be more options underneath you click mini pool node operator so and so, so on and so forth there. But just wanted to shout that out for you guys.
00:07:18.194 - 00:07:44.470, Speaker A: Of course it'll be linked in the YouTube description below, but definitely fill it out. Even if you're not a staker, it's going to provide valuable data to the Ethereum ecosystem. All right, so speaking of Ethereum staking, I'm gonna say his name wrong again. Some people in the Rockerpool discord have told me how to say this person's name and I keep getting it wrong. I'm gonna say it wrong again. So, so you guys can call me out in the rockable discord again. But Marciu, Marcy au I'm butchering it again.
00:07:44.470 - 00:08:18.110, Speaker A: I'm sorry, but I think you guys know who I'm talking about. He's very active in the Rockapool community. He put together a thread here about staking, saying staking isn't always the most exotic flavor of crypto, but there's a ton of great stuff going on under the covers that you may, might not know about. He's a deliberately incomplete list of the tech that I'm following and most excited about, and this talks about all the tech that's coming down the pipeline for Ethereum staking. So first off we have withdrawals and then everything that entails. And he also used the term the great reshuffling, which is something that I've used. I don't know if I coined that term, but I've used it a lot on the refuel before, so I was pretty happy to see that there.
00:08:18.110 - 00:09:14.054, Speaker A: I think he got that from me, but I mean, maybe I'm wrong there, but there's that one rehypothecation of staking assets. So basically using staking assets in other protocols like Eigen layer node operators, which is basically this Twitter account here, node operators is building horizontal value by growing a network of competent semi professional operators across the industry. This allows node operators to optimize for trustlessness and network health while still benefiting from shared insurance, business development expertise and network effects. A very cool initiative there, rocker Pool labs, which I talked about last week, which is basically lowering that minimum requirement to spin up a mini pool from 16 to eight to four to two ETH eventually. And he mentions that there rocker pool smoothing pool, which I've talked about on the refill before, and a bunch of other great stuff, including like low cost staking, oval network, everything. I mean this thread, one of my favorite threads in quite a while. I really enjoyed reading through it.
00:09:14.054 - 00:09:48.858, Speaker A: I really enjoyed that. It's basically a really nice kind of concise summary of the Ethereum staking ecosystem. So I highly recommend giving the full thread a rate. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But this kind of showcases why I personally get, or at least most of why I personally get so excited about Ethereum staking, and why it's such a passion of mine, and why I solo stake, and why I want to get involved with the communities like rock a pool and do my bit as a mini pool operator and also as an Odao member. Because when I first got into Ethereum in early 2017, one of the very first things that caught my eye was proof of stake. I mean, there was the fact that you could build whatever you wanted on Ethereum.
00:09:48.858 - 00:10:21.160, Speaker A: You couldn't do that with bitcoin. And there was the, the proof of stake thing that other things had done. I mean I think it started with Peercoin, but it was something that bitcoin didn't have, obviously, and, and it didn't look like bitcoin was going to adopt it at all. So for me those were the two major things. The fact that you could build whatever you wanted on Ethereum and it was like this new substrate for decentralized applications and then proof of stake. So to see staking live obviously was a, was a, was an absolutely amazing achievement, uh, in, on December 1, 2020 with the beacon chain launch. And it was obviously very um, very uh, uh, exciting for me to see.
00:10:21.160 - 00:11:20.758, Speaker A: And then obviously with the merge and then when withdrawals go live, it's going to complete that whole experience and we have like a full proof of stake Ethereum chain. There's nothing that really excites me more, to be honest. Then I remember distinctly the two days where I actually got like proper emotional, where, you know, I shed a literal tear, was the beacon chain launch and was the merge. And simply because Ethereum proof of stake is so special, it is the, the beating heart of the Ethereum network and everything is pretty much derived from, from, from that, right? I think that proof of stake exists in other networks, but there's nothing like a theorem proof of stake. And Ethereum's proof of stake architecture lends itself to a better social layer that works within it and lends itself to being able to spin up these communities like rocket pool, like other services out there. I mean I know lidocops a bad rap, but I think that they, they on nets, you know, probably are positive for the ecosystem. I've had this discussion with people, but I think on net they're a positive because they stopped a lot of stake going to centralized exchanges.
00:11:20.758 - 00:11:53.796, Speaker A: They aren't just like one monolithic thing. Right. Obviously you could argue that they, they are because of the StE token, but they do distribute that stake out. But I think that even with decentralized providers, it's still a healthy ecosystem, like a staking ecosystem. That was all solo stakers. I mean maybe you could argue that that would be healthier, but I would be suspicious of that because you can't prove that it's all just like individual staking or not all solar stakers are created equal. And I think that generally, I mean, you would just see solo stakers set up operations to be, you know, business kind of stakers.
00:11:53.796 - 00:12:44.746, Speaker A: So to speak, or LSD's, because the opportunity is there from both a business perspective and from a kind of, I guess like market share perspective, being able to grow your own pie and grow your own profits. Right? So yeah, I mean there's, there's obviously decentralized exchanges, there's other things like like swell network and there's other kind of derivatives of that as Masjid mentioned here, of being able to restake with Eigen layer and stuff like that. So the staking ecosystem is just so big, so diverse, so awesome. And it's not just, you know, just another proof of stake mechanism, it's Ethereum's. No one out, no one, no other chain uses any even variation of flavor of Ethereum proof of stake. Except maybe, I believe gnosis chain maybe does it. But I'm talking like the big l ones you hear about, they all use their own thing and I think that they're all inferior to Ethereum proof of stake.
00:12:44.746 - 00:13:28.958, Speaker A: And I've said that plenty of times before on the refuel. But I think this thread here basically gives a lot of the reasons and a lot of evidence to back up my claims there. So I'll link this thread in the YouTube description below and you can go check this out. All right, so I highlighted this website from Tony last week on the refuel tornado warning dot in fo, which basically visualizes the different relayers, the mev boost relayers, and shows you where tornado cash transactions are able to actually be, be processed. So he added, I believe the new relays here as well. So the ultrasound relay relay or gnosis relay and also the Eustace relay are the one that was spun up just last week. And you can see here where tornado cash transactions are actually being relayed via.
00:13:28.958 - 00:14:17.072, Speaker A: So the ones that are outside of this map, obviously ones that aren't using mev boost. So it's going to non mev boosted blocks. But in terms of ones that are being processed by MeV boosted blocks, it's just blocks route max profit right now because blocks route Max profit has the vast majority of that market share and they're much, you know, they're most likely to capture that. But in saying that, you can see kind of like the regions here of where that would actually be processed through. So the gnosis one, the ultrasound money one, the relay, all the Aeostus blocks route ethical would be all the ones where tornado cash transactions could appear. Whereas Eden manifold flashbots and blocks route regulated and block native that it wouldn't show up there because they are the OFAC compliant relay. So, again, I just love this visualization.
00:14:17.072 - 00:14:49.732, Speaker A: It's great. I'm glad to see Tony update it with the new relay s here. And we really have, like, such a healthy relay ecosystem these days, and I've talked about these so much, but I think it's just critically important to keep reiterating that, and I don't. This is it. I think there's going to be more and more as, as time goes on. All right, speaking of MeV Boost and relayers, this is a really great visualization that Burt Miller from flashbots put out. So you can see here, block builder success rate, percentage on a daily timeframe, and you can see all the different builders here on the right hand side, and then their market share.
00:14:49.732 - 00:15:23.674, Speaker A: So you can see that flashbots dominated for quite a while. And this is, this is from September 15 to November, I believe, November 30, or something like that. So this is about two and a half months worth of data here. But basically, you can see the flashbots was extremely dominant for quite a while. But then in November, I guess, like, 12th or something, their dominance basically shrunk enough where you can see that they're, like, not even distinct. Now, you can see that block blocks route max profit is in there. In the gray, the green is builder, zero x 69, which is the relay all builder.
00:15:23.674 - 00:15:47.358, Speaker A: Then the. The dark green. I'm not sure who that is, but that's there as well as a share. So it just looks a lot more, I guess, like a little more healthy, because you can see that it's not just dominated by the blue, which is flashbots, but it's a much more evenly distributed. So I thought that was just a really great way of visualizing that. And that's exactly what we want to see. We don't want to see, obviously, it just being dominated by one color or the majority being one color.
00:15:47.358 - 00:16:30.944, Speaker A: I mean, I can't really either percentages right now, but it seems like flashbots for all of September, and like, I guess some of October had, I mean, 60, 70% of the dominance here. I think you can see, actually, on September 18 19th, if I'm eyeing the chart, they had, like, a huge dominance there, right? I think it was like 90% or something like that. And then that's come down over time, and you can see how well this looked. Now, I do want to stress that this is builders, not relayers. So those things are actually distinct there. But, yeah, this is not showing the relay a share, but the similar thing has played out where flashbots is. Dominance has gone down not as, not to this extent, but it has gone down over time and other relays have gone up.
00:16:30.944 - 00:17:06.560, Speaker A: All right, so zero x not going to make it. He put a tweet out over the weekend where they said Metamask allows RPCs infuria to link all of your addresses together. So I forked it and removed these privacy leaks no more require requirements to send all addresses in. Metamask no longer leaks all addresses in a hardware wallet when connected can change RPC of default Ethereum network running this fork allows you to use Metamask while keeping your privacy. And it's easy to verify this since it only changes eight lines of code from the latest stable version of Metamask. So you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:17:06.560 - 00:17:44.713, Speaker A: But yeah, there's, there's two main things I want to say here. First is, while there's only eight lines of code that have been changed here, if you can't read that code yourself, maybe ask a friend that can. Or maybe, you know, I guess like see if there's any comments on GitHub or any comments in the community about this. I haven't seen anyone calling this out as being dodgy or anything, but obviously whenever someone, you know, forks, wear a mask or creates a new wallet, there's always a little bit of a risk there that there wasn't. And previously. And then on top of this, this is funny because metamask actually has a license on it that says, I believe this is correct. I might be wrong here, but I believe this is correct.
00:17:44.713 - 00:18:41.500, Speaker A: It says that if your fork of metamask has more than 10,000, it's either daily or monthly active users. Then you have to basically get a license from metamask to use, to keep using it, to keep it live. Now, as I said, I might be wrong on the facts there, but I do believe that that license is still in place. And I do believe that there is a limit to how many users you can have before metamask basically comes knocking and says, hey, you know, you're using a metamask in a commercial capacity right now. You know, pay up or, you know, six and desist, so to speak. Now, in saying that, I don't know if zero x not going to make it is doxxed or not, they are the builder behind Defi, llama and other, and some other DeFi protocols here. But the thing is, is that Metamask can only shut down these things if they are able to get assistance, assist from the developer themselves, so if the developer is anon, I'm not sure what Metamask can do here, and I'm not even sure if Metamask would waste the effort to do this.
00:18:41.500 - 00:19:12.336, Speaker A: I mean, to protect the license. They may make a little bit of noise about this and send a letter out, but would they actually chase the person through the courts to get this thing removed? I don't know. They could go to GitHub directly and say, hey, you know, this project is breaking our license, can you remove it? And I'm sure GitHub would, but that doesn't stop the code. I mean, you can just host the code wherever you want. So, yeah, it remains to be seen. I don't think there has been a large scale fork of metamask since the license came into place for us to see how it would exactly play out. But those are the two main things about this that to keep in mind.
00:19:12.336 - 00:19:39.300, Speaker A: The, the third thing is obviously the, the positives behind this. This is really great that someone has done this and removed these requirements. Honestly, metamask should be doing this themselves. It seems insane to me that they aren't doing this if they and Dan Finlay from Metamask and consensus have also come out and said that they don't actually do anything with this data. So change the RPC of the default Ethereum network. I mean, basically allow it. So you can remove infuria altogether if you want to, because right now you can't remove infuria.
00:19:39.300 - 00:20:32.256, Speaker A: You can add your own RPC, but you can't remove infura at all, which is obviously problematic. Problematic. And also change the leaking of all these addresses and ips that get sent to Metamask and Infura. You can still do your DDoS protection, but there's no reason to just collect this data in the first place and make it so that people essentially end up being docs. And it's really shitty because essentially, like, if you have an Ens attached to your Ethereum address through Metamask, and then you connect your hardware wallet to it, or if your hardware wallet has an ens on it, then all those addresses get bundled together and sent to metamask and infuria, and they're able to tie it all to use, which is obviously a very big privacy concern. So maybe metamask changes this for themselves and we don't need these forks in the future, but there is this fork available to you if you're concerned about your privacy. All right, so Tyrannosaurus Haim here, he changed his name.
00:20:32.256 - 00:21:00.632, Speaker A: He used to just be. Haim introduced something over the weekend called Inevitable Ethereum, which is a new wiki style site dedicated to Ethereum, the world. Computer history, finance, computer science, elliptic curve, cryptography, everything needed to see the future, to see what I see. Ethereum is inevitable. Now, this is funny because this came, I think, a day or two after that Eric and I announced that we were sunsetting Ethub. And Ethub originally started off as a wiki style site for Ethereum, and it kind of became obsoleted by ethereum.org to an extent.
00:21:00.632 - 00:21:42.446, Speaker A: But at the same time, I do think there's still things that ethereum.org doesn't cover, and I do think there's value to having a wiki maintained by a community member in saying that as well. It was kind of hard for Eric and I to maintain Ethub, the wiki. It was open source, anyone could contribute to it, but it still was kind of quite hard to, to maintain it because it was a full time job, we weren't paid for or anything like that. But I think what Haimi is doing here is that he's been doing a lot of Twitter threads over the past few months and I think he's just porting those over to this wiki to bootstrap the content and then getting people involved with it as well to help him with it. So I definitely think that you should go check this out. It's got a lot of great rating material that, that is very, very valuable for everything got to do with Ethereum.
00:21:42.446 - 00:22:32.456, Speaker A: And even beyond Ethereum, a little bit like some of these concepts obviously apply to Ethereum, but also apply to other, other networks and other things in crypto. So yeah, I just wanted to highlight that for you guys. You can go check it out. I'll link this in the YouTube description below. All right, so there was a bit of drama today and I guess like the last couple of days over this EIP called AIP 1153, which has been, which is an EIP that was slated for inclusion, or at least considered for inclusion in the Shanghai update and he's not going to be included in Shanghai. Now, one of the people, or I guess like teams pushing this EIP forward and want it and working on it and wanting to get it included was uniswap. And they were obviously pretty devastated when it wasn't, it wasn't going to be included in Shanghai and they're going to have to wait till maybe the fast follow fork after Shanghai for this to be included.
00:22:32.456 - 00:23:03.304, Speaker A: Now, of course, this lends, lends itself to a lot of conspiracy theories around why Uniswap wants this. And I want to say a few things here. One, this EIP is not something that Uniswap created. This is actually a really old eip. I believe it is as old as 2018. So it's a four year old EIP that has kind of resurfaced and, and people interested in building it out because it would benefit not only uniswap, but a lot of different projects on Ethereum. And the reason why it would benefit a lot of projects on Ethereum is because it is a opcode.
00:23:03.304 - 00:23:36.858, Speaker A: Sorry, gas opcode change here. And everyone uses gas on Ethereum, right? This is not something that uniswap alone benefits from. So I don't like the framing that people are bringing up around governance being captured by private interests and, you know, private, private interest. At Uniswap, I have like a shadow cabal where they're talking to core developers behind closed doors and trying to get this through, because, for one, it didn't get through in Shanghai. And we don't know if it's going to get into the next fork after Shanghai, which is actually called, I believe it's called capella or something. Maybe, maybe I'm getting that wrong there. But the next fork after Shanghai, it wasn't done behind closed doors.
00:23:36.858 - 00:23:54.558, Speaker A: It's been very public. As I said, the AIP has been around since 2018. It's been four years. The entire governance process is really public. Yes, for sure. There are private conversations that happen between different people that, that, that obviously aren't made public. But the actual EIP process itself, to get something included, that's all public.
00:23:54.558 - 00:24:32.052, Speaker A: Right. And, and I just feel like this framing of Ethereum governance being captured over this EIP specifically is super weird, and I don't agree with it at all, based on the facts that we have. And also, there was a thread from Adam Cotran today that was basically mostly misinformation about this AIP. So if you did read his thread, don't, I mean, don't really put too much stock in it. I can't believe he did 24 tweets for this thread as well, which basically, as I said, most of it was wrong. There's a thread here from Moody, who says that Adam's thread is false. The transient storage, which was the, which is, the AIP, does not have any refunds.
00:24:32.052 - 00:25:02.152, Speaker A: It's not a Dos vector, and the implementations are explicitly dosing tested. To quote Martin Swede, who's a longtime Ethereum developer, it's a nice feature. Of course we want it. So it's, as I said, it's not just uniswap that wants it and would benefit from it. It's a lot of different projects on Ethereum here. And also, one other argument that people bring up about Uniswap, it's kind of like orthogonal to this, but I think it's worth mentioning is that they say uniswap has too much of a monopoly. It's like, okay, yeah, Uniswap is really, really dominant in the amm space.
00:25:02.152 - 00:25:37.118, Speaker A: Everyone knows that, right? But to say they have too much of a monopoly is kind of funny to me, because there's been lots of other amms that have tried to compete with Uniswap. A lot of them have just forked Uniswap v two and not really done anything else. Literally just forked it, stuck a token on it with liquidity mining, and hoped that people would come there. Whereas Uniswap has continuously innovated. They brought out v three, which is a huge innovation. They slapped a two year license on it because they didn't just want someone coming along and being like, okay, well, I'm going to fork Uniswap v three, fork all this work that they've done. Slap a token on it and just, you know, I guess, like, try to vampire attack liquidity from Uniswap.
00:25:37.118 - 00:26:09.348, Speaker A: Now, you can debate the merits of a business license for all you want, but I totally understand the reason why they did it. And at the same time, just forking Uniswap is not competing with Uniswap at all. You're never going to beat them at their own game. So what you need to do is you need to actually innovate and build something, build another exchange, a decentralized exchange, or an amm from scratch using novel techniques that Uniswap keeps innovating on, but you need to do it yourself to compete with them. And at the end of the day, liquidity begets liquidity as well. Unisov is so dominant because there's liquidity there. And of course, more people add liquidity because there's already liquidity and so on and so forth.
00:26:09.348 - 00:26:52.168, Speaker A: And as well, they don't take a fee right? At all. Right now. Now again, you can argue and debate the merits of that until the cows come home, but I'm not here to debate that point. But because they don't take a fee, it's actually better for the liquidity providers, which again, makes more people want to provide liquidity and liquidity begets liquidity and so on and so forth, right? So I'm not saying that uniswap should have a monopoly or that uniswap is a monopoly or that, that we should give up on competing with them, but no one's even really trying, like fork. As I said, forking uniswap V two is not trying, right? You're not going to be able to compete with V three by just forking V two. And for sure, as soon as the license is up for V three, which is actually very soon, people are going to fork it. But by that point, Uniswap V four is going to come out and they're going to sub another license on it.
00:26:52.168 - 00:27:17.984, Speaker A: So if you actually want to compete, stop forking Uniswap, stop copying them and actually innovate, right? Because as I said, you can't beat them at their own game. And I think that they. And the thing with Uniswap is that it's not centralized, right? Uniswap contracts are fully decentralized on Ethereum. No one is barred from using them. Yes, the Uniswap front end does bar certain people from, from using it, but that's the front end. And I stress this a lot. Front ends are not defi protocols.
00:27:17.984 - 00:27:52.152, Speaker A: Front ends are front ends. Defi protocols are defi protocols. You can still access Uniswap from anywhere, and you can do it directly through your own full node, you know, on your own coding up yourself if you wanted to. If you're that technical, you can interact with it through Etherscan, you can do it through many number of the other front ends out there for Uniswap. And the same is true for pretty much every defi protocol that is actually decentralized. And I really just hate all these bad narratives that kind of flow up here, especially ones around Ethereum governance being captured. So stupid people will say, oh, well, you know, the governance process may be transparent, but I don't even hear about it.
00:27:52.152 - 00:28:26.480, Speaker A: It's like, well, what, so we're supposed to go to privately dm you the entire entirety of a governance process for an EIP, just so you can basically feel comfortable that Ethereum governance hasn't been captured? That's not how it works. If you actually care about Ethereum governance, then you would be paying attention to it. It's not actually hard to follow along with it. You could literally just listen, listen to the core devs call every two weeks and get the gist of it right. Then you can dive deeper in all the public in all the public information that's out there, all the channels are public. You don't have to trust anyone. It's all there out in the open for you to see.
00:28:26.480 - 00:28:49.760, Speaker A: So for people to say that, oh, yeah, you know, it might be public, but like, I don't hear about it very often, I'm sorry, but that's just bullshit. Go out and listen. I mean, you could even just watch the refuel, right? And get the gist of it, too. I cover a lot of the core developments all the time, but if you actually care about the ERP governance process itself, it's totally open. Go watch the core devs calls, go watch the consensus layer calls. Go watch all the calls. Like, if you actually care, then do that.
00:28:49.760 - 00:29:07.914, Speaker A: Now, that's not to say that we shouldn't make it easy people to digest the information. For sure we should. And there is people, there are people that do that. There are blog posts that do that. There is me that does that, there is bankless that does that. There are other educators that do it. So I just think that people are trying to push their own narrative and agenda around Ethereum governance, and it's probably gonna get worse from here.
00:29:07.914 - 00:29:47.130, Speaker A: As Ethereum grows, there are kind of like governance struggles at times, for sure. And I think that eventually, you know, in the future, maybe five to ten years, a theorem as a protocol will ossify because the governance process will become too messy. It'll be very hard to get people to agree on changes to the protocol, and the protocol basically just ossify completely, and we'll do all of our innovation at higher layers, which is actually, to be honest, the end goal of Ethereum. That should be the end game of Ethereum, to eventually just ossify be a protocol that is either, either is no changes or extremely hard to change. That, to me, is valuable only when you get to the point where it makes sense. Bitcoin ossified way too early. That's why they keep losing dominance, and that's why bitcoin is so limited.
00:29:47.130 - 00:30:38.518, Speaker A: But Ethereum will eventually get to a point where people will say, okay, well, the Ethereum protocol does everything we need it to do, to an extent. Yeah, maybe we could add this and this to it. That might give us a marginal improvement, but it's not worth, you know, going through the entire governance process, but going through a messy process of years and years just to get this in. Let's just kind of leave it at that, right, so to, so to speak. So just bit of a rant on that, because I was just seeing so many bad takes today and wanted to I guess give you give my thoughts on this because I'm sure you guys saw it too. But on that note, last thing to talk about quickly was that a gitcoin for the first time ever, UNicef Innovation is facilitating a quadratic funding grants round for ten impact focused, innovative projects from around the world and you can support them at Gitcoin Dot in Fo UNicef. I did cover this a few weeks ago that gitcoin would be working with UNiceF but it seems to be live today so you can go check this out if you're interested in it.
00:30:38.518 - 00:30:50.774, Speaker A: I'll of course link this in the YouTube description below for you but I'm out of time for today so thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
