00:00:03.760 - 00:00:54.168, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. How are you today? My name is Dave Ford, and I run an organization that is dedicated to bringing disparate parties together to help them learn about the environment. We're an environmental intelligence agency, and we got our start working on ocean plastics with an organization called the Ocean Plastic Leadership Network. And we started by taking 165 executives into the middle of the Atlantic garbage patch, which is 500 miles off the coast of Bermuda. It's one of the five gyres in the world where a high density of plastic accumulates in the ocean. And we had 165 liters. We had activists, we had big consumer packaged goods companies like Coca Cola and Procter and gamble.
00:00:54.168 - 00:01:38.224, Speaker A: We had petrochemical companies like Dow Chemical. We had the World bank, the World Wildlife Fund, an activists like Greenpeace. These organizations don't like each other, many of them, and don't get together, let alone being stuck on a ship. We were 2 miles deep pulling handfuls of plastic waste out of this patch in the Bermuda triangle. And it was an incredibly powerful moment. And three and a half years later, a $15 million reverse logistics hub in Ghana and tribal lands, USA, was born. A ton of smaller initiatives are being housed by different ngo's, and the Ocean Plastic Leadership Network was born.
00:01:38.224 - 00:02:18.492, Speaker A: Today, we're 150 organizations. We are one of the biggest conveners outside the United nations on the global plastics treaty. We're working with seven governments, including the UK and the US. And it's been an incredibly powerful journey. And I'm also Sally the ice ape in the degenerate Ape academy. And I very randomly, spontaneously, last August, found out about Solana NFTs and I bought a degenerate ape, and I had no idea just how powerful that decision would be. Now I'm in the environment.
00:02:18.492 - 00:03:13.924, Speaker A: So one of the things that I've been trying to figure out is this crypto and climate challenge crisis, right? Like, so I work day to day, so anonymously for just about a year. I was writing super threads and doing everything I could do to educate myself. And then, but little did I know how powerful this community that I joined and how impactful it would be. I was connected to the head of the degenerate trash pandas, a guy by the name of Pitt who may or may not be in this room right now. And I asked him to fund this crazy art project, this huge installation by this artist named Ben von Wong. This is actually a 40 foot high plastic tap that would probably be about as high as these lights up here. And these are six foot cutouts of the degenerate trash pandas.
00:03:13.924 - 00:03:41.900, Speaker A: And this installation I called Pitt. He said, I'll write you a check. Would not have been possible without the Solana NFT community. And it became like the iconic image for the Global Plastics treaty. 180 publications picked it up. It was on the front page of the the Washington Post. And we raised $100,000 for a slum in Kenya that helped us put this together in this organization called the Human Needs Project.
00:03:41.900 - 00:04:25.254, Speaker A: In 19 days. It was beyond my wildest imagination just how powerful this could be. So enter climate change and the confusion. It is an incredibly confusing place. You have the UN Paris agreement that has put pressure on governments, that now is putting pressure on industry, supernatural organizations like the World bank and the IMF and the UN civil society and ngo's. You have companies and industries that are emitting and trying to figure out how to curb their emissions in food and ag and energy and CPG and transportation. And then you have blockchain that has incredibly practical applications, yet it's mired in all this confusion.
00:04:25.254 - 00:05:18.364, Speaker A: But probably the lowest hanging fruit today is the carbon offset market and bringing verification and trust to that place and then supply chain tracking to help these companies figure out what their carbon imprint is. And I'm a firm believer standing here that ESG one day is going to live on blockchain like I believe in it with the fiber of my being that the company reporting metrics, all of it, are going to live on the chain and are going to be open and transparent. And this greenwash, smoke and mirrors thing that's happening today is going to change because of blockchain. But I'm also here to say that we're nowhere close to that. From a general collaborative fluency, the web two world is not there yet. I was on stage a month ago in California in front of 40 of the biggest companies in the world. They're top R and D people.
00:05:18.364 - 00:05:58.334, Speaker A: They had a dotted line into the CEO. These are brilliant, brilliant people. And I was talking about the chaos and confusion at the intersection of blockchain and climate. And I asked the room, I said, how many of you, I mean, this is the automotive industry, the mobile industry, the energy industry, like big Fortune 100s, Fortune five hundred s. And I said, how many people in the room here think that crypto is bad for the environment? And 100% of the people raised their hand. And then I said, how many people in the room here know the difference between proof of work and proof of stake? And it was a donut. Not a single person raised their hand.
00:05:58.334 - 00:06:52.100, Speaker A: And so I went into the differences in the computing power that it takes to mine bitcoin, and the fact that, yes, bitcoin miners are plugging in to decommissioned coal plants and bringing them back online. And that's a huge problem. That is an environmental catastrophe right there. I also mentioned some of the mitigation technologies that are coming online, where you can plug a bitcoin miner into a landfill and mitigate methane or a pig farm and mitigate the waste that has to be burned or a flare gas in the middle of an oil field, so it's not so cut and dry there. But when I talked about proof of stake and talked about what happens in a network model like Solana, where one sauna transaction equals 2.1 Google transactions, the room lit up. They didn't realize just how much of the blockchains out there work, just like web two.
00:06:52.100 - 00:07:34.344, Speaker A: The other problem is, it's like the game of thrones. When you're taught, when these companies are approached by l one s, you know, each of these specific, we've been, you know, winner take all for so long, and how do we bring these warring factions, these tribes that are fighting each other together? And our answer was what Amir talked about earlier was bringing some of the most powerful leaders to the Greenland ice sheet. And that's exactly what we did this summer. We had Solana and Ripple and Regen network and some of the top bitcoin mining pools and staking pools. Greenpeace, who's very involved in this issue. And we had the GBBC. We had a powerful group.
00:07:34.344 - 00:08:01.574, Speaker A: And it was not all fun and games. This is us standing in front of the Alulousac glacier, which this year in Greenland was one of the biggest melts you can imagine. And we went hard and deep and had really tough animated conversations. And an NGO was born, which is called the Blockchain Climate Leadership Network, or BXC. And I'm so proud to of announce this today. We came up and aligned you on principles. While we were in Greenland.
00:08:01.574 - 00:08:47.480, Speaker A: A month later, with our partners at Bikowg, we explored interoperability and how chains can work together, specifically on carbon markets. Five more l one s joined like this is happening. And our mission is to bridge the most powerful organizations in web two and web3. So we could just move faster. Because we're not moving fast enough. We're inviting the biggest l one s and foundations and investors, the biggest companies in the world in Web two, the banks and the brands and the most powerful ngo's and academia and supernatural organizations. I'm so proud to say today that Solana, via the Solana foundation, is our first founding member.
00:08:47.480 - 00:09:29.618, Speaker A: We have a second top ten l one that just joined that I hope you'll be able to announce soon. Soon. We have a networked commons that's going to span across web two and web3, and we're going to be working on real projects to bridge and get things faster, socially, technically and structurally all over the world. I'm going to Egypt at Copt next week, and we're going to be along this journey for the course of the next year. We're going to be working incredibly hard to make a difference, to educate and build this collaborative fluency so that we can move faster. We're going to be going back to Greenland. We're going to be going from Iceland to Greenland, inviting all those organizations in the world.
00:09:29.618 - 00:09:56.586, Speaker A: This ship is an expedition voyage. It is not fancy. We're quadruple offsetting our carbon, but we're going to do the exact same formula that we did in the middle of the Atlantic gyre next July. I want to introduce this piece of art from scum. One of the most, he's in the audience somewhere, one of the most prolific artists, one of the most powerful artists in the Solana ecosystem. He was with us in Greenland. If you see that blockchain in the middle, that is what we are all about.
00:09:56.586 - 00:10:40.386, Speaker A: We're about enabling this technology to drive us forth fast on climate. And in closing, I just want to thank Solana and thank the Solana Foundation. I had no idea that by getting involved in an NFT community that I'd be standing here before you today, really known in my heart that we, this community, can make a huge difference in the world with respect to climate change. And that blockchain is central and is there. So I just want to thank the DeGeneres, I want to thank Solana foundation. And if any of you think you can help, we raised the first million out of our 7 million. Please reach out to me at Daveford on Twitter orllytheiceape.
00:10:40.386 - 00:10:48.734, Speaker A: And I just stand before you humbly. I'm incredibly energized and grateful and excited, and there's just absolutely no time to waste. Thank you.
