00:00:07.690 - 00:00:28.450, Speaker A: Hey, everybody. Thank you all for being here. I'm Slater Heil. I'm the founder of Composable Corp. And a few different protocols, the one in question here being stake up. It's a yield bearing stablecoin with treasury bills as its backing. And I wanted to talk today about kind of the first principles of stablecoin.
00:00:28.450 - 00:01:51.674, Speaker A: What really is a stablecoin? How does permissioning work within stablecoin systems, and how do these RWA integrations that have become very trendy lately kind of play into that permissioning spectrum? So what really is a stablecoin? I think the best analog for the regular person is kind of like a bank deposit or a bank liability. Basically, it's a system where collateral exists and carries risks of redeemability for $1, related to its mechanisms of issuance and redemption, its collateralization and its accessibility. And those risks play out in very different ways depending on if it's a more centralized system, like a bank, or if it's a more decentralized system, like a protocol. So just to make a few examples there, right. The risks of a bank deposit are pretty clear and well understood. You often have duration risks, like we saw play out with Silicon Valley bank and others in the last few years, where, let's say you're holding a long dated bond with a very low interest rate, and all of a sudden, all of your depositors want to redeem their effectively stable coins or their deposits for an actual dollar. You have to go and sell that collateral.
00:01:51.674 - 00:02:51.362, Speaker A: And if that collateral is sitting at a loss, there's a chance not all users are going to be made whole. So that's kind of how a traditional banking system works. There are still, of course, clear rule sets, but it's based a lot on human discretion within those rule sets, which affects the risk of actually being able to redeem for a dollar with a protocol or a stablecoin, generally, depending on how decentralized it is, you have a much greater guarantee of redeemability. But of course, it still does carry risks. And again, those risks are related to the level of decentralization of the different components of the stablecoin system. So before we get into the details of different types of stablecoins, I want to talk about just what's the point of DeFi, right? Like, why bring these on chain, sorry, why bring these bank liabilities, these ious of dollars, into the onchain ecosystem? The first and foremost reason is that counterparty risk is the biggest hidden risk in all traditional finance. Right.
00:02:51.362 - 00:03:40.226, Speaker A: There's the classic saying, know thy counterparty, because in stressful black swan market situations, that's really what ends up getting you even at a large scale. When your counterparty blows up, there's not a whole lot that you can do about it, even though it generally only happens in pretty extreme black swan events. So the point of DeFi from a first principles level is that we can trade off counterparty risk for smart contract risk. Instead, we can write rules with systems that are going to self execute and do exactly what they say they are going to do. So we no longer have to trust a counterparty to do what they say they are going to do. What this does at a more specific level is eliminate the risk of discretion and collateral integrity, right? So I already mentioned Silicon Valley bank. They were held in a bunch of long dated bonds at 1%.
00:03:40.226 - 00:04:45.094, Speaker A: Interest rates went up to 5%. All of a sudden they're sitting on massive losses. And none of the depositors can really know that, right? Without complete transparency about the backing of any specific bank. Really, how can you expect the average person to understand that, right? The average depositor to understand that? The last piece is, you can now enable universal accessibility, right? So once you have a stablecoin on chain, anyone anywhere that can access the network that it's on can access the stablecoin, rather than having to go through the arduous KYC and identity verification processes that you need to have, as well as regulations that you need to have in a banking system. So there's a lot of value in bringing these things on chain. So what does it mean for a stablecoin to be less or more decentralized? I think there's three different components here. The first is its mechanism of issuance and redemption, right? So in the example of tether, the largest stablecoin, you have a pretty simple issuance redemption mechanism, but it's not really decentralized, right? Where you have to have a tether account, it's kind of a web two system.
00:04:45.094 - 00:05:11.200, Speaker A: You have some fee baked in there and they have an internal system that matches up the collateral with the redemption. Now, of course, the actual issuance of the USDT is decentralized. It's an ERC 20. It's true of every stablecoin. But the system of issuance redemption is centralized. A different side of that is like liquidy, right, where it's completely decentralized. You put in one token and you get out the stablecoin no matter what.
00:05:11.200 - 00:06:23.960, Speaker A: Then of course there's decentralization of access, which I kind of just spoke about whether or not you have to go through KYC constraints to access the stablecoin is a pretty big differentiator, and that's one of the things that's starting to happen more and more with these RWA stablecoins. Last but not least, probably the most important piece is the decentralization of collateralization of the system, right? So there's a few different kind of models you can have here, which we'll get into more as we go, but this is by far the most important because humans can lie, right? So the point of this all is eliminating the risk of humans lying, instead making smart contracts that always do what they say they're going to do. Here's kind of a nice spectrum of the most important stablecoins in my view, and their levels of decentralization, from liquidy down to the kind of RWA stablecoins at the end. If I had to give a level one through three of the levels of decentralization, the first would be fully decentralized and autonomous. Absolutely no governance. And no governance is very important, right? Because even if your governance is decentralized, people can still vote for the wrong outcome. That's going to have a negative impact on the system.
00:06:23.960 - 00:07:06.574, Speaker A: The second is governance operated parameters and discretion of collateral, but smart contract issuance. So this is something like Makerdao where it is all decentralized in a widely distributed governance mechanism. However, there still can make the wrong decision, as I mentioned. But once those decisions are made, the actual issuance is completely done by smart contracts. It's guaranteed to do what it says it's going to do. The third is fully centralized and permissioned. USDC USDT fit in this bucket as well as the ones that have a little bit more of a layer of permissioning, like Athena's USDE, USDM from mountain protocol and USDY from Ondo.
00:07:06.574 - 00:08:25.386, Speaker A: They introduce an additional layer of permissioning where you actually have to be KYC to issue and redeem, which is kind of against the ethos of web three. Why does decentralization of access matter? I think this is a fairly self explanatory question. But of course the goal of DeFi is to democratize finance, right? To make the best available financial products available to all of the world, not just the privileged. And the more important piece, which is maybe a little bit less spoken about, is composability. The real value of bringing an asset on chain, from a practical perspective, is pretty much entirely predicated on composability, on the ability to start with one asset, add it into another system to make more yield or provide liquidity, whatever you're trying to do. Composability is essential to really the function of all of DeFi. However, the issuance of redemption decentralization is probably the most important part, because if you have a centralized issuance redemption process, regulatory concerns could, for example, lead to a total loss for a holder, right? Like maybe tether, for example, were to get enforced on and their treasuries seized in that black swan scenario.
00:08:25.386 - 00:09:10.538, Speaker A: All of a sudden the millions of people around the world holding tether could be subject to losses. And of course, like we already discussed, like the Silicon Valley bank example, a centralized issuer and redeemer can make a bad decision about collateralization. They can make mistakes, or they could even perform fraud, right? And issue more than they truly have the collateralization for when a smart contract does it, this is no longer possible. Last again, it threatens composability. If there is a KYC process to issuance and redemption generally, you can't have full composability and stack those yields on with others. Most important thing, again, I've hammered the point home a few times, but humans are flawed. That's why we're inventing the system.
00:09:10.538 - 00:10:02.246, Speaker A: That's why we're moving to a DeFi standard, so we no longer have to rely on the decision making of people which are by definition flawed. Instead, we can guarantee we get the right output from our inputs using smart contracts. So the big trend of the year so far has been yield bearing stablecoins. And the reason I wanted to give this talk is because I think there's fair reason to be concerned about the decentralization trade offs that occur for most yield bearing stablecoin models. The trend, however, is very positive. Right? The ethos of web three is to share value with your users as much as possible. So seeing stablecoin issuers go from a model of hoarding all the yield from the backing collateral to now sharing that yield with their users is overall a very positive trend.
00:10:02.246 - 00:10:50.710, Speaker A: However, the trade off is centralization in a lot of cases as well as KYC constraints. So KYC constraints, period, are, I think, generally against the ethos of web three. But more important, from the composability perspective, if your token has a whitelisted permissioned transferring system, it just can't be compatible with DeFi. Because DeFi is permissionless by nature. Not only are daos not going to want to take the risk of adding on a KYC potential security asset into their permissionless protocol, it often might not even be possible. If your asset can only be transferred within a whitelisted system. A lot of these stablecoins also market themselves as permissionless, but they have us users blocked.
00:10:50.710 - 00:11:47.630, Speaker A: Right? So that's kind of a contradiction. There are some somewhat clever regulatory arbitrages happening where the layer one, the first issuer of the stablecoin that's actually interacting with the customer, or, sorry, with the issuer, is KYC, and then permissionless transfer is enabled thereafter. And this is kind of a clever way to get around KYC constraints. But the problem is that other protocols that are fully composable and permissionless are still not going to be able to integrate those assets because now they're taking the risk of sharing those assets with us users which are not supposed to be able to access them. So this is not a long term solution. Like I said, if you're not truly permissionless, you're going to limit yourself on defi integrations. Maybe you'll get a few different partners to integrate here and there, but if you're transferring regulatory risk to the partners that are integrating your products, it's not going to be a good long term solution.
00:11:47.630 - 00:12:58.130, Speaker A: And then, of course, even if you are starting to share more and more of the value of the collateral backing of a stablecoin with your users, as long as you have a centralized entity in existence behind the issuance process, you're still going to be extracting some level of value, right? So as long as you're not a full dow, full token operated protocol, if you have a centralized issuer somewhere in the process that's taking fees, it's still value extractive, which is going to make it difficult to compete with RWAs on a net net yield basis. So one of the things we're trying to do at Composable Corp. My company, is introduce what we think is the closest thing possible to the perfect yield bearing RWA stablecoin. The first piece, of course, is decentralization on all the strata we mentioned. The second piece is yield bearing with negligible economic risk. So in my view, this means only pulling interest from the risk free rate. The third piece is 100% value sharing with its users, no value extraction from any centralized entity.
00:12:58.130 - 00:13:14.900, Speaker A: And the fourth piece is regulatory compliance and non security status. You can learn more about how stakeup does this on our X account, which is kind of posted there. And that's it. I think I'm a little short on time, but yeah, thank you guys for coming and listening to my talk.
