00:00:03.520 - 00:00:35.355, Speaker A: Okay, so we are all set. Yeah. First of all, I'm very glad always to see defi enthusiasts around and thank you for coming. I want to also thank for the organization team of the conference for setting up this amazing event. I was here last year and it was amazing. I decided to to come back and do the talk again. My name is Nicola or if you want to hit me up on Twitter, it's definicola.
00:00:35.355 - 00:01:23.837, Speaker A: I'm coming from a member of the Block Analytica team which is basically originated from the MakerDAO risk team. We are basically doing risk management for now. Numerous defi lending protocols of course including Makers Spark which is a subdao maker now also more for Blue protocol. We're doing risk creation there. They have sort of a different approach to risk management. We also covering badgerdao, the EBTC protocol, AJNA project as well, et cetera. Okay, so yeah, today's talk as you can see is going to be latest developments in defi.
00:01:23.837 - 00:02:17.039, Speaker A: This is actually something I've been covering for quite some time now. Been giving this talk like a couple of years, for a couple of years now. This is the topic. The interesting thing is that the topic stays the same but the agenda as you imagine changes a lot because we are working in an industry that is evolving at the pace only we know how quickly things evolve in defi. So yeah, it's sometimes pretty interesting to see to compare the agenda from let's say last year to this one to this year. So I was actually giving like the same talk topic wise in Warsaw last year here and the agenda looked like this. So we basically covered decentralized perpetual futures.
00:02:17.039 - 00:03:44.401, Speaker A: We went through the different mechanisms and designs of those protocols and we basically compared last year the volumes on perpetual futures on decentralized exchanges and the perpetual futures there and the volumes on decentralized perpetual futures. And we basically saw there is a shift, like a significant shift of volumes from centralized exchanges to decentralized exchanges as our industry and the underlying technology progresses. We also covered Oracle free lending, that was like the emerging topic last year, the defi lending protocols that basically wanted to eliminate the external dependency of the price feeds of the Oracles. And we basically covered different approaches to this paradigm and we covered the leveraged ETH staking which will this year be risk taking with the introduction of the risk taking project called Eagle Layer. So yeah, comparing to this year's agenda, the first topic will be something some aggregation of the new iterations of Defi Bluetooth protocols. We'll see that a lot of teams are releasing their new version of their protocols. Some are just proposed, some are already live.
00:03:44.401 - 00:04:49.895, Speaker A: We're also touching the point of the Maker endgame since as some of you may know, Maker recently announced the rebrand to sky ecosystem. So we'll discuss a bit, the new stablecoin that will coexist, sort of coexist with the DAI stablecoin that is it's important to note, going nowhere so you will still able to to use the DAI Stable coin. This rebrand is part of like phase one of the Maker endgame and it's like currently rolling out. So I think it's important to mention the topic. Then we're going to head to the Dune upgrades which went live in March this year, and the upgrade on the Ethereum level that brought significant reductions in transaction fees on L2s. Then we're going to head to something that was definitely not present last year. It's the cash and carry strategy that has been popularized and by tokenizing it by the Athena project.
00:04:49.895 - 00:05:49.545, Speaker A: It's interesting topic I think because it's basically introduced a new yield source in Defi and as I mentioned, we're going to also cover the leveraged ethics, let's say staking, because I think it's still a thing. We'll discuss a bit about risk developments there. And yeah, I'll then wrap up with some Defi tools I'm using on a daily basis and that you may want to consider using while wandering through Defi, regardless of chain or the use case you have while using Defi. Okay, so the first one is basically the new iterations of Defi blue chip protocols. The first one is AAVE. They proposed like the V4 version. It's expected to go live in 2025.
00:05:49.545 - 00:07:04.171, Speaker A: Now I'm going to cover briefly some of the new features proposed and introduced. I'm definitely limited the scope of the presentation because of the time, of course, but for that purpose you expect to find these kind of QR codes you can scan if you want to read later or just for further details. I wrote basically threads about the majority of those protocols, the new versions, so you can read it up later because as I said, I'm not going to. I will probably not cover everything. So in AAVE before they basically the most let's say relevant feature proposed is something called Unified Liquidity Layer where AAVE aims to eliminate the need to migrate liquidity from the previous version to the new version of the protocol because those are always like a separate set of smart contracts. You kind of need to migrate all liquidity to incentivize people to migrate to a new version. I also introduced some innovations regarding the peg keeping mechanism of their Go stablecoin.
00:07:04.171 - 00:08:09.429, Speaker A: So the V4 is going to use the soft liquidations that were pioneered by the Curve team in the CurveUSD lending protocol and they will combine it with the redemption mechanism of liquidity. We won liquidity v2 actually the code base was released like a couple of days ago. I think Liquitee V2 aims to introduce new redemption mechanism. They also introduced a new stablecoin called Bold. The main innovation here, like something that they are somewhat pioneering in my opinion, is the user set interest rates. So in Liquidity two, while opening a loan you'll be able to set the interest you're willing to pay. I know it may sound like a utopian, but it actually, you're actually setting that interest rate based on the risk you are willing to take on the redemption risk.
00:08:09.429 - 00:09:10.205, Speaker A: Because in liquidity alongside liquidation you also have a redemption risk which was based on your collateralization ratio in V1 and in V2 it's going to be based on the interest rate. So the higher the interest rate you are paying, the less risk you are taking, the less redemption risk you are taking. Uniswap V4 of course relatively new, but yeah, there are still some ongoing developments when it comes to hooks. People trying to build some interesting things when it comes to, you know, logic between and after swapping. Synthetics v3 the Perpetual Future protocol, which basically means synthetic assets that are used to underwrite different liquidity for different markets. Their target market is of course perpetual futures. CurvyUSD already mentioned it.
00:09:10.205 - 00:09:49.325, Speaker A: Its protocol launched last year, but the Llama Land is something new. CurvyUSD is basically more of a CDP based Laram protocol that introduced soft liquidations. Soft liquidations. I don't know if you're familiar with it or how much, but you can also read it up in more detail. Like in brief, Protocol basically shifts your volatile collateral to their stablecoin. So you basically can end up having Curve USD, the stable coin as collateral and as debt. So you avoid hard liquidation.
00:09:49.325 - 00:11:17.131, Speaker A: And it also goes in the other direction is if the price comes up, your Curve USD as collateral can be converted back to the volatile collateral you use. Let's say Ether or Bitcoin. Llamaland is basically their aim to offer shorting different assets because CurvyUSD is more like maker or Liquite where you can just mint the stablecoin and thus long volatile assets. While on Llama land you can basically deposit CurveUSD as collateral and borrow, let's say Ether or Bitcoin and thus short those assets. Morpho Blue is a morpho team basically started by building the optimizers on top of defi money markets such as compound and aave, optimizing the rates for suppliers and borrowers by, you know, taking out specific positions out of the liquidity pool and matching them peer to peer. They at the start of this year introduced some completely separate new protocol called Morphoblue and they basically aim to be like the financial infrastructure by introducing like completely permissionless and immutable core primitive which is Morphoblue. And then you can build on top of it.
00:11:17.131 - 00:12:46.030, Speaker A: You can build mutable projects on top of it such as let's say metamorpho vaults for depositing liquidity so that risk curators can then allocate that liquidity to some markets that are deemed not to be risky so users can earn risk adjusted yields. Euler V2 also launched a couple of days ago. Urine V3 is also something new. GMX introducing the V2 of their protocol. So yeah, really I'm going to skip this part because there's a lot of things going on. I probably even missed some of the protocols because I mean the bottom line is that the OG teams really seems that they're building probably even more than any, you know, anyone before. And yeah, some interesting insight, you know, observation let's say I had while researching all of those protocols was basically that all those teams kind of took the step back and introduced a more generalized version of their protocols in a sense that for example you can build Synthetix v2 on top of Synthetix v3.
00:12:46.030 - 00:14:10.905, Speaker A: Or let's say you can the AAVE v3 deployment can be a single market that can be built on top of AAVE V3 along all other markets. Okay so yeah that's narrative of building more modular and generalized versions seems to be to be coming up. Okay, so the next topic is also relatively new maker like a couple of days ago introduced the rebrand that is like part of the phase one of the endgame here. I just wanted to emphasize that the DAI stablecoin and Maker token, the governance token will remain but the users will have the option to convert to like new the new stablecoin and the new governance token called sky that will be available from September 18th when those tokens launch. And of course your users are going to be incentivized to do so because of the farming that will be available. The farming of the Sky Token with usds stablecoin and many other things. Alongside that there will be a new savings rate which will have a slightly higher yield than the current DAI savings rate.
00:14:10.905 - 00:15:19.405, Speaker A: So there will be some incentives there too. Also important to emphasize that it will be possible at any time to switch back to usds back to dai. Same goes for maker token as well. The difference between these two, I think it's important to mention that as well is that DAI will be focusing on crypto native use cases while the USDS will be used for mass adoption for scaling basically. And that Maker has been trying has been doing the allocations and injecting liquidity in real world assets for some time now and I think that is also the direction that it will take with the USDS when it comes to mass adoption. One concern that was raised in the community was the upgradability of the USDS and the potential freeze function of the new stablecoin. So yeah, DAI is definitely not upgradable and everybody is still going to.
00:15:19.405 - 00:17:12.125, Speaker A: Everybody can still use it, but the USDS is upgradable, sorry, meaning that at some point if the decentralized governance decide, the freeze function, if deemed necessary can be added probably for the regulation purposes and such. But it's important to note that USDS will not have a freeze function at launch which will be on September 18th. Okay, so yeah, this is going to be a quick topic. Basically in March this year after the DNCON upgrade, the new data type was introduced called blobs that are basically used by the L2 solutions. This enabled significantly lower transaction cost on L2s and I think this is important in general for the defi space because it has very significant impact on it because now you have no, let's say barriers to trading fully on chain because protocols, lending protocols as well as the perp protocols deployed on L tools after the upgrade because the fees are very low. So you can basically open leverage position let's say on AAVE or morphoblue on an L2 in one click at below $1 which I think is really cool as now people. That said, I'm using centralized exchanges because it's much cheaper and it's not that I don't care about cell custody do not have that excuse anymore.
00:17:12.125 - 00:18:40.571, Speaker A: I think cash and carry strategy is basically as I said, relatively new yield source in defi. The yield source is basically capturing funding something called funding on perpetual exchanges. So to break it down briefly, let's say that you have 10 ether you want to open delta neutral position. Now what that is is basically you take 9 of that 10 ether, put it in some lending protocol, I would say AAVE, to earn some yield, and use the remaining 1 ether to open a 10x short position on some decentralized perpetual future exchange. So that means you basically have 10 ETH spot and you have basically shorted the same amount of ether on the perpetual exchange with the margin the collateral of that one ether. So basically you have no price exposure of the collateral you're using in this case ether, while you are hopefully earning some yield. Why hopefully? Well, because on AAVE you're surely earning like the supply rate on that nine ether, while on decentralized perpetual futures you may be paying or earning something called funding.
00:18:40.571 - 00:20:17.725, Speaker A: It basically depends on the open interest on that perpetual future exchange. Historical data shows that people who are taking the short size of the trade are most of the time earning funding rate. Okay, but it's important to emphasize that this strategy can, you know, is of course bear some risk. For example, if funding goes negative for a prolonged period of time, you may experience losses and maybe even liquidation on the perpetual futures exchange. That's why it's important to diversify in terms of both exchanges, what you use and the collateral allocation to lower this kind of risk. If you are not familiar with the perps and how they function, I basically also wrote a thread about those so you can then read on also about delta neutral strategies, which is necessary for this kind of cash and carry strategy. Now this year we saw a project that basically tokenized these kind of positions so you don't have to open multiple positions on multiple protocols, manage those positions when it comes to risk, try to avoid liquidations, try to track whether you are earning or paying funding, etc.
00:20:17.725 - 00:21:33.049, Speaker A: If you know, project came up, they're basically doing all that for users and just minting the token that is actually backed by the delta neutral position under the hood, minting the token back to the user. So under the hood, how the flow looks like is basically you deposit some, let's say usdc Athena uses that to open the delta neutral position. The good thing or the bad thing is that they can use both decentralized and centralized perpetual futures. And then when they open a position, they mint you the token called usde, that as I said, is backed by a delta neutral position to actually earn yield. This way you need to stake the USD is, let's say stablecoin. It's a, it's a token, is a synthetic token. So by holding, just by holding S U S D E, you basically can capture the funding on various exchanges that basically Athena is using.
00:21:33.049 - 00:23:46.915, Speaker A: So they, they made the process of capturing it much easier, you know, by just holding some token, not having to deal with multiple positions and managing those. But of course, you know, I wanted to again say that here, especially in the beer market, it's very important to diversify, as I said, in both in terms of exchanges and in terms of allocation of the, let's say unallocated code collateral or the insurance fund that Ethan has, you know, to avoid having to pay funding, you know, in case of a negative funding, having to pay funding on the short side, you are taking, if you tokenize something, of course, that enables leverage. So susd, as you may assume, is used as collateral now on basically every major defi lending protocol, it's very, let's say similar to dai because it's a yield bearing asset, it constantly increases in value. Looping is possible like on one click already in various lending protocols to maximize the apy. So basically as long as the yield that Athena is generating by this strategy, the yield that susd, the APY of SUSD is greater than the borrow rate on the underlying protocol that you are using to loop for this kind of position, you're basically maximizing your apy. But of course, as you may assume, this is a whole another level, another risk level because you are first using some additional lending protocol to do this. Second, you need to follow the borrow rate on the lending protocols in defi that are usually variable, so you may end up having negative API, et cetera.
00:23:46.915 - 00:24:46.633, Speaker A: This is actually something that is part of our work for Morpho Blue protocol and risk creation there. We basically are injecting DAI liquidity into one of our Morpho vaults, which is basically underwriting this kind of positions. So you can open, let's say a leveraged SUSD die position on Morpho Blue if you think that it'll be profitable. Currently I think that Athena's yield is actually lower than the borrow rate, so it might not be profitable. But there are also other incentives, such as incentives from ethena, the points, etc. Okay, so the next one is leveraged ETH staking. This is actually a topic that was mentioned last year as well, but I left it here because I believe it's still a thing.
00:24:46.633 - 00:25:52.625, Speaker A: There were many important developments like from last year when it comes to this strategy. In theory, if you max out in terms of leverage, you can still have like 20% APY on ETH. From risk perspective, there were some changes. We basically at Block Analytica did the analysis of, of comparing using market price versus the exchange rate for the staked eth tokens, let's say rocket pools, Reth or Lido's staked eth, et cetera. And we basically decided to switch to the exchange rate used as an oracle in defi lending protocols that sort of enable the looping of of staked ETH having it as collateral and ETH as a debt asset. So it's basically a strategy called leveraged ETH staking. I also wrote a full risk analysis if you want to check it out.
00:25:52.625 - 00:27:31.337, Speaker A: So yeah, now majority of protocols are using exchange rates such as Morphoblue, avv, Free Spark. This basically the main, you know, argument for doing this is to prevent sudden, to prevent liquidations if there is a sudden small price drop for any reason of the stake teeth derivatives that are used as collateral in those protocols because people tend to, you know, max out in terms of leverage and then if you see some even little and slight price drop, they can get liquidated. And being liquidated, you know, it's paying liquidation penalties and it's not good. The minimum spread actually between the ETH staking yield and the borrow rate on the underlying lending protocol went down to 0.2%. If you want to compare if this strategy is more profitable than simply holding some of the ETH eth staking derivatives such as Lido staked Eth. And on the graph I don't know if you can see but on the graph below you can basically see the like the historical comparison between the Lido yield and the AAVE borrow rate on Ether. What also has been developed is that the new interest rate models when it comes to the borrow rate of Ether in the underlying protocol.
00:27:31.337 - 00:28:26.005, Speaker A: So let's say AAVE and Spark are basically making sure setting up the interest rate models so that makes sure that the borrow rate will always be below the staking yield. So this strategy always basically stays stays profitable. Okay. Yeah. So to wrap up I just wanted to leave some tools here that I'm using on a daily basis and that you might consider if you're not using it already. So if you want to avoid being MEV'd consider using MEV Blocker and Flashbots RPCs. If you need guests on basically any chain, you can use the tool coming from the amazing guys at Defi Llama called the small refuel simulation is something that I usually recommend especially to people that are new to the industry.
00:28:26.005 - 00:29:37.469, Speaker A: Simulation in terms of transactions, if you want to, you know, see the output of the transaction, how it like what happens within the transaction, et cetera. In general you can use the Rabi wallet and for like defi landing protocols and that specific use case you can try out the defi saver. They also has like simulation that you can basically turn on and then check out the whole app when it comes to loan management to minimize the liquidation risk. Yeah, please focus on protocols that are battle tested that are doing proper risk management and yeah, ideally try out some automation features and try to use multi signature wallets for various reasons for swapping. What I also usually recommend is the meta aggregation which kind of llamaswap does without any additional risk and if not that just consider using the aggregators themselves. Okay, I think that'll be it. Thanks.
00:29:37.469 - 00:29:38.665, Speaker A: Thanks for listening.
00:29:42.845 - 00:30:11.945, Speaker B: Now if you want to step over here, Nicola, we can take one or two questions from you while the crew is setting up for our next panel. So crew, can we start setting up for the panel? Thank you. Thank you. If you want to just come right here so you don't get a chair dropped on your foot. Does anyone have questions for Nicola? He just gave us an amazing presentation. From what I am understanding and I'm putting this very basically you can make your crypto work for you while you're I don't know, going to events or going on a vacation to Italy. So does anyone have any questions about anything you heard? Yes, please.
00:30:11.945 - 00:30:13.445, Speaker B: Guy with a cool hat.
00:30:14.025 - 00:31:38.375, Speaker A: Hi, you've mentioned that you can use like perp trading platforms to create this kind of delta neutral portfolios but isn't it better to use like dated futures and dated options for the same date to create delta neutral portfolio? And there is like not a lot of tools like this on the market but like perps in this scenario I think not an ideal tool. I would, I mean I would actually agree but I think that options like as a type of a derivative and especially I agree that definitely can be used for this purpose. I think they're not lived up to their expectations especially compared to like traditional finance and compared to perpetual adoption of perpetual futures in the defi space because of the complexity. I think that you know people, if you are using perpetual futures you just pick leverage and you know, one click and that's it for options you really need to understand in more depth, let's say you know how that all functions and it's I would say for sophisticated traders and of course you can do delta neutral and it may, I would argue it's maybe even easier but you know, people are just used to this kind of type of derivative, at least for now in defi. So. Yeah, but in general I would definitely agree. Yeah.
00:31:40.315 - 00:31:46.015, Speaker B: Great question. Okay, fantastic. Waiting for one more chair. Do we have one very quick question? Yes please.
00:31:46.405 - 00:32:22.135, Speaker A: And what about funding? Because if we're talking about perp futures, it means that you have to pay funding and you know like what comes from my research, it makes such schemas not non profitable. Yeah. Because all the percentage that you get from the defi you have to pay as a funding. You're asking about funding in a sense of options or because in sense of futures future trading you have to pay funding, you know, or someone pay funding to you. Exactly. There is definitely a risk. I mean the Athena project that is like tokenizing.
00:32:22.135 - 00:32:51.035, Speaker A: This whole strategy has like established risk committee just for this purpose because they don't want to end up paying funding for a prolonged period of time because that will end up them losing money. Right. That goes the same for like individual traders. So it's definitely more risky and that's why I mentioned diversification. Right. You need to you know, use different exchanges and. Because funding is different on different exchanges of course.
00:32:51.035 - 00:33:11.035, Speaker A: And yeah like the whole strategy is based on a historical data that shows that funding was usually and like most of the time positive and if it turned negative, it stayed negative or like some insignificant, let's say period of time.
00:33:11.975 - 00:33:20.463, Speaker B: Great question. Sorry we don't have any more time but if you'd like to speak to Nicola, that would be amazing if. Thank you so much Nicola.
00:33:20.559 - 00:33:20.855, Speaker A: Thank you.
