00:00:00.520 - 00:00:26.910, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 14 April 2021. Right. Every day, everyone, today is a very big day for the crypto ecosystem. I'm sure, you know, many of you are aware that Coinbase is a direct listing on this stock exchange in the US today. But before I dive into all of that, I did want to point out that, you know, each price action has been pretty great lately. Right.
00:00:26.910 - 00:00:44.662, Speaker A: We're at fresh all time highs. I think the latest all time high is around $2,400 here. We've come down a bit from there, of course. But I think obviously this price rise can be mostly attributed to the Coinbase hype. Right. But also the fact that, you know, a lot of us believe that ETH has been undervalued for quite a. Quite a while now.
00:00:44.662 - 00:01:12.312, Speaker A: But, yeah, obviously it's been going up for a little while. I'm not sure, you know, how frothy it's going to get from here. I think it depends on what happens with Coinbase. So, yeah, I think just. Just wanted to kind of point that out and just kind of do a bit of a celebration on the, on the video today. But I think the, the real news to talk about is, of course, Coinbase going live on the stock exchange here with the ticker coin. So Fred Ursam, one of the co founders of Coinbase, put together this really nice thread here.
00:01:12.312 - 00:01:35.802, Speaker A: You can go read it. It'll be linked in the YouTube description, but it basically talks about the history of Coinbase here. But, and I wrote about kind of like, what's, what I think is going to happen today and why this is such a watershed moment for crypto in the newsletter. But essentially, I think Coinbase is going to. Its valuation is going to be really high. It's $150 billion or something like that. That's going to be worth more than a lot of us banks.
00:01:35.802 - 00:02:13.010, Speaker A: So, you know, some of them, including the Goldman Sachs and even non us banks like HSBC, it's going to be worth more than them. It's going to be worth more than popular fintech companies like square. And then, you know, when you really kind of take all that into account, I think it's going to really take people, you know, off guard. Right. And shock them. Especially people that don't pay attention to crypto, you know, think it's a scam or think it's a fat or whatever, and then you have this pure play crypto company that is literally 97% or something of their revenues, something high like that comes from crypto trading, is going to be worth more than some us banks, right? $150 billion plus. Like, I'm expecting it to kind of go much higher than that.
00:02:13.010 - 00:02:38.040, Speaker A: But, you know, from that point of view, you kind of look at that and you're like, okay, well, this is going to legitimize the asset class as a whole because there's going to be so many doubters and so many people who thought it was a fad, they're now probably going to think to themselves, wow, like, did I miss something here? Like, holy crap. I thought bitcoin and ethereum were dead, right? I thought all this stuff was dead. I thought it wasn't going to. Going to go anywhere. I didn't think people were making money out of this. I didn't think there was real businesses here. And obviously there is.
00:02:38.040 - 00:03:22.142, Speaker A: Obviously there's billions of dollars being made every single day by the entire ecosystem, made and lost depending on what you're doing. But from that point of view, I think that's what's going to cause the kind of paradigm shift here and that kind of watershed moment for the asset class in general. Now, of course, you know, a lot of Coinbase's growth is tied to the growth of the crypto markets. So if the crypto markets cool down, then Coinbase will cool down as well. But I do think that Coinbase will become a nice little index product. Like, not a literal index product, but like a kind of like signal to show, like how, I guess, well, the crypto markets are doing in general, like, how hot the markets are at any given time and kind of like the health of the overall markets as well. So that's another kind of positive thing there.
00:03:22.142 - 00:03:49.198, Speaker A: And on top of that, I also think that Coinbase will continue growing. And I do think it's going to be a trillion dollar company eventually. And that's just going to, I mean, that sort of stuff is just like such an amazing story as well. Like, Coinbase has a really great story behind it. I mean, Fred says some stuff about that in his thread here. But if you just think about it, it was a company that started, you know, literally out of like a two bedroom apartment. As Fred says here, it was launched when bitcoin was only worth six.
00:03:49.198 - 00:04:16.794, Speaker A: So basically nothing. The asset class was literally back then. It was, it was, it was just majority bitcoin was being used to buy drugs off Silk Road. Like, that's not a secret and it was basically a thing for like people really deep into the, into the cypher punt movement to kind of play around with. So, you know, there was this company that launched back then. The early investors took a massive bet because crypto was in no way a sure thing back then, like 2012. I mean, definitely very, very risky.
00:04:16.794 - 00:04:56.450, Speaker A: So investors took a massive bet on this company back then and obviously they're being rewarded for that now. But just that that story is going to be something that I think mainstream media really wants to tell. They really want to, you know, hype up because it speaks to, I guess, the american dream, right? A us based company started from a two bedroom apartment, turned into like a multi hundred billion dollar company. Now right off the back of this kind of crazy crypto thing that's in the news because we have like, obviously nfts blowing up and, and, you know, the price is going nuts. So crypto is all in the news right now. So all of that kind of combined together is just going to create like a perfect storm here. And, you know, short term, the volatility is probably going to be quite high in either direction.
00:04:56.450 - 00:05:19.438, Speaker A: Going to go up, gonna go down. Right. But long term, you know, the growth prospects for Coinbase are there. It follows a lot of what the crypto markets do. It's definitely very, very hyped up in terms of like, how much it can grow from here as well. I'm sure they're not just going to be a transactional business forever where they rely on crypto trading fees. They're going to lean into their other business kind of units here over time.
00:05:19.438 - 00:05:42.886, Speaker A: But yeah, in general, this is going to be the biggest thing. You know, you may be watching the refuel before this goes live. I think early afternoon, maybe 01:30 p.m. Eastern standard time in the US. This is expected to list directly on, on the exchange here, but you may be watching it after. I mean, I'm just really, really curious to see what happens here. I think I'm going to be in bed by the time at least I think it's about 8 hours from when I'm recording this.
00:05:42.886 - 00:06:10.374, Speaker A: So I'm definitely going to be sound asleep. So it's going to be fun to wake up tomorrow morning and have to catch up on all these stuff, that's for sure. But yeah, I think this is going to be really huge for crypto overall. And I'm really excited to see this kind of play out over the coming months. And speaking of that, you can actually track all of this. We use this using the block's new data dashboard for Coinbase here. So there's a bunch of different kind of metrics here, tracking revenue, gross profit, verified users and things like that.
00:06:10.374 - 00:06:32.044, Speaker A: I mean, Coinbase has almost 60 million verified users here. That's. That's pretty crazy, right? And then a bunch of other, you know, different metrics here. So, yeah, definitely go check that out. If you want to get more information about Coinbase, there's one more thing here. Binance is listing Coinbase's stock token on their exchange as well. So you can trade like, fractions of a stock on there and things like that.
00:06:32.044 - 00:07:04.390, Speaker A: I thought this was quite funny, considering binance is in direct competition with Coinbase. But at the end of the day, if they don't list a stock, it's not going to change anything. The stock still probably going to go like, hard, and Coinbase, the business is still going to still going to grow. So I think that this is just a way for them to generate some more revenue and hype around the exchange. I mean, the tweet itself got some insane engagement, I mean, over 10,000 likes and, you know, a lot of retweets and stuff like that. So, yeah, it was quite, quite interesting to see this. But if you want to trade Coinbase's stock on a crypto exchange, then binance offers this, FTX offers this, of course.
00:07:04.390 - 00:07:33.912, Speaker A: So you can go do that there. But, yeah, that's really, really exciting. We'll see how it all plays out over the next few days. So, speaking of exciting things coming out in the future, Vivek here put a really interesting tweet out today, which basically just summarized all the kind of really exciting things we have to look forward to in the crypto ecosystem. Ecosystem, but specifically the Ethereum ecosystem. So obviously, in April, we have the Coinbase IPO, we obviously have the Berlin network upgrade going live in the next day or so. I think it's less than 30 hours now.
00:07:33.912 - 00:07:56.404, Speaker A: In May, we have Uniswap V three going live. I do think that that L2 for Unisopp is going to go live in May as well. We have other L2s going live before this, too. Like, I'm expecting arbitrary to go live very soon as well. June. He says he has a summer break. I mean, I'm sure there's going to be stuff happening in June, right? July, obviously, AIP 1559 is tentatively slated for that.
00:07:56.404 - 00:08:19.782, Speaker A: And optimistic roll ups being optimism is public mainnet launch. That's what they said, you know, July, hopefully. Hopefully they don't miss that date again, August, ZK Porter l two, which was announced yesterday, which I'll be talking about in a little bit. At the end of 2021, we might get the merge. Now, this is just some things. I mean, there's plenty of other things to look forward to. And this is to say nothing about, you know, most of the other stuff coming to the different apps on Ethereum.
00:08:19.782 - 00:08:54.866, Speaker A: Right? Like uniswap. Obviously, v three is going to be huge, but there's so many other things coming to different apps that it's going to be just as big. And, you know, I mean, obviously, the main themes to watch right now are the L2s, the 1559, the general scalability and the merger. Right? And he didn't even mention that in May. I think maybe June or July as well, we're gonna have the first ETH two network upgrade as well. So I was talking to a friend today, actually, and I was saying to him, like, you know, like, we talk about all this bullish stuff constantly about a theory, and we just hardly ever talk about ETH two. And ETH two is like a massively bullish thing that's coming.
00:08:54.866 - 00:09:21.214, Speaker A: It's just that it's not in, like, I guess, the main ethereum kind of ecosystem right now. It's like it's separate, own separate thing. But it was just funny that we were talking so much about all these different things happening, and we just didn't even talk about ETH two until we both realized, like, oh, wow, it's actually happening. Right? It exists. So, you know, that's quite funny as well. But, yeah, really great tweet from Vivek here. I think it was a great way to kind of put in perspective what we have to look forward to over the next few months in Ethereum land.
00:09:21.214 - 00:10:20.666, Speaker A: So Justin Drake put out another interesting kind of tweet today about eats, ultrasound, money properties. So basically what he's done with this graphic is he's taken the 30 day and 100 day moving average of the transaction fees on Ethereum, so the gas fees, and he's basically put like these, these kind of like labels here for Ultramark one Mac two, Mac three, Mac four. And depending on how much ETH is being burned each day, he kind of, like, calls it, you know, a different name here. So essentially, the chart ultra, you know, if we got to ultra Mach four, we're at just above two right now, so we would be at four. If the. Based on the 30 day and 100 day moving averages, we would be burning four times more ETH that is being issued by proof of stake, which basically corresponds to a 2% yearly supply decrease under an EIP 1559 world and under proof of stake world. And obviously, he's made some assumptions here.
00:10:20.666 - 00:10:44.094, Speaker A: You can see on the left hand side, there's two main assumptions here. The first being that 20 million ETH is staked, for reference to current livers, 3.9 million each staked. So the more each stake, the higher the posit issuance is. So he's being very aggressive here, or at least, sorry, conservative about this. I would think that 20 million ETH stake we're probably not going to see for a while, if ever. Maybe we see 10 million, but 20 million seems like a pretty big target at this point.
00:10:44.094 - 00:11:29.936, Speaker A: And then the second assumption is that there's a 70% fee burn. Now, is it hard to know how much of exactly how much of the fees is going to get burned? Is it going to be 30%, 50%, 70%? It's not going to be 100%. But we won't know until 1559 is kind of, like, included here. But the fact that we're already up to, based on kind of like the moving average here, we're already kind of up to ultra mark two. And I don't think layer one fees, like, even though flashbots has kind of decreased the spikes in them and they're not, like, super high, I don't think layer one fees are ever going to be, you know, back down to cheap levels again. I think they're always going to be, you know, high and pricing out pretty much like most use cases. And eventually layer one changes, becomes a settlement chain for high value transactions and for L2s and things like that, which is fine.
00:11:29.936 - 00:12:05.498, Speaker A: You know, it still means that, that ETH is getting burned, lots of fees are being paid, which is, which is really cool as well. So, yeah, I mean, Justin's done some very good work here, meming the ultrasound money thing. I know that a lot of people might think it's cringe or whatever, but I think it just, like, takes the existing sound money meme and kind of makes fun of it in a way. Right, but in a way that can be mean because you can just, like, use the bat signal here. Right? Which is pretty funny. You can kind of, um, meme about ultrasounds in general. Like, I've seen a few memes about, like, um, you know, an ultrasound being done on a pregnant woman and, like, ETH being the baby, which I thought was quite funny.
00:12:05.498 - 00:12:27.610, Speaker A: So I think any good kind of meme lends itself to other memes around it, and it divides people right there. There are memes that a lot of people think are really crappy, but they're really popular. So I think that that adds to, like, the, the kind of, like, viral nature of it as well. So, yeah, really, really nice chart from here. I can't wait for 1559 to go live. So this is not just theoretical anymore. It's actually being practiced.
00:12:27.610 - 00:13:15.366, Speaker A: And I can't wait till, you know, someone creates, like, an ethereum gas burn bot where they track how much ETH is burned each day based on the, on the gas fees paid. So, yeah, that's going to be really fun to retweet pretty much every day. So a bigsky who is a community member at index co op PR tweeted out this interesting kind of supply breakdown for the index co ops, aum. So, as a lot of you will know, a lot of different kind of defi protocols have yield farming on them, where they're paying out tokens for a TVL, for example. Right? Or for AUM. Now, the index cop has $158 million worth of AUM here, but 82% of it is unincentivized, which means only 18% of it is incentivized by index tokens. So only 18% of that AUM is being rewarded with index tokens.
00:13:15.366 - 00:14:01.152, Speaker A: And I think this doesn't just apply to Indescor, but I think in general, this is a metric that should be applied to every DeFi app. Because if you're incentivizing AUM, there's normally mercenaries, right? Mercenaries and people, they're just farming it and dumping the token. And they're not like capital. That's going to stay a lot of the time. They're not capital that's going to actually use the app after the incentives run out, right? So I think tracking this unincentivized TVL is really, really a really great way to see just how much your, I guess, core user base is growing. The user base that doesn't care about the token incentives, that just wants to use the actual products that you come out with. Now, of course, the index co op has products like the DeFi Pulse index, which is very popular, the ETH leverage index as well, flexible leverage index to fly, and the Metaverse index that was released recently.
00:14:01.152 - 00:14:53.148, Speaker A: So it makes sense, right? People want to use these products like you want to use the DPI because you want exposure to defi, you want to use the fly product because you want a leveraged ETH exposure, you know, metaverse index for exposure to the metaverse, all these sorts of things. So I think that's really important to pay attention to. And I hope other kind of defi apps, you know, start marketing this kind of stuff, will start tweeting out about this, this kind of stuff here. So Zksync made waves yesterday by announcing this new l two construction that they've come up with called ZK Porter. Now, what this is, is basically an EVM enabled L2 that they are planning to ship in August. Now what's really funny about a lot of these kind of like l two s right now is that they're beating their chest, if you imagine, like, you know, primal humans in their eight form, beating their chest to try to show off their strength. Right? That's exactly what all these L2s are doing.
00:14:53.148 - 00:15:41.532, Speaker A: And that's why I call them like the L2 wars of the scalability wars, because you even see in this graphic, they've kind of compared what they've created with ZK Porter to both optimistic roll ups and ZK roll ups. But they're basically saying, you know, ZK Porter coupled with ZK roll ups is better than kind of optimistic roll ups here. Now, there's details in the post about kind of why they say this, and there's a thread here as well, and kind of like why they think their solution is better. And Vitalik actually posted a rebuttal to this, too. And, and Alex from, from Zksync also posted a rebuttal to Vitalik's rebuttal, which, which is in this, this Reddit thread, which you can go check out in the YouTube description. But essentially what it comes down to with these L2 solutions is where they store the data. So you may, you may know, I mean, I won't go through exactly how this kind of works in detail.
00:15:41.532 - 00:16:31.330, Speaker A: You can read the post for this, but essentially you can either store the data on chain, on Ethereum, or off chain. Now, if you store the data off chain, you're relying on essentially what's called a data availability committee or some, some kind of like, I guess, like entity to make sure that the data that you need is available to you. Now, there are worries around this where basically the kind of detractors say, well, if there's like an offline data availability community, then really you're not getting Ethereum security because you're relying on these kind of like data providers to provide the data, right? And if they don't, they could kind of like, you know, freeze the system, steal your fund sort of thing. And there's a lot of back and forth going on right now. It's very hard to kind of know who's right and who's wrong and, and who's more right or who's more wrong or whatever. Right. I think at this point in time what I am just waiting for is these things just to go to a public mainnet.
00:16:31.330 - 00:16:39.178, Speaker A: That's it. Just show me what you got. Right. Don't tell me what you've got. Show me what you've got. I'm bullish on all the l two teams. I think they've got incredibly smart people behind them.
00:16:39.178 - 00:17:00.000, Speaker A: But you know, this kind of like chest beating and this marketing, not just from Zksync, from everyone. Like all the l two teams do it right and that's fine. You know, I mean they're not the only ones that do it. Like the Defi apps do it right, product does it. That's just part of marketing. But I just, I just want to see this stuff go live, right. I'm just, you know, hyping it and teasing it and everything's all well and good.
00:17:00.000 - 00:17:38.342, Speaker A: Like yeah, cool, awesome. But at the end of the day users just care about using it and people who are kind of following along with this just want to see that it's live, just want to see that it actually does what the kind of like developers claim that it does. And I'm not saying it doesn't do what they claim that it does, but you know, there's only so much you can like trying to chess beat about things and, and then kind of like without, without releasing something. Now Zksync is promising a testnet in May for this and then obviously they're promising their main net in August here taking dates with a grain of salt. I don't want to repeat of what happened with optimism again for any of this sort of stuff. I think that's why a lot of the l two s aren't really giving dates right now. I know arbitrary hasn't given a date.
00:17:38.342 - 00:18:03.874, Speaker A: Starquare is not really giving, you know, dates for the apps that they're deploying. They have given a date for certain things like caspian. I said that was going to go live in like June or something like that. But in general, like dates in Ethereum is something I take with a huge grain of salt, you know, especially after what happened with, with optimistic roll ups, public mainet launch. But yeah. Anyway, not to be too negative here, this is really bullish. If it works, I just want to kind of like stay grounded.
00:18:03.874 - 00:18:29.998, Speaker A: Right. I don't want any more of this kind of, I guess, like super hyped up stuff that everyone gets disappointed by when it doesn't meet people's expectations. Managing expectations is something that I think more people, or at least the ecosystem in crypto as a whole, should practice more of because we really don't do a good job of it. We really love to hype things up. And it's simple. You hype things up because you have a, a monetary kind of investment in it, right? You want to make money. You want to want to hype up a token that you're holding so that it goes up in value.
00:18:29.998 - 00:18:46.406, Speaker A: That's fine. I mean, we all do it. I do it for ETH. There's nothing wrong with that, I don't think. But, yeah, I just can't wait to see these things live and usable and these claims kind of like put to the test by a live environment on Mainnet here. So, yeah, as I said, there's this response on, on Reddit. You can go check this out.
00:18:46.406 - 00:19:11.994, Speaker A: It'd be in the YouTube description. It's pretty good for Vitalik. And then, and then Alex's response as well. And they also did a response thread here, too, which you can find linked in a reply to my kind of tweet here, which, of course, is in the YouTube description as well. Speaking of L2 s, Dy DX continues to grow here. So their L2 perpetuals exchange is growing. They have $70 million of weekly volume, $15 million in open interest.
00:19:11.994 - 00:19:50.996, Speaker A: They have positive funding rates right now, and zero gas fees on L2 with a bunch of different assets that they're trading. I mean, I spoke a lot about Dy DX yesterday, so I won't go too deep into it right now. But essentially, I mean, the same thing that I said yesterday, this is just going to keep growing. It's going to grow much faster than I think people expect it will. And it's going to get to, I think, you know, billions of dollars in trading volume over the next few months. I'm pretty bullish of that for sure. So block native released their block native simulation platform last, last night, yesterday that they're calling a net new capability for the Ethereum ecosystem and that unlocks profit potential for traders and helps protocols intercept malicious transactions.
00:19:50.996 - 00:20:41.978, Speaker A: Now, this is timely because, I mean, I spoke about Mav the other day in flashbots and things like that. Now, what the simulation platform does is it basically allows people to simulate all marketable pending transactions in real time. So essentially, you know, when transactions go into the mempool, some of them, you don't exactly know what they're going to do until they've kind of executed. But what this platform allows you to do is it allows you to essentially simulate any kind of transaction that you want using, using this platform to see if that, if it's going to succeed or not or to see what other people are doing. And this is actually what a lot of people do with their mev activities where they would actually set up bots and they'll kind of instruct these bots to do something and they'll run their own simulations on their own kind of, I guess, like PCs and things like that. But it doesn't cover everything, right? There's not, it's not, there's not a, there hasn't been a generalized platform for this sort of stuff. And that's what block native is doing here.
00:20:41.978 - 00:21:15.852, Speaker A: And the reason why this is important is because there's been, as I explained the other day, there was a sand, there were sandwich bots kind of attack doing kind of like sandwich I guess, Mev and front running people. And they kind of like got exploited by someone because their simulations were wrong. Essentially. They, they basically fell for some, some poisonous tokens, which was quite, quite, quite funny to see. Right. But still not something that I guess like traders and, and people who are trying to extract me v wants want to happen here. So yeah, to, this is basically what block natives new platform allows you to do here and you can go use it yourself.
00:21:15.852 - 00:21:56.968, Speaker A: I mean this is really going to apply to people who want to, you know, participate and do MeV or just traders in general that want to see what's going on in the mempool or just anyone in general. Right. Basically it, it does what people like to call illuminates Ethereum's dark forest, the dark forest being the, the mempool, the pending transaction pool there. So yeah, really exciting launch here from block native. You can see here. I mean, I don't know how many of you are going to, you know, play around with this like of your viewers. I'm assuming a lot of you aren't traders or like super technical people or people that are doing kind of mev stuff, but this, this definitely helps a lot with, with that, and it helps the developers as well to kind of see what's going to happen if you were to simulate certain transactions and stuff like that.
00:21:56.968 - 00:22:33.230, Speaker A: So yeah, even if you're not any of those traders or developers or whatever, still something to go check out, play around with, something to learn about. I think it's just really cool. It basically what it does is it allows you to basically look into the future, essentially, because you get to simulate what a transaction will do if it was actually to execute on the Ethereum main event. Right. If it was actually to be mined into a block, which basically allows you to, you know, to see into the future. So I always think of this meme, you know, from, from the Avengers movies, where Doctor Strange is basically saying, you know, I saw like millions of futures and only one of them did we succeed sort of thing. It's the same with this.
00:22:33.230 - 00:23:23.296, Speaker A: Like, you can go see like lots and lots of different futures and, you know, there may only be one where your simulation succeeds, and then you might be like, wow, if I do this, I can make a profit, right? And I can win. That's, that's what this, basically this platform gives you. So, yeah, if you're interested in learning more and doing more stuff like that, definitely go check out this post from block native here. All right, onto the last bit of news here, which I think is the one of the biggest pieces of news from the last 24 hours. I mean, there was a lot, but this is essentially consensus announced that they closed a $65 million formation round, basically a fundraise from different kind of partners, including Mastercard, JPMorgan Chase, maker Protocol Labs, which is behind Filecoin, and something called the Greater Bay Area Homeland Investments Limited, which has a bunch of chinese characters. There must be an Asia asian based kind of company here, I think. Fanbushi Capital.
00:23:23.296 - 00:23:58.650, Speaker A: Yeah, from, from Asia. And there's a bunch of other firms as well, including the Lao Alameda research behind FTX here, a bunch of other kind of ecosystem participants as well. And essentially, you know, this is going to allow consensus to focus on basically bringing DeFi and web3 apps to basically the enterprise sector, which is, I mean, look at this. We have Visa doing, you know, settling on the Ethereum main net. We have Mastercard partnered with or invested in consensus here. We have maker as like a DeFi app invested in consensus here. I think, think consensus is really great in the enterprise sector.
00:23:58.650 - 00:25:12.074, Speaker A: You don't see a lot of it going on in terms of like the public kind of stuff that's going on, but you see a lot of it in, you know, come to fruition over time and it takes longer because obviously enterprise corporate stuff just takes longer to get done. But I think this is like super positive here. And you remember the other day, I kind of, I think I mentioned on the refuel that they released metamask for institutional investors as well, or institutional clients, which kind of falls into the enterprise sector here. I'm sure they're going to allow like all the enterprise clients that they have to use all of these kind of tools that they have, like infuria, truffle, consensus diligence, which is their smart contract ordering firm, auditing firm quorum, which is basically a hyperledger base who is like an enterprise ready Ethereum client. And there's so many things that consensus does, and a lot of this stuff is definitely done behind the, behind the scenes here. Definitely not like very public like other kind of, I guess companies and apps are within the ecosystem, but nonetheless extremely bullish. And you know, just seeing kind of like JP Morgan invest is not surprising because they've worked closely with consensus before on, on quorum, which was a fork of go, Ethereum, and I think consensus, I guess, acquired their kind of like blockchain development kind of, I guess, sector here and then yeah, they invested in it.
00:25:12.074 - 00:25:49.164, Speaker A: Protocol labs and Filecoin, I mean, ipfs, file coin protocols, they all have a very close relationship with the Ethereum ecosystem and so do protocol labs. They have a huge treasury as well, huge war chest. And I think filecoin being utility chain, is going to add a lot of value to Ethereum over the long term as well. Same with other things like are we other utility chains there? Which I think are pretty positive too. So yeah, really bullish news out of consensus here and I think that's it for today. I mean, I went through a lot. I think I sped through it here I'm at 25 minutes, but I think, you know, in tomorrow's refuel, it's gonna be pretty exciting to go over what happened on the Coinbase direct listing.
00:25:49.164 - 00:26:01.174, Speaker A: Right. It's gonna be a very wild day. I think so, yeah. Strap in and enjoy the day, everyone. I'll be sleeping through it, of course, but I'll catch up tomorrow morning. But anyway, I'll stop rambling for now. Thank you again for listening and watching.
00:26:01.174 - 00:26:09.454, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
