00:00:07.440 - 00:00:27.354, Speaker A: Good afternoon everyone, welcome to the live stage. We can have very interesting talk starting soon. Next speaker is Vincenzo from AZKR Research. He's the lead cryptographer from there and today he's going to be talking about bank three, efficient temporary shielding of assets. Please welcome Vincenzo with amazing applause.
00:00:30.424 - 00:01:09.164, Speaker B: Hello everyone. So eight ZKR stands for Aragon ZK research. We were until last year part of the Aragon ecosystem and now we are an independent group doing research focusing on daos for the real people. So in fact, what we talk about today is a part of our ecosystem that we will build in the next month month. So first, motivation, that was one of the original motivation. We designed the concept of bank three last year. It started in the spring of the last year.
00:01:09.164 - 00:02:03.050, Speaker B: So the motivation is a bank for Dao, okay, Dao are one of the main tools in the tv microsystem and there are many daos with very large treasuries. So we envision the following mechanism. Each Dao can deposit their own treasuries in the bank trees market contract. Okay, so at any point of time a given dao that we call d for example will have a certain number of coins in the bank. For example, n coins, okay? And this will not visible by anyone. For example, if in the past Alice deposit m coins in favor of the dowdy, at some point the dowdy can decide to withdraw such m coins and only at that moment, that withdrawal time it will be visible. The teles did the transaction, the deposit in favor of the dowdy.
00:02:03.050 - 00:02:45.444, Speaker B: But what will be still hidden is the quantity of left coin of the dowdy at the bank. So this corresponds to a real world situation. For example, when I withdraw 1000 euro at 1000 atm, maybe someone behind me can see that I withdraw 1000 euro but should not know how much wealth I still have at the bank. If I have zero euro or if I have 1 million of euro left at the bank. Okay, so we can go from this concept, we can adapt this concept from daos to wallet. Okay, so oops, this does not visualize very well. I don't know why, my PowerPoint.
00:02:45.444 - 00:03:25.974, Speaker B: Oh, I don't know. I sent the pptx. Okay anyway, no problem. So in this slide there is Alice, Alice send m coins to Bob specifying just the public key of Bob. Okay, and before withdrawal, what we have the situation that Bob has end coins at the bank. After withdrawal Bob will have n minus m coins and will be visible Alice sent to Bob m coins. What would be not visible is this quantity, n minus m.
00:03:25.974 - 00:04:20.106, Speaker B: So how many coins are still left for Bob at the bank. At the bank, okay. And Bob can at any time can search which transaction is in favor of him. Using what? Using just the ability to use his personal wallet, his metamask wallet. Okay. So we designed this concept last year, from the spring of last year and then we discovered that very interesting related work. For example document Bonet duneif proposed private daos that are conceptually and technically also very similar to our concept of bank of DaO with very small differences in Bowers requires only etching on chain whereas bonan dunaif solution requires doing elliptical operation on chain.
00:04:20.106 - 00:05:08.640, Speaker B: And also last year buterin Internet building on idea from the bitcoin community proposed the concept of stealth address that actually are very technically very similar to our concept of bank or wallet. The difference that in ours the deposit are tied to the specific bank three smart contract. So this enables specific banking features and also fall back mechanism that we will see next soon. Okay. And novelty of our work that we move forward, we go from Darwin Wallet, we generalize this concept to real world identity. In fact, last year we also proposed a system of independent interests that's called League of Identity Loyola. Okay.
00:05:08.640 - 00:06:03.354, Speaker B: Legal identity is essentially a decentralized identity based encryption and signature system. For encryption we use Bonnet frankly CCR two encryption scheme. So the idea is roughly the following. Alice can encrypt a message in favor of Bob using Bob real world identity. Awesome. His Gmail address. Ok, Bob at any point can get from the League of identity the token for his email address just proving possession of his email address or it works also for the Microsoft account Twitter and we even support digital id cards and the application of legal identity include encrypted chat messages, creation of daos for organization for example, if your organization as a domain@oldcrypto.com
00:06:03.354 - 00:07:01.634, Speaker B: and this is a domain whose email with Gmail of Microsoft, every member of the organization with such an email can join the daO. Okay. And can sign transaction in the daO. Or you could have the DAO of influencers on Instagram with more than 1 million or follow you and we can even support DAOs with encrypted proposals. Yes, again here there's not a visual as well, but the slide was exactly the same except that Alice now use the mail address of Bob. Okay, so we can go to an identity based variant of bank three. So Alice goes to an email address who uses the email address of Bob so he can send deposit coins in favor of Bob even before Bob creates a wallet.
00:07:01.634 - 00:08:14.962, Speaker B: But here I like before there is another property that we want to ship. It would be very annoying for Bob if at withdrawal time, before or after withdrawal, it's known that the transaction was for Bob's email. The purpose we achieve here is that the email specified by Alice is hidden forever. Okay, so Alice can use as mean of depositing the man in favor of Bob's email address. But this will be hidden, okay, and again here, Bob can use the ability of logging into his Gmail address to check if there are transaction deposits in favor of him. So what the fuck? I don't know. There is something I do it to the slide so we can exploit a feature, nice feature of Google that actually was even present before in Facebook but was removed, that is linking your Google profile to phone number.
00:08:14.962 - 00:09:14.122, Speaker B: Okay, so you can, Alice can further could have just the phone number of Bob, okay. And using the phone number, Bob can deposit coins in favor of Bob even before Bob created a Gmail account. So at withdrawal time Bob could decide, hey, now I want to withdraw. I create a Gmail account, I can link my Gmail account to the phone number specified by, by Bob, okay? And then he can go to the League of Identity network to get the token for his phone number and so can withdraw. Okay, actually after withdrawal he could even unlink his Gmail profile from the, from his email, sorry, from his Gmail account. And this can be seen as a variant of web3 variant of a system that now is popular in Poland is called bleak. So wrapping all together the feature and the property that achieve are the following.
00:09:14.122 - 00:10:22.764, Speaker B: So Alice can deposit asset, crypto asset in favor of Bob. Okay, just specifying either a public key of Bob that can be a public key of a different blockchain for some bitcoin or ethereum if she wishes, or a real world identity of Bob shares these two modes of operation and the real world identity can be email address, phone number, Twitter account, and we even support Social Security number associated to digital id card. The deposit is recorded into bank three contract, so it's temporarily shielded. At withdrawal time it will be visible which Ethereum address sent the coins to bob, but will be not visible, which means Alice used to send the coins to Bob. For example, the email address of the phone number of the bitcoin public key. Okay, so we can say that the identity of Bob is hidden forever. So it's not a mixer.
00:10:22.764 - 00:11:26.994, Speaker B: We don't have the legal issues of mixer, but still Bob can have some nice privacy features. Examples of application Bob can have a physical shop, can sell sandwich and can specify a QWF code to receive payments in it in ETF's bob can withdraw a deposit at any point of time, creating a new Ethereum address. Ok, but it will not be visible how much coins is earning Bob. For example, if Alice deposit one coin, Charlie deposit the two coin and then bob withdraw the first deposit of Alice will not be visible that the deposit of Charlie was still in favor of Bob. Okay. Another application is to organization that won't receive donation in crypto, not having a wallet. For example, I could decide to donate to an organization in crypto, they don't have a wallet.
00:11:26.994 - 00:12:21.164, Speaker B: I can do it using an email address, for example. And actually the organization could even decide to pass this asset to someone else, for example to travel in exchange for a service using legal identity. So in a way that in the end the organization is able to use this crypto asset without ever having a wallet, having created the wallet. So in this situation there are some usability security issues that become more serious that are shaped with most blockchain. Because in blockchain the user can send assets to wrong address if they mistype and datasets can be loose forever. Check some, mitigate and solve the problem partially. But there is more sophisticated attack like address poisoning attack.
00:12:21.164 - 00:13:11.248, Speaker B: In this slide, I mentioned a famous case of a crypto user who lost about 70 million of dollars in bank three. In the identity based variant of bank three, the problem can become more severe because mistyping an email address can be a real problem. Right? So I mean, potential solution are the user interface should prefer of course square code and this is in handshake variant in which Alice and Bob meet physically, for example in a shop. Okay. And moreover, the nature of the bank contract allowed to implement what we call fallback mechanism. For example, Alice could make a payment to Bob in a way that shares, for example, 24 hours to claim it back for them. Like I think it's the case for the web banking also.
00:13:11.248 - 00:13:52.892, Speaker B: Web banking also has this option for transfers. Well, again, the slide does not work, but our sub information is very simple. So what we do is the following. So Alice encrypt under the public key of Bob. And again, if we are using if the public key is a bitcoin or ethereum public key, we'll use some specific fellman like system if will be real world identity of Bob. We will use the encryption system of legal identity. But abstractly, the system is Alice encrypt some random value under the identity of Bob, the public of Bob.
00:13:52.892 - 00:14:32.844, Speaker B: So and then hash this value and transmit to the blockchain the ciphertext and hash. So Bob has some secret to decrypt the ciphertext. In the case of bitcoin public key will be the bitcoin secret key. In the case of the identity will be used the league of identity network to get the token to decrypt this ciphertext. So we left this random value r. So since there is the hash of this random value on chain, Bob can send this pre made to the smart contract to prove that he can withdraw and will receive the fund. Actually for security we need also to a shadow thing.
00:14:32.844 - 00:15:29.254, Speaker B: And most importantly we need also that Bob prove give it zionology proof of correct decryption. Because if it's Alice to create decipher text, Alice will also notice a random value r so she could act as Bob as receiver to prevent this attack. Bob should also send the proof of correct decryption or in and shake variant which Bob and Alice meet physically. The ciphertext can be created by Bob, so we don't have these issues. And all our implementation, both for wallet daos and the identity based variant can be seen in this framework. Okay, but actually, I mean when you go specific was that implementation of DAO is more deficient. Implementation will be a bit different because we want more efficient solutions.
00:15:29.254 - 00:16:44.854, Speaker B: So we have a demo for the ethereum, for the testnet, and we also have a command line interface for the DAO variant. The problem for the DAO variant is actually problem shared with the boneheadunaif solution is that in case of DAo who holds the secret key, there should be some DAO manager because you encrypt, the deposit is encrypted somehow under some public key. So that you have this problem. There should be a committee for decryption and the committee of token holders that it's not clear who they are. There is a solution that is enabled by league of identity. With League of Identity, the legal identity could issue some special legal identity token that allow to decrypt just after presenting for example a signature of the majority of the token holders. Okay, so token holders, a majority of the token holders can get some signature and prove to the legal identity network to have the majority of token in the DAO.
00:16:44.854 - 00:17:50.258, Speaker B: So can get this token to enable decryption. So this is another solution that we envision. So actually, yeah, in our abstract solution we say there is Nash. So we send on chain a ciphertext, encrypt this random value and also we ash it. Actually you can go more abstract and you can, you can replace the hash by some of like public key and in this case you can, you can give very efficient off chain solution for the proof of liquidity problem. So for example, I, Bob, have, I have one chain on this, this bank three smart contract. I hold some assets, okay? Some coins of some tokens.
00:17:50.258 - 00:18:52.150, Speaker B: And I would like to prove someone that I have at least x coins, right? If you think of this as easy in, I mean in blockchain, but the novelty here that this can be linked to a specific real world identity, right? So Bob can prove, for example that his specific email address bobmail.com, or in the case of even his Social Security number, if his deposit was in favor of his Social Security number. This identity owns a safety number of assets on chain. Okay? And here we can have proof that are deniable or not. Cryptographically, this would mean. So if you have an interactive proof, the proof will only convince the verifier. So verifier cannot pass this knowledge to someone else.
00:18:52.150 - 00:19:41.724, Speaker B: So it's convinced that Bob for example, holds ten ETF's of ten tokens, but cannot pass this information to Charlie. Or you can have transferable proof. Bob wishes to prove to everyone no universal proof. Bob could wish to prove to everyone that he holds at least x coin at bank three. Smart contract. And this proves very, very efficient. So actually, I mean we talked about bank three, but this will be just the start for our project.
00:19:41.724 - 00:20:20.644, Speaker B: Our demo is on ethereum. We will have a solution for Ethereum, but we envision a more complex ecosystem. We are designing EZQL chain. This will be a chain in the cosmos, in the cosmos ecosystem. We are developing a Cosmos SDK tool with some nice features. And this chain will be connected anyway to other chain via IBC and via bridges to Ethereum. Why we are doing that? Because we are building not just this bandwidth system but a more broad credit layer.
00:20:20.644 - 00:21:00.530, Speaker B: Now we need to build a credit layer that needs to express more complex features. For example, we aim at implementing Roscoe rotating saving and credit association. That is a system very popular in some parts of Africa and also Asia Mutual Credit Association, PIV to PIV lending and also local currencies. Okay. If you are interested, you can point to our website or you can search ezekiel.org dot. I'm sorry for the slide.
00:21:00.530 - 00:21:10.614, Speaker B: I transmitted the slide this morning. Yeah, thanks.
00:21:12.804 - 00:21:32.620, Speaker A: Thank you very much. Amazing talk. Yeah, I mean, technically it should always happen. It doesn't matter how much you prepare, but you delivered all the content very nicely. So thank you for the talk again. Anybody have a questions? So let me take a privilege of asking. First question.
00:21:32.620 - 00:21:56.704, Speaker A: It's really interesting to see that bank of Dao tried to tackle the real world problem, building a new credit layer. It seems like we already have a working demo and now having some further plan to implement in this case. Does it matter actually like a local jurisdiction to kind of understand with the payment system or it can be easily implemented to any implementation scenario.
00:21:59.804 - 00:22:50.944, Speaker B: Well, I mean, for example for Rosca, what do we really target is to create solution for real world people, for the people who know each other. Okay, this is not the case actually in now for them in the ethereum because it's met not only ethereum, so they have system for people holds very large asset essentially. Okay. So what we aim is that a group of people who informally meet together and already do maybe something, maybe on paper, can pass to crypto and can have some tool, you know, to easy their work and maybe sort of motivation for them to onboard and to use crypto technology.
00:22:51.964 - 00:23:17.394, Speaker A: Sounds good. Very interesting. I'm looking forward to see further implementation going forward. So I guess we can have one another kind or you can take the advantage of break time asking questions to speaker right away. Anyone who want to ask questions. Otherwise, I think we will conclude the session right now and we will see you soon. Please give applause one more time.
