00:00:00.970 - 00:00:52.170, Speaker A: Yeah, we can start right now. I think first slides, I will basically introduce MX. So I think so many people ask me this question why we call semX is that we are aiming for seven times return or why not ten x or one KX. So that reason why I want to clarify why we call semX. It's actually from religious likes, from eastern and western culture. Seven is a number like in eastern culture when the Buddha walks array seven steps, the lotus flower blew and also in the western culture and the god used seven days to create a world. So seven is a number, is a magic number for both east and western culture and X means infinity.
00:00:52.170 - 00:01:59.656, Speaker A: So with the seven X, we really want to bridge different cultures, no matter your builders from Asia, from Europe, US or Africa or all the world trying to empower the blockchain together. And also because blockchain is actually without any kind of without any kind of geographic and culture barrier. So that reason why we want to call Semex to unify everyone in the world to push the boundary of the blockchain. So that's the reason why we call Semex. Yeah. And also what I really want to highlight for semX Ventures right now is like so we are research driven crypto venture. So there are so many kinds of venture capital in the world from more than 100 how to make the seven x differentiate from others? So I think in three areas.
00:01:59.656 - 00:02:50.840, Speaker A: The first thing, we are working with all the top researchers in the world, including researchers from EF, from Flashboss, from egon layer and from others. So we want to basically have the regular base touch with them to understand the latest innovations in the industry and also consolidate all the innovations and publish article and threads to show to everyone what happened in the crypto world. The second lay is we always follow the frontier innovations. You can see from Twitter threads and Twitter articles. We are the first several ways in the world to publish the article about Zaki machine learning and also we are also the first several investors to publish article about intent. Like Grace wrote an article about decoding the intent. So we have more and more like the latest research.
00:02:50.840 - 00:03:37.980, Speaker A: We are coming out in next one to two months. What we really believe that crypto is about innovation. We follow the latest innovations in the crypto world. Then the thirdly, I think for a lot of people, they have this impression to we say investors are transactional. When the investor talk to you, they just want to give you money, get a financial return from you guys. So our approach is very different. We want to build a long term research collaboration with project first I'm trying to work with founders, work with researchers, help them to consolidate all their ideas, generate articles about their products, their technology and showing on the Twitter, showing to everyone in the crypto space what they are doing.
00:03:37.980 - 00:04:31.236, Speaker A: By building this long term research collaboration we actually can help them to give them the support to share their innovation, their product, their technology to the different people. So with all that when we build a long term relationship then we're talking about investment opportunity. So that's how we approach different from other ways. That reason why when Seven X approach builders, what we really want to approach builders, to say let's do the research together. Let's to understand your technology, your product, first, before making any investment. So and thirdly, because we had a research focus, we are working with the top researchers and builders in the world. And also we also want to empower some more and more builders.
00:04:31.236 - 00:05:51.300, Speaker A: So what we do is we are really here for builders. We have this Nitro Hack Zone for fully on chain gaming and we also have Intent based Hiker House during the SBC. So with Nitro brand we will have more like Hack Zone and Hiker House in different conference if for all the builders. When you have the idea about whether you want to create a great product, whether you want to build your own company, we can connect you with the top researchers in the world from the flashboard, from EF, from other projects trying to give you the guidance whether your idea makes sense and also the Gig operates in the industry to help you to build your own startups. So that's reason why we want to create a research and builder focus fund. That's what the program we are for the builders and with our and our likes our research and builder focus and terms of investment we are actually investor for the top notch like projects in the industry including Flashboss, Skirl, Mental, Caldera and Deepank and other guys. We'll also power the most promising early stage startups in the industry.
00:05:51.300 - 00:06:22.560, Speaker A: So with all this we want to basically invest in the frontier technology in the blockchain space and to work together with all the researchers, builders and VC to push the boundary of the blockchain and to make sure that the blockchain is for the future and to onboard more users in the blockchain space. So that's a brief introduction of Zemex. Thank you so much for listening, I hope you enjoy the other talks industry.
