00:00:03.360 - 00:03:28.390, Speaker A: Hello, I'm Shay, I'm from Blacklux. And today I'm just going to give you a very quick speed run through how we are using, to use cases that we think, which is basically, it's very hard to get something that is fast, private and decentralized. We want these things in, we want speed because we want user transactions to be included, because decentralized builder can actually produce more value than blocks, because parties that would otherwise compete with each other might actually be able to trust the decentralized builder. And they're very practice right now, basically building two of them at a time. So centralized builders are, and then finally cryptography, actually, but trusted execution environments could potentially solve this. So the reason that we're excited about them in block building is that give us privacy, integrity, you can have, say, two trading firms that are competing with each other, but they might actually be able to trust a lot. Them also said you wanted them to be fast.
00:03:28.390 - 00:04:21.126, Speaker A: And a common complaint, a common concern that people had is these things are not fast enough. And that is one of the key questions we've been trying to figure out. This is flat box builder benchmarks. It's very fast, it's a new open source rest builder and open source tool, but we could go and it builds blocks in 700 milliseconds. So the experiment we wanted to run was, hey, take this fast filter, put it in the tev, and what would happen? Would it be slow? Would it be fast? What would happen? So we did that and it actually was quite fast. So these are some new benchmarks. And you can basically see that the Tex builder does build blocks in 700 milliseconds on average, which was very surprising and exciting to us.
00:04:21.126 - 00:05:16.248, Speaker A: But benchmarks could be leading, tricked by benchmarks. We thought, well, this is very nice, but you know what? We should have to run it in production. We should take half of our TDX or our regular builders and run them in TDX. And this is from a couple months ago, you can actually see that TDX builders started landing about half as many blocks as regular builders. And this is actually quite surprising as we run our verticals. And if you look at more recent steps, but very cool. So you can run blockbuilding and trust your partner at basically your native speed.
00:05:16.248 - 00:08:26.090, Speaker A: And today, which is very cool, with a building like this, you can get the kinds of privacy and integrity assessments you need, but be able to support use cases like searching or set r that require the other thing. And I just want to talk about like a whole past, this primitive of very fast builder. One of like interesting aspects on top of it how else might we extend another thing that a fasted to enforce which is very cool having like a verifiable refunding filter is very useful for me to say something so this is kind of where we stand today one thing is tEu searchers so gathering a tEU builder what if we could take private quotes like searching algorithms put it in and then our te builder start outsourcing information and opportunities to get search for funnels and then send those bundles back to filter this is really cool because you can do things like search on full information but on privacy so right now things are orderful options only partial safety searches making it a lot more efficient the other thing that I think would be interesting is relays so today in vertical actor that's responsible for very much blocks and a bunch of other things and well with who they actually instead of trusting somebody to do this and having this extra red seating actor supply chain we just have builders running proves that yes my block was produced by Covid and maybe some but even.
