00:00:03.720 - 00:00:45.535, Speaker A: Hello everyone, my name is Stepan. I'm the Co Founder and CEO at Squad Labs. At Squad Labs, our mission is to grow the on chain economy. To achieve this, we focus on three main verticals. The first one is Squad's Protocol, the smart account standard for Solana and SVM, securing over 10 billion in value today. Second is Squads App, an enterprise platform for businesses to run their operations on chain trusted by over 250 enterprises today. And third, Fuse, a consumer smart wallet that unlocks enterprise level security for personal custody and is powered by two FA spending limits, recovery and native integrations for swaps, staking and stablecoin yield.
00:00:45.535 - 00:01:34.925, Speaker A: Today I'm thrilled to share with you two of the major developments within the Squads ecosystem. First, we have officially started development on Squad's Protocol V5 in 2025. A Solana runtime feature activation will increase CPI limits to match those of top level transactions. That will allow smart accounts to emerge as first class citizens, paving the way for broader adoption of account abstraction across the Solana ecosystem. In anticipation of this, we're designing V5 to fully empower developers building wallets, defi applications and payment solutions and looking for seamless onboarding, robust security and greater user experience for their customers. So what's new in V5? First is hooks. Hooks are separate programs that enable to programmatically tighten or loosen consensus.
00:01:34.925 - 00:02:49.535, Speaker A: They will allow developers to set granular spending limits or higher approval requirements based on transaction type or introduce program whitelists that allow to bypass smart account consensus when interacting with a specific program. Second, major development is synchronous transaction execution. We are expanding functionality for single player use cases of Squad's protocol and allowing execution of transactions in real time through multiple synchronous top level signatures that will enable more seamless multi factor authentication workflows for individuals and will cut down on overall transaction overhead. Third is new permissions and key tier adaptive time logs. Developers with Squadspherical v5 will be able to grant superpowers to certain keys on smart accounts and combined with key tier adaptive time locks they will reach this optimal balance of usability, security and recoverability. And finally, performance and memory improvements from a custom bump allocator to strategic usage of zero copy serialization and incremental uploading for large transactions. We're aiming to maximize compatibility of Squad's protocol with a broader Solana ecosystem V5 with CPI limits increase will allow SMM developers to choose smart accounts as the primary user account infrastructure for their applications.
00:02:49.535 - 00:03:59.713, Speaker A: V5 is going to be formally verified and will be coming to Solana mainnet later this year. Reach out to us today to learn more or if you just want to be account abstraction, build like our friend Our money and now to the second announcement of the day, Introducing Fuse Pay Fuse Pay is a virtual global Visa prepaid card that enables everyday real world spend of stablecoins directly from your Fuse Wallet. We're launching Fuse Pay in partnership with Bridge, an entirely new payments platform built with stablecoins to simplify global money movement. Fuse Pay eliminates the need to directly interact with traditional banking rails and seamlessly bridges the gap between on chain and off chain payments. Fuse Pay is powered by Squad's Protocol Smart accounts which ensures that the card is fully self custodial. When a card account is created, a separate smart account is deployed with mainfuse account acting as the sole signer and a daily spending limit is set for the benefit of Bridge to be used in real time as you make payments with your card. We also allow the flexibility to withdraw from your card account back to the main account at any time subject to a short time lock.
00:03:59.713 - 00:04:21.704, Speaker A: All of this is uniquely enabled by SquadsProtocol Smart accounts and the programmability that they provide. Fuse Pay will be initially available in the US with more countries coming soon and will go live later this year. Download Fuse today, set up your personal smart account and be amongst the first people to have access to Fuse Pay when it goes live. That's all I have for you today and thank you for your time.
