00:00:00.250 - 00:00:05.470, Speaker A: It's almost black and white. The proof of stake is clearly superior than proof of work.
00:00:05.540 - 00:00:09.600, Speaker B: So there's a bunch of points there to respond to. So I'll try to go linearly, I guess.
00:00:12.530 - 00:00:27.830, Speaker C: Welcome to Bankless, where we explore the frontier of Internet money and Internet finance. This is how to get started, how to get better, and how to front run the opportunity. This is Ryan. Sean Adams. I'm here with David Hoffman, and we're here to help you become more bankless. Guys, you are in for a treat. Today.
00:00:27.830 - 00:01:41.846, Speaker C: We've got two experts on proof of stake and proof of work, and they are debating the subject over which is better for creating a global money system, a crypto money system, proof of work or proof of stake? Lynn Alden and Justin Drake. On the episode today, we're going to talk about a few things. Number one, which provides the most economic security, proof of work or proof of stake? Number two, which provides the best deterrence and recoverability in the face of the dreaded 51% attack? Number three, which minimizes governance power for the elites, which is more power to the people. Number four, which is economically the fairest system to participate in. And number five, this is personally my favorite, this conversation around proof of work being more commodity money and proof of stake being more equity money. Is that correct? That's what one of our debaters believes, and we dive into that as well. David, why don't you tell us a little bit about the format of this episode? Because it was a fantastic, I think, format in that the participants, I feel like for times during this episode, you and I could just sit back and watch the participants go over their points and articulate them well back and forth.
00:01:41.846 - 00:01:47.834, Speaker C: It was like watching a tennis match of, like, serve and then a volley and then a big back and forth, back and forth.
00:01:47.962 - 00:01:48.446, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:01:48.548 - 00:01:49.818, Speaker D: The first half of the episode, I'd.
00:01:49.834 - 00:01:50.894, Speaker B: Say, just wrote itself.
00:01:51.012 - 00:02:21.402, Speaker D: Seriously debated going back and making a bag of popcorn, because the first half of the show, as hosts, we didn't have to do a damn thing. Yeah, Lynn and Justin just took it in of themselves and took this conversation in their own direction. And then you and I, as hosts, again started in the second half of the show, really to actually direct the conversation and summarize things that were said and digest things that were said. And so this is kind of how this episode is bisected down the middle.
00:02:21.536 - 00:02:23.066, Speaker E: But then I would also say I.
00:02:23.088 - 00:03:16.346, Speaker D: Really enjoyed the closing statements as well, just allowing both Justin and Lynn to really just summarize holistically their entire scope for why Lynn believes that proof of work is a better money system and why Justin believes proof of stake is a money system. So there is so much knowledge baked into this episode. This is going to be one of the ones that we're going to have to re listen to, to really fully extract all of just the fantastic knowledge that is here. And overall, I'm just very happy that in this very tribal world of crypto that we have people like Lyn Alden and Justin Drake who can come to a podcast and just talk about things without the yelling that you would find on Twitter spaces and without the jabs that you would find. Just a very respectful conversation, which I know is important for the listeners because it's a pleasant debate to listen to. So I'm so happy that we were able to produce this podcast here.
00:03:16.368 - 00:03:44.286, Speaker C: Ryan imagine having an adult conversation about crypto. It's impossible to do on crypto, Twitter and other locations, but that's what was had today. It's fantastic points by both sides of this argument. Well articulated. One thing David and I are going to do is have a conversation about the conversation that was just had. We have that on an episode we call the bankless debrief. You get that? If you are subscribed as a bankless premium member, David and I are going to talk about the merits of both sides.
00:03:44.286 - 00:04:07.942, Speaker C: Maybe your mind was changed, David, in this debate. Maybe there were some points that Justin brought up, maybe some Lyn points that we'll have to talk about. So I'm looking forward to that conversation. If you're a bankless premium member, you can look forward to that conversation too. It should be available to you now. Just upgrade to premium membership. We're going to get right into the conversation with Lynn Alden and Justin Drake.
00:04:07.942 - 00:04:13.518, Speaker C: But before we do, we want to hear about the fantastic sponsors that made this episode possible.
00:04:13.684 - 00:05:02.582, Speaker E: Polygon is Ethereum's largest and most vibrant scaling solution to date. With millions of monthly users and all of the biggest defi apps, the Polygon ecosystem has turned into a blossoming metropolis of defi activity. Transactions on Polygon are quick and cheap, allowing users the freedom to achieve their defi goals, all while being economically anchored to Ethereum. But Polygon isn't just the proof of stake sidechain. The Polygon team is building a suite of scaling solutions, including Polygon, Hermes, Maiden, nightfall and Xero, all with different design choices in order to be optimized for all possible crypto use cases. If you're a developer who wants to build on the Polygon ecosystem, go to the link in the show notes to check out their fantastic documentation. And if you're a user who just wants to experience fast and cheap DFI, you can bridge over your eth or other tokens and start playing around with any of the thousands of applications that are available on Polygon.
00:05:02.582 - 00:05:43.622, Speaker E: The layer two era is upon us. Ethereum's layer two ecosystem is growing every day and we need l two bridges to be fast and efficient in order to live a layer two life. Across is the fastest and cheapest and most secure crosschain bridge with across. You don't have to worry about the long wait times or high fees to get your assets back to the layer one assets are bridged and available for use almost instantaneously. Across'bridges. Are powered by UmA's optimistic oracle to securely transfer tokens from layer two back to Ethereum, across is critical ecosystem infrastructure and ownership is being handed over to the community. You can be a part of this story of across by joining the discord and becoming a cofounder and helping to design the fair fair launch of Cross.
00:05:43.622 - 00:06:31.234, Speaker E: If you want to bridge your assets quickly and securely, go to accross to bridge your assets between ETH, optimism, arbitrum or boba networks. Bankless is proud to be sponsored by Uniswap Uniswap is a new paradigm in asset exchange infrastructure. Instead of a cumbersome order book system where trades are matched with other humans, Uniswap is an autonomous piece of software on Ethereum that lets you trade any token at the current market price. No human counterparties or centralized intermediaries, just autonomous code on Ethereum. Input the token you want to sell and receive the token you want to buy. The Uniswap grants program is accepting applications for grants. Do you have something of value that you think you want to contribute to the Uniswap ecosystem? No matter how big or small your idea is, you can apply for a unique grant@uniswapgrants.org
00:06:31.234 - 00:06:37.334, Speaker E: and help steer Uniswap in the direction that you think it should go. Thank you Uniswap for sponsoring bankless bankless nation.
00:06:37.382 - 00:07:20.114, Speaker C: We are super excited to introduce you to our next guest and host this conversation about proof of stake versus proof of work, or flip that around proof of work versus proof of stake, depending on what side of the conversation you're on. I wanted to introduce you to repeat Bankless podcast guest founder of Lyn Alden investment strategy Lynn Alden. She's a leading expert in macro markets. Lynn Alden has been a leading expert commentator on macro. She's been a proponent of bitcoin for a long time. She generally believes that proof of work is more suited to producing a new global money system than proof of stake. She also wrote an article on this topic that was widely read, very well circulated, and well argued.
00:07:20.114 - 00:07:27.466, Speaker C: So we've got Lynn on the one side who is pro proof of work and critical of proof of stake. Lynn, welcome to Bankless. How are you doing?
00:07:27.568 - 00:07:28.410, Speaker B: Happy to be here.
00:07:28.480 - 00:07:46.762, Speaker C: Fantastic. On the other side of things, we have Justin Drake. Justin Drake is also a repeat bankless guest. He is a researcher at the Ethereum foundation. He's the pioneer of ETh as ultrasound money. You may have heard that meme a few times before. He's also been hard at work at helping Ethereum transition to proof of stake.
00:07:46.762 - 00:08:03.698, Speaker C: So of course he is a believer in it, and he believes that proof of stake produces an asset with the properties that the 2020s will need with the monetary properties that is. So he's on the side of pro proof of stake, and he's more critical of proof of work. Justin, how are you doing? Welcome to bankless.
00:08:03.794 - 00:08:05.958, Speaker A: Doing great. Thanks again for having me, guys.
00:08:06.044 - 00:09:00.154, Speaker C: Okay. We're super excited to host this debate, this conversation, if you will. I know you both have some fantastic points to go through. I want to start with kind of the big question. I think we're settling and see if we have some agreement on that big question, which is, I think we're trying to answer the meta question of whether proof of work or proof of stake is most amenable to the accrual of monetary premium. Basically, which of those two consensus protocols are most amenable to making a cryptocurrency a money have monetary premium? Do you guys agree, before we get into kind of the subtopics here, that this is the correct framing of the whole conversation, we're trying to answer which consensus protocol has a better monetary premium potential? Justin, why don't we start with you?
00:09:00.352 - 00:09:50.806, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that is the big question. And it kind of boils down to what a consensus mechanism is all about. It's about security. And so we can kind of look at a consensus mechanism through the lens of economic security, for example. We could look at it through the lens of governance security. To what extent does the community have control over the consensus participants which are meant to just be doing their job of maintaining the blockchain? We can look at physical security. Which one is more liable to attack from violence in the context of nation states, for example, we can look at quantum security and we can even maybe look at meme security, monetary premium, to a large extent, is about having the best memes.
00:09:50.806 - 00:10:01.338, Speaker A: And I believe that proof of stake has the potential to have much better memes than proof of work when it comes to looking at cash flows. But that's, I guess, something we'll discuss later.
00:10:01.424 - 00:10:16.270, Speaker C: Lynn, I want to get your weigh in on this. So do you think that this is the question we're trying to answer is which sort of consensus mechanism is most amenable to the accrual of monetary premium? Proof of work or proof of stake? Or would you reframe this in a different way?
00:10:16.340 - 00:11:04.302, Speaker B: I think that's a good way to phrase it. And in the current system, we have, not on the blockchain, but we have proof of work and proof of stake assets, essentially, right? So equities, because you own a stake in that company, you have a proof of stake, right? And so your stake allows you to exercise some degree of control over that company. Whereas, of course, we have normal commodities that are proof of work assets, more or less. And what we've seen over history is that either asset can acquire some degree of a monetary premium, right? So, for example, in this era of bad money, stocks have acquired, in some cases, a monetary premium. So you can have assets of either case that have monetary premium. And so the question becomes, what is most suited to a monetary premium and what is able to acquire and then hold for the very long run and accrue a structural monetary premium?
00:11:04.366 - 00:11:53.278, Speaker A: I really want to kind of interject almost at the very beginning here and kind of try and kind of argue why this analogy with equity and proof of stake is maybe a bad analogy. And the reason is that in the context of equity, you have the right to vote on anything. You can completely change the rules of the company. But in the context of proof of stake, actually, there is a bit of ambiguity. You could have proof of stake governance, and you can have proof of stake consensus. So some chains, like tezos, like Polkadot, like definity, they empower their token holders to make arbitrary changes to the rules of consensus. And that can happen even without a fork.
00:11:53.278 - 00:12:53.730, Speaker A: There's a sufficient quorum. The rules kind of automatically change on chain. But in the context of proof of stake as a consensus mechanism for security, the consensus participants can't just arbitrary change the rules. So, for example, and I think this is something we can both agree on, the consensus participants can't say we're just going to give ourselves 1000 if each, because that would be kind of an invalid transaction, an invalid block. And so ultimately, the consensus participants are beholden to the community, and that is a huge difference relative to equity. And if we really want to go down this equity metaphor, then we kind of need to think of how proof of work would be equity like. And it is equity like in the sense that the consensus participants, those who have hash rate, have this very constrained voting power.
00:12:53.730 - 00:13:00.014, Speaker A: Only in the context of governance. Sorry, on the context of consensus, not in the wider context of governance.
00:13:00.142 - 00:13:32.650, Speaker D: Guys, I think everyone here is really eager to get into the details, and we jumped ahead a little bit with that. Justin. So I'm going to zoom out and kind of give a roadmap for the listeners before I give it right back to Lynn. In order to answer the question which produces the best monetary premium, there's a bunch of sub questions. One of those is like the commodity versus equity debate, which we just kind of hopped into. And so we'll start with that first. But the other things that we're going to talk about on this show are things like 51% attacks, which system can recover, deter and recover from 51% attacks.
00:13:32.650 - 00:14:05.030, Speaker D: Economic security, which provides the most economic security. Fairness and decentralization, which one is economically fairest for participants. And kind of what we were just talking about, commodity money versus equity money. Lynn generally thinks that proof of work produces commodity money, or money with commodity properties, and proof of stake produces money with equity properties, as we just alluded to. And that is, I guess, where we're going to start this debate, as we've hopped into it already. So, Lynn, do you want to just keep on going with that conversation about proof of work as commodity and proof of stake as equity?
00:14:05.110 - 00:15:13.150, Speaker B: So I agree that there are different types of proof of stake systems, right? So they're ones that give you more control than others. And if I were to focus on, say, defining proof of work as commodity money, I would also even go so far as to say that if you have a proof of work system that has difficulty bumps or that has, say, very large blocks or just very hard to run your own node, that starts to have equity like systems as well. And so, for example, you can have some of the hard forks away from bitcoin start to look more equity like, because it kind of consolidates the number of people that can make decisions for that protocol, rather than being a fairly immutable protocol, as you would generally see in a commodity. Right? So producers have no influence over the properties of copper, for example. That's an example of a commodity money or a commodity in general. And so going back to the proof of stake to equity analogy, we can point out that, for example, shareholders in a corporation can make changes, but, of course, they can't make changes that violate the law of the country that they have a jurisdiction in or that places they operate in. Right? So they're still bound by things that are outside of just their stake in that company.
00:15:13.150 - 00:15:27.160, Speaker B: And that would be true for this as well. And so, in this context, the proof of stake would refer to the fact that people that hold the capital are the ones that get decide which transactions are processed, more or less. That's what their stake is rather limited to.
00:15:28.090 - 00:16:14.766, Speaker A: Right. So if we want to take kind of a technical perspective, I guess the consensus participants can try and do two things. One is they can try and do a hard fork, which is basically to make transactions which are not valid and somehow make them valid. And as you say, this is the context of the law. There's this law, which is set by users, which cannot be violated by the consensus participants. And then there's this other thing that they can try and do is basically, as you said, restrict the set of transactions that can be processed. And so this is what's called a soft fork, which is basically a form of censorship, where transactions that used to be valid are no longer being processed, and so they're effectively invalid.
00:16:14.766 - 00:17:31.290, Speaker A: And so I do agree that consensus participants have this ability to do censorship. And then the question becomes, if we want to compare proof of work to proof of stake, which one is least liable to these censorship attacks? And here what we need to do is we kind of need to zoom out all the way to the social layer, because this is where the social layer needs to intervene. And it turns out that one of the massive advantages, in my opinion, of proof of stake is that the social layer has the tools to go intervene whenever there is censorship by the consensus participants, whereas proof of work does not have that. Now, in terms of things that you mentioned, like the difficulty bomb, small blocks versus big blocks, these are things that I believe are somewhat orthogonal to the discussion today. And I think one way to really focus the discussion on the topic of specifically proof of work versus proof of stake, which is a tiny part of consensus. It's kind of interesting how proof of work versus proof of stake is actually all about restricting the set of consensus participants that can come in. It's an anti Sibyl gadget.
00:17:31.290 - 00:17:59.510, Speaker A: And there's other things as part of consensus. There's the fork choice rule. There's mercuryization. There's devm versus utxos. There's big blocks versus small blocks. There's all sorts of other things. But I think in order to have the simplest discussion possible, maybe we could compare a hypothetical bitcoin proof of stake versus a bitcoin proof of work, or we could just look at Ethereum proof of stake versus Ethereum proof of work.
00:17:59.510 - 00:18:09.826, Speaker A: But if we start talking about things outside of candles as apples to apples comparison, then the discussion becomes quite convoluted.
00:18:09.938 - 00:19:01.080, Speaker C: I'd like to go back into the kind of commodity money versus equity money type of discussion. So, Lynn, I want to understand kind of your take here. Is it the case that you believe that any kind of proof of stake produced monetary premium or money is more like equity and less like a commodity? Or is there some granularity there in kind of your belief? I think you just expressed in what you were saying previously, that some proof of work systems can actually become a bit more equity like and less commodity like. Is the same true of proof of stake systems? Can they become a bit more commodity like and less equity like in your mind?
00:19:01.770 - 00:19:48.242, Speaker B: So I think there is some degree of spectrum, but I think for the most part, it's a rather one directional street in the sense that there are multiple ways to become an equity, but very few ways to become a commodity in that sense. And so commodities, by their nature, are somewhat rare. They're immutable, and there are so many things that require governance in our world. And so, especially when we're talking about the topic of decentralization and immutability, there are multiple ways to essentially become an equity, and there are multiple ways to define what an equity is in that context. And so I would say it's, for the most part, the ways to create a true kind of commodity in the digital realm is extremely limited. And that's why I bring up the block size. I agree that we should, we should focus almost entirely on the proof of work versus proof of state concept.
00:19:48.242 - 00:20:08.618, Speaker B: But my point of bringing that up is that even among, even in proof of work, there are multiple traps to fall into to create a system that ends up being more equity like, in the sense that those with capital and those with outsized influence can control the network, compared to having one that's truly decentralized and as close to immutable as you're going to get in the digital realm.
00:20:08.714 - 00:21:04.446, Speaker C: Do you think part of the difference here, Lynn, is that a difference of ossification? Right. So some networks, like, maybe, say, a bitcoin, for instance, has far fewer governance decisions to actually make, since it's kind of done. It's like fully baked, but something like Ethereum. Whether it's proof of stake or whether it's proof of work, it's not a complete project. Maybe it's 50% complete, I think Vitalik said somewhere between 50 and 60% recently complete. So there are still future governance decisions to make. And whether that is like hash power kind of influencing some of those governance decisions, or whether that's staked tokens influencing those governance decisions, is the difference that Ethereum and many of the other proof of stake chains are not ossified, they still have work to do versus something like bitcoin and proof of work.
00:21:04.446 - 00:21:06.754, Speaker C: Do you think that's a useful distinction in your mind?
00:21:06.952 - 00:21:52.474, Speaker B: I think that is a useful distinction, but I would say even in an ossified proof of stake system, it still wouldn't be basically a monetary premium in the same way that a proof of work system is. I think one analogy you can use is that a proof of work system is like non volatile memory, right? Whereas proof of stake system is like volatile memory. Basically, you have to be continually online to be as trustless as possible with that system. And so that gives you different levels of hardness as it relates to attack surfaces. In addition, when you go down to the complexity of the code, proof of stake is far more complex, far more bloated compared to proof of work. And again, I'm not saying that proof of stake has no use cases. So saying that something is a digital equity is not saying that it's worthless, it's just saying it's not a digital commodity.
00:21:52.474 - 00:22:45.258, Speaker B: And so that's how I kind of would make that kind of differentiation. That even if you had a hypothetical ossified, totally done proof of stake system, or at least close to being done as possible, where maybe you're changing with gradual softworks and things like that, that you still inherently require more governance because the failure modes, in case that there is a major system event, requires more intervention than if you have a proof of work system. If you had, for example, something crazy like the Internet goes down for a month, right? So something like a proof of work system or bitcoin can just restart again, whereas a proof of stake system requires kind of more of a manual restart, because it's not a system that's designed to make sense when it's not continually online. And so I think that there are multiple angles you can approach it from a hard disk perspective. And it's more than just ossification, although ossification is a factor.
00:22:45.354 - 00:22:57.586, Speaker C: Justin, I'm kind of interested in you responding to that, but I'm also interested in your concept of ether as an asset, do you view ether as more commodity like or more equity like? Do you think that's a helpful distinction?
00:22:57.778 - 00:23:45.746, Speaker A: I like to think in technical terms. And so these traditional labels I'm somewhat uncomfortable with. And I think the case could be made that both bitcoin and BTC and ETH have commodity properties, and both have equity properties. But I want to ask Lynn kind of a simple question, which is you mentioned that the capital holders have this outsized power in the context of proof of stake. So if, let's say bitcoin was a proof of stake system, fully the same kind of ossification, the same kind of culture and everything like that, what exactly would be that outsized power? Because I'm not really seeing it.
00:23:45.848 - 00:25:34.994, Speaker B: Well, essentially, it would go down to the idea that those that hold larger stakes in the system have an influence, a structural influence, on who can transact in that system, who can be censored and who cannot be. And so, for example, in the current banking system, as we've seen in some countries lately, there's a rather small number of entities that can then determine what people can use that system to transact and which people cannot. And so both types of systems have a risk where they can become centralized to the point where they have temporary or permanent blockades on certain types of transactions. And so, in a proof of stake system, you have a situation where if you hold a quorum of the capital, if you hold a majority of the capital, you can then lock down the network to entities that are considered, for whatever reason, unworthy of transacting in that system. And I think one thing to keep in mind is, when we talk about, say, attacks on a network, we often think of like, some rogue actor coming in to attack the network, whereas I think a more realistic thing to approach is from a regulatory standpoint. So, for example, if a country declares that all of the proof of work, miners have to avoid processing certain types of transactions, right? So that's an example of regulatory capture that becomes a problem if you have a lot of, say, publicly traded bitcoin miners, for example, located in one country, and that they have a majority of the processing power now, that could eventually be rectified by bringing more hash to the network in other places. When you look at the proof of stake system, then the question becomes looking at custodians and looking at whales and seeing how, to what extent they can be regulated to essentially capture the network.
00:25:34.994 - 00:25:37.560, Speaker B: And so that's how I'd phrase that.
00:25:38.030 - 00:26:39.430, Speaker A: Right? So you somehow acknowledge and kind of highlight the outsized power that the stakers might have. But I think the miners, those who own hash rates, have the exact same outsized power. Right? And at the end of the day, both proof of work and proof of stake are proof of capital. And so one of the questions we should be asking ourselves is how much capital is required to go overwhelm the system. That's one of the key questions around economic security. And it turns out empirically that proof of stake is vastly superior by roughly an order of magnitude 20 x better from an economic efficiency standpoint, to go raise that barrier to entry, to actually perform a 51% attack. Now, one thing that you said, which is that there could be these external attackers, but there could also be kind of endogenous attackers.
00:26:39.430 - 00:27:02.926, Speaker A: And this is the exact same situation, in my opinion, for proof of work and proof of stake. Like, you could take, for example, a company like Genesis mining. They're effectively a custodian of hashrate. They have customers who will basically just send funds. That's all they do. They hold the miners. And they can be regulated in the exact same way that a custodian can be regulated.
00:27:02.926 - 00:27:50.094, Speaker A: Now, the key critical difference, and is it goes back to the counterattacks that the community can do. You mentioned that in proof of work, you can have more hash rate come in. Well, I don't think that's the expected outcome. And the reason is that if a 51% attacker comes in, they get to collect every single piece of reward, every single piece of issuance, every transaction fee goes to them. And the reason is that they can mine a chain where they are the only miner. They win every single block, and no one else wins blocks. And so the honest miners, what are they going to do? They're going to turn off their miners because it doesn't make sense to be spending electricity and not get income.
00:27:50.094 - 00:28:50.726, Speaker A: And then what's the next step? Well, they're going to want to liquidate their assets. They're going to want to sell their hardware. And then what can the attacker do? Well, now the attacker can buy this hardware for pennies on the dollar and basically reinforce themselves as the attacker. And it's kind of this really terrible situation. And even if for some reason or another, the community, despite a totally compromised blockchain, despite the price of bitcoin, maybe having crashed quite significantly, manages to make a counterattack which is not against their rational interest, because they would likely be losing money in that process. The counterattack would take months, if not years, to organize. On the other hand, in the context of proof of stake, you have a very straightforward mitigation, which is just take the attacker and remove them from the validator set.
00:28:50.726 - 00:29:31.054, Speaker A: This is what we call kind of a forced exit. Now, it turns out that in Ethereum, if you want to join as a validator, there is an activation Queue. So it takes time to go from non staked efer to staked efer. And if you want to double the amount of staked eth, it takes roughly 200 days. So at a minimum, what you can do is you can kick out the attacker, and that buys you 200 days. But of course, the community has more powers than that. One of the things they could do, for example, is totally destroy all the rewards that have been accrued so far, in addition to doing the forced ejection.
00:29:31.054 - 00:30:04.400, Speaker A: Or they could do, like, something even much more nuclear, is that they could just destroy the whole stake of the attacker. And if they do that, we're actually in a position where we can bound the number of times that an attack could happen in the first place. Let's imagine, for example, that there's 10 million e. That's honest, and that's staking. If you want to do an attack, you're going to need another 10 million e. And every time you make an attack, you lose that 10 million e. Now, if there's only 120,000,000 e in circulation, the attack can only be done eleven times.
00:30:04.400 - 00:30:17.730, Speaker A: So really, in the case of healing these attacks, it's almost black and white. The proof of stake is clearly superior than proof of work.
00:30:17.800 - 00:30:58.954, Speaker B: So there's a bunch of points they respond to. So I'll try to go linearly. I guess the first point is that the difference between mining as basically the source of control versus staking as a source of control, is that staking requires little or no. There's almost no entropy there, right? So once you hold the power, you accrue more power. Whereas in any mining business, including physical commodities, and then now extending into digital commodities, with mining of, say, bitcoin or other blockchains, it's a very capital intensive business. You have to constantly put in fresh capital in order to maintain those rewards. And so it actually doesn't really accrue a lot of value for the miners other than on the margins.
00:30:58.954 - 00:32:29.210, Speaker B: Right? So basically, scraping by, it's historically been a very rough business to operate in. And so that's one difference between, say, either way, you need capital in order to be a processor in the network, but one is kind of inherently more structural. Inherently kind of power begets power, and the other one is it actually kind of rewards new entrants, people that come in and say, okay, there's almost no economy of scale here. There's some degree of economy of scale. But for the most part, with proof of work, the most efficient energy sources are these small strand energy sources around the world, right? So you can have these large entities that have, say, a big kind of economy of scale in terms of their ability to buy machines and things like that. But when it comes to the cost of energy, smaller entities actually sometimes have the advantage because they can go to places that are just too small for these bigger ones to deal with. The second one, I think, relates to overall, when it comes to security, it's not just about 51% attacks, it's also about bugs, right? So, for example, when it comes to the largest blockchains, I'm far less concerned that they're going to be 51% attacked than, say, the smaller ones that are sharing a hashing algorithm with a larger chain, right, because they're much easier to, say, 1% of bitcoin miners could attack bitcoin cash, 51% attack and then go back to mining bitcoin, right? So I'm more concerned about the smaller chains getting 51% attacked than I am the largest one or the largest five, let's say.
00:32:29.210 - 00:33:30.510, Speaker B: And so in that context, I'd be far more concerned about bugs. And so one of the things that's easy to grant is that in a world of just like, where everything works perfectly, proof of stake has a higher cost to attack. That's something I mentioned in my article a couple of times where especially if a system is smaller, right? So especially if you're in a world with multiple chains and you're trying to create a project, proof of stake makes sense because it gives you a higher initial threshold to attack it, whereas the downside of that system is that because proof of stake is inherently far more complex and there are greater attack services, there are greater bug services, it's more bloated code, there are more challenges to that system. And then this goes somewhat out of the bounds of proof of work versus proof of stake. But then you layer in additional features, right? So if we're talking about what makes a good money, it's something that is inherently simple and inherently small. No decentralized proof of work. Basically the leanest code you can get and distributed among as many machines as you can get and as immutable as you can get.
00:33:30.510 - 00:34:08.934, Speaker B: Whereas as we layer things on top of it, like proof of stake adds a lot of code complexity. It also makes it use my prior example, more like volatile memory than non volatile memory. It needs to be continuously live in order to function as intended. And so when you layer those things on top of it, I would say that takes away a monetary premium, and you can argue that it adds equity value. Right? So, for example, when we look at Apple stock. So we look at Apple stock over the long term, this kind of meme of ultrasound money for Ethereum, you have this thing where it's mostly focused on whether it's inflating or deflating and what percentage.
00:34:08.982 - 00:34:09.146, Speaker C: Right?
00:34:09.168 - 00:34:55.130, Speaker B: So, for example, Apple stock is actually one of the most deflationary assets around. It's got a 4.5% average annual deflation rate. Over the past ten years, they decreased their share count from 26 million to 16 million. And that's, of course, one of the factors for why they did well on a per share basis. But at the end of the day, what it comes down to, because they're an equity, it's the attractiveness of their ecosystem for customers, right? So it's not about how many shares they have, because you have other ones, like IBM, that are also rapidly reducing their share count, but because their ecosystem is unhealthy, they're not really accruing that value to shares overall. And so I think when it comes down to kind of what is trying to be money, the thing that does almost nothing other than just be money, is the best money.
00:34:55.130 - 00:35:48.182, Speaker B: And something that tries to do multiple things, including proof of stake as one of the components, inherently gives it less monetary premium. And then just to finish up with the very last point, when it comes to recovering from 51% attacks. So I think the main point there, while granting that, say, in a non kind of bug world where things have to be approached honestly, proof of stake does theoretically have a higher cost to attack. But when it comes to unwinding that attack, the only way to do it is to soft fork and then take people's capital, which if you phrase it as you're taking the attacker's capital, that sounds fine. But if you realize that the attacker could be a regulated custodian and that you're taking people's capital, that had nothing to do with the attack. Right. So their coins were captured and then used against the network, you're basically then splitting participants.
00:35:48.182 - 00:35:54.954, Speaker B: Right. So either way, responding to a 51% attack, a sustained 51% attack, is a messy proposition.
00:35:55.082 - 00:36:37.962, Speaker A: Well, I'm happy to go through the response point by point, I guess. So. One of the things that you've highlighted, Lyn, quite a bit is complexity and bugs. Now, I don't think complexity is necessarily like an evil. Complexity is one of the things that humanity thrives on, right? That we could be doing calculations on an abacus, we could be doing calculations on a calculator, or we could be doing calculations on a computer. And humanity is very, very good at abstracting away complexity. Now, in terms of the complexity of proof of stake, it is more complex than proof of work.
00:36:37.962 - 00:37:27.222, Speaker A: Granted at least ten x, maybe 100 x. But it's complexity that at this point in time we have tamed. And one of the biggest, maybe examples of this is that we have five different clients that have implemented the protocol. And these are the small teams. We're talking on the order of five to ten people per team, and they've each managed to implement the consensus. Now, one of the strategies that you can take to mitigate against complexity and bugs is to have client diversity. And this is one of the big reasons why we have five clients, is that we can enable the community to basically buy insurance against these bad bugs.
00:37:27.222 - 00:38:25.166, Speaker A: Another point that you've brought up is the idea of being continuously online, which is basically the technical word for that, is weak subjectivity. And the idea of weak subjectivity is that if you've been offline, the way that you sync up is that step number one, you get some sort of semitrusted checkpoint, and then you sync from that checkpoint onwards. Now it turns out that bitcoin has these checkpoints all over the place. Now here's one example. Like literally in the bitcoin core software, in the c plus plus code, there's like twelve checkpoints. And so if hypothetically, there was an attacker that would build from Genesis, build an alternative chain that completely rewrites history, then guess what? This chain would not be valid. Why? Because the developers have literally put subjective checkpoints in the code base.
00:38:25.166 - 00:39:28.094, Speaker A: Where's another place where there are subjective checkpoints? Well, if you've been offline, you need to go download the software. The bitcoin core software, that's like step zero, right before syncing. And guess what? When you're downloading the software, you're trusting the code, you're trusting the whole supply chain. You might be trusting GitHub is giving you the right code, you might be trusting even your operating system. There's all sorts of places where you're effectively trusting the initial checkpoint that also baked into the software is this idea of boot nodes, right? The first time you sync after being offline, you need to connect to the peer to peer network, right? And so what happens in practice is that literally in the code are some hard coded IP addresses. And you go talk to these IP addresses. Now guess what? If all these IP addresses are compromised, you're going to be disconnected from the real peer to peer network.
00:39:28.094 - 00:40:27.282, Speaker A: You're going to be in this isolated kind of fantasy island and you're going to be downloading and syncing the wrong chain. And furthermore, I think that the bitcoiners thinking that, hey, we'll always sync from Genesis, even if there were not. All these issues that I mentioned is kind of fantasy. Like just imagine hypothetically that there was a reorg of 100 days, right? The last hundred days was just completely wiped out. Do you really think that the bitcoin community would just say, okay, yeah, we're just going to accept that that's totally normal. We're just going to pick the longest chain even though it's wiped out 100 days of history? No, of course not. What will happen is that there would be social governance, would effectively create a new subjective checkpoint and then basically pin the chain that was attacked and say this is the canonical one, despite not being the longest.
00:40:27.282 - 00:41:16.114, Speaker A: One of the other points that you brought up was around the last mover, right? Where if you're the last person to come in as a miner, you have an advantage. And I would argue this is actually a huge disadvantage for bitcoin. So in proof of stake, you have perfect fairness. You put in one unit of capital and you get the exact same amount of rewards, no matter how big, no matter how small. In proof of work, you have various places where the last mover or the big fish have these unfair advantages. So you mentioned economies of scale. If you're a retail miner buying one bitmain mining rig, you're going to get absolutely screwed on the price.
00:41:16.114 - 00:42:29.302, Speaker A: You're going to be overpaying by two x three x four x five x your hardware relative to the professional miners that are buying in bulk $100 million at a time. Another thing that you mentioned is that because of Moore's law, you have a last mover advantage. And so guess what? That means that attackers who want to attack, they have an advantage over the rest of the network. And not only do they have an advantage because they can pick the latest and most bleeding edge hardware, but for them to perform an attack, the price of electricity is to a large extent irrelevant. And the reason is that in order to perform a 51% attack, it suffices to run it for, let's say, one day or one week, and then discourage all the honest miners to just turn everything off. So 99% of the cost of making an attack is in the rigs and in the transformers and all the electrical infrastructure to run the rigs. It's not in the actual operation of the miners and the electricity cost associated.
00:42:29.302 - 00:43:31.950, Speaker A: And so what that means is that as a miner, you can actually go buy, acquire hardware, which is literally in the dump. So you have professional miners who they need the price of electricity to be, let's say, under ten cents. Now, if the price of electricity for them is over, is over, they would, let's say, get rid of that hardware. It's no longer valuable for them, but it is valuable for an attacker. And so basically, the fact that proof of work is inherently unfair is inherently unequal. Create, actually creates advantages for an attacker. And then one of the things that you mentioned as well is around slashing custodians, right? One of the tools that the community have in the context of proof of stake is that they can slash.
00:43:31.950 - 00:44:02.540, Speaker A: And slashing a custodian is kind of problematic because you're not really penalizing the custodian, you're penalizing the clients behind the custodians. And this is why I wanted to emphasize the fact that there's softer tools than slashing. One of the tools that you can do is this forced ejection. There's no penalty there. You're just removing them from being consensus participants, and that will buy you some amount of time. In Ethereum, it's 200 days, but that's a parameter. You could make that 1000 days.
00:44:02.540 - 00:44:30.670, Speaker A: Or what you could do as well is you could actually freeze the funds. You force eject, and then you freeze the funds for five years. That will teach them. Or you could do partial slashing. You could say, we'll give you a slap on the wrist this time. We'll slash only 10%, but if you try an attack again, we'll slash 100%. And so there's this wide range of tools that the community has to address these more delicate situations.
00:44:30.670 - 00:44:36.340, Speaker A: But again, this is a tool set that is completely unavailable in the context of proof of work.
00:44:37.450 - 00:45:58.382, Speaker B: So I would rephrase the one part in the middle where you describe proof of work as being inherently unfair. I would describe that as inherently renewative. Basically that every dollar that goes into the space has a set of decisions with it, right? You're determining what hardware you're going to buy, what scale you're going to buy it, what stranded energy source or what cheap energy source you're going to use. And a series of decisions goes into determining your success as a miner, and then rather than say early participants, they're then having a permanent advantage, right? So for example, in say a pre mined system, proof of stake system, those who bought in at the early stage, you can say, okay, they made one good decision, but then they have this permanent structural advantage for the rest of time as long as they continue to hold their stake. Whereas proof of work requires an ongoing series of good decisions in order to maintain your ability to be our participant in the network. And I think actually when we look out longer term, the kind of the direction that we're going, I think in proof of work, assuming these systems continue to be around for quite a while, is that you'll see increasing integration between miners and the energy producers themselves. We already see, for example, early signs of colocation, where you have an energy producer, could be solar, could be hydro, could be whatever.
00:45:58.382 - 00:47:13.174, Speaker B: And they have bitcoin miners on site. They often will contract with a miner to colocate them, but they could easily do it in a vertically integrated model where the way that the grid works, and this is something that a lot of kind of environmental criticisms of proof of work don't understand, is that the electrical grid naturally has to overproduce electricity, right? Otherwise if we didn't have extra productive capacity, then turning on the marginal laptop would cause a brownout, right? So we have to have this spare production always going into the network. And then we have to have a way to drain out excess power that's being produced but not consumed. And it's actually this really kind of tricky balancing act. And so proof of work systems are actually a really good load balancer, where if you're the type of energy source that doesn't have full control over your production, maybe you're a wind farm, maybe you're a hydro dam, maybe you're solar, or maybe you have just kind of your nuclear plant that just kind of has like continuous power. But maybe the demand is fluctuating throughout the day, right? So it's more demand at evening, less demand other times. And so I think over time we're going to see that the cheapest source of electricity is that virtually zero cost stranded energy.
00:47:13.174 - 00:47:52.686, Speaker B: And the best ones to harness that are the producers or people that contract directly with the producers and go on site. And so I think over time, that's what basically makes it as kind of diversified as possible. And right now, I think last I checked, the biggest bitcoin mining facility in the world is like 1% of total hash rate. It's already kind of a structurally decentralized system. And I think it only gets more so as you increasingly incorporate that into production. And so I agree that basically, proof of stake systems have multiple ways to deter attackers. They require governance, and in worst case scenario, they require confiscation.
00:47:52.686 - 00:48:29.994, Speaker B: Whereas in, say, a proof of work system, you also have a couple of ways to recover. The simplest way is to do no changes. And more capacity, I should say more hash capacity can come online. And if there's an existing attacker, then those new entrants have an advantage over that existing attacker, and people can fund that in multiple ways. Right? So, for example, if you're a large bitcoin holder, and bitcoin is currently being 51% attacked, you now have an incentive to bring hash online. It might not be profitable at first. You're basically making an investment to unlock your bitcoin transactions.
00:48:29.994 - 00:48:52.578, Speaker B: Number two is that there's also potential soft fork to kind of the nuclear option in, say, a proof of work system would be to do a soft fork to kill the miners. And you could phase that in over time. There's a way to do it gradually. And so there are those nuclear options if they end up being needed, but the kind of the beauty of the system, that it's self regenerative.
00:48:52.754 - 00:49:27.902, Speaker A: So one of the things that I'll say on the fairness is that in order to be a profitable miner, you need to operate at scale. Like, you can't just be a retail miner with one rig that does just don't work. You need to have, and there's like, decentralization forces. Like, you have miners, for example, building their own custom firmware. They have their own specialized know how. They know how to take the mining rigs that they receive and just assemble them as quickly as possible so that they can be immediately connected. And then there's all sorts of centralization vectors around the supply chain.
00:49:27.902 - 00:50:25.622, Speaker A: What if the fab, what if TSMC or global foundries was to create their own rigs? Well, actually, we've seen that intel, one of the big fabs, they're building their own chips. What if you just cut the middlemen? And that is a huge centralization vector. And in practice, I don't know anyone, and I've been in this space for almost a decade. I don't know any friend or any individual who mines bitcoin at this point in time. It's all industrial. On the other hand, with proof of stake, I think everyone on this call, maybe, except you, Lyn Alden, literally staking as individuals, we're all contributing the diversity on proof of stake is much, much larger. The barrier to entry is much, much lower.
00:50:25.622 - 00:51:15.726, Speaker A: You basically just need to have a computer running twenty four seven and that's about it. And the fairness is just out of the box. What happens with bitcoin mining is that you have two classes of people, you have the retail, who are going to get absolutely wrecked in terms of returns. And what's going to happen is that they might not even realize that they're getting wrecked. And the reason is that the price of bitcoin went so high that in dollar terms they're actually profitable. But in bitcoin terms, they put in ten bitcoins initial investment and they got three bitcoins back. Whereas on the other hand, if you're super sophisticated industrial miner, you can go sell hash rate futures, you can go buy energy futures.
00:51:15.726 - 00:51:46.670, Speaker A: You're really well connected to the fabs. You might even make your own chip. Making a chip is like at least $10 million. If we're talking 3 nm chip, you might be minimum investment is $30 million. The barrier to entry is much, much higher. To be competitive empirically, that's what can be observed today. And then you talked about the two remediations that the community can do.
00:51:46.670 - 00:52:36.574, Speaker A: One is kind of the do nothing approach. And as I mentioned, I don't think the do nothing approach really works out because the price of bitcoin will crash. It will be difficult for honest miners to to be profitable because now they have to make a huge guess. Not only is the current hardware need to be turned off and they make no income, but now we're talking about amplifying the risk. They need to go double the amount of hardware that they have. And now they're basically doubling the risk. It just seems completely crazy when you have no income to just grow your capital by so much.
00:52:36.574 - 00:53:11.654, Speaker A: And in terms of the nuclear option, well, that's not satisfactory either, because you're just effectively starting from scratch. Your old SHA 256, that's completely compromised. And now you're starting with some new algorithm. But here you could have an attacker just buy out in terms of capital, $5 billion or whatever it is, $10 billion of that other thing and completely overwhelm that new form of proof of work.
00:53:11.772 - 00:53:42.706, Speaker B: So I'll try to keep my response short just so we don't keep going super back and forth on these without kind of guidance. But one thing I'll point out. So it is true that there are supply chain risks with proof of work. And that's something that participants have been familiar with quite a while. And it's also, you have jurisdictional risk, right? So, for example, when China banned their mining, a lot of people were like, oh, that's bad for bitcoin. Whereas actually a lot of bitcoiners are like, oh, thank God. Now we won't have 60% of the hash rate in China, whatever the number is.
00:53:42.706 - 00:54:44.786, Speaker B: We actually want to see that geographically dispersed as much as possible. And a lot of them welcome the entrance of new participants in terms of making the hardware, because you don't want that to be super concentrated either, because you can either consolidate power, you can put in secret backdoors. There are risks associated with the supply chain, kind of like how there are risks with hardware wallets associated with the supply chain. So there are those real risks with proof of work. And so it's not the argument that any system is perfect in every single metric. It's how it responds overall, what are the trade offs that it's making? And I think the last part I would just jump on is right now, for example, there are a large number of very small private bitcoin mining companies, very small firms. Now, they're still larger than the individual, right? But they're small compared to those publicly traded companies because you kind of have two different classes, right? So you have some companies that are going after just economy of scale.
00:54:44.786 - 00:55:46.060, Speaker B: They're just building a massive facility, and then they're buying a lot of energy, and then they're operating that way. And they're actually still tiny in terms of, say, global companies, right? So they're not these mega companies because mining is inherently not that lucrative, but they're going for the economy of scale approach, then you have the other type that is basically buying older machines, and then they're going off grid for the cheaper source of energy, right? So they're going, for example, when you find an oil well and it has a little bit of natural gas with it, but it's not enough to build a pipeline for. They just burn the natural gas. There's nothing else they can do with it. So these companies go in and say, hey, instead of just burning that natural gas, how about we just put this little box of bitcoin miners and you can use it to generate electricity and mine it there? And only small companies can really do that. It's something that small teams have to go out and make deals with these companies and kind of arbitrage. And so there's not just one model of how a bitcoin miner works.
00:55:46.060 - 00:56:31.686, Speaker B: So I would phrase it like that. But overall, I think the key thing to focus on is one versus normal attacks versus bugs and other things like that. And you touched on that with the client diversification where there's different clients. But one thing worth pointing out is at least I don't have the numbers in front of me, but last I checked, the biggest client is like what? Like 84% of ethereum clients. So you do have some degree of client diversification, but it's also partial illusion. And these things over time tend towards basically becoming protocols where once one becomes dominant, it's pretty hard to then have true diversification in there. But I agree that in theory client diversification is a good thing and helps protect it against bugs.
00:56:31.686 - 00:57:08.726, Speaker B: But in practice I think one of the key things that protects against bugs is having the simplest possible code base. So complexity can allow us to do a lot of things. And in a system where you want it to do a lot of things, if you're not trying to be the best possible money, if you're trying to be an operating system that lets you do multiple different things, then complexity is a useful thing. And that's why I don't, for example, say that proof of stake systems shouldn't exist or that smart contract blockchain shouldn't exist. It's whether or not they're capable or if they're suited to acquiring a monetary premium over the long term. And that's, I think, the key thing to focus on.
00:57:08.908 - 00:57:50.318, Speaker A: On the topic of client diversity, we actually have two types of clients and they're very, very different. We have the execution clients. That's basically GEF, which is effectively at first approximation is effectively a monopoly. Let's say 100% use GEF and then we have the consensus layer where we have five different clients. Now we can ask ourselves what is the value of client diversity like? One of the value is to be insurance against bugs. But guess what? GEF has been battle tested for years and years and years with hundreds of billions of dollars that it's securing. And guess what? There's not that many bugs left in GEF.
00:57:50.318 - 00:58:50.994, Speaker A: On the other hand, when you take look at the consensus layer, which is much, much fresher, the value of client diversity in these early days is much, much higher. And right now we do have a client diversity problem with prism having roughly 65%. But some of the bigger stakers have signaled that they understand the value of diversity. And I am very optimistic that this is going to improve in the months to come leading to the merge. Another thing that I want to highlight is that if we want to be the Internet of money. We need to have a timescale on the order of the Internet itself, right? The Internet is here to live on for decades, if not centuries. And it just so happens that complexity is something that has a half life of, I don't know, maybe like, let's say one year, right? It can be tamed.
00:58:50.994 - 00:59:44.310, Speaker A: It's something that can be hardened. We have this idea of the Lindy effect, where over time, as lots of, lots of value is being secured by these systems, they can be trusted, and maybe different people have different risk tolerance. But if you look over the long term, if you look at fundamentals, this is right, the complexity of a system is absolute. The bugs will be fixed, the system will harden. And really what we should be looking at is these long term fundamentals. And when we project ourselves to long term fundamentals, we bring up topics like quantum, right? It turns out that the nature of computing is going to change in the next 2030 years. And it so happens that proof of work is going to be completely disrupted by quantum.
00:59:44.310 - 01:00:01.130, Speaker A: And so, yes, there are these short term things which in the grand scheme of things are just. But if you zoom out and you really focus on the fundamentals, then actually you can see that there's fundamental reasons to be bearish on proof of work.
01:00:01.200 - 01:00:31.750, Speaker E: Living a bankless life requires taking control over your own private keys. And that's why so many in the bankless nation already have their ledger hardware wallet. And brand new to the ledger lineup of hardware wallets is the Ledger Nanos Plus, a huge upgrade to the world's most popular hardware wallet. With more memory and a larger screen, the Nanos plus makes it easy to navigate and verify your transactions. And the paired Ledger live desktop app gives you increased transparency as to what is about to happen with your NFT. What you see is what you sign. The Nanos plus gives you the smoothest possible user experience while you're doing all of your crypto things.
01:00:31.750 - 01:00:53.806, Speaker E: So go to the Ledger website to check out the features of the new Ledger Nanos plus and join the waitlist to get yours. And don't forget about the crypto life card. Also powered by Ledger, the CL card is a crypto debit card that hooks right into the ledger live app, right next to all the defi apps and services that you're already used to doing, like swapping tokens and staking. So if you don't have a ledger hardware wallet, go to ledger.com, grab a.
01:00:53.828 - 01:00:56.030, Speaker D: Ledger, and take control over your crypto.
01:00:56.530 - 01:00:59.066, Speaker E: If you're going bankless, you need metamask.
01:00:59.098 - 01:01:35.754, Speaker D: This is your tool to unlock the world of defi without giving up custody over your private keys. Metamask is both a secure in browser wallet and also a secure bridge for your hardware wallet. You can now trade tokens on any Dex or aggregator. Metamask swap gathers real time pricing information across all the DeFi exchanges, allowing you to select your best price while getting all the metamask benefits of self custody, lower gas costs, and increased transaction success rates. Metamask also has a fantastic mobile wallet that I use when I'm out and about which I use to collect poaps, nfts and do all my d five things while I'm away from home. If you haven't downloaded metamask, you got to try it out. Web three wouldn't be the same without it.
01:01:35.754 - 01:01:45.150, Speaker D: Download metamask for desktop and mobile at Metamask IO and load up your treasure ledger, lattice, or keystone hardware wallets so that they too can get into the world of web3.
01:01:45.300 - 01:01:53.906, Speaker F: So you've got some money, but how are you going to use it? You want to spend you me shopping now, bro, when you know you should be saving?
01:01:54.008 - 01:01:55.794, Speaker E: You'll never buy a house at this.
01:01:55.832 - 01:02:37.630, Speaker F: Rate, but what if you could spend and save at the same time for the enlightened kind? With inquiring minds, a new world awaits. Set yourself free with completely flexible self repaying loan technology supported on desktop and mobile. Seize the power of alchemyx, allowing you to spend and save at the same time. Leverage your wealth without risk of liquidation. Take out a loan that repays itself by using yield from your deposit to pay off your balance. Your only debt is time. What was once inconceivable is now within your grasp.
01:02:44.770 - 01:03:42.420, Speaker D: Lindy, I think you've kind of taken the lead in the world as like a macro commentator, focusing on macro markets and commodity markets. And something I've noticed out of the bitcoiner camp is they tend to be focused on commodities and just the commodity properties of bitcoin and how it kind of relates to the money. And you've described bitcoin as something akin to commodity money as related to how it consumes energy, viewing energy as a commodity, and how that energy is one of the thing that produces bitcoins via proof of work. And in my mind, this I think is partly maybe described as like a moral argument, as in I think bitcoiners kind of think commodity money is just a better suited money to the world based on just its equitableness and fairness. Would you agree with that description of the general belief from bitcoiners. And if you agree, why you think commodity money is just a better property for money to have.
01:03:43.350 - 01:05:09.770, Speaker B: So I think that there would be different arguments among them if we look at back at history, right? So I do approach this mostly from a macro perspective, right? So for example, if you're talking about, say, different types of proof of stake competing with each other, which one's going to win? I would let the phds of computer science work that out. When it comes to kind of a macro analyst looking at different blockchains and determining which one has a monetary premium or should have a monetary premium or is secure enough to invest large amounts of capital in, I approach it from that macro perspective with some degree of obviously technical details along the way as needed to inform that macro perspective. And if you look back in history, essentially what you're giving up, if you go from commodity money to stake money, is that it goes basically towards governance, right? So for example, in say, the period prior to the early 19 hundreds, you had commodity money for the most part, and you had layers of stake on top of it, but the underlying foundation was commodity money, proof of work in the form of gold. And then as you shifted towards a purely fiat money, you essentially shifted more towards proof of stake. And as an example of how the Federal Reserve works, right? So the cost of producing money, there's no constraint on how much money you can produce. So you have to add artificial constraints to how that's going to function and how transactions can be processed. Who can make new, for lack of a better word, tokens, new units of the system, and who gets to participate in the network.
01:05:09.770 - 01:06:37.558, Speaker B: And so, for example, most central banks are not really decentralized at all. The Federal Reserve is the most decentralized. And it's basically like a proof of stake system, but not on a blockchain, right? So you have the system where you have twelve regional reserve banks. Each one has, they're owned by commercial banks, right? So they have this kind of special share structure, so they have their representation in that system, and it's based on their capital, their initial capital, their stake in the system. Then you have the Federal Reserve Board, which is appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate, so that theoretically goes downstream to the people, because you vote for the politicians and then they appoint and confirm those participants. And so when you look at, say, the Federal Open Market Committee, you're in that system where you have the seven reserve board governors, the ones that were appointed by the government, and then you have this rotating member of five of the twelve presidents of those banks, right? So you have this kind of hodgepodge mix of federally appointed and bank appointed officials determining what the policy is going to be for that network. And generally over time, that tends towards centralization, because as debt builds up and as the system starts to break down, they increasingly get captured by the government system because they have to monetize debts and they have to basically bail out the system and provide liquidity when no one else is providing liquidity.
01:06:37.558 - 01:07:45.274, Speaker B: And so basically, with the invention of bitcoin, you have kind of the reintroduction of commodity money, and it kind of allows that system to potentially reset over the long term and allow people to opt into a different system. And so those systems can continue to exist side by side. And I expect that they will for a very long period of time where you have that more existing stake system, and then you have the introduction of basically kind of a lack of a better word, digital gold. And then of course with that, as people innovate, they come along and say, hey, if we have digitally native commodities, we can also come along and have essentially digital native equities. And so we're still kind of exploring the total adjustable market of what all these things are going to be and what their different use cases are going to be for. And I think the one thing I would just point out is that the more that any given system tries to do, usually not necessarily all the time, but usually the worse it's going to be at any one of those things. One example is that as, say, ethereum has tried to somewhat hard its monetary policy, it's also arguably lost market share in DFI.
01:07:45.274 - 01:08:26.314, Speaker B: So, for example, in late 2020, Ethereum had something like 97% of total value locked market share as we speak. Now it's down to 55%. So you have all these different basically ecosystems then competing on fees, on usability, on network effects, things like that. So you have kind of, Ethereum obviously has the largest network effect, the most Lindy of all of them. Then you have these other ones coming in, often with increased complexity, often already proof of stake from the beginning. And they're doing their own thing, and we're seeing this kind of diversification over time. Whereas so far, bitcoin doesn't really have competition from other systems, we had these kind of brief periods of competition.
01:08:26.314 - 01:08:47.842, Speaker B: You have like a meme of doge for a period of time. You have temporarily bitcoin cash is relevant and these fade over time. And so you have these kind of two different worlds. And so I think one of them is based more on governance and making your ecosystem as attractive as possible. And the other one comes down to which one is the hardest and essentially what is the one that is basically the best at being money?
01:08:47.976 - 01:09:41.666, Speaker D: I definitely want to throw that to Justin, but just a quick follow up, Lynn. I think baked into that argument is kind of, or maybe I'm just pulling this again from other bitcoiners who make similar arguments, is that the nature of how kind of like proof of stake represents the fiat system and proof of work represents the commodity money like gold, on which the proof of stake system rests on top of, I think is some sort of like a subjective argument about people of the world will like this system more, that like the proof of work system more because it feels more fair versus. Or how much of this do you think is actually like a technical objective argument of this is objectively a better system, or how much do you think this is a subjective argument of people think that this system is more equitable and more fair to them, so therefore they're going to choose this new proof of work commodity money system.
01:09:41.768 - 01:10:23.122, Speaker B: So I think, I mean, it's a good question, right? So I think you would get different answers depending on which person you talk to. I think that there are some that would make kind of the fairness argument. I personally approach it more from a technical risk perspective. And so I view what is the system that is less likely to have tail risks? What is the system that is optimized for what it's trying to do? And kind of the whole like ethereum, maxi versus bitcoin, maxi versus multicoin, all that debate. I approach this as someone who, I own dozens of different stocks. I mean, I'm happy with diversification. I'm happy with going out to different systems and going out to distribute my capital in a diversified way.
01:10:23.122 - 01:11:15.806, Speaker B: And the only challenge is that in this particular ecosystem, it's inherently very speculative, right? So we're still in some ways early stage in many of these things. And so you basically have one that looks the most Lindy 13 years of operating history, very simple proof of work, and then you have these kind of a large number of, kind of vc type of investments, and they're rapidly innovating, competing on capturing that market share. And so when it comes to the fairness argument, I think partially that gets mixed up in a bunch of different things. So one is the proof of work and one is like the scarcity of the tokens, right? So basically in the current system as designed, now the argument is the contillant effect. So the closer you are to the money printer, for lack of a better word, the more advantaged you are. And a tangible example of that is, say, during COVID corporations, large corporations are able to issue public equities debt. I mean, public debt.
01:11:15.806 - 01:12:11.000, Speaker B: So public securities able to issue debt, they had no problem getting finance. Whereas if you were a small business reliant on bank loans and things like that, you were far less able to get access to that liquidity when you needed it the most. And then the Fed came in and exacerbated it, because even when the corporate sector kind of freezed up, that's when they said, okay, we're going to start buying corporate bonds to help liquefy that system. And you didn't get to reliquify the lending market until later, right? So you had kind of these restaurant, small restaurant would close, whereas large restaurant chains, for example, had better access to capital. And so that's an example of how the kind of current system is kind of designed to advantage those who have that scale or that direct access to public markets. And I think I would separate that from the idea of proof of work versus proof of stake in the technical sense.
01:12:12.410 - 01:12:54.302, Speaker A: I like to look at things from a technical perspective. And so these labels, equity and commodity, I'm trying to define them and understand what they mean. For me, equity, there's kind of two aspects to it. One is that you're kind of financially exposed to some sort of upside for some sort of project. And I think all blockchains have this. Any blockchain with a token, including bitcoin, including ethereum, are exposed financially to some sort of upside in terms of adoption, in terms of their block space being more valuable, in terms of their token being used as a store of value, as a money, et cetera, et cetera. And then the other aspect of the equity definition is the voting aspect.
01:12:54.302 - 01:13:30.954, Speaker A: And I would argue that there's no distinction there either. Both BTC tokens and Eve tokens are non voting equity tokens. And so this goes back to the second kind of label that you're talking about, which is commodity. And I think really what you mean by commodity is the non voting aspect. Well, guess what? They're both commodities in that sense. They're both non voting. And we've been talking about consensus participants exercising some form of governance by basically doing 51% attacks.
01:13:30.954 - 01:14:16.910, Speaker A: That is kind of the extreme scenario, but in the default situation, it has nothing to do with a company, with a board of directors and a CEO, and all of these things by default. The governance is exactly the same. For bitcoin and ethereum, which is namely governance by rough consensus off chain through the community. Right? This is how taproot went through. This is how segwit went through. There's lots of debate, lots of discussion, very chaotic and organic. And then ultimately, the way that these governance decisions are enacted is through users installing software and agreeing that this is the canonical piece of software.
01:14:16.910 - 01:15:22.020, Speaker A: Whereas on the other hand, if you look at a company that's just not the case by default, you've enshrined governance powers that are just exercised on a day to day basis. Whereas with consensus participants, there is no day to day exercise of governance powers, unless maybe you're in this kind of special type of blockchain like tezos, polkadot or definity, where you have on chain token voting. Now, one of the things that I think David said is around the objectivity of labeling things. And I think memes play a huge role here when we want to look at monetary premium. And it's kind of interesting because proof of work and proof of stake from a meme perspective, are almost the exact opposite. Now, let me elaborate. With proof of stake, you have what I call a scarcity engine.
01:15:22.020 - 01:16:16.290, Speaker A: Proof of stake is a mechanism to turn liquid ef into this frozen eth, which is used as collateral. Right now, we have roughly 10.5 million e, which is staked. But my projections basically say that we're going to have roughly half of the whole supply of ETH being staked eventually. So on the one hand, we have the scarcity engine for proof of work. It's the exact opposite in the sense that issuance and transaction fees, which is basically the income that miners have to a very large extent, needs to be sold to cover for expenses, to cover for electricity, to cover for the hardware. And so basically what you've created here is a liquidity engine, where you're adding liquidity to the market by being a forcing function to sell this issuance and to sell these transaction fees.
01:16:16.290 - 01:16:43.882, Speaker A: And so if you were to ask yourself, which is the best system to create money for the Internet, is it the one that's like constantly market dumping, or is it the one that's encouraging people to hold their token? I think it's pretty obvious which one is more valuable from a meme perspective to push forward this idea of being the Internet, of the money for the Internet.
01:16:43.946 - 01:18:01.046, Speaker C: I want to get Lynn back on kind of that last comment, her reply on sort of the meme aspect of this money. And I think you were talking about, like, deflationary supply maybe, Justin, or just kind know lower supply and greater issuance in a proof of work system. But it strikes me that the distinction that you're making as I'm going through this is, it seems to be the case, Lynn, that you're know, proof of stake is the thing that really moves the asset from a commodity to an equity generally. And you're taking historical reasons for why that's the case. And I think, Justin, you are saying it's not proof of stake, it's actually governance control that moves the thing closer to an equity versus a commodity. And if that's the case, I want to know your thoughts on that, Lynn. So if Justin indeed is saying that it's more about governance control and less about proof of stake as a consensus model, would you agree with that? Because I think, and I want to maybe clarify this, Justin, that I don't think you are saying all proof of stake systems are more commodity like than equity like you were saying.
01:18:01.046 - 01:18:20.058, Speaker C: Like tezos and other systems that retain governance control at the token layer are maybe more equity like using Lyn's definition. But let's get Lynn's thoughts on that first. Do you think this maybe hinges upon governance control rather than maybe proof of stake versus proof of work?
01:18:20.144 - 01:19:02.374, Speaker B: I think proof of work versus proof of stake is one aspect of governance control. And so as we touched on earlier, there are multiple different models. But at the minimum, what a proof of stake system gives is that the more of the units that you hold, the more say you have over what transactions are valid. You don't get to necessarily change the other rules of the system, but you get to say what transactions are processed, which ones are censored and so forth. So there's that. The other aspect is really who gets to change the protocol and how and when. And so, for example, and that's the part that goes outside of the proof of work versus proof of stake debate, because you can have proof of work systems that then start to look more equity like.
01:19:02.374 - 01:19:46.850, Speaker B: And an example would be he mentioned the Segwit and taproot updates. Both of those were opt in, so they were softworks, meaning that I think this also ties into the meme idea. So what makes a better marketing message essentially? So obviously, bitcoin and Ethereum and other systems come at it from different marketing perspectives, where kind of the meme of bitcoin is self sovereignty. So you run your own node. Nodes are small. It doesn't take a lot of resources to run a node even ten years from now. It shouldn't take a lot of resources to run a full node and have the whole blockchain and that any updates that occur you can choose to opt into or you can retain your existing node.
01:19:46.850 - 01:20:22.686, Speaker B: And of course, the smaller it is, the more auditable it is, the less trust there is. There is always some degree of trust unless you go line by line about how that system works. But the smaller and more compact you make it. And by making all updates opt in, you basically maximize, to the extent possible, that self sovereignty. Whereas if you, for example, put in difficulty bombs, you then say, okay, so it doesn't really matter what you think because the developers are going in a certain direction and you don't really get to opt in. What you have there is going to die if you just leave it like that. And that becomes a matter of marketing.
01:20:22.686 - 01:21:07.810, Speaker B: So Ethereum says, okay, well, that's a trade off we're willing to make for now, but we're going to focus on the fact that our system is changing, that our system has, say, a longer term time frame. We're less focused on ossification now, we're focused more on change, on kind of having a system we want in the future. And so there are obviously different marketing messages for different systems. And then you have some of the quote unquote Ethereum killers or competitors come in and their marketing message is, hey, Ethereum is super expensive to use. It doesn't scale well, and it's mostly for the rich whales to play around in. We want to have low transaction fees. So there's different marketing messages for different systems.
01:21:07.810 - 01:21:36.874, Speaker B: I would separate that from a meme in the sense that I think memes are useful for marketing ideas. That's obviously that. The whole point is they spread very quickly. You can contain quite a bit information in an analogy or a picture with a couple of words on it that people already know what the picture is from. That's a way of spreading information, but it needs substance behind it. So something is only memes. If it's like Dogecoin, where it's built on memes, the staying power is not going to be great.
01:21:36.874 - 01:21:51.278, Speaker B: Whereas if something isn't, the technology is there, it's doing what it's advertising that it's doing. Then it becomes marketing can spread the message faster than others, but the underlying foundation is still there for it to have staying power.
01:21:51.364 - 01:22:52.338, Speaker D: Justin, I'll let you respond to that. But Lynn, at the beginning of your statements, you were talking about how the unit is the thing that gets to say the transactions are valid. Like ether, the unit is the thing that approves or declines transactions. And that is governance in of itself, because it's baked into the asset itself. Bitcoin has one of the mental models that we talk about in the Ethereum. Land is like, ether is like this virtual ASIC, right? It takes the properties of the ASIC and it imbues it into the asset itself. And I think what you're saying is that that represents some sort of governance, but then doesn't that by that same rule, also apply governance to the physical ASics? And what does the separation of the ASIC from BTC, how does that meaningfully change governance? And doesn't that just mean that the mining facilities then just have the same governance powers that you alluded to eth token holders having?
01:22:52.504 - 01:24:18.254, Speaker B: So historically, one of the big challenges of say, wealth concentration is that wealth begets more wealth, because as you get more wealth, you can influence, say, laws to further support your wealth, and you can basically just have that virtuous cycle of more and more wealth. And so one of the difference between a proof of stake system and a proof of work system is in a proof of stake system. If you acquire stake in the system, and then that inherently provides income from itself, you essentially acquired a permanent stake in the system for as choose as you want to hold it, with no ongoing input cost to retain your control of the system. It kind of, over time, inherently collects, it inherently consolidates into more and more, fewer owners holding larger and larger shares of it. Whereas in a proof of work system, you're essentially renting your ability to govern the system, and again, only with transaction ordering, right? So you're putting in capital and you're buying machines that will degrade your energy source, could over time become less efficient. So your facilities that you set up, the energy sources that you're arbitraging could change, could dry up, could become less efficient, and the hardware itself becomes less cutting edge over time. And so your decision to actively maintain your control of that network, or at least the control of the transaction ordering, is required on continually recycling your capital into the system.
01:24:18.254 - 01:25:22.590, Speaker B: So it's a constant series of decisions, rather than kind of the system that inherently benefits people that bought in first and then hold it forever. And so in something like a proof of work, know, obviously the early token buyers get more money, right? So if you buy early and hoddle it, that's great for price appreciation. And you can over time, influence price by buying more. But no matter how much, say, bitcoin Michael Saylor has, he has zero control over what transactions are going to be processed and so I would say that. But that's, again, only one aspect of it. So even though this particular bait is, say, proof of work versus proof of stake, rather than bitcoin versus ethereum or simple money versus smart contract money, whatever the case may be. But it's kind of one piece, I think, of the puzzle, which is if you're going to have something that's commodity like, what you have is some degree of immutability, you're never going to have as much immutability in the digital realm as in the atomic realm, right? So just atoms of gold or atoms of copper.
01:25:22.590 - 01:26:27.000, Speaker B: But if you're going to approximate as much as possible, what you're designing is a system that is very decentralized, very hard to force changes on, and that if anything, there are either no changes or there are opt in changes. Whereas anything that deviates from that model and requires either ongoing kind of forced buy in from, say, a small team of developers or kind of small development hubs, right? So most of the proof of stake systems have these foundations or these kind of companies associated with it that just named the same thing as the tokens named. So you have these hubs. They could be one hub, there could be two or three hubs, depending on the protocol. And those are kind ofherently more equity like, even if they're proof of work. So even if they are proof of work, but difficulty bombs or proof of work, but super large blocks so that people can't run their own node, there are multiple kind of ways you can then shift into looking more like an equity system, meaning that there are, quote unquote managers of that system, rather than an unmanaged, mostly unmanaged system.
01:26:27.610 - 01:27:23.290, Speaker D: I want to just, I think, unpack that and define that again, just for the listeners. And summarize, what you said is that because the ASIC is separated from the unit, in order to have similar levels of power over the system, it requires further investment. In addition, always more and more and more investment into the future, which bears risk. And I think a lot of bitcoiners really like that risk aspect when it comes to investing in proof of work facilities, because it doesn't guarantee you anything. And I think that's a property of bitcoin proof of work that I think bitcoiners really enjoy. But I just want to ask the question, doesn't that argument rely on the fact that returns on capital are less significant in proof of work than they are in proof of stake?
01:27:23.710 - 01:28:10.038, Speaker B: Well, I think so. Historically, with commodity monies, the producers rarely have much control. Now, there are commodities, for example, that have very low stock to flow ratios, like say, oil, where producers can get together and have a lot of control over the system, whereas something like gold, where most of the gold is already out there. So gold miners have virtually no control over the system. And that so far has been true in the bitcoin ecosystem, where the power is not really residing in the miners. And we've seen that, for example, with the whole kind of block size wars, where there was a period of time where the majority of miners were favoring the block increase, and they still couldn't get that through on that network. Basically, you had kind of the node rejection.
01:28:10.038 - 01:28:56.498, Speaker B: And so I think part of what maintains a commodity system is a decentralized system, is that combination of kind of division of powers, where you have the super small node, where you can just run a node and you become all the memes, self sovereign, all that. Then you have separately from that, you have the mining. And so you can put capital and risk, the ability to potentially give you a temporary period where you get to essentially vote in terms of what transactions are going to go through, but it doesn't give you any sort of permanent allocation compared to just holding tokens. And then that gives you a long term kind of permanent ability to order all future transactions forever.
01:28:56.594 - 01:29:34.100, Speaker A: One of the points that was brought up is this idea of the rich gets richer in the context of proof of stake. Now, I see this as kind of not completely the truth. The way I see it is wealth preservation. The rich stay as rich as they were. And the reason is that when you're staking, you have to pay for something, and namely, what you're paying for is opportunity cost. And it turns out that in an open market, the APR is just going to tend towards the opportunity cost. So you might be paying 3% opportunity cost by placing your ETH in this black box and you can't touch it, you can't do DFI and all this good stuff.
01:29:34.100 - 01:30:15.710, Speaker A: So that's what you're paying, and then you're getting compensated. And so net, you're basically just doing wealth preservation. The other point that you brought forward is basically trying to distinguish bitcoin like proof of work to proof of stake, because there's this risk. Well, it turns out that professional miners, they will hedge this risk, and what they're interested in is the exact same thing as ETH holders. They're interested in a BTC denominated return, which will roughly match their opportunity cost. That might be whatever, 5%. Now, how do you lock in as a professional miner, like 5%.
01:30:15.710 - 01:30:42.042, Speaker A: Well, you use financial products. What you do is you look at your uncertainties. What is uncertain? The price of electricity is uncertain. Well, guess what? You can just go buy electricity futures. And what else is uncertain? Well, the hash rate is uncertain. Well, guess what? You can go sell hash rate futures. And, Tara, you've locked in your 5% profit on your BTC, and now it's just a matter of executing it over four years.
01:30:42.042 - 01:31:34.598, Speaker A: And so these large professional miners, they're very much risk averse, and they're not going to take the crazy risk with hundreds of millions of dollars at play. No, what they want is essentially risk minimized return on your bitcoin, which roughly matches the opportunity cost. If you have an efficient market, then that's what it's going to tend towards. And so really, there's this kind of distinction that doesn't really exist. And one of the sayings that we have in this space is that proof of work is just proof of stake with extra steps. And really, the risk that is being introduced can be removed with financial products. And at the end of the day, you're kind of walking back all the differences, and you can have essentially the same financial product with the same kinds of risks and the same kinds of returns.
01:31:34.694 - 01:32:19.270, Speaker C: Guys, this has been a fantastic conversation. And from my perspective, and I bet a lot of bankless listeners will agree, this has probably been the best proof of stake versus proof of work conversation in history that's ever been put out on crypto. So we appreciate both of you for having this very collegial conversation, for arguing points, and for bringing a lot of rationality to what is otherwise a somewhat tribal and irrational conversation. So we appreciate you both, but it's now closing argument time. So just have a final question for both of you. I'll start with Justin, since Lynn started with her part first. So I want to ask you this question.
01:32:19.270 - 01:32:26.538, Speaker C: Justin, why is proof of stake the best way to create a crypto money? Summarize it for us, right?
01:32:26.624 - 01:33:28.586, Speaker A: So when we want to build a. Like, the thing that we want to try and achieve is monetary premium, it turns out that in the context of monetary premium, you have this competitive landscape, right? Maybe bitcoin and gold are competing for monetary premium. And it turns out that the reason why you have this competition is because you need society to kind of come to consensus on one particular asset, to endow it with this kind of magic economic energy, which is monetary premium. And so what we need is a shelling point, a coordination point to focus our attention on one particular asset. And so really what we want to ask ourselves is which of proof of work. And proof of stake distinguishes itself, makes, basically stands out relative to the crowd. If it was only proof of stake in isolation, in a vacuum, that could work fine for monetary premium.
01:33:28.586 - 01:33:58.040, Speaker A: If it was just proof of work, that could also work fine as the Internet of value. But it turns out that we have this competition, and so we need to start comparing them. And there's, there's various ways in which we can compare them. We can compare them in terms of economic security. This is one of the things that's most mind boggling for proof of stake. And I haven't really made it explicit. So let me try and make it explicit for every unit of economic and security.
01:33:58.040 - 01:34:45.720, Speaker A: So, for example, for every $100 of economic security, the consensus needs to pay for that. And how does it pay for that? It pays for it with issuance and transaction fees. And that's about $5 per year, right? Because that's the aper that you give to your stakers. Now, if you look at proof of work, the maintenance cost of $100 of economic security is roughly $100 every single year. So the cost is much, much higher of roughly 2020 x higher. And so that kind of means several things, but one of them, it means that for a much, much lower issuance, you can have a much, much higher economic security. And we're already seeing this.
01:34:45.720 - 01:35:15.890, Speaker A: The beacon chain has $32 billion of economic security. That's just the market cap of all the e staked. And if you look at bitcoin, we have about $10 billion of economic security. And this is using very, very fresh numbers. It's using numbers from the grid purchase from intel. And if you want the detail, I can give it to you. But basically it comes out on the order of $50 per terrahash second, and there's about 200 million terrahash per second.
01:35:15.890 - 01:35:58.254, Speaker A: And so you get roughly an echo x security of $10 billion. The other thing that it unlocks for you is the possibility for a decreasing supply. And this goes back to the meme. The fact that you have a 20 x improvement in economic efficiency means that you don't need so much issuance. And so there is a possibility for transaction fees when they're burnt to be greater than the issuance. And that, again, is a distinguishing factor. It's a distinguishing factor because from a scarcity standpoint, we can build systems which are better with proof of stake versus proof of work.
01:35:58.254 - 01:37:04.418, Speaker A: And then you want to look at the non quantitative aspect, instead, the qualitative aspects. And here for security, the really, really big one, is that we're empowering the community, the social consensus, to do its job, to act as a backstop in case the consensus participants abuse their power, which has never happened in the history of Ethereum or really in blockchains, but could happen in theory. And if such an edge case were to happen in the context of bitcoin, it is my belief that the community doesn't have this backstop power. And so, to summarize, really, I think that a proof of stake system can really stand out because it has much, much bigger security, both from a quantitative standpoint and a qualitative standpoint. And then that unlocks memes that are backed by fundamentals. These are real memes in the sense that they spread virally, and they're very dense, but they're also backed by real fundamentals behind them.
01:37:04.504 - 01:37:11.938, Speaker C: Lynn, closing arguments on your side. Why is proof of work the best way to create a crypto money, from your perspective?
01:37:12.034 - 01:38:31.054, Speaker B: So, historically, when we look at things that acquire a monetary premium, it's the things that are the hardest, the things that are the most immutable, the thing that technology cannot come in and find a better one or cannot increase the supply of. And so with essentially what you want is something, a commodity or an asset, that is vast majority of its value is the monetary premium, and very little of it is the utility premium. And that's an example with, say, gold, where the vast majority of it is held for its monetary premium, and very little of it is used in industry as a percentage of its value, compared to something like oil, that is entirely for its utility value. And you have things like silver that are somewhere in the middle. And so if you were to go about, say, designing a blockchain system and you wanted to maximize its monetary properties, you would make one that almost the entire purpose of it is to be money, where you would sacrifice everything else in order to make the best possible money. And so, for example, if I want to make the best possible fork, it would just be a fork. It wouldn't be a fork and a spoon and a knife combined together, because that instrument is going to be worse at all three of those things than the three separate things are at their own field.
01:38:31.172 - 01:38:31.502, Speaker C: Right?
01:38:31.556 - 01:39:20.826, Speaker B: So basically, the closest thing we're going to go to, perfect money, is something that is extraordinarily as simple as possible. He talked before about how complexity works itself out over time, right? So that complexity is kind of a short term thing, but then it becomes less relevant as we look out into the future. I would say that history shows that's not really the case. And so, for know, up until, like, literally three years ago, the US Air Force used eight inch floppy disks as part of their nuclear code launch process, right? They had mainframes and they had floppy disks. And that sounds hilarious, right? It sounds like they have to upgrade. But the whole point is they kept it extremely simple as possible. They updated very slowly.
01:39:20.826 - 01:40:05.422, Speaker B: They wanted it disconnected from everything else. Because when it comes to the software that manages the nuclear system, you want it to be absolutely rock solid. You want it to do nothing else other than not have bugs. You want it to work when you want it to work. You don't want it to accidentally work when you don't want it to work. And you see that with bank software, you see that with the most extremely secure things purposely change very slowly over decades because any new complexity adds risks. Even though we're increasingly capable of handing complexity when it comes to the absolute most critical things, we move very slowly and keep things as simple as possible, and we don't combine it with other things.
01:40:05.422 - 01:41:20.626, Speaker B: And so when it comes to, say, a money that is suitable to put your corporate treasury in, or that you're going to allocate part of your endowment into, or that as an individual, you might want to hold 10% or more of your net worth in, or if these things get big enough, if you're a sovereign wealth fund, or if you're managing the sovereign reserves of your country, representing decades of accumulated trade surpluses, what asset do you put that in? And so historically, the best one has been gold. And so now we have potentially these new competitors that can come in and do it. And what would you select? You'd select one that is the most decentralized, the most immutable, the one that doesn't sacrifice any of those characteristics to do other things. Now, it doesn't mean that other systems couldn't be valuable as well, right? So just because gold has value doesn't mean Tesla stock does not have value. They're just two totally different things doing different things. And the last thing I want is some sort of weird merger of gold and Tesla stock, right? So it's like, I don't want them to compete in that realm. And so I would say that the reason that proof of work makes for the ideal money is that it's the simplest system, it's the most resistant in the sense that it's non volatile memory rather than volatile memory.
01:41:20.626 - 01:42:16.038, Speaker B: It doesn't have to be continuously online. It's kind of self verifiable, self correcting and requires the least amount of governance. And then when you combine that, even that's not enough. You have to combine that with something like small nodes and various other measures that help ensure immutability. And even then, you can never be sure. It's all about basically aligning the probabilities, because there's more ways to fail, there's more ways to accidentally become centralized and bloated and buggy than it is to preserve decentralization and to minimize the chance of bugs or security flaws and things like that. And so I would say that the perfect money is willing to sacrifice just about everything else in order to have the perfect attributes of money, where its main purpose is to be held and occasionally transacted with, compared to something that is trying to be a swiss army knife and to do multiple things while also being money.
01:42:16.038 - 01:42:27.046, Speaker B: So that's how I kind of view this whole ecosystem, and that's why I separate assets that are trying to be money versus assets that are trying to be operating systems, essentially.
01:42:27.238 - 01:42:41.040, Speaker C: What a fantastic conversation. I want to once again thank you, Lynn Alden and Justin Drake, for joining us and having just the best debate I've ever heard, the best conversation I've ever heard about proof of work versus proof of stake. Thank you so much.
01:42:41.410 - 01:42:42.400, Speaker A: Thank you.
01:42:43.010 - 01:42:53.698, Speaker D: And also special thanks to Lyn Alden, because I know bankless definitely leans Ethereum pretty heavily. So coming into what other people might perceive as the away team, I appreciate that as well.
01:42:53.784 - 01:43:13.062, Speaker C: Someone once called David an eth maximalist, I think. Thank you, Lynn. We definitely appreciate you. Action items for you today. Wow, bankless listeners. What can I say? I mean, first thing you got to do is just stop what you're doing and go listen to that episode again. I think it was that good, and there's so many takeaways.
01:43:13.062 - 01:43:41.390, Speaker C: That's what I'm going to do as soon as we get this edited and downloaded. Also, of course, Lynn Alden has her proof of stake article, which we referenced in this episode. We'll include a link to that in the show notes. Justin Drake ratled off some numbers at the end on Eth versus bitcoin economic security. We'll get those numbers for you in the show notes as well. Risks and disclaimers, of course, none of this has been financial advice. I don't even know if it's consensus algorithm advice, but we definitely know crypto is risky.
01:43:41.390 - 01:43:51.286, Speaker C: Defi is risky. You could definitely lose what you put in. But we are headed west this is the frontier. It's not for everyone, but we're glad you're with us on the bankless journey. Thanks a lot.
01:43:51.388 - 01:44:37.750, Speaker E: Hey, we hope you enjoyed the video. If you did, head over to bankless hq right now to develop your crypto investing skills and learn how to free yourself from banks and gain your financial independence. We recommend joining our daily newsletter, podcast and community as a bankless premium subscriber to get the most out of your bankless experience. You'll get access to our market analysis, our alpha leaks and exclusive content, and even the bankless token for airdrops, raffles and unlocks. If you're interested in crypto, the bankless community is where you want to be. Click the link in the description to become a bankless premium subscriber today. Also, don't forget to subscribe to the channel for in depth interviews with industry leaders, ask me anythings and weekly roll ups where we summarize ice the week in crypto and other fantastic content.
01:44:37.750 - 01:44:42.050, Speaker E: Thanks everyone for watching and being on the journey as we build out the bankless nation.
