00:00:00.240 - 00:00:39.258, Speaker A: The way I'm coming at it from is UX is the most important thing, and I think it's all too common that protocols just kind of shoehorn a token or something like that into a protocol that just doesn't need to exist, essentially. Basically, my grand vision for how to build this thing is you have a wallet straight away built into the app, and you can obviously take it to other apps as well. We'd have a decentralized on ramp in there so people could kind of just bridge funds straight away, and then you should be able to sign for transactions and kind of have the gas fee abstract in the background, like a few different unlocks that. If we can kind of nail those, I think that's going to be a massive boost in terms of UX and actually getting people to use on chain, which I think is a massive blocker right now.
00:00:39.354 - 00:01:08.720, Speaker B: This episode is brought to you by helium Mobile. They've created a crypto native phone plan for unlimited talk, text, and data for just $20 a month. We'll chat more about them later in the show. Before we get moving on today's episode, just a quick disclaimer. The views expressed on this podcast by either myself, my co host, or any guests are their personal views and do nothing represent the views of any associated organization. Nothing in the episode should be construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or any other advice. Okay, let's jump into the episode.
00:01:08.720 - 00:01:49.500, Speaker B: All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Lightspeed, joined today by Tristan, one of the co founders of Zeta Markets, a perp Dex on Solana. And you guys have been shipping recently tons of great, exciting news. We got a token generation event around the corner. We have the likely be the first Solana L two in the discussion. So first of all, thanks a ton for coming on Tristan. It's gonna be a really fun discussion, I think I kind of want to start just getting a high level overview of, you know, you guys have been building on Solana for a while. Just walk us through your life cycle and how we ultimately got to this moment with all this abundant great news to talk about.
00:01:49.960 - 00:02:25.880, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So I think last time I was on Lightspeed was close to a year ago, very kind of different set of circumstances, but we have been building for quite a long time on Solana. To be precise, I think early 2021, February, I think, was when we got started, and there was really nothing on Solana. People kind of tell you back in the day, it was just CRM and radium, and there was really nothing else it was pretty painful to build on the tool chain, and everything was just very raw and unfiltered. And that's kind of what I think excited us the most, is like, hey, it's a new chain. It's kind of green pastures. There's cool stuff to build here.
00:02:25.880 - 00:02:57.294, Speaker A: Everyone's a hardware systems maxi, which was cool. And selfishly, I really wanted to get into learning rust coming from more of like an embedded systems background. I did like, robotics and that kind of stuff. So it was kind of my jam. And I got really excited by the parallelism and hardware improvements that we saw on the Solana side. And for us, we really wanted to build something that was all around high performance, low latency defi, and that's always been at the core of our mission. So we started, I guess, in the very early days, building out a prototype on Ethereum.
00:02:57.294 - 00:03:54.552, Speaker A: We wanted to build an options exchange that was fascinating to us, and we were wondering, why has perps and futures taken off so hard and options really haven't matched, despite being massive in traditional markets? We did that for probably a good two years almost, and then ended up pivoting to the perp side for a number of different reasons, I think mostly from the product market fit side. It's just like the. I guess the demand for options really hasn't taken off so much in crypto, generally, even on the centralized side, let alone the decentralized side. And it's just a very complicated product to build, especially with Defi, the constraints. We've just got spot markets and lending markets really taking off, and we're probably three, four, five steps away from getting into extremely complex derivatives there. Yeah, we've been shipping a lot of stuff. We went to mainnet early 2022, came out with that product, and then I guess basically over the bear market when things cooled down.
00:03:54.552 - 00:04:22.154, Speaker A: We just looked at what we had, and we're like, we can improve this a lot more. Let's rewrite all the smart contract, all the front end. Let's just look at what is the latest and greatest on the RPC side. How can we make this thing as fast as possible? And now the exchange is really, our core thesis is actually kind of the. The name of the podcast is building finance at Lightspeed. That's what we have on our landing page as well, where we're all about building things as fast as possible. That's what we've done.
00:04:22.154 - 00:05:00.290, Speaker A: We build a fully on chain order book purpose exchange, all built on Solana. We stream basically the order book around the world at the speed of light, you're basically grabbing information and slots from the validator before they're even generally available. We use the geyser protocol to grab stuff within under 400 milliseconds. So, like, intro block, and you see this actually very fast updating order book on the UI, which is pretty cool. And so you're starting to get towards something that is like a globally synchronized state machine and kind of like the fastest decentralized order book that you can build. And that was basically what we've been doing for the last three years, and I'm pretty proud of that. And we still have a long way to go.
00:05:00.950 - 00:05:22.470, Speaker B: Love that. That just gets me fired up listening to that intro, man. Congrats on all the success you've been having. And when we think about sort of, what's the next chapter? You know, you recently announced Zeta X, which is the l two. So talk to us a bit about the core driving thesis of why it made sense to go pioneer this direction, and then we'll get into some of the more technical side there as well.
00:05:22.970 - 00:05:53.740, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a good question. So I think from a high level, what we've built so far, I'm definitely pretty impressed with it. We've done $10 billion of trading volume on chain. If you would have told me this a year or two ago, I would have been pretty mind boggled. But it's really cool to see how far it's come. And everything runs on a smart contract. All the logic, the order book matching engine, margin system, liquidations, everything is permissionless, runs on an order book on chain, and a smart contract, which, if you're coming from Ethereum land or anywhere else, I think, would just be completely infeasible.
00:05:53.740 - 00:06:33.340, Speaker A: So it was pretty neat that we were able to build that. And likewise, we talked about this just before the podcast, but all the market making is done on chain. We have this kind of market making stack and work with market makers and do it all on chain, which is cool. And the reason why we went down this route initially is because I had this chat with Toli in the very early days, and his big thesis was like, can we bring the Nasdaq on chain, and can we build something like that? So that was always our core driving thing. And so we kind of executed on that, and I would say works pretty, pretty well for like, a decentralized protocol. It's about as fast as we can make it. We've been optimizing the hell out of it, and you get basically come in there, trade on the front end send trades within 400 milliseconds.
00:06:33.340 - 00:07:47.280, Speaker A: It's pretty fast. I think for, like, average end user, it kind of fits the job. But now we're running up, I guess, against the state of the art, or close to, and we're looking ahead and how do we scale? How do we make things even better, especially through, like, a UX and performance lens, which is what we care a lot about. And so who are we trying to take on now? Like, is it these other defi protocols and gmxs of the world and these kind of peer to pool models? Or is it like the binancers and by bits of the world who actually do, like, 99% of all purpose market share? And it's probably the latter now. And so that kind of what drove us towards this kind of l two direction. We thought, how can we max out the performance? How can we have a bit more of a say on the infrastructure layer, which has just kind of been the real difficulty for us? Like, Solana opens up the design space a lot, but when you're trying to push things even further and get very specific with your niche use case, there are things in the runtime with how many accounts you can pass in which limit how many markets we can margin together in a cross margin system. There's stuff like, hey, we want really fast order placement, because that's what all centralized exchanges have.
00:07:47.280 - 00:08:30.876, Speaker A: That's what allows extremely tight prices and price discovery to happen. It lets us obviously take on more risks and liquidate positions faster. When you have to deal with on chain congestion, where people can't cancel orders and liquidations happening, and things take like an order of magnitude faster than a centralized system, then you start running into some slight difficulties. You get a bunch of people complaining in your telegram group saying, hey, my stop loss didn't trigger because the block space is kind of saturated and all these kinds of things that were very hard for us to control, and I felt powerless. I'm talking to my engineers and they're like, man, we just can't launch stuff on the chain, or we can't get transactions through because Solana 1.18 hasn't rolled out the fee. Markets are unpredictable, so things are definitely improving.
00:08:30.876 - 00:09:07.150, Speaker A: And I'm very bullish for a world. Like, some people see me going down this lt route and they're like, oh, this is Solana Maxi. Invalidating the kind of monolithic thesis. I'm like, that's absolutely not right. I'm very much a believer on what's happening, and I think that's the cool thing, is we're leveraging and taking a part of both roadmaps from the monolithic side, all the fire dancer stuff and all the scalability that's happening, and the local fee markets, that all benefits us, which is great. But then on the ZK side, on thrall technology side, that's something we get to leverage as well. There's a long winded way of coming towards how do we build just the best exchange app chain.
00:09:07.150 - 00:10:01.312, Speaker A: We figured using Solana is where we think a lot of the Defi activity and TVL will end up pooling. We're a big long term believer on Solana. The nice thing for us is the thing that's important to us is can we somewhat take this execution component off chain, but still use the safety, the economic security and the consensus layer of Solana and not have to bootstrap, I guess, our own validator set, which is extremely expensive and a bit of a pain. And so that's what we're trying to build with this roll up, is it's going to be an L two. On Solana, we're going to have this basically very fast ZKVM matching engine that's going to run off chain every computation that happens there, basically, like every order placement, every trade fill, all these things will run through RISC zero or like a similar prover. We'll have a ZK proof for that. That can obviously be proved on chain.
00:10:01.312 - 00:10:38.108, Speaker A: And you get this very fast performance and you get these more importantly, these sequencer soft commitments, which is really nice. So users will basically know what happened to their trade or have a good realization of that within milliseconds as opposed to half a second. And we get that kind of scalability throughput, low latency. But then we leverage, I guess, Solana still is that DA layer. That's a long winded way of saying we're trying to build something that is like a centralized exchange competitor, get the best of both worlds, the security of a really well known, well battle tested trusted chain like Solana, but then have basically centralized exchange performance. And to me, that's like the best of both worlds.
00:10:38.204 - 00:11:12.428, Speaker B: Decentralized physical infrastructure networks are a massive point of emphasis in the crypto industry today. And helium mobile is a fantastic example of a business that is leveraging this distribution approach. Like any network, there's a supply and a demand side. So the supply comes from hotspot deployers, while the demand comes from phone plan subscribers. Together, they create empower, decentralized wireless network that provides expanded connectivity and amazingly priced phone plans. But let's zoom in on how it works for deployers. So you get this device and you set up this hotspot, and anytime a helium mobile phone user is near your device, they will send and receive data through the Internet using your device instead of their cellular network.
00:11:12.428 - 00:11:54.910, Speaker B: The cool thing here is that you earn mobile token rewards for providing this service based on the amount of data routed by your device and how much coverage you're creating. There's also what are called boosted location, which are directing rewards to the targeted areas that actually help individuals and businesses deploy these devices in the proper areas where coverage is actually needed. Based on where subscribers are currently, that's in LA and Miami, but soon to be coming to New York City again. By creating coverage, you're helping build a better network together while earning mobile token rewards. If providing the service is something that's up your alley, head over to hello helium.com hotspot to get 15% off your indoor or outdoor helium mobile hotspot using the code lightspeed hotspot. That is all caps, no space lightspeed hotspot.
00:11:54.910 - 00:12:26.060, Speaker B: And we'll be sure to put that link in the show notes. Yeah, that's really interesting to hear. And that was kind of like what my inclination was was, you know, that period of congestion was, was brutal on Solana. It limited a lot of things and I feel like fully on chain order books are probably the most affected there because everything affects the end user. But you guys have this additional piece of the puzzle being the market makers and they need to a, place and b, cancel orders. Can you talk a bit about maybe the challenges of being a market maker in a fully on chain environment relative to that of binance?
00:12:26.520 - 00:12:59.606, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm not going to lie, it's pretty hard. I've written some bots myself, so I know the pain firsthand. And I worked with all our market makers. Um, so it's definitely not easy, requires quite a bit of sophistication, um, and, and some stuff is pretty tough. So having worked with, I guess, people who come from centralized exchange market making, there is a big step up in terms of learning curve. So not only do you not deal with like a centralized rest API, which is like very standardized, you ping it and you're like, hey, I want to place an order. And it gets back to you in a few milliseconds, like, yep, executed all good.
00:12:59.606 - 00:13:22.774, Speaker A: So instead, talking to an RPC, say a helios or something other, you send it to that thing and then you got to wait for an acknowledgement. It usually takes a couple of hundred milliseconds. And then if you were pre 1.18, the thing might just get lost in the ether somewhere. So you just have no confirmation. So some of our market makers are like, hey, I sent this order and just disappeared and it just never landed. And I'm like, this is what we're dealing with right now.
00:13:22.774 - 00:13:49.374, Speaker A: Thankfully, that's kind of a lot better. But there's always kind of weird inconsistencies there that make it a lot harder. There's also stuff like chances of rollbacks. Obviously, it's a decentralized system. People have got to do this fork choice voting stuff. And the block that you listen to on a process commitment or potentially even a confirmed commitment, there's not 100% chance that it goes through. Some things will have potential rollbacks and you've got to deal with that, whereas in a centralized system, it's basically impossible to happen.
00:13:49.374 - 00:14:26.120, Speaker A: You're just talking to one AWS box somewhere pretty reliable. That's one thing. It's just like the interface, the connectivity and dealing with the decentralized system makes life a lot harder. And I guess for the market maker, you got to juggle this infrastructure piece with a lot more complexity. Another thing is there is a cost to market making now, as opposed to just hitting centralized API, which is just a network request. Now, to place an audit, you actually have to pay gas fees on Solana. It is pretty damn cheap, but it actually racks up like some of our market makers are probably sending millions of transactions a week.
00:14:26.120 - 00:15:10.936, Speaker A: And so when you kind of look at that cost and you sum it up over weeks and months, like, they're probably paying thousands of dollars in Solana gas fees, which is, I mean, it's not crazy, but it's not nothing. And that's definitely a barrier to entry to some people, and it's a cost. So thankfully, with the L two, we can kind of do a lot of this stuff to abstract away gas costs and make it a lot more efficient there. So I think that's definitely a win for some kind of upstart market makers. The other thing, like I mentioned, is just like latency. Getting your kind of confirmations on trades within milliseconds is really nice because it means you can actually quote extremely tightly and have confidence in that. That's a slight challenge with on chain order books because you might place orders and you're kind of basically showing your hand, essentially.
00:15:10.936 - 00:15:38.106, Speaker A: Like, here's the quote. I think Solana is going to be dollar 100. And I'm going to quote it like one basis point wide. I'm extremely confident on that. The problem is if suddenly the price moves very quickly and I want to go and cancel or replace my order, but there's some kind of congestion event or I get front run or for some reason my transaction doesn't get in there, then I end up just having this resting limit order and I get picked off for massive size. I lose a bunch of money. Market makers definitely complain when there's congestion.
00:15:38.106 - 00:16:13.840, Speaker A: They're like, I can't cancel my orders, and I basically end up losing a lot of money. And so as a result, these guys end up having to quote a lot wider. Maybe it's like, you know, 1020 basis points or something or less. So, you know, we definitely struggle to have as competitive liquidity as decentralized exchange, but, you know, people view it different ways. I think the Ellipsis guys like, very much like that's if you want a decentralized system, that it's going to be naturally kind of wider spreads. Um, but hopefully, I'm hoping that more of this kind of centralized finance goes on chain and we have more price discovery on chain. So getting it faster and I guess making some of these compromises to me is, to me is important.
00:16:14.000 - 00:16:43.500, Speaker B: I think the customization factor is probably the biggest push for your own environment as a developer, that's what it seems to me. What do you think the long term vision is for general purpose chains, then? Because when in every app eventually hit this scaling point where you're like, all right, I've achieved what my initial set of goals were, now I need to push this further. And the best way for me to do that is in this app specific environment. If that's the case, then what's the vision for the base layer in your mind?
00:16:44.160 - 00:17:15.892, Speaker A: That's a really good question. Probably slightly above my pay grade, but I'll have a good stab at it. I don't fully agree with the cosmos thing that it's like, or what bankless are pushing where it's tens of thousands of apps and roll ups and you've got a bridge all between them. That just sounds like awful ux. And I don't think I want to live in that world where I have to bridge between every application. I'm just not a huge fan of that. I think there is probably a medium there, and I think what we're looking at, so we're leveraging sovereign SDK for a lot of our stuff.
00:17:15.892 - 00:18:04.340, Speaker A: And what they've explained to us is once you have a shared DA layer, the nice thing is that you actually get quite strong composability guarantees between roll ups that use the same DA layer. So that's the nice thing. I think we have asynchronous composability. If someone else was to build a roll up on Solana, use that as the DA layer, I think based on the ZK proofs that we'd be able to generate and looking at the state of the DA layer on the other roll up, we would be able to bridge basically seamlessly, almost instantly, and compose with other apps doing stuff like that. So I think there's quite an interesting future, especially in the ZK world, where things can be proven and done basically real time. I guess if proving costs and stuff come down a bunch, that things will be quite composable and trying to move away from this fragmented, super fragmented app chain vision, which I definitely don't want to go down.
00:18:04.640 - 00:18:31.188, Speaker B: Yeah, no, that makes sense. The sovereign team is phenomenal. So that's exciting to hear. You're working alongside them as well in this endeavor. One of the other things in Ethereum land that's really popular right now, or the idea is being much discussed, is like the idea of a base sequencer, or where the l one actually sequences the blocks on the l two. This kind of gives you sort of like an out of the box decentralized sequencer basically. And you do get some stronger composability guarantees as well in this model.
00:18:31.188 - 00:18:42.500, Speaker B: Have you guys considered that route at all, or do you think you got one more piece on that? I guess because if you don't go that route, there are clear advantages to having a centralized, a single sequencer, I should say.
00:18:43.120 - 00:19:10.432, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a good question. Yeah, this is also like, I think an active area of debate. I've seen Justin Drake obviously pushing this. It's a big conversation. And I think Ethereum land, there's a lot of jargon being thrown around. I wouldn't say I'm the definitive expert, but my read on it is it seems like that's a very nice solution if we can figure out how to make it work, because there are definitely some trade offs with centralized sequences, obviously. Optimism.
00:19:10.432 - 00:19:46.044, Speaker A: Arbitrum user the issue is obviously the sequencer has a lot of power to sensor transactions. Yes, you can get around it. You can use this basically inbox model that they have where you can send stuff directly to the base layer and you can kind of like circumvent, but it still has a lot of power. People are trying to build decentralized sequences like espresso and a bunch of other protocols. They seem pretty complicated, and I haven't got my head fully around how they work. So the base sequencer idea is definitely elegant. It's something that I wanted to explore initially, but I don't think anyone's fully solved it or come up with a really, really compelling solution.
00:19:46.044 - 00:20:34.134, Speaker A: That being said, I think the nice thing that we get with the sequencer model that we will have and what we've been pushing for and why I'm really excited about this setup is having that sequencer means that you get these pre conformations, essentially, this very fast sequence of confirmations. That's what I was talking about when this thing is kind of running this roll up, but people can directly communicate or get these confirmations from the sequencer. I basically go connect to my front end on Zeta. I go, I set up a session key or whatever to trade on the exchange, which is nice, so I don't have to resign, and then I can just send off 100 orders. I get my acknowledgements back in five milliseconds or something or other. That's an incredible experience. And then still in the background, all these proofs are being run either fraud proofs or Zk proofs.
00:20:34.134 - 00:20:55.374, Speaker A: I have some guarantees that no malicious stuff is happening on the order book and the state transition function. I think there are some advantages from that centralized sequencer that I think are going to be really nice for exchange UX. Then hopefully, over time, models come out where we can explore the base sequencer model or other more decentralized ones and see how that goes.
00:20:55.542 - 00:21:36.932, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that makes a ton of sense. You hit the nail right on the head there. Precomps are by far the hardest challenge based sequencing model because you can't go faster than the l one in this model without them. For Ethereum, it's tougher because those twelve second block times make it impossible from a UX perspective now that users in general want instant, what feels like instant confirmation. The interesting thing is Solana is at 400 milliseconds, and that's a significant improvement on 12 seconds. But to your point, if you can get closer to 50 or five, that is definitely more in the neighborhood of prime UX. On the token side of things, I'm curious how the interplay between the l two and the token will look.
00:21:36.932 - 00:21:40.760, Speaker B: What was the role of the token within this new system?
00:21:41.500 - 00:22:11.600, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a good question. I guess the roll up is more recent development, so we're still iterating our thoughts around that. Something that we came out with, we don't want this to just be a complete governance token because I think that's boring. We want a bit more to it, so at least we have some kind of staking mechanics. Vote escrow, which we were one of, I guess the first people to kind of do that on Solana. I think the token space, to be honest, in Solana is just so underexplored. People seem to do pretty wacky, interesting stuff on the ethereum side and really experiment.
00:22:11.600 - 00:22:42.100, Speaker A: And on Solana you look at it, it's like everything is just SPL tokens and it's just quite uninspiring. So I wish people did more on that side. I see Jup basically started going for the boat escrow model as well. And I think it's a really nice model in that you kind of have this commitment as a user to go in there and lock up and stake your tokens. You get proportional voting power. We actually do it kind of exponential. So the longer that you stake, you actually get exponentially increasing voting power, which is really nice.
00:22:42.100 - 00:23:24.950, Speaker A: So as much as we can push people in the direction of being long term, that's really important. So not only does it have governance properties, it also has these kind of incentive properties. So for the people that actually want to benefit from protocol incentives, we give out a bunch of protocol incentives. It's going to be 30% basically over the next couple of years. So a third of all tokens that are going to come out just going to come from people trading on our platform. And they basically build up this token and almost this pseudo equity in the platform in that they have governance rights and they can be more involved in the platform. So hopefully that starts this virtuous cycle where people trade more people, accumulate more people, stake more, people, can actually get involved in governments and some of the same the protocol.
00:23:24.950 - 00:23:50.318, Speaker A: So that was on the app layer. We came up with that and we were like, this is cool, and it seems like a good model. Now we've got this roll up and so we're thinking around how to use that. I think there's definitely going to be important stuff now that we're basically running our own app chain. Obviously in the how we incentivize, I guess proving is probably going to be a big one. So all the ZK proving stuff is very expensive. You got to have people running it.
00:23:50.318 - 00:24:37.470, Speaker A: There's big cost to it. So I think part of that will be subsidized, if not a large part of that will be subsidized by our own token, which is nice and that gives it chain and infra level utility, which I think is really good. That's a big one. The other thing which we're debating is what do we do with gas fees on the chain? We would like to ideally just abstract it from people, which would be really good, but then potentially there's some kind of utility for the token in there. We got to think about that as well as sequence of revenue, other things like that, how we deal with the gas fees on the chain. So I dont want to give a firm answer because were still ideating and thinking through this process. But I think its really nice that you go from purely a governance token or something thats a bit vanilla to now having a lot more properties that we can tinker around with.
00:24:37.590 - 00:25:11.694, Speaker B: My friends, big, big news. Blockworks is hosting permissionless three in Salt Lake City this year. So were heading west for three days starting October 9. Permissionless is our industry's premier defi event that brings together crypto natives from all over the globe. I've personally been the last few years and can honestly say that the attendees are incredible. It's people who actually care about crypto. We also have more than 200 industry titans speaking at the event, and this includes builders like Lucas Bruder from Gito Labs and Brian Pellegrino from Layer Zero, or investors like Kyle Simani and Joe McCann, and even elected officials like representative Tom Emmerde, who is fighting the good fight in Washington.
00:25:11.694 - 00:25:35.990, Speaker B: And it's narrative season, so we're going to be covering the seven hottest themes in crypto. This includes things like modularity and restaking, or bitcoin and l two s, and even AI and crypto. The goal is to keep you up to speed on major developments in the industry. Ticket prices will be structurally increasing over time, so get your ticket today from my lightspeed family. I got you. We're going to use code lightspeed ten in all caps. No space for 10% off your ticket.
00:25:35.990 - 00:26:10.762, Speaker B: All right, everyone, I look forward to seeing you at permissionless three and let's get back to the show. Yeah, no, that's. I mean, considering it's still very much in development, it's awesome to see that you guys are thinking in like multiple different facets of how we can employ this token. Basically on the gas token one specifically, how do you think about the trade off there between. Yes, it's like great utility, but also now I'm requiring a user to have this token they may or may not want if they're like. Because you can imagine a world where you have a power user that like loves trading on Zeta, but it's like, yeah, I don't trade governance tokens. I don't hold them or yada yada or whatever reason they don't want to hold the token.
00:26:10.762 - 00:26:18.270, Speaker B: So how do you think about the push and pull there of requiring a user to have to pay for the transaction fees with this token?
00:26:19.050 - 00:27:04.774, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a good question. I think the way I'm coming at it from is UX is the most important thing. And I think it's all too common that protocols just kind of shoehorn a token or something like that into a protocol that just doesn't need to exist, essentially. And I think, yeah, from our perspective, as much as I can abstract away gas fees, basically, my grand vision for how to build this thing is we're going to have people, they should be able to sign up, use something like Tip link, where essentially they just get a wallet provision for them, or they just sign in via Google or Twitter or whatever it might be. So you have a wallet straight away. It's kind of like built into the app and you can obviously take it to other apps as well. We would have a decentralized on ramp in there so people could just bridge funds straight away.
00:27:04.774 - 00:27:52.228, Speaker A: And then you should be able to sign for transactions and have the gas fee abstract in the background. Either it's paid for you or we just subsidize the whole thing ourselves, which is entirely reasonable. And then that thing starts actually feeling like what we are used to in centralized exchange. Ux, you don't have to sign stuff all the time. You don't have to worry about, do I have enough soul in my wallet? How do I get my money in there? I think that's another big reason why I, people use centralized exchange just like a bridge, like fiat rails. I think those are like a few different unlocks that if we can kind of nail those, I think that's going to be a massive, just massive boost in terms of ux and actually getting people to use on chain, which I think is a massive blocker right now. Like, I've talked to a bunch of my friends and it was funny, I hung out with one of them and he had crypto charts up on his, his laptop, you know, while we were grabbing a beer or something, or that.
00:27:52.228 - 00:28:21.704, Speaker A: I'm like, oh, shit, you create, you trade crypto. How about you try out our exchange? And it just really clicked for me how painful it was, because he goes on the exchange website and he's like, how do I get started? I'm like, okay, you need a phantom wallet. Go download this thing from the Google Play store. Or, sorry, the Chrome extension store downloads it. And he's like, what do I do? I have to do all the seed freight stuff, set it up, yada yada. And then he gets it set up and he's like, okay, what do I do? Can I connect now? I'm like, no, you need gas fees, you need Solana. So you probably need to go to a centralized exchange and bridge it there.
00:28:21.704 - 00:28:39.400, Speaker A: Or I can just send it to you from my wallet, which is kind of painful. Not many people have that option. And then finally he gets that, and then finally he can make the account finally trade. And I'm like, wow, we went through like ten to 15 minutes probably of getting your account set up with like multiple hoops. I was just like, this ain't it, like, we gotta, we gotta improve on this a lot.
00:28:40.380 - 00:29:06.608, Speaker B: The wallet side stuff specifically is a huge challenge. And when you think about launching your own chain, how do you think about that aspect specifically? Right. Like, even at like, I guess I broaden that to a scope of like all necessary chain infra, right? Like you're gonna need oracle providers. You're not gonna have the centralized exchange bridge. You know, those are quite challenging to get. So you got to like route through Solana, which is probably okay, but there's that piece as well. And then like the wallet and provider as well.
00:29:06.608 - 00:29:11.460, Speaker B: And I got to work with them, get them onboarded and integrated. Like, how has that experience been?
00:29:11.920 - 00:29:53.394, Speaker A: Yeah, so we're still yet to fully come to that. The good thing is, because we're working with sovereign, their goal is to basically abstract a lot of that stuff away or kind of bundle it in the box. You know, you just basically come your app chain, Dev, and you come and build your exchange logic, your business logic, and then a lot of the other stuff just is standardized and templatized and comes out of the box. So what we're working with them on is at the moment just prototyping it on a metamask snap. We have a lot more just say in how that works. Unfortunately for some of the bigger wallets, like Phantom, it is closed source, so there's really nothing we can do. And I will hopefully talk to their team and figure out if they can support stuff like this.
00:29:53.394 - 00:30:27.282, Speaker A: We're already talking with the backpack team, which is great. Armani actually reached out and he's like, hey, heard you guys are building this. L two, I want to support different RPC networks and different chains and stuff like that. So we're actively talking to them to support that functionality. But at the moment, we're going to see if we can get a snap looking out of the box and then see if that suffices. In terms of the bridging stuff, I think we have a nice solution there just for a trust minimize bridge, which we can build. Um, so that should basically just take the stuff in from Solana and be able to, like, credit up to the roll up.
00:30:27.282 - 00:31:16.668, Speaker A: So I don't think we have to do too much, uh, heavy lifting, which would be good there. Uh, the nice thing is, if we can kind of get the ZK stuff working pretty well, also, our withdrawal time will be pretty competitive and a lot better than optimistic roll ups, which I'm pretty excited by. And I think just the fact that you also have much faster block times on Solana means that we should be probably more, more fast or faster than, um, some of these comparable ethereum l two s and then other things like, yeah, block explorers, and probably a bunch of other things where we're probably just going to build something very basic just to get it out there as an MVP. But those things, I think, are all kind of achievable. I think the stuff that's way harder is, yeah, bootstrap your own validator set and set up like a grants program and subsidize all these things and get people to run nodes. That stuff will be really hard. And I'm thankful that we're probably not building on Cosmos where we just have to do all this ourselves.
00:31:16.668 - 00:31:37.990, Speaker A: Dydx is probably going through that pain right now, so at least we don't have that as the main thing we have to worry about. We're mainly worried about how do we build this order book extremely fast in rust, optimize the shit out of it, and then we have a few little infrastructure pieces and ux things that we have to tackle. But I think it's all very much within the realms of possibility.
00:31:38.690 - 00:32:16.048, Speaker B: Love the focus on product, there's just no doubt about that. On the token side as well, airdrops are all the rage, for better or for worse right now. I know you guys recently did your allocation, and like, just even hearing, just being on Twitter, you see all of the ZK scam for ZK sync and all of the hate towards layer zero. And quite honestly, those are probably the two most heavily Sibyl protocols in crypto history. So just curious how that whole experience of going through, who deserves the tokens and what are the users? I'm trying to target. When you find sibils, how do you deal with them and kind of walk us through what that process was like for you?
00:32:16.214 - 00:32:39.444, Speaker A: Yeah, it's tough, and it's more of a art than a science, I would say, like, no one's really cracked it. I think it's a very hard problem. So this just leads nicely into the fact I literally wrote a tweet about this a couple of days ago, which. Which blew up quite a lot, got, like, 150k impressions or something, which is cool. But it was a. It was like a. It was like a screencap of, like, what Kobe was saying, which is essentially like, airdrops are dead.
00:32:39.444 - 00:33:10.086, Speaker A: You know, everyone's kind of expecting this. This free money, and, I don't know, like, the meta has completely changed. You know, like you said, layer zero zk kind of seem like they're the end of the road, and everyone's like, it's negative ev right to do an airdrop. It's like, you go out there if you kind of, I guess, don't target enough people, or you're too harsh on the criteria, everyone gets felt like, you know, feels like they get left out. Everyone starts calling you a scam. It's just, like, a very difficult game to play. So that kind of worried me.
00:33:10.086 - 00:33:38.468, Speaker A: I spent definitely a couple of weeks and late nights trying to figure out our airdrop stuff. Honestly, I'd rather spend my time on product and actually building the exchange. But I figured, hey, this is quite a big thing. We're giving away 8% of our supply, essentially, to this thing. So I want to get it right. And my background is more in data science and analytics and stuff like that. So I really wanted to geek out on this and do a good job instead of just rushing it and I just calling it a day, which I think some protocol is just very, like, very yolo on it.
00:33:38.468 - 00:33:54.300, Speaker A: Um, so the way we kind of approached it is we're more of an active trading protocol. So I approach it as there is some. Some level of effort that you have to put into using the protocol. Right. Like, the. The tough thing with some of these passive protocols, like, it's a TVL game. You just chuck your money in.
00:33:54.300 - 00:34:18.170, Speaker A: Okay. There's maybe a little bit of, like, counterparty smart contract risk, but largely, like, people just chuck, I don't know, like, some massive amount of money, and they just, like, farm it for a period of time. They just, like, withdraw their funds, move on to the next thing. And I feel like that's kind of a problem with these kind of like deposit withdraw TVL games is like they get farmed super, super hard and people are very, very mercenary. It's kind of hard. So with ours it's a little bit different. You know, it's capital at risk.
00:34:18.170 - 00:34:54.550, Speaker A: People actually have to trade. It requires quite a bit of like active behavior. So that was a nice thing that I kind of built this feature set up where I can kind of see people's trading patterns activity. We even modeled our Z score, which is our point system essentially based on volume and stuff like that. So we wanted people to come in, actually pay some small amount of trading fees, which is kind of like almost I guess, in an investment in the platform helps our bottom line, obviously, and that's part of the protocol. And then my thesis behind that was like, okay, people have invested this time energy, capital. And I wanted to make sure that everyone kind of gets good on that, right and gets everything back.
00:34:54.550 - 00:35:25.164, Speaker A: So I very much modeled the airdrop, making sure that that was kind of the cost function. And then when the numbers came out, I think based on at least pre market prices, most people are getting at least five x back on their airdrop in terms of their fees, which is really nice. So no one's losing money. I think that's always the worst experience. You spent all this time farming something. Some people probably with layers era, they're like, man, I did 300 bridges on this and you gave me a dollar 19 airdrop or something. Other people, pretty salty.
00:35:25.164 - 00:36:00.946, Speaker A: So I made sure that like, okay, there's, there's no kind of like free lunch here. Like people have got to do stuff, but if they, they come in there and they do stuff and they're not lazy, like we're going to make it very much worth their time and they get a super handsome reward. So that was one bit. It's just like, what do you incentivize? It's kind of real activity, not just like bullshit stuff that you can run bots that you know, do nft stuff or send a bunch of transactions around this kind of like vaporware and doesn't actually like help the protocol. So that was one. And then the other thing is just like thinking about who's actually your long term customers. And obviously a lot of people complain about sybils and people who are mercenary farmers.
00:36:00.946 - 00:36:44.250, Speaker A: So the nice thing is because we did a linear airdrop that actually clears out, I think a lot of those people who are expecting tiered stuff and like, hey, I put in a dollar into this protocol and I do it over 1000 wallets. And then each one gets like a $1000 airdrop. And I think people had that latent expectation from the GTO airdrop, which is a bit unfortunate. And so for us, yeah, linear airdrop, I think, solved a lot of those concerns. And then we also did kind of like a minimum cap. So anyone who didn't do $500 a volume, which is like a very simple criteria, it's like you can't even do that, you know, which is like half a cent of fees, $500, like, you know, it's like $100 in your account, you know, traded five times over a period of six months that we had this program. Like, come on, at least you can do that.
00:36:44.250 - 00:37:08.700, Speaker A: And so it was a good, like 25% of users in our category that just like, hadn't even hit that milestone. I'm like, okay, these guys are probably like 50% Sybil or they're just like some guy who's just never going to use our protocol long term or is just not going to move the needle. So I was just like, safely, I can cut them. I don't think they're going to be too salty because they really didn't try on this thing. So that was one. So all these things I think helped. And then the last one was actually doing some active civil analysis.
00:37:08.700 - 00:37:36.048, Speaker A: So going through, doing a bunch of plotting, I won't actually explain how it worked because then I think that would kind of of share my cards. But yeah, we worked with alium as well, who are a bunch of super talented data science guys. They really know their stuff. Just being able to look through patterns of behavior, a bunch of different things, like model it out. There are some really obvious things that people do that can kind of like screen for. And I didn't want to go down the route of, I think some other protocols like drift and stuff, really tried to target sybils. And I think they hit a lot of people that were actually genuine users.
00:37:36.048 - 00:38:01.218, Speaker A: And I was kind of scared of that. I was like, oh, I saw, like, how much that kind of blew up for them. A lot of people, like, really bitter. They're like, I've been using this protocol for two years. He marked me as a Sybil and now I got no allocation. That's just like a customer support nightmare waiting to happen with like a thousand tickets in your discord and just like manually resolving. So, yeah, we tried to do something that was like fairly high signal and I think we did a pretty good job where we just caught the super egregious guys that had just spun up like, absolutely thousands of wallets.
00:38:01.218 - 00:38:20.916, Speaker A: And I don't want to be giving those guys an allocation because they're trying to cheat the game. They're cheating the real users out of stuff. You know, they're trying to game the mechanisms. And I think we really did a good job of bring that down. And I was glad to see all the real people in our telegram chat. When we put out the airdrop checker, they're like, man, I got a fat airdrop. I got like 50,000 tokens, 70,000 tokens, you know, all this kind of stuff.
00:38:20.916 - 00:38:48.976, Speaker A: I'm like, that's great. This guy's been around for like two years. He's been in our chat all the time. This guy trades like a shit ton, and this guy got like a fat airdrop from it and he was just like cheering about it. So just kind of seeing that feedback, I'm like, okay, I feel like we put in, we put in the effort and people kind of appreciate it, and it seems to have like paid off. So I think my general read on that is airdrops definitely have a lot of flaws, and I think there's a good way to do them and probably a not so good way to do them. So they require quite a lot of effort.
00:38:48.976 - 00:38:57.340, Speaker A: And I think you got to be really careful and considerate, and we'll see how the meta evolves. I don't know, it seems a bit overplayed, but yeah, we'll see.
00:38:57.880 - 00:39:01.872, Speaker B: Yeah, it does seem overplayed, but it's hard to launch a token without one.
00:39:01.896 - 00:39:02.080, Speaker A: Right?
00:39:02.120 - 00:39:49.832, Speaker B: Because low flow, high fdv tokens are like, those are also sort of in the meta, or certainly have the gun to their head in a lot of ways. And there's not like that many ways to get around that problem, right? You can either like unlock the team earlier, which generally isn't the goal, or you can airdrop more tokens, which is kind of, you know, utilize. I don't really think that that achieves the goal either, of course, like the people, you know, aggressively farming these things, that is exactly what they want. But I don't know, the industry has hit a really weird spot with this, where people like, feel entitled to their airdrops because they took a bet and either failed to see it's a bet, or just want to be obnoxious and ignore that fact. So I don't know. But I liked how you mentioned you get the benefit of being an active use. You can target active use versus TVL protocols.
00:39:49.832 - 00:40:24.570, Speaker B: I saw a crazy stat the other day. Granted I just read this passingly in a tweet, so if this is wrong, don't come after me. But their AO computer is spinning out of the Arweave ecosystem and is launching a token. You can farm it with staked ETH and they have like some crazy like let's say 250 million of TVL and someone ran the number of depositors and it was like 1000 wallets. So the average deposit size that is like 250k, which to me it looks a lot like somebody just attacking the shit out of that. A very well capitalized individual. So I don't know, it is kind of weird to see that push and pull there between.
00:40:24.570 - 00:40:51.370, Speaker B: How do you target that active use? But for a protocol like Zeta there is that one specific thing is trading, so it kind of makes it easier. And speaking of that, when you look out forward, do you just want to continue optimizing the shit out of how you trade on this platform? Or do you think an expansion or additional product offering is within reach and you started with options, ended up pivoting to perps. Curious where you think you'll go in a six to twelve month timeframe.
00:40:51.710 - 00:41:23.044, Speaker A: Yes, good question. So I think for now, but one of the big learnings I've had is just focus is so important as a founder and a business. I think what we made the mistake of in the early days was trying to do too much. So we tried to do options. We did these kind of defi options vaults as well, which were very hot at the time. We tried to build a bunch of different products and I don't think we built any of them particularly well where I was just incredibly proud of what we built. And then the great thing in the bear market is it just kind of, it kind of killed everything.
00:41:23.044 - 00:41:50.662, Speaker A: It's just like, okay, this is not panning out. This doesn't have product market fit, this other one, it's just impossible. And so you narrow down your focus to the one core thing that's actually going to drive revenue for your business. And actually that is sticky and has users and we're like, okay, the linear stuff, perks and futures, seems like people kind of know how to trade it. It's a lot more simple for us to build. We can build it at, you know, in a much better way. Let's just put our resource resources behind that.
00:41:50.662 - 00:42:31.852, Speaker A: Let's make the front end really good and bug free. Let's optimize the smart contract. Let's just like go through and talk to a bunch of customers which for some reason we didn't do in the very early days, which is thing a lot of crypto teams don't do for some reason. And we just went through and we just fixed a lot of small things that don't seem massive on the surface, but we're just kind of really important to have like a unified user experience. And not to say our current platform is perfect, but I think it's like ten times better than it used to be, which is really nice. And we started seeing people actually giving good feedback at that point. They're like, okay, I might actually consider using this as my primary trading venue because it actually kind of meets this minimum bar of, I guess, acceptability there.
00:42:31.852 - 00:43:02.680, Speaker A: And so focusing more on that ux, on that performance, making it like a really good exchange. We're only like a 15 person team, so we only have so much bandwidth to do so. We really focus it in on the purpose product and I think tried to deliver something that was definitely like pretty, pretty good there. And so going forwards, I guess we're continuing to focus on the, on the perp stuff, obviously a bit more on the infrastructure side, just to like speed it up. That's just been the main difficulty for us is like, our front end is good. We got all the different features, you know, the exchange works. We've got order books, we've got graphs, all the basic stuff you want to exchange.
00:43:02.680 - 00:43:34.052, Speaker A: We've got point systems, referrals, you know, everything that like is in the exchange playbook. But now it's just making things faster, better, more liquidity, all this kind of stuff. So once we're really happy with that, which will probably be end of year, all things go well, then I think it's a good time to start expanding the offering. So some really obvious ones that everyone's been yelling at us for is multi collateral. So just being able to use Sol jitto Sol msoul kind of collateral, I think it's like a no brainer. It's like these coin margin features that you see on Binance. It's really nice.
00:43:34.052 - 00:44:01.352, Speaker A: I don't have to be holding stables to be able to longer purple something like that. People can just be super long soul and also go long their derivative, which is really nice. A lot of those designs require basically lending markets under the hood. And that's just such a no brainer. Synergy, in our opinion, is the money markets working alongside the perp stuff is really good. You can unlock a lot of stuff. So it's native yield, essentially on your platform, which is really good.
00:44:01.352 - 00:44:22.814, Speaker A: That'll be really good on our chain. Obviously, if we can just support stuff where it's a. Your deposits and your collateral are just kind of earning all the time. That's a really nice reason for people not to, like, reach out of the platform and put their money elsewhere. So really excited to build that one. By having the multicollateral stuff, it also enables stuff like basis trading. You can kind of short the perp and still be kind of long the spot and not get liquidated.
00:44:22.814 - 00:44:51.192, Speaker A: And so the funding arbitrage is really good there. And that's basically the basis of Athena and all these other protocols is it's like a stable coin that earns a ton of yield just because funding rates tend to be super high in our crypto perks. So those are really nice. I think eventually it'd be really nice to support spot. There is some difficulty there, I guess, in that on a roll up, we won't have, I guess, atomic composability with drupe. So I don't know how to approach that yet. But I'm thinking around creative ways and things we can support.
00:44:51.192 - 00:45:00.180, Speaker A: So I think it's still going to be particularly on the derivative side for now, but we'd like to expand the product offering past that. But that's kind of like a next year thing.
00:45:01.050 - 00:45:26.910, Speaker B: Nice, man. That's exciting to hear as well. And when you were thinking about the roll up or the l two, you had a long history building on Solana, so it kind of seems like a natural thing of just like, the progression of what you were doing. But I'm curious if you considered any other chains, Ethereum being the most obvious one, or even some of these other, like, newer, higher throughput chains, like, let's call it a swi or an aptos. Were those ever, like, in the question for you, or how'd that decision go?
00:45:27.420 - 00:46:11.032, Speaker A: Yeah, so it's funny, before we actually started on Solana, I think we talked to the arbitrum team, like, pre launch and stuff, and I was pretty interested in their stuff. They were obviously a little bit far from mainnet at that point, and then kind of looked into more of these roll ups, I guess. Actually went to East Denver in 2023, like, during the bear market. It was kind of funny. Like, Solana was just like an absolute rock bottom, and a lot of people were just kind of like, felt sorry for me, but I was just kind of like, seeing what was out there. Not that we were necessarily going to switch chains or anything, but I was like, I should probably, like, broaden my focus and just kind of of understand what was out there, read into a lot of this roll up stuff. And I think even then, I think some of the eth rollups had some kind of limitations and even some of the kind of da costs and other things were quite expensive.
00:46:11.032 - 00:47:02.336, Speaker A: But we were kind of seeing that for an order book, it kind of makes sense to run some of that computation off chain. So I can kind of definitely see the merits. So we looked into a bunch of these things, especially, like, app chains roll up as a service, things like, even on the cosmos side, we do a full blown, isolated app chain, like DyDx has been doing. I think that was a gargantuan undertaking, especially having to run your own validator set. I think I was just like, ok, we probably need twice the team size and a lot bigger treasury to be able to pull that off. And then we did look briefly into these other alternative l ones, aptos sui. I think the thing that I noticed there's like, yeah, they've definitely got some pretty interesting stuff and, like, new consensus mechanisms and ways of doing things, but largely, and maybe I'm wrong on this, but, like, they felt like, I guess, a marginal improvement on the Solana stuff.
00:47:02.336 - 00:47:40.490, Speaker A: Like, aptos just feels like, oh, we took diem stuff. It's like, Solana mildly faster. Same with, like, say, I think we talked to them for a long time. I do like their founders and their team, but it was like 390 millisecond block times versus, like, 400 millisecond block times. I'm like, I don't know if I want to, like, rewrite my entire exchange just to, like, shave off this, like, marginal, marginal difference there. And a lot of them were really focused on, or I guess a lot of the new chains are focused on, like, EVM compatibility and bytecode compatibility, and I don't care because I'm not a solidity dev, so it's just not important to me. I'm like, just give it to me in rust, and we'll just kind of, like, build it from there.
00:47:40.490 - 00:48:24.090, Speaker A: I think Swe is definitely interesting. They seem to have this, like, DaG model where you can do a bunch of stuff kind of in parallel or asynchronously, which seems pretty cool. I think when I talked to the team or read through their docs. A bunch, though, is when you're trying to do very complicated Defi, where it's locking state, you don't actually get to tap into their main engine that paralyzes or speeds things up a ton. It seemed like for very complicated defi apps, you fall back to full consensus, in which case it's not that much faster. So I think there are a lot of, like, interesting things coming out. Nothing that really blew my mind was like, this is ten x better than Solana? So we basically made the decision, like, I don't think it makes sense to switch.
00:48:24.090 - 00:48:42.700, Speaker A: And thank God we did. We stay on Solana. It's been working really well, and I like that it's battle hardened as well. It's not this new thing that's just popped out of nowhere, that's had, like, no testing strain. Like, we've been on it since 2021. We've been through the radium ideos and the NFT mints that brought down the chain. Like, those are the things that battle harden, the thing that make it actually useful for Defi.
00:48:42.700 - 00:49:19.376, Speaker A: So that's why it's being good to use now. I think being able to build on top of that is great. We leverage all the scalability, hardware, performance upgrades that happen there, and then we get a kind of own the execution environment. And the even better thing is, and if Mo is here to comment, it'd be great, because all the ZK stuff that's happening on Solana is also very exciting. It's like a ZK juggernaut. There's things coming out, there's state compression and just general amount of syscalls and other things that are being implemented on the ZK side that we'll be able to leverage out of the box. So I'm pretty excited by that as well.
00:49:19.488 - 00:49:24.984, Speaker B: We're recording an episode with Swen and Mert in about three or four days, so.
00:49:25.152 - 00:49:25.664, Speaker A: Perfect.
00:49:25.752 - 00:49:48.012, Speaker B: That's really confusing for when this episode will come out. I really don't actually know at the moment, but, yeah, it'll be fun. You're completely right. There's been so much innovation happening on Solana. I mean, Fire Dancer is obviously the headliner, but if you start peeling back the layers, it just keeps. It's like a book that never ends. It feels like even with the most recent one that blew my mind was Mithril, which, like, the overclock team is building out this full note.
00:49:48.012 - 00:50:10.650, Speaker B: Basically, for Solana, which has always been the biggest knock, is like, yeah, it's cool, but it'll never be sufficiently decentralized because it's only run in data centers. It's kind of cool to see a new iteration of that from the node perspective. And I guess as a closing question here, Tristan, you're incredibly thorough, and that last answer really proves that but what advice would you give to upcoming crypto founders that are looking to break into the DC defi space?
00:50:11.350 - 00:50:53.698, Speaker A: That's a really good question. There's been a lot of learnings. I think the thing that you have to just do is get stuck in. I think that's what I see a lot of new founders kind of struggling with is they're like 1ft in, 1ft out, you know, a lot of people who are probably like, listening to the podcast and they're still kind of working their job like I was when I started. I'm like, hey, it's a cool thing. I'm going to dabble on some smart contracts and you can kind of read all the blogs, all the tweets that you want, but it's only once you start actually maybe writing the code or if you're kind of non technical, just like going and actually building stuff and getting it out there and acquiring users. So I think just pushing through, taking that leap of faith is really important.
00:50:53.698 - 00:51:23.700, Speaker A: I mean, I came into this as my first time founding something or other. I think I've learned an incredible amount in the last three years. That's not to say I haven't made a huge amount of mistakes and learnings. I. That's been really good. I think I've just. The cool thing for me in the crypto space is, I wouldn't say no one's an expert, but the guys who are the grandfathers of crypto, the tollies and the Vitaliks, they've probably only been building in crypto for like ten years or something like that.
00:51:23.700 - 00:51:53.240, Speaker A: Things have not been around for that long, even for us. It's weird that I get invited on stage at all these conferences and stuff and I've only been building in the space for three years and we've already managed to build a platform that is basically on the cutting edge and is in like the top ten purpose platforms, like, globally. So I think there's just like a lot of upside, a lot of opportunity and yeah, I think being able to, like, put your heads down, shift, not worry too much about market prices and what's happening and focus on the, on the technology and get stuck in is super exciting.
00:51:53.980 - 00:51:58.340, Speaker B: That's awesome. That's awesome. Well, Trish, this has been a fantastic discussion. Anything you want to leave the audience.
00:51:58.380 - 00:52:07.624, Speaker A: With, we'd love for anyone, just jump on the platform, tag me on Twitter with any kind of complaints or feedback so we can improve things and make the killer exchange platform.
00:52:07.732 - 00:52:11.656, Speaker B: Tristan, thanks a ton for coming on, man. This was a fantastic discussion and wish you all the best.
00:52:11.808 - 00:52:12.920, Speaker A: Appreciate it. Thanks for having me.
