00:00:14.200 - 00:00:51.816, Speaker A: Awesome. So hope you enjoyed a really quick break with some Lo Fi beats and we are good to go on our next talk. So I'm super excited to welcome Sam Richards and Ryan Cordell. We're going to be talking about the Newtherm.org Developer portal. Sam and Ryan have been been very involved in kind of rebranding and bringing Ethereum.org to be a lot more user and community friendly and they have a lot more things planned for all of us and just the ecosystem and they're going to be sharing everything that they have in the works, especially about the developer portal today.
00:00:51.816 - 00:00:57.720, Speaker A: So, without further ado, please welcome Sam and Ryan and I'll let them kick off with their presentation.
00:01:00.850 - 00:01:05.680, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you Kartik. And thank you Ethanline. Good to be here.
00:01:06.370 - 00:01:07.120, Speaker C: Hello.
00:01:08.050 - 00:02:02.960, Speaker B: So what we want to spend the next call it 20 minutes or so talking about is Ethereum.org and hopefully provide some resources to all you hackers out there who are looking to get up and running with ETH online Hacktober this month. Give you some idea behind just like our vision with this and the community behind it and potential ways that you could all get involved if you so choose to. So, yeah, first question you might be asking is, who the heck are these handsome young men? So, Ethereum.org, in case you didn't know, it's a public website. It's completely open source. All our code and content is on GitHub and accessible and editable by just about anybody.
00:02:02.960 - 00:02:46.640, Speaker B: And we're proud to say there's been hundreds of people at this point who have contributed to the content code and translations of the site. So definitely a lot of faces that won't get acknowledgement today. But Ryan and I, I'm Sam, what you'd call the lead developer of Ethereum.org. And Ryan here is our lead content designer. So we're two of the folks, I guess, who are fortunate enough to work on this full time with support from the Ethereum Foundation. And we're two of the heads, I guess, you can yell at on Twitter if you find any bugs or issues. But yeah, again, whole community behind this website.
00:02:46.640 - 00:03:43.418, Speaker B: So thank you to everyone who's contributed so far. What did we set out to do with Ethereum.org? So most of you developers out there, I would imagine, are familiar with the Mozilla Developer Network or Mdn. And this is an area where we found a lot of inspiration for what could Ethereum.org be? It's an open source community. It's like a completely open wiki with a pretty great mission to basically just make the web and its technologies more open and accessible to everybody. So as we kind of went through our journey of like, hey, crypto is inventing so many things and innovating in a lot of spaces, but content and education probably doesn't need to be one we innovate in dramatically.
00:03:43.418 - 00:04:44.786, Speaker B: Where else can we look for? For just communities and projects that are doing this stuff really well and yeah, I'm sure you've stumbled across Google in for answers as a developer and hitting Mozilla Developer Network. It's just become the mecca of content and education for web developers in terms of reference docs, tutorials, learning resources, executable code, examples, all that jazz. So as we were brainstorming rethinking, how could we revamp Ethereum.org? Hopefully you'll see that this was a strong inspiration for us and shout out to the Mdn team. We had the pleasure of talking to them, getting some ideas and tips on how to help bootstrap this type of open education community. So what is the new developer portal and the resources on Ethereum.org? We'll quick through a live example.
00:04:44.786 - 00:05:33.826, Speaker B: We encourage you to go check out Ethereum.org and see for yourself. But a big kind of insight we had from developer interviews and just talking with people in the space and developers in general. Everyone doesn't learn the same way, right? Some people like to read through the reference documentation, some people want to just hop in and start experimenting and learn by doing. And some people want to get a local development environment set up, pull it down, feel it in their own computer and environment and go from there. So you'll see, these are like the three main journeys, at least for now, that we've tried to focus on and provide resources for. And we talked about how Mdn was a big inspiration for us.
00:05:33.826 - 00:07:06.286, Speaker B: Just to give a little more context on what were the problems we identified or what are we trying to solve, what are we doing here in the first place for a lot of you developers out there? I know I personally went through this as a front end developer trying to get into the Ethereum space. I think ultimately it comes down to just an information problem, right? Like the ethereum ecosystem. It's so rich and diverse and incredible and there's so many community resources, but that does lead to just a little bit of disorganization and you end up with a lot of different information silos. And as someone new to the space who's just trying to google around and find a source of truth, we did find some friction with say, the multiple community maintained wikis a lot of overlapping information, not really knowing where to contribute, necessarily running into outdated stack overflow answers, finding tutorials that were outdated with really no way to help update them. And a big one is translations. We now support over 30 languages on Ethereum.org. We have experimented with some off site translation initiatives to help translate third party content, but we found it's just a lot easier to get our community galvanized around just translating one main source.
00:07:06.286 - 00:08:08.822, Speaker B: So that was a problem we thought we were uniquely situated to solve as Ethereum.org. And if you do remember the earlier days of Ethereum.org, there was definitely room for improvement. What our developers page was, was essentially just a big wall of links that at least pointed people to a lot of the projects in the space that are building out a lot of great open source technologies and solutions to make developers lives easier. But it was really hard for someone to kind of piece all the different puzzle pieces together and there wasn't really much background context. So a lot of what we were trying to do is just set a base level of understanding on the site. Hey, instead of just looking for smart contract testing tools, getting some background on what are the available options, what does it even mean to test a smart contract, what are the different ways of going about it, all that stuff.
00:08:08.822 - 00:08:51.890, Speaker B: So the community was very vocal, very helpful in identifying what aspects we could improved, and hopefully with this release, we're getting closer to something useful. All right, so let's take a quick look at it. If you go to Ethereum.org, you'll quickly find the developer section. This is what we call, I guess, the home page of this portal. Here are the three kind of pathways to get started, which I just talked about, that we'll check out a bit. So say you just want to read up on some core concepts, get a sense of the documentation.
00:08:51.890 - 00:09:36.222, Speaker B: What we've built out is kind of just the foundation of a lot of Ethereum specific documentation for primarily DApp developers at this point. So you can get a sense of, hey, if you're coming to this and just want to learn how Ethereum works at a technical level before building a DAP, you can do that if there's a specific topic you're looking for. Say you just want to learn about smart contracts. You want to see some code examples that you can copy and experiment around with. This is the place to kind of come and check out. You will see as you're poking around, we do call out. A lot of the content is incomplete.
00:09:36.222 - 00:10:41.090, Speaker B: And the way we look at this is it's pretty much always going to be a work in progress. The Mozilla Developer Network folks gave us some really good advice. In this area, you don't have enough resources to write all the content, but what they found was a successful method of just create the page, acknowledge that something is an important topic, and just tell the community you need help with it. So one thing we've really tried to make as frictionless as possible is if you are an expert on testing smart contracts, with a click of a button you can hop into GitHub, you can see the resource, you can edit it directly and open a pull request and get it deployed to the site, ideally within a day or so. So that's the kind of community and environment we're trying to create. Ryan and I are a very limited resource of knowledge. Thankfully, we've had a ton of people already helping out, but we got a long way to go in terms of our ambitions.
00:10:41.090 - 00:11:41.786, Speaker B: So yeah. If you're someone out there who wants to participate in Hacktober, want to take a little break from your ETH online project, feel free to come our way. So going back to the other just like, different avenues people could learn about Ethereum, we try to build out a whole tutorial section. Areas that you can filter through, like, say you want to learn about, ERC, 20 tokens, you can click around, you can find community developed tutorials straight on Ethereum.org. Here you can see we tried to make it easy to submit a tutorial and the reasons for this, somewhat like I mentioned, is really trying to give more exposure to a lot of these community developed resources. There's a ton of amazing tutorials out there. Unfortunately, not all of them are going to pop up as the first result on Google.
00:11:41.786 - 00:13:04.050, Speaker B: When you're poking around and for the ability for the community to see a typo, see an outdated version of the Solidity compiler and to be able to edit that page and update it. We're just hoping this is a good way to kind of just maintain keep these resources fresh and up to date and translate them as well, which we talked about. We built out a Learn by Coding section, still very young and early, but giving you the ability to find, hey, what are these tools from the community where I can hop in and test out some code without doing any sort of setup whatsoever. Interactive games. Some of these you guys are probably familiar with, but what are different projects and learning resources where I can just get up and going and play around and finally a big piece of feedback we've gotten and I know I've struggled with is just like, okay, I have a project idea. I just want to get up and running with a local development set up. How can I do that? This we have a lot of ideas to improve this page, but for now, we're hoping this is helpful for you from day one as a hacker looking to get up and going, what are projects that I can just grab? Get clone, yarn install and I'm off to the races.
00:13:04.050 - 00:13:16.520, Speaker B: So that is the portal as it exists today? Yeah. Feel free to check it out and I'll pass it over to Ryan to talk a little bit about the future.
00:13:17.930 - 00:13:22.810, Speaker C: That was a great little whirlwind tour that you just gave Sam. Thank you.
00:13:22.880 - 00:13:24.940, Speaker B: Yeah. Hopefully not too fast for everybody.
00:13:25.870 - 00:14:27.546, Speaker C: No, it's good. Yeah. So I just want to chat a little bit about, I guess, our thinking about the future when it comes to this sort of initiative and the overarching design and vision that we have. So as I think you'll have seen from going through the platform just then, this is very much a sort of a foundation for this platform. We definitely want to do some things around, bringing more Web Three into the space, so not just sort of telling people about how to write smart contracts, how to test them with code examples, but actually bringing as much of Web Three into the learning experience as possible. So actually integrating parts of Ethereum.org with Web Three technologies and as Sam has touched on, this is definitely designed to be a community initiative.
00:14:27.546 - 00:15:40.150, Speaker C: We want to build up, very much like the Mdn inspiration that we spoke of at the Know, an army of devoted contributors who want to help us promote Ethereum education, want to sort of spot errors, improve things as much as possible. This is something that we're actively working on in terms of thinking about how do we build up this community around this platform. I think a third point that's really important to talk about is this idea of continuous iteration in the web, especially in terms of just content. There's this idea that once you publish something, that's the job done. We don't think like that and we have a team in place and we're asking the community to help us with this as well. But this content needs to live and breathe. Ethereum moves at an absolutely blistering pace and we need the help of everyone to make sure that we have this information that helps everyone is accurate.
00:15:40.150 - 00:16:15.086, Speaker C: And we have a team in place to help build on this platform from like a UX and design point of view as well, so we can build out new features as and when they become sort of necessary based on community feedback and stuff. So we want to make sure that this is something that we're focusing on for the future. We haven't just launched it and wiped our hands of it, et cetera. Next slide, please. Thank you. But there are definitely some challenges when it comes to creating something like this. Ethereum.org
00:16:15.086 - 00:17:31.880, Speaker C: is in this very sort of unique spot where we want to be as sort of agnostic as possible. There's a lot of amazing work that's done in this space, and it's very much a constant battle with a project like this in terms of how much you should speak about certain projects over other projects, because there's also this desire to provide the best experience to the reader or to the user at the end of the day. And there are projects that are better funded and better have more people actively working on them. But there's a real balance that we have to strike in terms of being opinionated versus agnostic in that sense. I just mentioned it, but I think community engagement is a massive challenge working out ways to incentivize the community to contribute to this effort. I think everyone could admit that they would love a really robust set of resources like Mdn when they start out. And I think we need to figure out ways to make sure that people are sort of incentivized to help out with this effort and to get involved as much as possible.
00:17:31.880 - 00:18:39.018, Speaker C: And finally, I think this is a peril in general with open source technology, but like, making sure that the information that we do put out there is accurate and is helpful and trying to encourage as many people, many as experts that are out there as possible to help us ensure that the information that we're supplying is accurate. And we have a QR code there on the screen which should link to our discord. So if anyone out there who's watching this or listening to this right now has any thoughts or wants to get more involved, please do jump into our discord and let us know. Yeah, so I wanted to put this slide in not only because of my love of the film Field of Dreams, but I think this perfectly epitomizes our stance on this. We on the Ethereum.org team understand that we're a very small team. We have expertise in design and development.
00:18:39.018 - 00:19:49.110, Speaker C: But there's you guys out there hacking today and for the rest of the month that have the real expertise and knowledge when it comes to building with Ethereum. And we wanted to make sure that we built out a platform and the foundations for something that makes it very easy for you guys to come in and help us and help the rest of the community and really embody that sort of open source spirit and make sure that we take this in any direction that the community needs and that we realize that works best for the ethereum community. Because I've tried to stress this is very much a community initiative, open source. We want to help as many people start building with Ethereum as possible. So, yeah, I think the Field of Dreams energy works quite well. So if you are wondering how you might be able to help, I have noted it all down in this one handy slide. So take a photo if you're feeling generous.
00:19:49.110 - 00:20:54.730, Speaker C: I think the main ways that we are asking for help at the moment is generally around contributing content. If you have expertise on any of the topics that we spoke about, I mean, you might not have seen them all from the sort of quick demo that we gave, but pretty much any part of the Ethereum development stack or the background of Ethereum technology, we need content for. The content can always be improved and tweaked. So if you have expert knowledge on any of those or a desire to sort of get involved and start writing content on any of those topics, let us know. As Sam showed you, there's like a bunch of tutorials. So maybe consider instead of considering popping something on Medium or Hacker Noon or whatever like we're now accepting submissions of tutorials on Ethereum.org, we will be getting them translated as and when our sort of translation cycle happens.
00:20:54.730 - 00:21:52.330, Speaker C: But it's a really good place to sort of get your content out there. We're not just open source in the terms of the content on the site. We welcome ideas on the design, the UX. If you have any insight in terms of research, if you have any insights about how Ethereum developers learn or anything, send us your ideas and we can work together to improve this platform and make it a better way for new devs to enter the space. Again, one of the challenges we have is the checking of information. So any reviews of content on the site or of open PRS is massive for us. Everyone that contributes to a page is credited on that page within these developer resources.
00:21:52.330 - 00:22:37.980, Speaker C: And we're working on ways to properly credit people and incentivize more feedback. So we definitely would be very grateful. And we're working on ways to make that a better experience for everyone. And finally send it to your friend. If you've got people that are interested in building with Ethereum, if you've got friends who are already building with Ethereum but have never been to Ethereum.org, I think it'd be amazing if you could send them our way and give us any feedback that they have. This is the way that we can learn and improve and make this the best possible platform for developers that we possibly can.
00:22:37.980 - 00:23:08.610, Speaker C: So, yeah, that's a really quick overview of the last two or three months of our lives. And also the new developer portal on Ethereum.org. Again. There's the QR code. If you have any questions or thoughts or ideas like, yeah, jump in and let's chat about it. We're also obviously in the ETH Online discord. There's our handles.
00:23:08.610 - 00:23:26.860, Speaker C: We'll be around for the entire hackathon. So if you have checked it out and there's any information that you're after that we're missing, let us know and we can try and make that happen. But yeah, other than that, thank you for having us. And if there's time for any questions, we'll happily answer them.
00:23:29.550 - 00:23:55.920, Speaker A: Thank you so much, Sam and Ryan. This is great. So we have a couple of questions coming in. The first one is just in general, how do you collect feedback for what should go on the dev portal? Are you kind of waiting for people to email you about things that they would like to see? Or is it just entirely relying on the community? Is there a wish list that people can kind of point to where they can just get really cool and really updated documentation and how do you think about that?
00:23:57.770 - 00:24:00.440, Speaker C: Yeah, Sam, do you want to go?
00:24:01.290 - 00:24:21.702, Speaker B: I was just going to say, yeah. I think it's a mix of reactive and proactive feedback gathering. I mean, like I said, the repo is on GitHub. That's typically been our best way. We also have an ethereum.org Twitter handle. We've opened up our public discord where people can come in and drop comments.
00:24:21.702 - 00:25:07.354, Speaker B: What we're really trying to do is just meet you where you guys are. We're in a lot of the discord channels, whether that's like crypto, devs or ETH online. So yeah, feel free to contact us in whatever way is easiest. We're also doing recurring what we call tiger teams of groups of developers in the space who have established themselves, know the landscape to regularly help us audit the site and kind of improve it from their perspective. So I think it's a mix of getting that beginner's mindset and that usability feedback as well as the pros who are just like, hey, this is structured wrong or what have you got it?
00:25:07.472 - 00:25:13.600, Speaker A: And is there anything that's next on the roadmap for Ethereum.org that you are able to share?
00:25:17.090 - 00:25:58.374, Speaker B: We got a lot of ideas, that's for sure. I mean, I'd say in short, we'd love to hear back from you guys. I think Ryan dropped some teasers on the web. Three stuff. I think that's where we take it to the next level, right? We went from a list of links to external sites to now we have native content and resources similar to Mozilla. Now, can we make it Ethereum native and give people a gamified learning experience? Can we issue NFTs for people who are contributing? We'd love to hear ideas and yeah, if projects are kind of helping building those tools, we'd also love to talk to you. Ultimately, we want Ethereum.org
00:25:58.374 - 00:26:08.560, Speaker B: to be a sandbox, to be dog fooding, our own technology. So I think that's what we're most excited about in the months and year to come on this.
00:26:10.770 - 00:26:26.094, Speaker A: Awesome. And the last question that I have is I understand that both of you are also hacking at the event. So curious to hear what you are planning on working for the next three weeks for this hackathon or the million.
00:26:26.152 - 00:27:06.080, Speaker C: Dollar question or however much the prize money is. I can't remember. We've got a few ideas of stuff that we want to be working on. It's all based on sort of Ethereum education very tightly related to the developer portal project that we've just demoed. So we're hoping that whatever we do come up with will be a very good addition to what's already there. But yeah, again, we're more than happy to have community feedback feed into that as well. So let us know on all the channels that we've mentioned.
00:27:07.650 - 00:27:21.060, Speaker A: That sounds great. So for all the hackers that are listening in, make sure to really bug Sam and Ryan with every request you have about any tutorial you can get so we can have that up on Ethereum.org for everybody else to also benefit from.
