00:00:00.320 - 00:01:22.224, Speaker A: Well, good afternoon. Can everyone, can everyone hear me? Well, all right, we're talking about two very important things. We're talking about what's called k theory. And the story that Professor Kadison told that I read out last time shows that it explains how case theory arose in the early 1930s in discussions between, between von Neumann and other people, student and postdocs, a student and a postdoc. And they were talking about item potent elements of a ring unit or ring. It's a star ring that has adjoint. If it has a star operation, then they're called projections.
00:01:22.224 - 00:02:47.986, Speaker A: If they're selfie joint, they're selfie joint, they're called projection. But Groten Dig noticed who wasn't around then, but he was around soon later. And he worked on operator algebras and other aspects of functional analysis before he went into algebraic geometry. And the, and one of the things that he did, one of the very notable things that he did, he was considered to have revolutionized field of algebra, brachiometry, and also introduced important ideas earlier into functional analysis. But the idea that he put work in, in algebraic geometry is basically to look at idempotence in the ring and look at the Murray von Neumann equivalence relation between them and the addition relation. And then the fact that these are equivalent Murray phenomena, equivalents of idempotence, is compatible with addition when they're two orthogonal. Some are not important.
00:02:47.986 - 00:04:42.232, Speaker A: So you get a, you get a semigroup that way, and semigroup or monoid, because there's a zero element. And then if you turn that into a group, if you embed that in a group, the way the natural numbers get counting numbers get embedded in integers. And that's a special case. The case of a field is exactly that case. The projections in the idempotence and matrix algebra is over fixed field determine upper similarity by a natural number, the dimension of the subspace they define acting on multiplication, on the algebra, talking about matrices acting on the finite dimensional vector space, then the equivalence classes of, of idempotence with addition. When sum is a projection, some is an item potent that forms a billion semi group, and you from that, which is just the, it's the natural numbers, right? Because two, two finite dimensional vector spaces are isomorphic, only have to have the same dimension and isomorphism of the, you have these projections, these idempotent operators on finite dimensional vector space. And if you look at the range, then two of them are going to be, in fact, they're going to be similar, not just morphine and equivalent, but similar.
00:04:42.232 - 00:06:02.462, Speaker A: If they're if and only if their images or the ranges have the same dimension. The, and if you take the sum of two orthogonal sufficiently orthogonal ion potents, if the range subspaces are independent, then the range of the sum is direct sum. This is the sum of the ranges, the sum of two independent subspaces. The dimension is the sum of the dimensions. So your natural number is, you have a semigroup which is in one to one correspondence. With this reason I'm not going through it in detail right now, is that it's in the book, for one thing, but I don't want to emphasize it right away because it's quite computational. It's quite the fact that if you have the fact that the addition of orthogonal item potence and equivalence is that these are compatible, you have to work, right? Whereas for the definition for modules, which is equivalent is very simple.
00:06:02.462 - 00:08:21.084, Speaker A: In fact, it goes far beyond, not only does it go beyond the modules which are pertinent for k theory, finding k zero, but you can consider an arbitrary class of objects. Suppose you have, this is recapping in a slightly more streamlined way, something I, something I was doing earlier. So if you have, suppose you have a class of objects and the notion of isomorphism, okay, so they might be, they might be groups, they might be, might be modules, might be just about anything where you can take the sum. So x plus y makes sense, okay, so x plus y makes sense. And in the case of subspace, in the case of finitely generated vector spaces over a field, which is what you do for computing k zero over a field, computer over field, and you look at finitely generated vector spaces and you look at direct sum and isomorphism and you show that the direct sum is compatible with isomorphism. But that's very easy, okay, and so first of all, so we want, we want this, we want addition to be compatible with isomorphism. We have an addition of x sum for vector spaces or modules, and this should be compatible with isomorphism.
00:08:21.084 - 00:10:00.190, Speaker A: And, well, so that means that the isomorphism classes, you can add the isomorphism classes, right? And it means that if you want to add isomorphism classes, you choose, you have two of them, you add representative, you look at representatives and you add those and it's going to be independent of the representatives, okay? And for, in general, we're just assuming that, and if it's modules and taking direct sum, then it's a very easy exercise, right? Okay. And so, and also we want x plus. So that's one thing we want, and we want x plus y is isomorphic to y plus x. Okay, if you interchange the order of addition, then that you get isomorphic objects. This is two for, for vector spaces, two for modules, right? Take the direct sum of two modules. Doesn't matter which order, the definition is ordered pairs, ordered pairs. You can't just reverse the ordered pair and get the same thing, but you get something that's called isomorphism, isomorphism between these modules, if it's module.
00:10:00.190 - 00:10:48.594, Speaker A: So this is an axiom now, and also you assume that first, what this does is make the semi group. Well, it's not a semigroup yet, but it makes the addition abelian, so it makes sense to. So the plus sign was a good notation. Okay, a priori, you don't know it's a billion, just an operation, binary operation, and it's compatible with isomorphism. And then what you assume is that. But the isomorphism classes, when you add them this way, add to Boolean. So operation on isomorphism processes of billion, that's what this is.
00:10:48.594 - 00:11:43.304, Speaker A: And the third axiom is that we want the operation to be associative, right? We want to get a semigroup, semigoup. You have an operation, binary operation doesn't necessarily a billion in general, because you don't have that semi group. It's not necessarily a billion, but this one is going to be. But it definitely should be associative, right? And so we want to take x. But if you take, if you first add x and y, and then you add Zed, this should be isomorphic to what happens when you take x first and then y plus z separately, together, sort of separate from x but together. Okay, so if this says the isomorphism classes are associated. Right.
00:11:43.304 - 00:13:11.476, Speaker A: Now, by the way, I'm doing this for a reason, okay? Because there's a very interesting example, which is not just modules. It's the case of what's called topological k theory, which was, it's a special case of sister algebra, k theory, k theory. It was introduced after Grotendijk by Tia and Herzeburg. So the history of case theory that started with Maureen von Neumann was adapted by Grotendijk, applied algebraically, and then it was adapted to topology by Tia and Herzebruch, which was already a special case of operator algebra's. But they had, but they were studying sister algebras, if you like, not when I'm in algebra looking at community algebra. But then some people, after people noticed that it started, it would work for arbitrary sister output, which is sort of almost full circle, okay? But because the work of Murray was obviously worked for arbitrary algebras of operators. Okay, so, but the axiom four is a zero.
00:13:11.476 - 00:13:57.684, Speaker A: Okay, so zero plus x is isomorphic to x. That means the semigroup has a zero. What's called a monoid. Monoid has a neutral element. It's a semigroup with a neutral element. And by the way, anytime anyone has a question, just raise your hand. Is there someone, where's reshib we all, okay, but, so it'd be nice, but we don't have any assumes we don't have anyone at the moment, no one recognizable online.
00:13:57.684 - 00:15:01.498, Speaker A: Okay, well, this is just like the old days where you, what you see is what you get. Okay. And there's another thing. Yesterday there was an announcement for a seminar in the math department. Well, it was the annual, always held number series seminar. But one of the things mentioned in the announcement was we're not planning to have an online component that we prefer to have to just work with people that are present and in physical proximity. Okay, so this is the first, first three properties.
00:15:01.498 - 00:15:55.968, Speaker A: Say that we get a semigroup, okay? And then if you throw in, throw in axiom four, it's what's called a monoid. And that's might be important because the zero element for a semigroup may have a zero element, but it's not necessarily unique. And so a homomorphism between two semi groups. Well, no, the neutral element will be unique if it exists. Still, the homomorphism between two semi groups may not take the neutral element into a neutral element. It will take it into an element which is neutral for the image. Okay, but that's not the same thing if it's not sur duct.
00:15:55.968 - 00:17:28.998, Speaker A: So where if it's a group, then it's an exercise in groups that the neutral element has to go into the neutral element just if it preserves the group operation. Okay, so, and we want to, we want to consider k zero as a functor. Well, this is not, this is much more general in k zero, but the, this semigroup will be a functor. Right, but we want the zero element. Well, we want the, if we have a, well, this is quite this, we don't have a, we don't have the category. So here the field is a special case of a ring, and the modules are modules over a ring, so we don't quite have, and then the k zero would be a functor from rings to, to groups. Okay, building groups and the, but if it's, in the first instance, we don't have the groups, we have semigroups.
00:17:28.998 - 00:20:46.772, Speaker A: And we'd like to know that the homomorphism between the rings, then the corresponding semigroups, the map between them takes the zero element to the zero element. So you should think of it as a monoid where the zero element is actually emphasized, okay? But the special case of algebraic, the algebraic setting that with rings that Van Dyne and Groton looked at, that's, that's taken care of by this, where the, and it's easiest to look at in terms of modules, okay? Because the idempotents are really quite technical point of view. And therefore, even from a conceptual point of view, it's slightly intricate. It could be even confusing, okay? So, but then it's a, it's an exercise. If we look at modules over rings and the modules are the ones which one looks at in K theory, finitely generated and projective, which means direct summon, the referee module, pre module being a direct sum of copies of the ring, considered as a module, left module over itself, okay? Modules over rings, this is, this is equivalent to looking at the group that you get and the associated semigroup and the group, associated group, associated semi group and group. That's equivalent to looking at item poems, okay? Not just in the ring with item poems in matrix algebra, but to turn these into a, to turn these into a semi group and therefore into a group, you have to work, okay? And that's the kind of thing I'm going to suggest we do it at home and look at the book, okay? And whereas the modules, modules, then it's easy to see these axioms hold, right? And if the axioms hold for the class of objects, then you turn the isomorphism classes. So the notion of isomorphism, so there, then the isomorphism classes turn into a semigroup monoid.
00:20:46.772 - 00:21:58.016, Speaker A: And in fact, you get a group. You take the enveloping group, every semi group. So that's another exercise of what is the, what's called the universal enveloping group of the semi group. It's a good exercise. That's what the K zero group is you construct for particular class of objects, namely the easiest to say, you look at the finitely generated projector module over the ring, okay? But now, so this is fun. I think it's always fun. And it's enlightening, beneficial to pare down the situation.
00:21:58.016 - 00:22:30.066, Speaker A: So it's as abstract as possible. Okay? So some people complain about mathematics, saying it's too abstract. But in fact, abstraction, the power of abstraction is what makes the world go around. And it's mainly in mathematics. You could say it the other way. If it's, if it's abstract, then it's mathematics. Don't quote me on that.
00:22:30.066 - 00:24:27.794, Speaker A: I'm not quite, I'm still working on that. But is the microphone catching? Can everyone, if it's necessary. I don't know if it's necessary, but I hope everyone can hear me and it's not too soft or too low. Okay, so I'm, one of the things I'm working up to is the attia, as I, the work of Attia, inherit the book to well known mathematicians of the 20th century. Atea, it will make Tia definitely just passed away a few years ago, hereto book somewhat before that, but I guess into the 21st century. All right, well, when they were looking at topological spaces, right, like compact topological spaces, make it housed or if you want, and they were wanting to get a group, right, I mean, they were talking about topological k theory, and they wanted to take what Groten Dieck did for algebraic varieties and do it for topological spaces. Now, you could say they, you could say they should have just taken the commutative Easter algebra continuous functions on the compact space can usa complex valued functions and then look at the, at the modules and find, look at isomorphic modules adding modules and showing that, noticing that isomorphism is compatible with addition and getting a group that way.
00:24:27.794 - 00:25:18.024, Speaker A: But what they did is something doesn't fit into modules directly at all. Okay? And in fact, it takes the serous, what's called the sers one, to turn it into module. It's not quite trivial, but so what did are some people familiar with the work of Atia and Herzegovoek? It's called topological k theory. Well, you might have run across heard of it, but I guess everyone has heard of a vector bundle. Okay? Vector bundle over topological space. If the topological space is a single point, then a vector bundle is a single vector space. Usually you take the fibers, what are called the fibers.
00:25:18.024 - 00:26:16.006, Speaker A: The vector space is associated to the individual points of the space. You take the fibers, you assume the fibers are finite dimensional. Okay? So there's a notion of vector bundle. I won't say exactly what all the axioms are at the moment, but it's a, it's a family of finite dimensional vector spaces, parameterized, if you like, by topological space, labeled by a point in the topological space. And so if you have two, just like vector spaces over, just like models, bundles over a point have two vector spaces. You can take the drag sun, or if you have two, you have two vector bundles, you can take the sum, and this is another bundle over the same face space. Okay, so that's, those are objects.
00:26:16.006 - 00:26:51.500, Speaker A: They're not modules. They're not modules anymore. These vector bundles are not modules. They can be associated to modules. Like even, that's the Saraswan theorem. The vector spaces are, sorry, vector, vector bundles and modules of that kind over the ring of continuous functions, they're the same, they behave in the same way. Okay, but that's not to route that Tia and Herzebrook took.
00:26:51.500 - 00:28:00.694, Speaker A: They just said, look at vector bundles. And so, but they come under this class of objects, right? You can take a direct sum of two vector bundles. You just add the vector spaces for each point. You have the vector, you have the fiber for one, what's called the fiber for one of the two bundles, and you have the fiber for the other of the two bundles, you just add them, okay? Just like for a single point, you take the direct sum, and that gives you, if you're ingenious enough to put a, I mean, so the family of this family of vector spaces is, you can take what's called the total space, you can just take the disjoint union of all these fibers. Like if you have r squared and you think of the y axis as a fiber over zero, and then translating the y axis, giving you fibers over every point. This is an example of a trivial vector bundle over the real line, which is not compact. It doesn't matter locally compact.
00:28:00.694 - 00:29:00.434, Speaker A: And, well, if you look at the total space, then that's r squared, okay? And that has a topology. And the, so, okay, so that's vector bundles. You can add them, and that's compatible with isomorphism. Of course, you have to say what the structure is. Well, it's pretty simple. It's just the combinatorial parameterization of the fibers by the, by the base space, and then the fact that there's a topology and who wants some compatibility? But you want there to be enough, you want there to be lots of continuous functions from the base space to the whole. Let's call the total space.
00:29:00.434 - 00:30:23.274, Speaker A: Okay? This could be an exercise to work out, or even if you want to include the Saraswan term, it could even be an essay topic. How is the Herzegov theory in terms of vector bundles? How do you get, how is their definition of k zero that way? How does it compare with the k zero over the sea star algebra of continuous functions on the space? But the, but anyway, that's, this applies that these axioms hold for the vector bundles. And then, so you get a semigroup, abelian semigroup in the group, and they called it k zero. If they talk about equal space, it's a functor. It was because if you go between the space and the algebra functions on it, the arrows go in the opposite direction. It's a contravariant function for rings going from rings to groups. It's a covariant function.
00:30:23.274 - 00:31:26.096, Speaker A: Actually, the easiest way to see that is just to use the definition in terms of idempotence. In terms of idempotence, if r is a ring and s is a ring, and you look at maps, you don't even in this case have to look at maps going from, to take the unit, taking the unit to the unit. Within this category of rings, look at unit o maps. But then, if you ever have an idempotent, this is a homomorphism deserves a addition in multiplication. Then if e squared, if e, if e is an item potent, so e is equal to e squared inside the first ring, then. Well, then if you look at phi of e, you don't, we're not even using addition that the map is added to, just that. It preserves products.
00:31:26.096 - 00:31:57.596, Speaker A: So phi of e squared will be equal to phi of phi of e. Quantity squared will be equal to phi of e squared, which is phi of e. Okay, so idempotent, go to idempotent. So it's the map between the rings gives you a map between the semi groups of iron pots. You have to check that it's compatible. Okay, that's the functional factorial nature. Now, in the way, in terms of modules, you can do it too.
00:31:57.596 - 00:32:32.054, Speaker A: So that's an exercise. Okay, I think that's a good exercise too. And it works. One nice thing about the module approach is it doesn't have anything to do necessarily with projective modules. You could look at arbitrary modules. I did forget to say an axiom five, that the isomorphism classes form a set. Okay? Which is important if you want to get a group or a semi group, because that semi group is supposed to be a set, not just class.
00:32:32.054 - 00:33:03.210, Speaker A: You start off with a class. Almost anything is a class. It's not a set. Like vector spaces are, are, for various reasons, even vector spaces of dimension one are not a set because just point sets with one element don't form a set. There are all kinds of sets that have single element. It's, I mean, there's no such thing. There's no such thing as a set of all sets.
00:33:03.210 - 00:33:38.206, Speaker A: The set of all set of all things doesn't. There's a simple reason why there's no such thing as the set of all sets. Is everyone familiar with that? That would say there's a larger set, right, well, yes, but it was. He was just explaining an earlier theorem. Okay, the theorem of Cantor. So the way you explain that there's no largest cardinal number. There's no.
00:33:38.206 - 00:34:10.690, Speaker A: If there's a larger set, then there's the largest cardinal number. But the reason that's not, that can't be true is a theorem of cantor. Now what? Is anyone. Is anyone aware of this? How many people are aware of this theorem? Yes. What is it? Okay, well, that's a very good first answer. Okay. Because the final answer is this is a special case of what you need to say in the final answer.
00:34:10.690 - 00:34:31.139, Speaker A: Yes. Another suggestion. Yeah. Okay. And that's what you said. What's your name? Sorry? Lawrence. Okay, well, this is the second time you've given me your name.
00:34:31.139 - 00:35:01.870, Speaker A: Okay, thank you. Maybe people should keep track of it and see how many times I have to ask. And what was your name? Abu Sabe. Okay, I'm sorry. Not very good with names at all. How do you spell it? S a. Okay, so said that.
00:35:01.870 - 00:35:16.354, Speaker A: Good. Thank you. If you don't, you don't mind, I'll just make a note of it. Okay. All right. And. All right.
00:35:16.354 - 00:36:34.396, Speaker A: Okay, so. And don't forget. So Larry, the reason, what you said is a special case is that if you look at real numbers, then that's to be thought of as if you think of them in terms of zero one expansion. And it's like functions from the natural numbers into this zero one set, right? So it's, and that's how you define the cardinal number two to the l of zero. Okay, two to the power l zero. And that, but then the theorem you stated says that that's strictly, a strictly larger cardinal number then than the cardinal number l zero. Okay, the power, the power gives you a larger, if what you're taking the power of is not equal to one, the power, this gives you a strictly larger number than the exponential.
00:36:34.396 - 00:37:03.170, Speaker A: But then instead of putting l zero, you put what's supposed to be the largest cardinal. Then you get two to the largest cardinal is strictly bigger than the largest cardinal. And that's the Russell paradox, if you like. That's what Russell translated into non mathematical terms. Okay. And that's a good exercise, actually, whenever I read his, this story, I get a bit mixed up. Okay.
00:37:03.170 - 00:37:46.714, Speaker A: Whereas the mathematical approach is clearer, as clear as a bell. Okay, all right. But, so the isomorphism classes should form a set. And there's a good exercise that if the, if we're looking at finitely generated productive modules, then if that's the class of objects, then the isomorphism classes form a set. Okay, that's a good exercise. Mark it on your calendar. Okay.
00:37:46.714 - 00:39:07.574, Speaker A: All right. And I think that people should take seriously my suggestion to look at the Sayer Swan theorem as a possible, as a possible essay project or extended exercise, if you like. You might have other ideas for essay. Okay, so what does the Saraswan term say? On one hand, you look at vector bundles. Now, if you say a vector bundle, you don't just mean an arbitrary, continuously parameterized family of finite dimensional vector spaces. In some sense, you want it to be what's called locally trivial. So you have to look up the technical definition of vector bundle.
00:39:07.574 - 00:40:17.228, Speaker A: It's quite simple. The vector bundles on the one hand, and on the other hand, you have modules. On the other hand, you have modules, okay? Modules over electro bundles over X. X is maybe a compact space and modules over over X. And we want. Well, if it's arbitrary modules, no one says you got a vector module, okay? If it's a vector bundle, you get a special kind of module. A certain construction gives you a special kind of module, and it's, it's a finitely generated projected module.
00:40:17.228 - 00:40:41.864, Speaker A: Lo and behold. Oh, I'm sorry. Over Cx, X is not a ring. You can't have a module over X. Really. You have a vector bundle over X. But in this algebraic setting, you look at the algebra of continuous functions on x.
00:40:41.864 - 00:41:08.092, Speaker A: Continuous, say complex valued functions. That's what one usually does. They're not necessarily complex. Okay, so. And so these are. So it's very, it's very easy to go from a vector bundle to a module. Okay, maybe I'll.
00:41:08.092 - 00:41:43.164, Speaker A: In a short few moments, I'll give a. I'll say something in that direction. Someone else might want to say something. Anyone have any suggestion? If you have a vector bundle, so you have a space, and you have a whole bunch of fibers, which are vector spaces. So how do you get the. Well, so you get continuous functions on the base space. Let's suppose it's just the interval zero, one.
00:41:43.164 - 00:42:30.944, Speaker A: And so how do you get a module over continuous functions on the, on the base space? Well, that's, that's a conceptual exercise. Right, conceptual. But then the computational. One more getting into the nitty gritty is to prove that that module you construct. Is it clear? I can not everyone can see this. Sorry. Okay, so the proving that it's finitely generated and projected, well, that's.
00:42:30.944 - 00:42:58.664, Speaker A: That's half of the exercise. And then the other half of the. That's half of the Saraswan theorem, a certain construction gives you. The construction is maybe ingenious. But the fact that it gives you the module is not that kind of obvious. Because what you want to get finite regenerated and projected. Okay? And then conversely, if you have a module which is finite regenerated, projected, which means um.
00:42:58.664 - 00:43:40.994, Speaker A: A direct sum and projective means of direct summon. The, of a direct sum and of a direct sum of copies of a free module. Three sum, three. And three is equal to three over r. Or the ring is r plus r plus. And so on some copies. Let's address some of some number of copies of r.
00:43:40.994 - 00:44:09.964, Speaker A: Okay? So that's um. That's Saraswan, which is, um. It's. It's a good exercise in the construction of k zero. I think in terms of modulus. Because it. There's nothing technical in the construction.
00:44:09.964 - 00:44:51.374, Speaker A: You start with vector bundles. You get a group. But if you have to prove that they're finitely generated projected modules, then you have to work. So that's why in this so called abstract approach up to now, the previous Wednesday, Monday, last Friday, I was talking about modules, direct sums of modules. But in fact anytime you have some type situation which is compatible with isomorphisms. Then you get this nice semigroup which. Now you might.
00:44:51.374 - 00:45:19.336, Speaker A: Now a priori might say, what's the application of this? And if it hadn't been for Thea and Herzebruch, I wouldn't have dared to indulge in this axiomatic. Okay. However much, however enjoyable it was. Well, I might have said you can do something like that as an exercise if you want. It's still an exercise, I guess. Check the details to work through it. I would recommend it.
00:45:19.336 - 00:45:45.812, Speaker A: I would recommend it. Um. Okay, so, um. I'm sorry. This last bracket should include five. Well, they all should include five, I guess. Well, this is more prism classes form a set that should be number four.
00:45:45.812 - 00:46:12.686, Speaker A: And then, and then one to four give you a semigroup. And then you add the zero element. Distinguish zero element. I mean, the fact that you keep your finger on it. Now, it's true. It's true that if you have a zero element of a semi group, it's unique. But it's not necessarily preserved by homomorphism.
00:46:12.686 - 00:47:15.274, Speaker A: So that's what a monoid does, a monoid homomorphism. The monoid is just the same as a semi group, except it does have a zero unique, zero unique neutral element. But the semigroup homomorphism just preserves the operation. Whereas monoid homomorphism by definition preserves to zero, which you may want. Maybe it's not important for us, because when you pass to the enveloping group, even just a semi group homomorphism, forget about zeros, it will give you a homomorphism between the groups, and that will automatically take zero into zero because they're groups. All right, any questions? Yeah, sorry. Oh, not being preserved by a homomorphism.
00:47:15.274 - 00:48:12.980, Speaker A: Well, sure. If you take a simple semigroup, in fact, just take the semigroup with the, start with the element, just a single element zero. Okay. Then if you'd have a homomorphism from that into itself, then of course it has to take the zero into the zero because that's all there is. But suppose that, suppose that you take this semi group, which consists of zero, and you add a new zero. Okay, well, then the previous zero, the earlier zero, the previous zero is not a zero for the whole thing anymore. Okay? And now here's a map from this two element semi group into itself.
00:48:12.980 - 00:48:53.984, Speaker A: You take everything into the original zero. Okay, then, but this will be a semi group homomorphism in a trivial way. But the, the actual zero will not go into the actual zero. It will go into the old zero, which isn't, the zero isn't a zero anymore for the whole thing. So this is what happens when the map is not surjective, right. It's mapping the two elements into the one single element which is different from the whole. Okay, that's, maybe, that's the simplest example.
00:48:53.984 - 00:49:38.278, Speaker A: Any, any more questions? Of course, we may have a few minutes to talk afterwards too. I mean, and if other people are, doesn't look as if people are coming in very fast. But anyway, I'll be, if someone wants to ask to discuss some point in the hallway, that's fine, too. Okay, so. Oh, I was going to, I bought some other books. This Garret K. Peterson analysis.
00:49:38.278 - 00:50:22.368, Speaker A: Now. Okay, that's my textbook for the first half of this course, if you like, usually is given in the fall, and this half is given in the spring. So if you want to do a makeup term, then you can look at this book. Of course I'm joking, because we don't, the important things in this book which are most pertinent to this course will be repeated to the extent they're needed. We'll be talking about if someone, if someone hasn't taken this course. 743-6436 okay, another book. Here's the book by boredom.
00:50:22.368 - 00:51:03.012, Speaker A: Maybe some, maybe some people have it online, but it's good to have, I like to have a coffee. This is a hard copy. When I ordered the, when I ordered them, one year by mistake, they sent hard coffee and why was that a mistake? Well, they didn't charge me for hard copy. Maybe they had run out of this offense. Okay, well, then there's the grandfather book on case theory of operator algebra by Bruce Blackadore. Case theory for operator algebra. So I'm saying, in this, for this course, I'm saying case theory and operator algebra, because it's two emphasizing, it's two independent things.
00:51:03.012 - 00:51:55.074, Speaker A: The k theory is based on the operator. Historically, it's based on the operator algebra, I think I would say. And the operator algebras are to a large extent based on k theory. I'm jumping up and down about k theory as a functor, k zero as a functor. But that's what you need to classify operator algorithm in terms of that. You can't just parameterize the isomorphism classes in general, in some, in some very, extremely well, upright cases, well behaved cases, you could parameterize not just the algebras in your class, but the isomorphism classes by the, by the well behaved parameter, for instance, an interval in the line or a cantor set. Okay, but usually you can't.
00:51:55.074 - 00:52:43.804, Speaker A: But nevertheless, for when you can't, there's always a functor, a k zero functor, and you can hope to prove, and in many, many cases you can, that if the algebras, if you want the algebra to be isomorphic, then of course it's necessary for the k zero group to be isomorphic. Now the equal equals doesn't make sense, but isomorphism to k zero group, yes, but then if you're lucky, then that implies the algebra isomorphic. And that's how I got a job. Okay. All right, so maybe that's if, we will have people coming in. Please feel free to ask questions.
