00:00:02.120 - 00:00:49.327, Speaker A: So earlier this month I tweeted that Blast will be the most hated rally and I will be insufferable when it happens. The responses were all over the place, including to move on. Also my favorite insane level of cope here, but at the end of the day I still stand by what I said. Especially with the newest announcements around the Big Bang competition, the path forward to cultivating a mobile first ecosystem has never been more clear to me. So let's break it down. Hey everyone, it's Jen. And if you've been following my content, you know that nothing I say is financial advice.
00:00:49.327 - 00:01:47.001, Speaker A: I am not a financial advisor. You also know that I've been covering the blast ecosystem since testnet days and even joined the BlastPro progress council for Token Holder Governance in July. So I don't think it's any secret that I am insanely bullish on blast. And it's one of the three main ecosystems I'm focusing on as I'm trying to document my journey and understanding where we are in the consumer crypto narrative. For me, it's really simple. The bet on Blast is a bet that the future of consumer crypto is going to be mobile and the latest changes to to the last Big Bang competition reaffirms this. Unlike the first Big Bang, which was really more of a buildathon to bootstrap the ecosystem, this Big Bang is actually putting an emphasis on mobile and is more structured like an accelerator with a $250,000 cash investment into each team that is accepted into the cohort.
00:01:47.001 - 00:03:36.147, Speaker A: The deadline for applications is on September 30th with the winning teams being announced on October 11th. From there it's a 10 week boot camp where teams will work one on one with the Blast foundation to help them get their first users pre launch design, viral, go to market campaigns, incentive designs, fundraising pitches, and guidance on security and legal. The boot Camp is set to conclude December 20, 2024 and once these winners launch they'll receive 1 million blast gold, be included in a multiplier and have co marketing support for from blast. This Big Bang competition is open to any project that wants to build on Blast or is already on Blast and the program is really designed for those projects in that like early stage of their life cycle. And what's great is projects that participated in the previous Big Bang can also apply as well, but it should be noted that teams at an earlier stage with novel products and and use cases are going to be prioritized in terms of specific categories that the Blast foundation is looking for. It looks like it is an open field, so whether it is a culture or community, coin defi or consumer app, it really doesn't matter. It's just that the main focus for this big Bang is building something that is compelling and is mobile first on blast for the $250,000 in funding, there are two investment tracks for companies that haven't raised before, Blast will Invest at a 15 million post money valuation and for those who don't know, post money valuation is basically the estimated value of the company after this new round of capital injection comes from VCs or angel investors or accelerators.
00:03:36.147 - 00:04:39.693, Speaker A: So that's the investment track for companies that haven't raised before. That is we can expect that the winners will be valued at 15 million if they haven't raised. The second investment track is for companies that have raised or are currently raising. This track will follow the same terms as the last round of fundraising or the current fundraising terms. I'm thinking given the timeline of the boot camp that the Blast wallet and app update will be closer to the end of quarter four and we will be going into 2025 with a concrete view of what a mobile first crypto native ecosystem looks like. The way this big bang is structured, it seems like a perfect way to cultiv really strong mobile first apps and I'm really excited to see who gets announced as a part of the cohort in October. It is just so awesome to see that Blast is making these adjustments to invest in the app layer of the ecosystem and to give this type of support to first time founders or newer teams that are actually building meaningful products in this space.
00:04:39.693 - 00:05:06.975, Speaker A: More often than not teams have a difficult time fundraising or they have a hard time like kind of building connections within any ecosystem. So I think this is going to be really designed to 1 bring developers together, but 2 to like bring a spotlight to folks that may not get it otherwise. So I'm hyped on that. Anyways, that's it for this one. Until the next one. Bearish or bullish. Keep building, keep farming and keep learning.
