00:00:00.090 - 00:00:28.342, Speaker A: But the penetration of crypto is still very small. And so we have to think about where's the next 50% of users, 80% of users come from. The wallet experiences and speed and cost is going to be a huge factor. And Salana has a real competitive advantage from that perspective. Ethereum companies actually have to raise more money to build a similar quality experience than Salana companies have to. And I think over time, company by company and cycle by cycle, those differences are going to start to show up.
00:00:28.396 - 00:01:03.150, Speaker B: This episode is brought to you by Das London Blockworks, number one institutional crypto conference, where all the top institutions and people in crypto are going to be this march in London, what's becoming maybe the crypto hub of the world. Have a link in the show notes where you can learn more and also discount code that will get you 20% off. So click the link, find out more and I'll see you there. What's up, everybody? Welcome to another episode of Lightspeed. Today we are joined by Joel Monegro, who's the co founder of Placeholder, where he works with Chris Berniski. And before that he was working at Union Square Ventures, helping lead their crypto investment effort. Joel, welcome to the show.
00:01:03.300 - 00:01:06.062, Speaker A: Thanks for having me, Garrett, and pleasure to be with you guys.
00:01:06.116 - 00:01:40.314, Speaker B: Yeah, pumped to have you on. You are an absolute crypto og. Some of the articles that you've written in the past, I feel like, are actually like crypto canon at this .1 of those being the fat protocol thesis that I do want get into later, just to see how that's evolved in your head over time. But before we get there, I want to talk about your most recent article, which is called Ethereum and Solana, that came out this month. I want to get into just what that paper is about, but before we do so, I want to talk about the impetus of why you wrote that in the first place. I know you and Chris have been pretty vocal about the Solana ecosystem, probably for the last year or so, but I'm curious, when you seriously started looking into Solana, what got your attention and kind of led to you writing that article?
00:01:40.482 - 00:02:27.226, Speaker A: So we actually got interested in Salana back in 2018, actually shortly after the white paper came out. And I remember a being very impressed by the quality of the founding engineers, in particular coming from Qualcomm. At the time, crypto was still, first of all, we didn't call it crypto, it was blockchains. And at the time, it was still very much cyberpunky. And there weren't a lot of people who were coming from established industries and established companies, really dedicating their careers to it. And so that was notable. But then the approach to consensus really stood out relative to what we had known up until that point, particularly proof of work and so on.
00:02:27.226 - 00:03:26.606, Speaker A: And so that's when it piqued our interest. And so we'd been observing Solana for quite some time, and then we held off from investing in Solana until we wanted to see it really start to develop an independent community and an ecosystem. We were a little bit concerned about the personality of the ecosystem early on and the kinds of companies that were forming around it. But then, in the aftermath of the 2021 bull market, we had now spent a number of years following this network, and we were starting to meet more and more entrepreneurs who were building on it. And that's really the way that we develop conviction in layer one networks. It's how we built conviction in ETH in the same time frame. In the 2018 era, virtually every entrepreneur that we were meeting on the venture side of the house was building on top of Ethereum, and that's how we got to really understand the community.
00:03:26.606 - 00:04:30.500, Speaker A: Similarly, in Salana, we were starting to meet and spend time with more and more entrepreneurs who were choosing to build on Salana, and through our work with those companies, then we developed a conviction and started investing, really, in 2022. But as far as the article, the basic premise of it is that I saw a lot of similarities between how the philosophy of the Solana ecosystem operates, similar to how the iOS ecosystem operates, and Ethereum with Android. And it's a very loose analogy, and so it's not about getting lost in the details. And so you'll see people saying, no, Ethereum is more like BlackBerry. That doesn't matter. What really matters is, at least for me, is thinking about it. What does it look like from a developer's perspective? And that analogy came from remembering my time way back, say, in the mid two thousand s or late 2000s, when I was starting to.
00:04:30.500 - 00:05:49.658, Speaker A: Back then, I was an engineer, and I was working for some time on mobile apps. And for a long time, until today, it was actually much harder to build for Android, to a large degree, because you had to deal with a very decentralized ecosystem as far as different phone types from different manufacturers, different hardware specs, different screen sizes. And so to build for Android, you really had to spend a lot of time optimizing the application relative to building the application so that it would run on many different places. And by contrast, iOS was just very easy because Apple would give you an know. Later on, they came up with their own programming language with Swift, and you would just build with that SDK, and you had some pretty good guarantees that it would work across the ecosystem. And so all of the time that you would spend optimizing an application on the Android ecosystem, on the iOS platform, you could spend it making better apps. And we've started to see, or we started to see a very similar dynamic happening between or in the Salana ecosystem versus the Ethereum ecosystem, where Ethereum developers have to spend a lot of time optimizing for gas, dealing with various l two s, different l two s.
00:05:49.658 - 00:06:30.210, Speaker A: They might all run the EVM, but they might have slightly different versions or quirks. That means that the contracts don't necessarily work in a plug and play basis from one network to another. You then have to deal with the complexity of wallets. Not all the wallets support all of DL two s. And so when you're onboarding your users, you have to deal with that aspect of it. You have to deal with bridging, which I personally hate, and I don't know a lot of people who enjoy bridging. And so it's a lot of complexity now, there's a lot of value in that, because Ethereum gives you, as it becomes more of a network of networks and platform for l two s and so on, it allows you a lot of flexibility.
00:06:30.210 - 00:07:20.780, Speaker A: If you for some reason need to deploy your own l two, similar to how Android gives phone manufacturers a lot of flexibility and advantages, because they don't have to build their own operating system and they get to plug into a very vast ecosystem. But these are the trade offs that you're making. And so what we started to see with the Solana ecosystem is better quality applications, because you didn't have to spend all of those resources in optimization, and you could then spend them on user experience, on top of the fact that Solana is much faster and cheaper. And so all of these issues with user onboarding, with optimizing for cost and speed, et cetera, all of those go away. And the result is better apps. And so as we were starting to invest in what we thought were better apps, that analogy became very clear in my mind.
00:07:22.190 - 00:07:58.870, Speaker C: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. I have a few similar analogies that I like making on the bird app or x.com. One thing I'm interested in is, so I think what you're seeing makes a lot of sense. At the same time, probably most vcs, and especially people maybe who were early into crypto, wouldn't share your views, and I'm not too sure why they wouldn't, because I think it makes a lot of sense, but I'm pretty sure they wouldn't in some capacity. Have you gotten any pushback from this thesis and how you think about Solana and Ethereum?
00:08:01.370 - 00:08:44.514, Speaker A: I'm sure I have. I haven't checked all of the comments on now of the people who have reached out to me directly. It has actually been well received and with agreement. And so I would say that I haven't so much received pushback so much as nuances. And so people, for example, pointing out, well, you had the BlackBerry first. And I said, that's probably more like bitcoin in the timelines of it. But really, at least all the criticisms that I've seen get lost in the details and take the analogy too seriously as opposed to the broader concept of it.
00:08:44.514 - 00:09:30.690, Speaker A: And at least the people that have reached out to me, I think they have understood that part of the core message is that you don't have one platform that rules them all. As markets mature and consolidate, you end up with, in my estimation, three to five major ecosystems or platforms. And this isn't unique to crypto. This is actually just broadly what happens. And part of what I wrote in that article is that we actually need this variety and these trade offs for the industry to be successful. And so that's been most of the commentary that I have received. I know that there are people who will be complete ethereum diehards, or complete bitcoin diehards, or Solana diehards for that matter.
00:09:30.690 - 00:10:00.426, Speaker A: And I think it's different depending on what kind of role you have in the ecosystem. If you're a user, you're going to think about this differently. If you're a developer or an entrepreneur, you're going to think about it differently. And if you're an investor, you're going to think about it differently. And I think as an investor, it doesn't make sense to pledge tribal allegiance to any particular paradigm if you can see that both are going to grow and develop and serve different kinds of eco systems.
00:10:00.458 - 00:10:31.640, Speaker B: Joe, I'm curious, so you've been looking at Solana for a few years now. How do you feel about the ecosystem? Since really, I'm just going to say FTX is kind of that point in the sand of how do you feel before that and after? Because if you look at it from TVL, which a lot of the industry agrees is maybe not the best metric, but Solana doesn't look so great, right? Now. Right. But at least from my perspective, you look at the community, it feels really strong, and the applications that are there are actually more developed than they were before this bear market. But I'm curious to see just from your eyes how you think about it, because I know me and Mert have talked to some investors for a long time. They were staying away from Solana after the.
00:10:34.330 - 00:11:51.966, Speaker A: I mean, you know, to us, the FTX implosion was really a time of opportunity, and we got really active following that. We had been watching Salana for some time, and actually, FTX's involvement was part of what concerned us and Alameda more broadly, and that when we were looking at venture deals in that 2020 to 2021 time frame, the way those investments were being put together didn't sit right with us in terms of the economics of those deals, how they were being executed, how quickly the quality of the founders, or at least their motivations, didn't quite sit that well with us. And also, FDX felt like, it felt like FTX had a lot of power over the community, in the ecosystem, or a lot of influence. And that was a big part of the reason why we kept some distance from Solana during that time. But as I mentioned earlier, we did meet with a lot of entrepreneurs during that period and started building our interest in research. And I would say that by the back half of 2021, we had already spent a bunch of time with the Salana foundation team. There was a lot of background work going on.
00:11:51.966 - 00:12:45.358, Speaker A: And we had decided at that point that for our new fund at the time, that Salana was going to be one of the investments that we were going to make. We were going to wait for a clear market opportunity to start doing that. And so when the market started to unravel in 2022, we started slowly investing and then accelerated our pace post FTX, because in our minds, it took care of our biggest problem with the network. And so the way we see it, the network actually decentralized quite a bit following the FTX collapse, and that made it that much more attractive to us relative to how it was before. And then, as far as the ecosystem and the community, this is more qualitative than quantitative. And this is where having two sides of the house, so to speak, we have our public market investments. But we actually spent most of our time making venture investments.
00:12:45.358 - 00:14:28.290, Speaker A: We see a lot of things in the background and working with entrepreneurs that don't really show up in the public consciousness until one, two years later. Because if you're starting a company now and you're building something, it's maybe a year, two years before that is out and noticeable. And so a lot of the qualitative work from working with people we started to see in 2021, 2022, and certainly in 2023, where a lot of the Salana entrepreneurs, so to speak, they have, at least in our estimation, a really strong product sense, maniacal focus on the end user that's not as present, for example, in the Ethereum ecosystem. The Ethereum ecosystem tends to be, at least so far, has been more focused on the kind of traditional crypto ethos about decentralization and kind of cyberpunks and sort of counterculture, whereas the salon ecosystem has bridged a gap more between the web two and web three in a way that I think it's more approachable to users. And so just the quality of the products is something that really always impressed us, particularly in 2022 and 2023. And then another element for us as investors is the valuations, and that's a very financial way to look at the space. But in 2018 and 2019, Ethereum was going through a really tough time and the industry was reconciliating around bitcoin and Ethereum.
00:14:28.290 - 00:15:24.020, Speaker A: It's hard to imagine that Ethereum would be an outcast today, because now it has this sort of dominant position. But Ethereum went through a really tough time in 18 and 19. We really doubled down on that ecosystem, and some of the best investments that we made on the venture side happened at the bottom in 2019, and a lot of it had to do with valuation, and a lot of it had to do with other investors withdrawing from the market and not wanting to invest in DeFi or not wanting to invest in crypto apps. And so coming off from that experience, we could see a very similar pattern and cycle playing out with Solana, where Ethereum deals on the venture side are two to three x more expensive than Solana deals because other investors aren't willing to invest as much in this ecosystem. And so for us, that just means more.
00:15:30.250 - 00:15:35.320, Speaker C: Was it your Twitter or Chris's, where it's like, your doubt is my opportunity.
00:15:36.010 - 00:15:39.770, Speaker A: I think that's my bio. Your doubt is my alpha.
00:15:40.670 - 00:16:55.940, Speaker C: Yeah, that's a good way to put it. And actually, for what it's worth, I felt pretty similarly during the FTX days that I actually thought, well, I mean, everybody called this a vc chain, but now the biggest vc is wiped out, so what more can you say? But maybe you talk about maybe the public, the conscious here, and how maybe the information propagation there is a bit delayed. One thing I'm always curious about is maybe the information asymmetry around these blockchain networks. Like, maybe, for example, everybody thinks the modular thesis is, like, essentially perfection, and then maybe monolithics, maybe a little subpar. But obviously, Solana does make some pretty interesting tradeoffs that it warrants founders, like you mentioned, who are product focused. I think you're probably mentioning Vib and Driphouse and Ilya and Richard from tensor are good examples. So I guess I'm curious, given that bio of your doubt is my alpha, how do you kind of see the information asymmetry around Solana and Ethereum, and how do you see that kind of playing out over the next five years?
00:16:58.150 - 00:17:53.860, Speaker A: Well, I think for the most part. Well, I'll zoom out first for a moment and talk about where I think we are in the broad cycle of the industry, and then how that then relates to the different paradigms that are playing out in the integrated versus modular and l two s versus non, et cetera. Broadly, I think that we're entering a phase of consolidation of the infrastructure over the next five years. And so what that means to me is we have been in a period of time when for a decade plus, we've been trying to figure out what the infrastructure of crypto looks like. Blockchains have now been around for. Since 2019, not 2019, sorry, since 2009. And so they've been around for quite some time.
00:17:53.860 - 00:19:02.314, Speaker A: We spent maybe five years trying to figure out what they were good for other than bitcoin. It was really a period of exploration and discovery and a lot of debates. Back in the bitcoin era, it was things like the block size debate or how should forks be managed? And so on and so forth. And during that time, people are really inventing the infrastructure. And then what tends to happen in a technology cycle is you spend about ten to 20 years kind of tinkering with the infrastructure, and it's very sort of intellectual and engineering driven and science driven. And then as the use cases become very clear and apparent, then what happens is the infrastructure starts to standardize and consolidate, and then a lot of the innovative activity moves to the application of the technology and the infrastructure and things that really hit the end user so early on in that first period. It's very expensive from a capital perspective, because you're inventing the technology.
00:19:02.314 - 00:20:09.440, Speaker A: And so you often have to deliver an application. You often have to also invent the infrastructure to do. You know, I'll pick a silly example, but Thomas Edison, he had to deploy an electrical grid to sell light bulbs because you could, invent the light bulb, but no one had electricity. And so then you had to build this entire infrastructure so that you could sell the thing. I think that's been crypto for the last ten years or so, where a lot of entrepreneurs who wanted to reach end consumers were bumping into the fact that the infrastructure wasn't ready, it wasn't fast enough, it wasn't cheap enough, people didn't have enough wallets, there weren't enough yet on ramps and so on and so forth. And so a lot of people had to go and work on the infrastructure before they could deliver the applications. Now, this transition phase that usually happens following some financial calamity, which we have seen, what ends up happening, is that we start to really, first of all, understand the infrastructure and sort of narrow down the technology to a few options that work really well.
00:20:09.440 - 00:21:39.078, Speaker A: And then the new generations of entrepreneurs can build applications without having to invest into building the infrastructure itself. And so, for example, in web two, back in the had to deploy your own data center in order to distribute your application broadly. But then following the 2000s crash, we started to see the emergence of the cloud server technology really started to standardize. Developer experience got easier and easier as people came out with more developer tooling. And then we got this golden age of startup innovation in the late two thousand s and into the late 2010s, after cloud infrastructure consolidated, after the developer paradigms consolidated. And so the reason I mentioned all of that in this context is that I think over the next five years, we're going through that period similar to 2000 to 2005 in the web, where people aren't investing so much into figuring blockchains out and inventing new consensus mechanisms and so on, and are investing more into reaching end users with more user friendly applications. So what that means for Ethereum and Solana is, well, the way I see it, because Ethereum has that quality where it's actually a little bit more expensive to build on Ethereum to some degree because of all of the work that you have to do to think about everything that we talked about before, wallets, l two s, et cetera.
00:21:39.078 - 00:22:30.410, Speaker A: It's a very complex ecosystem. It seems to me like Ethereum will continue to trend in that direction. And it's very possible that applications that build on Ethereum will be ones that maybe need their own l two s in a certain sense, et cetera. And so we'll get more like application specific networks or sector specific networks. And I think the EVM will continue to be really popular. But I feel like the most consumer friendly applications are more likely to emerge on Solana than they are on Ethereum. And so then we have to ask the question of, okay, where are, there's all of the current users of the industry, all of the existing users, and they've already sort of made their choices about where they're going to work or what applications they're going to use or what blockchains they favor.
00:22:30.410 - 00:23:22.310, Speaker A: But the penetration of crypto is still very small. And so we have to think about where's the next 50% of users, 80% of users, 90% of users going to come from. And I think the wallet experiences and speed and cost is going to be a huge factor. And so I think Salana has a real competitive advantage from that perspective. And we see it in the venture portfolio, we see it in how quickly drip has grown, we see it in how quickly tensor has grown, we see it in how they've been able to build really high quality products with very minimal resources on just their seed round. They've been able to reach audiences and user bases that are unmatched on the Ethereum land. And so Ethereum companies actually have to raise more money to build a similar quality experience than Solana companies have to.
00:23:22.310 - 00:23:28.110, Speaker A: And I think over time, company by company and cycle by cycle, those differences are going to start to show up.
00:23:28.180 - 00:23:30.270, Speaker C: It's time for me to raise helios prices.
00:23:31.890 - 00:23:34.702, Speaker A: Don't raise them later.
00:23:34.836 - 00:23:53.766, Speaker B: Quick break from the show to tell you about Das London. Look, I don't really give investment advice, but I'm going to do it here. This investment gives you a real world experience in London. Yep, a trip to London. You're going to meet some of the smartest institutions, people and builders in the space. Third is you actually get to listen to these people as well, because there's going to be over 60 speakers at this event. And fourth, most importantly, of course, we get to hang out.
00:23:53.766 - 00:24:19.902, Speaker B: I'm talking about Das London, which is blockwork's biggest and best institutional conference that's happening this march in London. The big institutions are starting to realize that crypto is here to stay, and they're actually leaning into the space. From Blackrock to visa, we're seeing it all. It's a two day in person event, like I said, over 60 speakers. It's a killer lineup. But more than that, what's most important to me is the people you get to network with and meet. Like you might collaborate with these people, whether you're a project or maybe you're looking to work in the space, you might work for one of these people or just learn from them.
00:24:19.902 - 00:24:34.046, Speaker B: It's really great to meet these people, and this gets everyone under one roof. So I'm a huge fan of this conference. I'm going to be there. Check out the show notes. I've provided a link where you can learn more and also a 20% discount code. Yeah, 20% off your ticket. These tickets do go up every single month, so that's why I would sign up now.
00:24:34.046 - 00:24:53.206, Speaker B: The code is light speed 20. That's light speed 20. Again, that's in the show notes. Make sure to use it so they know I sent you and you'll get that discount. All right, I hope to see you there. Now let's get back to the show saying that story that you just told reminds me a lot of that piece that you wrote. That's like information technology cycles over time, and it talks about IBM's dominance, which, terrible analogy here, but it's kind of like bitcoin.
00:24:53.206 - 00:25:27.086, Speaker B: And then you had Microsoft almost own the pc market with being in their operating system, being in 90% of computers at that point. And then you had Apple come along at some point. And a lot of this, the ability to get away from IBM in some sense, was competition that was brought forward by open protocols like HTTP and TCP IP and so forth. So it's pretty fascinating. You talked about the applications in Solana could potentially be better built out because the developers are able to focus on that experience over, just, like, the infrastructure. I kind of want to touch on your piece that got famous. That was written in 2016, which is the fat protocol thesis.
00:25:27.086 - 00:25:44.620, Speaker B: And the general view of that is that the majority of the value will be captured at the protocol layer opposed to the application layer, which is what we see in web two today, which is like the Facebook Amazon. Curious how your thesis on that has either stayed the same or changed over time, because that was written in 2016. So we've seen a lot change since then.
00:25:45.790 - 00:26:36.154, Speaker A: Well, I haven't seen much evidence that would make me change my mind. Now, my pet peeve with that thesis is that people will often confuse value capture with investment returns, and those are two very different things. So value capture. What it really means is how much value is stored in a particular layer. And so you can have, for example, an infrastructure layer that is immensely valuable, but that doesn't grow at a rate that makes it a great investment. So, for example, energy companies in the world, they have captured a lot of value. The energy industry has captured a lot of value.
00:26:36.154 - 00:27:26.954, Speaker A: That doesn't mean that energy investments are the ones that always outperform the applications of electricity or the applications of energy and so on. There's a period in time, and this is related to these two phases, which I sort of explained in a simplified way, where you have this sort of infrastructure phase, then you have a phase of consolidation, then you have an application dominant phase. And we're in this phase of consolidation that leads to a lot of the innovative activity to move to the application layer. What that means from an investment perspective is that as the infrastructure consolidates, it really consolidates value. But the growth rates start to decline in terms of like financial returns. Now, that doesn't mean that the infrastructure becomes less valuable. It continues to grow.
00:27:26.954 - 00:28:35.578, Speaker A: So, for example, IBM continued to grow as a business, Microsoft continued to grow as a business, and so on and so forth. It just means that the higher growth and the higher return opportunities from an investment perspective move somewhere else. And so I think in our industry, it's going to follow a similar pattern where now, if you look at it from an investment perspective, the returns that you might get from investing at the infrastructure layer in crypto over the next ten years are probably going to be lower than the returns that you will see at the application layer of crypto. However, that can be true, and the infrastructure can be worth more than the application layer in aggregate. And so ultimately, I think that all of the protocols combined and all of the layer ones and all of these networks and so on will in aggregate be worth more than all of the applications. However, over the next ten years, I expect that the better investments will be in the applications rather than in the protocols.
00:28:35.754 - 00:29:14.506, Speaker B: Yeah, that makes sense. Two follow up questions on that, because I think part of that thesis was reliant on the fact that DeFi has composability and you have money legos. And because of that, you might not have one application just horizontally integrate into everything. Right? Instead, you'll have protocols specific to just say, perpetuals. We have seen over time, a lot of DeFi protocols actually try to horizontally integrate to capture more users. I would say maybe they just haven't found product market fit or where it might be like Frax is they have the exchange, they have the LST token, they have the stablecoin, and you continue to see this from other projects. So that is like one piece of the competition that I don't know if the money Lego thesis is fully played out yet.
00:29:14.506 - 00:29:48.006, Speaker B: And then the other part of that is also just because it's an open data layer, you're not going to have a front end that essentially captures all the users. Something like Facebook where it has your friend graph all of the data in one location. But then we've seen something like Uniswap with their front end, and now they're charging 15 basis points, which is different than the underlying protocol. And it seems like that front end is trying to become almost an aggregator of sorts. And in that sense, that is where you get consumer lock in as opposed to this open data layer. So I'm just curious on the money Lego thesis and also just the fact that you don't have essentially aggregators and crypto because of this open data layer. Yeah.
00:29:48.006 - 00:29:49.800, Speaker B: What are your thoughts on that?
00:29:51.130 - 00:31:04.306, Speaker A: Well, what's interesting is you can build a uniswap interface to the protocol that takes your own tick rate and has your own spin on it, and people do. So, for example, one of our portfolio companies is a wallet called Xerion, that is an aggregator of lots of different protocols and functionality. And, you know, you can do everything essentially on Xerion. And they are starting to also turn on a fee based business model that is a bit of a fee, a small fee on top of the functionality provided by the protocols underneath. What that means is because anyone can do that, you're still going to have competitive dynamics between the applications that are going to prevent those margins from getting very high. And so Apple has a 30% take rate. None of these front ends are ever going to be able to pull off a 30% fee on the utility of underlying protocols for functionality that they don't provide because of this open data layer paradigm, where there's an old saying in business, which is your margin is my opportunity.
00:31:04.306 - 00:32:04.962, Speaker A: I think Jeff Bezos said this, that your margin is my opportunity that plays out in a very competitive market. And so typically what you see in industries where you have actual user lock in or consumer lock in, is that companies will increase their take rate over time and slowly sort of take a larger and larger share of the value. I think in crypto there's a ceiling to how high you can go before you start losing users to all of the competitive applications who will offer the exact same service. And so I think that's a big part of the reason why this dynamic will remain, because Uniswap, the protocol will be the same across all of the interfaces that are the front end on top of that. And so then the interfaces will fight the fee war, essentially. But at the end of the day, all of the activity is still happening in the underlying protocol. And so that's part of the reason why I thought about the fat protocol thesis in the first place.
00:32:04.962 - 00:33:24.178, Speaker A: It just seems like the competitive dynamics that are built into the technology make it really difficult for any single application to really take the lie and share of the value. That said, at the time, in 2016, the case studies that I was able to analyze was actually Coinbase relative to bitcoin, Ethereum, and all of the other protocols or tokens that you could trade on Coinbase. And a bit of the anecdote here is I was working at USV, and what I did is I looked at every time that we had invested in Coinbase through the various rounds and how much money we put into the company over time. And Coinbase was obviously a phenomenal investment by every metric. But I compared it to, okay, what if we had bought bitcoin instead, at every single round over the life of that company? What if we had bought all of the protocols underneath Coinbase that make up Coinbase? And the protocol investments would have done much better, and it would have been an easier investment to make than shepherding a private company over its lifecycle. And so Coinbase is kind of an aggregator. It's not a decentralized business, but it's the same dynamics.
00:33:24.178 - 00:34:00.380, Speaker A: And so I don't think it changes things. And actually, the Coinbase example is a brilliant one, because that's an example of an application layer investment that has been phenomenally successful, that has shown excellent investment returns for the early investments in that business. And yet you can clearly see that the value of Coinbase as a company is much, much smaller than the value of Ethereum as a protocol or bitcoin as a protocol. And especially if you take all of the underlying protocols that Coinbase aggregates, you really see that asymmetry of value.
00:34:02.670 - 00:34:41.634, Speaker C: That's an interesting point, and it's one I've heard in different circles as well. And that is as an investor, or like a VC investor, let's say, in crypto, how do you determine if you should invest in the liquid token, which, first of all, is liquid and maybe has more upside because the network is less risky than just a single protocol building on top of it? Do you guys ever think about that? How should people think about, okay, do I invest in the company that's like a specific company to that protocol, or do I invest in the protocol, which one has less risk and is more liquid?
00:34:41.762 - 00:35:31.400, Speaker A: Yeah, we think about that all the time, every single time. And the simple answer is, do both. And there's lots of reasons why you might do both. There's lots of reasons why you might do one over the other. I think from an investment perspective, there's a couple of things that we have to think about. We have to think about diversity. We have to think about because, for example, let's say that you manage a fund, let's say that it's 2016, you could have only bought bitcoin and put your entire fund into that and taken all of that risk and done extremely well, and spend your time at the beach and not do any work.
00:35:31.400 - 00:36:41.802, Speaker A: And so, yes, you could do that. However, you have to think about how you build a portfolio of complementary investments. And there will be private investments, or not necessarily private investments, but investments at the application layer that will have higher return than the underlying platform. And this is going back to the debating well, there's value capture and investment returns, and there's a phase in a technology cycle and a financial cycle where the infrastructure investments do better, and there's a phase in which the application investments do better, but in aggregate. But you also have these individual case studies where you can look at, we certainly have companies in our portfolio that were built on top of ETH and did better than ETH on a multiple over invested capital basis, even if ETH showed phenomenal returns over the same time period. So we're always thinking about those things. And what ends up happening often is that the growth rate of the underlying platform is like tailwinds for the applications built on top.
00:36:41.802 - 00:37:49.646, Speaker A: And so actually, we can pick out DeFi summer you take, or the DeFi period in Ethereum, or the golden age of DeFi. A lot of the DeFi protocols built on top of ethereum actually showed much better returns than ETH itself on the same time period. And so if you select the right investments, you can actually do better by investing in the applications than in the underlying protocol, even if the underlying protocol is great. There's another more subtle effect that's kind of interesting, which I described in the Fat protocols article, if I remember correctly, which is that there's a self reinforcing loop that happens, and that's actually something that's often missed as well, which is, I think there's a line there that says it's success at the application layer that drives more interest in the protocol layer, which then attracts more people to build on the application layer of that protocol. And then that loop sort of repeats itself. And so that means that success of the application layer is absolutely essential for the growth of the protocol layer. And that should be kind of self evident.
00:37:49.646 - 00:38:36.480, Speaker A: And so I think there's also this sort of subtle incentive to invest at the application layer in aggregate. At the market level, because how are you going to get returns on the protocol level if there aren't any use cases or applications to build on top of it? And that mirrors a bit how we build our portfolios, where we tend to first work with entrepreneurs at the application layer. And through our work with them, we learn a lot about the underlying platforms that they use, and then that drives our investments at the infrastructure, and we find that that pairing works extremely well. I don't think that we would be able to develop as much conviction on the investments that we make on the public side if we didn't do all of the work at the application side.
00:38:37.250 - 00:39:07.698, Speaker B: Yeah, I like how that self reinforcing cycle really goes both ways, too. Like, Mert's been tweeting Salana, and a lot of crypto right now is up 10% or whatever it is in the last couple of days, and everybody in the community just goes wild about the price, and they're like, I told you so. In some ways, Mert and I think a lot of us are like this, so silly. It could be the next day down 10% at this point. That's just how crypto works. Right. But there is a general wealth effect where it is true, like, if the underlying, if eth or soul or something else goes up in value, you do feel like you almost have monopoly money to then go and play with these applications.
00:39:07.698 - 00:39:46.818, Speaker B: And the same thing is almost like a halo effect. It's like when you're friends see that a certain protocol is going up in price, it's like they're more likely to check that out over some other protocol. So there is some truth in that. I was talking to Kyle and Tushar from Multicoin Capital, and they're very brazen about not really liking l two s, and they don't think that's the way to scale. And they might say, maybe they're not anti l two s, they're anti like the EVM being on an l two, because that's not going to scale anything. But I asked them, you're so open and you tweet about this all the time. Does that ever make you miss investment? Because how can you feel so strongly about something and then you might miss an investment in it because of that, because you may not agree with thesis, but it could still be a good investment, for example, like optimism or arbitrum.
00:39:46.818 - 00:40:14.370, Speaker B: And one of their responses was, we need to be contrarian. We need to be right. So it's not our job to make sure we get every single investment like, we have to have our really strong thesis. And I think for them, maybe an antithesis is you can't scale with the EVM, even if it's an l two. I'm curious that play caseholder. What's maybe like an antithesis that you have something that when you're looking at investments, something that you avoid. And I don't know, that could be app chains or it could be a type of application or sector that you don't think is it, is there anything that you look for and you try to avoid?
00:40:16.070 - 00:41:13.410, Speaker A: That's an interesting question, because, for example, we're actually fairly substantially invested into the modular future, and l two s to a large degree, and the EVM to a large degree. And so Ethereum continues to be, and will continue to be a big part of our investment activity as it has been in the past. And I really see it as trade offs. And I don't think there's a universe where one model wins as opposed to both catering to very different kinds of users, builders and use cases. And so we were very early investors in Celestia. We were the first investors, I think, in CK sync back in 2019. And so we've been following or sort of investing ahead of Ethereum's transition to where it is now for quite some time.
00:41:13.410 - 00:42:44.800, Speaker A: And I think that there are some very real reasons for why you're going to want a modular architecture and why you're going to want app chains and l two infrastructure and to go a little bit deeper into that. Well, it's very similar to the Android analogy, going back to that, where if you're building a television and you don't want to spend a whole lot of resources building an operating system for that television, you plug in Android, tweak it a little bit, and you're ready to go, and you can plug into a large ecosystem. And so when it comes to l two s, I think that the credible use cases or reasons for l two infrastructure to exist are application specific chains are controversial, but I think make a lot of sense when you then have to build something that's really customized and specific to a given app, or you reach a certain scale or you have regulatory constraints that you need to uphold. I actually think that blockchains as back ends or blockchain environments as back ends is a powerful idea. And so in some ways, the way I think about application specific, l two s is really a smart contract API interface to the application, as opposed to it being about a blockchain itself. And that's a long conversation, I'm going to try not to fall into that rabbit hole right now. Sector specific chains, I think, are very interesting.
00:42:44.800 - 00:43:50.390, Speaker A: We're starting to see that a lot in gaming. We're starting to see that a lot in certain industries like real world assets as well, where you might have constraints that make it difficult for you to operate in an open public chain. Geography specific networks are also, I think, really important, where you might be required to follow a certain set of regulations in a particular country or particular jurisdiction. And as far as I can see, a lot of that activity is happening on EvM L two s. And so JPMorgan has an onyx blockchain now that they're rolling out with a number of partner banks, and that's EVM based and it's their own network and it's not an l two, but it makes sense for them to then over time, plug it into Ethereum and so on and so forth. The people who need that aren't necessarily going to go to Salana for their first choice because the infrastructure is not designed to support those use cases, at least kind of from the outset. But that doesn't mean that those use cases aren't legitimate.
00:43:50.390 - 00:45:21.090, Speaker A: Now, as far as the consumer applications at large, this is where we think that Solana has an advantage, and at least we see it in the venture portfolio, where the companies that are targeting really large user bases around the world, I think are going to have a better time doing it on Salana than doing it as an ethereum L two. And then doing it as an ethereum l two is just always going to take more work, more resources, more capital. And so that's just going to cater to vastly different use cases. As far as things that we try to avoid, you could make the argument that you would do better concentrating to one, if you're especially right, and that's a legitimate argument, I would rather have a more expansive view and be able to cover the full spectrum of what's going to exist in the industry. And so it's a little bit like, yes, you could do extremely well by only investing in Apple in 2007, 2008, but there's also an alternative where you could also invest in, like investing in Apple doesn't prevent you from investing in Google. And so from my perspective, I'd much rather have a more diverse portfolio and also pursue things that I'm intellectually interested in than have to kind of constrain myself to any particular paradigm.
00:45:22.310 - 00:45:55.630, Speaker C: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And talking about being intellectually interested in some of this stuff, I'm going to completely do a tangent here. I am curious. You did mention you were building mobile apps in late two thousand s and now you are the co founder of Placeholder. How did you get from being an engineer to being a co founder partner in a prominent VC firm? What was that journey?
00:45:57.250 - 00:46:59.940, Speaker A: Well, this is kind of weird, but I wanted to be a VC since I was 16 years old, which is a strange dream for a teenager. But back in the late two thousand s, I started poking around the web kind of very young in the 90s, building websites and doing cool things with computers and modifying games and all of the stuff that kids would do when they were nerds. And I spent quite a bit of time actually doing contract work for startups in the mid two thousand s. And in retrospect, I kind of understand why they would want cheap child labor after the 2000s crash because I wasn't very expensive and all I wanted to do was buy video games with that money. But that was early web 20. And so that was the API boom. That was the cloud boom, or the emergence of the cloud.
00:46:59.940 - 00:48:13.610, Speaker A: And then we had websites like TechCrunch, which are very prominent today that were just starting out at that time. And believe it or not, I actually stumbled upon unions for ventures in the blog post announcing or the TechCrunch article announcing their investment in Twitter. And I had started to play with the Twitter API very early on, and I learned about venture capital and I thought that was really cool because you get to work with lots of different companies and it seemed like a really cool job. Now, I kept working essentially as a developer through my mid twenty s or early twenty s, and I actually studied both computer science and economics. And I always found both of those things really quite interesting. But I always thought that I wanted to work in a field that allowed me to play with many different ideas. And so I worked as a developer, I worked with lots of companies, I started a lot of projects on my own, started a couple of companies, but it was always thinking that I was going to build my career up to the venture world.
00:48:13.610 - 00:49:28.290, Speaker A: And then in 2014, I joined Union Square Ventures after working for the government of the Dominican Republic for about a year on payment system reform, which is how I found bitcoin and fell in love with blockchains. It felt like it brought together both of those interests, the computer science aspect and the economics aspect. And so when the opportunity to work at USV opened up, it was very obvious to me that that was the move that I had to make a I'd been following this firm for quite a while. B, they were interested in a technology that was very new at the time, that very few people were interested in, that I had, at this point, fallen in love with. And so it was a very smooth transition for me. But it really came from that perspective where what I found out in my forays into entrepreneurship is I do much better working on many different kinds of problems at once than I do in focusing in a single one. And so I'm not a great entrepreneur, but what I love about this job is all of the companies that we work with, they're working on different things, and so it really engages my intellectual mind quite a bit, because I like jumping from one problem to the.
00:49:28.290 - 00:49:30.260, Speaker A: So, for me, it's a ton of fun.
00:49:31.430 - 00:49:36.162, Speaker B: When you were at Union Square Ventures, Fred Ursum is one of the founding partners, right?
00:49:36.216 - 00:49:38.194, Speaker A: Is that correct? Sorry. Yeah.
00:49:38.232 - 00:50:00.010, Speaker B: Fred Wilson. Thinking of Fred Wilson. And did he more or less bring the crypto thesis into USV? Because he had some of the first articles I remember reading that I'm like, wow, this is a very legitimate venture capitalist that is investing in crypto. And when you see that, similar to Chris Dixon at a 16 z, it makes me, as just a retail investor, be like, this is something I should look into. So I'm curious. He was already looking into that when you joined.
00:50:01.070 - 00:50:52.506, Speaker A: So no single person is responsible. Basically, USV invested in Coinbase in 2013, and that was USV's first crypto investment. And Fred led that deal. And then when I joined, maybe six, six, nine months later, actually, the second investment, if I recall correctly, that USB made was led by Albert, and that was in a company that at the time was called one name. And that company is now stacks, which is the l two on top of bitcoin. And so that investment closed right as I joined. And when I joined, I was told that I was the only applicant who made their application about blockchains and that technology.
00:50:52.506 - 00:51:20.386, Speaker A: And they had just made this investment. They were about to make this other one. And so they thought it would be useful to have someone who was also interested in that. But everyone at the firm was interested in blockchains in different ways. Now, Fred is the most vocal and writes every day. He's the most prominent. But, for example, Brad Burnham, who was my mentor at USV, was the co founder of USV with Fred, and is now a venture partner at USV.
00:51:20.386 - 00:51:59.182, Speaker A: And at placeholder. I spent a lot of my time at USB, really developing the thesis with Brad, and a lot of what went into the placeholder thesis came from that work. But the way we learned, and this is where I'm so grateful about my time at USV, is we learned by making investments. And so what was really special about those three years is that they allowed me to work on a number of really early seed deals. And this was something that USB wouldn't do. USB was known as a series a firm, not a seed firm. But they sort of allowed me to spend a lot of time doing seed deals.
00:51:59.182 - 00:52:54.302, Speaker A: And for example, one of them was a company called Mine, which then was called Mediachain, which was about engraving image metadata or art metadata on the blockchain. And so this was like on the bitcoin blockchain. NFTs didn't exist back then, and that's basically what NFTs are today. And that company was founded by Dennis Nasarov, who's the founder of Mirror, and Jesse Walden, who's the founder of the Thon variant. And so I spent a lot of know, two years working with Jesse and Dennis trying to figure out how are we going to monetize decentralized protocols. Tokens weren't even a term or a business model yet, but we really spent a lot of time really working with founders and figuring these things out. And so I would actually put more attribution on working with the founders and builders themselves than NEBC.
00:52:54.302 - 00:53:37.330, Speaker A: And then really what we do is we package and consolidate a lot of information from lots of different sources. And that's part of what I enjoy about the job. And a lot of those deals, we made them with co leading them with Chris Dixon and Nanadreessen. And so we all spent a bunch of time together in that 2014 1516 time frame, really figuring all of this stuff out. And then when things started kicking off in 2017, it came after four years of really consolidating a bunch of lessons, a lot of trial and error, a lot of companies that failed, a lot of companies that were way too early. But a lot of those ideas and use cases are emerging, reemerging now that the infrastructure actually exists.
00:53:38.630 - 00:54:18.030, Speaker C: Yeah, that is the worst. As a founder, when you're just too early and then five years later, you're like, oh, wait, my idea is actually good. One thing I'm interested in always is really people who have prolific writing. So you just mentioned Fred Wilson, but also yourself as well. So I am curious if you have any sort of a writing process that you can maybe share with us or how you approach writing. What are some good tips to become a better writer? And especially in the space of crypto, where I would say, maybe the to signal ratio in crypto is especially skewed compared to maybe other industries.
00:54:19.730 - 00:55:15.250, Speaker A: Well, thank you for calling me prolific. I'm nowhere near as prolific as I would like to be. And something that I noticed about myself that you can probably pick out by looking at the dates of when I publish things is I'm much more active in bear markets than in bull markets. And I think that signal to ratio is something that gets to me when it comes to publishing. I do actually write quite a lot internally, and so I write a lot for our investors on a quarterly basis. We do these journal entries where we cover a lot of ground. And more recently, now that we have gone through a bottom, I feel the writing energy come back, and it's just easier for me to write in that environment.
00:55:15.250 - 00:56:16.690, Speaker A: And what I'm trying to do now is keep what I write to two pages and really focusing on that constraint. I think that I personally have a tendency to want to be very complete and to cover all of the details, and that turns into ten page dissertations that no one wants to read because it's too long. And so over the past couple of months, I've gotten more and more comfortable and really taking inspiration from Fred, because Fred will just write, and he won't try to be complete. He won't try to cover everything that backs an idea, and it'll be a bit more emotional writing and a little bit less technical and correct and precise. And so I'm trying to lean more into that. The way that I'm doing that today is by just limiting it to two pages and not writing more than two pages. That means cutting a lot.
00:56:16.690 - 00:57:13.430, Speaker A: That means leaving a lot to imagination. That means allowing the reader to fill in the blanks. And what I found, at least in the feedback that people have given me, is that it's actually more fun to read and more engaging to write something or publish something that's kind of incomplete, because then it actually stays in the mind of the reader for longer than if you write something that's very complete. And so, in some ways, constraining yourself in that way allows the reader to take part in the creative process of the idea that you are trying to convey, because you haven't tried to present it completely. In some ways, if you try to present it completely, you're sort of telling them, this is the complete product. You don't have to do anything. And that's a lot less fun than leaving them with something to imagine or leaving them with something to even argue against.
00:57:13.430 - 00:57:50.750, Speaker A: And so I think in some ways, it might even be a kind of defense mechanism to want to be complete because you may want to avoid the criticism. What really sucks is, for example, when you write something and someone says, well, you missed this point, and you think, no, I actually thought about it and I considered it carefully and I know about it, and you can't communicate with that person in that way. And so relaxing that impulse and then just allowing people to participate in the creative process is something that I'm starting to feel more and more, and that ultimately is making the writing more enjoyable.
00:57:51.410 - 00:58:17.734, Speaker B: Yeah, your posts are not long form, but they're on your website. I don't know if there's even a comment section because as you were talking about that, that made me think about in Twitter, and Twitter now you have, like, unlimited characters if you have Twitter blue. So I ever so often will write something a little bit longer. And as you go through, yeah, you're like, somebody's going to press back on this point, but you're like, do I really want to go into more detail on this? And in some ways, it can be kind of fun because, you know, it's going to stimulate that in somebody, and then there will be a discussion going back and forth if you want to have that with someone as well.
00:58:17.772 - 00:58:18.406, Speaker A: So that can be fun.
00:58:18.428 - 00:58:23.694, Speaker B: Where you said users get to fill in the think, I think I noticed you haven't tweeted since 2018. Is that right?
00:58:23.732 - 00:58:24.174, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:58:24.292 - 00:58:24.926, Speaker B: What's going on?
00:58:24.948 - 00:59:25.150, Speaker A: That's right. Well, when Chris and I launched a firm, I basically said, you tweet enough for the both of us, and then I don't have to do that. But that's right. I called a lot, basically curtailed all of my social media activity, and a lot of it had to do with wanting to be very efficient at my work and reserving as much of my time for all of the internal stuff that goes into running placeholder and making investments and working with founders. And I decided that I never tweeted that much in the first place. And it consumes a lot of time to be constantly engaged, and I don't have that impulse to engage in that way. And I prefer to write longer than a tweet, and now it's unlimited.
00:59:25.150 - 01:00:04.010, Speaker A: But it wasn't at the time, and it felt like it wasn't going to add a ton of value, at least to my work. However, Chris's twitter is immensely useful, and so it really covers the ground for virtually the entire firm. And so I think that's one of the ways in which our personalities are actually very complementary. And so I really enjoy doing a lot of the background work, a lot of the investor facing work, a lot of the investor facing writing and engagement. And Chris's personality is a lot more public. And so we're able to combine those things. I feel like it makes us a pretty great team.
01:00:04.160 - 01:00:56.586, Speaker B: You've been here a long time, a lot longer than most people. So you're crypto native, but you do in your writings, and even when you talk, you'll refer back through history and talk about web two and kind of the development of the Internet in the 90s. I'm curious, where do you think you can get an edge in crypto? Maybe from an investing perspective, because I'm not an investor, but just like looking at the space, I think being crypto native is obviously like a huge advantage. But I think maybe people almost over index on that and they don't look at what happened in Web two and through the some of history. I really like reading strategy because it's all about strategy and Web two and how that can apply. And part of me is like, well, if that's really where the alpha is, then you're going to have all these traditional investors come in and then they're going to apply those learnings that they've had, but then they're lacking that crypto native piece that I think is also vital. So I'm just curious to you, like, where do you think maybe you get that edge or where people can have an edge if they're trying to learn, just be a better investor in this industry?
01:00:56.778 - 01:01:39.922, Speaker A: Yeah, well, I'm not sure that I would call myself a crypto native in the sense that I consider myself to be more Web native. And I think of nativeness in a person. Actually I think relates a lot to age. And so I grew up on the Internet to a large degree, and I think teenagers today are going to turn out to be the actual crypto natives and they'll grow on chain and all their history will be in relationship to this technology. That's not a bad thing. So I mentioned Brad, my mentor at USV. He's been a vc for longer than I've been alive.
01:01:39.922 - 01:02:36.186, Speaker A: And he invested through the, has continued to invest in his career and has seen many different cycles. And before he was an investor, he worked in the tech industry in the. So he was able to see lots of different cycles and he wouldn't consider himself a web native and yet has built a phenomenal career as an investor. And so I would say that nativeness is not a requirement it can be a source of edge. And so, for example, I think the next generation of investors is going to do better at investing in crypto than this generation because of that native sense. And for those of us who don't have it, I think studying history is something that's really helpful. And so I definitely got that from Brad.
01:02:36.186 - 01:03:28.398, Speaker A: I've been in technology for, or it's been my passion since I was maybe eight when I started playing around with it. And so I have a lot of context from that kind of developer and user perspective. But it wasn't until I joined USV and started working closely with Brad that I started overlaying all of the financial and cycle context to that. And so my experience of the web was that of a kid growing up with it. But then Brad's experience with the web was as an investor. And so then he was able to take me back through 30 years of history and add a lot of that historical context and investment context to that time. And I think the combination of those things is something that has helped us a lot to understand what the crypto cycles might look like.
01:03:28.398 - 01:04:13.920, Speaker A: And what's kind of funny is they are very similar. And so this is where the IBM era that I reference a lot, the mainframe era, it was a lot of the same dynamics, it was a lot of the same market circumstances, same with the pc era in the 80s, same with the early Internet in the. So a lot of those dynamics play out over and over again. And I think that ultimately has to do with the fact that we're still human and we still react and adopt and play with technology in roughly the same way, even if the applications and the technology themselves are different. And so it really helps to understand just what are the human dynamics behind technological revolutions that are repeatable across cycles, and that will repeat themselves in whatever comes next.
01:04:14.450 - 01:04:16.954, Speaker B: You sound like, what is it? Carlota Perez.
01:04:17.002 - 01:04:18.590, Speaker A: I've never actually read. Yeah.
01:04:18.740 - 01:04:24.350, Speaker B: The number of times I've heard that name and book mentioned in venture capital podcast. I know, it's very influential.
01:04:24.690 - 01:04:57.306, Speaker A: Do. Yeah, definitely read it. And Carlotta Perez's book was the first book they handed me at USV when I joined Mario, head of research at Placeholder, actually used to work for Kerlada, and we spent quite a bit of time with her in 2017 18, working through a lot of the crypto stuff. But yeah, it really helps cement that idea that at least the relationship between financial and technology cycles, it was hugely influential for USV, hugely influential for placeholder, and clearly for a lot of people.
01:04:57.408 - 01:05:16.180, Speaker C: All right, let's do rapid fire. Going to keep it relatively short today. But Joel, I'm just going to ask you some random questions with quick answers. Yeah, that's about it. All right, so if you had to convince your parents to use crypto, which app would you show them?
01:05:17.750 - 01:05:18.850, Speaker A: Coinbase.
01:05:19.670 - 01:05:22.610, Speaker C: What are your top three apps in all of crypto?
01:05:23.430 - 01:05:41.660, Speaker A: Top three apps in all of crypto. Drip, tensor, and I don't want to say Coinbase again, I'll say Xerion. And this is extremely biased because all of those are portfolio companies, but there are portfolio companies because we love them. Right.
01:05:42.190 - 01:05:46.010, Speaker C: What do you think is the most overrated concept in crypto?
01:05:46.830 - 01:05:53.950, Speaker A: Overrated concept in crypto. Permissionless.
01:05:55.170 - 01:06:01.120, Speaker C: What's the number one concept that startups get wrong?
01:06:03.590 - 01:06:04.980, Speaker A: Product market fit.
01:06:05.830 - 01:06:08.900, Speaker C: What is number one mistake? Seed stage. Founders make.
01:06:11.510 - 01:06:15.250, Speaker A: The most deadly mistake is raising too much money at too high evaluation.
01:06:17.270 - 01:06:18.514, Speaker C: At the seed stage?
01:06:18.642 - 01:06:25.000, Speaker A: At the seed stage, which doesn't happen very often, but it happens in times like 2021 when markets are crazy.
01:06:26.170 - 01:06:29.580, Speaker C: What is a vertical that you're particularly interested in?
01:06:34.030 - 01:06:38.220, Speaker A: Compliant l two s, which is going to be sacrificed to a lot of people.
01:06:41.890 - 01:06:50.830, Speaker C: Interesting. So I guess maybe I'm curious, l two s versus app chains. Which one would you prefer for compliance reasons?
01:06:51.250 - 01:06:52.538, Speaker A: App chains.
01:06:52.714 - 01:06:53.398, Speaker C: App chains.
01:06:53.434 - 01:06:54.020, Speaker A: Okay.
01:06:55.750 - 01:06:59.090, Speaker C: What do you think is the most overrated vertical in crypto?
01:06:59.830 - 01:07:09.320, Speaker A: The most overrated vertical in crypto. Interesting. Deep end.
01:07:13.050 - 01:07:22.762, Speaker B: We talk about deep end quite a bit on this podcast. Joel, I've got one for you. What is like a narrative or crypto use case that maybe came around in 2017, 18 died out that you think is going to return, or you're already seeing it return.
01:07:22.816 - 01:07:50.980, Speaker A: Now we're seeing decentralized social reemerge. And we saw a lot of that in actually well before 17 and 18, we had networks like Steemit and apps like that, and a lot of people try to do a lot of those things and they sort of died down. But I think that it was missing nfTs, essentially. And I think NFTs are really bringing a lot of that energy back.
01:07:52.630 - 01:07:59.240, Speaker C: What piece of advice would you give to those younger folks like you, once a time, trying to be vcs in the future?
01:08:01.290 - 01:08:09.450, Speaker A: Going really deep into the technology itself is probably the biggest long term edge.
01:08:10.750 - 01:08:15.450, Speaker C: And what's the number one piece of advice you'd give for precede founders?
01:08:18.510 - 01:08:27.120, Speaker A: Get your product out as quickly as possible in as imperfect a state as possible, as long as it does even a tiny little thing. Right.
01:08:27.970 - 01:08:33.620, Speaker C: If you could study three fields for the rest of your life, what would those fields be.
01:08:35.750 - 01:08:47.910, Speaker A: Crypto economics, political science and diplomacy, which are very related?
01:08:49.770 - 01:08:53.190, Speaker C: We should have asked Joel about daos and governance.
01:08:55.130 - 01:08:57.662, Speaker A: That would have been twice as long. Podcast.
01:08:57.826 - 01:09:01.580, Speaker C: Okay, what is the number one thing that dows get wrong?
01:09:05.950 - 01:09:09.930, Speaker A: Hierarchies. Specifically the lack of hierarchies.
01:09:10.350 - 01:09:16.750, Speaker C: Lack of hierarchies. So what would be your top three tips for improving the state of governance in crypto?
01:09:18.770 - 01:09:33.650, Speaker A: Elect leaders, have a clear hierarchy, have mechanisms and rules for moving up that hierarchy, and don't let the average person make decisions.
01:09:34.970 - 01:09:53.610, Speaker C: Okay, final question for those people who are non crypto right now, maybe, let's say web two, or maybe old banking system and whatnot, what would you tell them to convince them to use crypto? To be convinced of crypto.
01:09:57.470 - 01:10:30.840, Speaker A: You know, it. I don't think people should have to be convinced to use crypto so much as I think people should be enticed to use it to a large degree. No one convinced me of this, and I'm sure no one convinced you in a particular way. And so I think that it's like a self discovery process. It's almost like pursuing enlightenment where it has to come from within rather than from without.
01:10:31.290 - 01:10:36.886, Speaker C: Yeah, and that's why I tell Tolle to keep writing blog posts so people can find out the information.
01:10:37.068 - 01:10:58.206, Speaker B: Yeah, that was a deeper answer than I thought, and also a really perfect one. Joel, thanks so much for coming on. This was a lot of fun. Also, super glad you're writing again because you have some amazing articles. We've only talked about like three of the articles you have out there today, but I'll put a link because everybody should go check those out. They go back probably 2016. So anyways, Joel, thanks again for joining us.
01:10:58.206 - 01:10:58.990, Speaker B: A lot of fun.
01:10:59.140 - 01:11:01.518, Speaker A: Thank you. Same. Great to see you guys.
01:11:01.684 - 01:11:14.918, Speaker B: We'll see you next time. All right, I've got a little ending note here. First, thank you so much for listening to the full episode. If you really liked it, hit subscribe. But secondly, make sure you sign up for Das. This is blockwork's biggest institutional conference happening in London in March. I've included a link in the show notes and also discount code.
01:11:14.918 - 01:11:21.430, Speaker B: Get 20% off. Make sure to use lightspeed 20 when you sign up. All right, I'll see you there. And I'll see you next time on Lightspeed.
