00:00:03.600 - 00:00:56.775, Speaker A: Hello everyone. I'm Gals Sagui, CEO and co founder of HyperNative. I hope that in this session we are going to break some misconception about security and what is possible and what is not in Web3 security and how that all relates to the Solana ecosystem. So when we started HyperNative, we started discussing with projects with builders, and we found out three main misconceptions that people think about security. One of them is that security audits are the good way to basically protect your projects. But over the last two years, we have seen that most of the projects that we work with get audited, sometimes even multiple audits. Pay a lot of money for these audits, but still get hacked.
00:00:56.775 - 00:02:02.555, Speaker A: A staggering amount of more than $2 billion was stolen in 2023 alone from companies that were audited once or even more. And to be frank, a lot of the attacks that we see are sometimes not even related to codebase. So even if you had the perfect audit, you would still get hacked. The second misconception that we saw is that attacks are happening in one transaction. So over the last two years, hypernative, and this is an amazing statistics, we were able to detect almost all the hacks and exploits that happen across more than 40 chains that we support. And in 98% of the cases, we are actually able to detect the attack before a few minutes and sometimes even more before the first tech transaction. And this led us to understand that an attack, right, if we have these very indicative transactions that are happening and we're able to capture that attacks are not just happening in one transaction.
00:02:02.555 - 00:02:50.495, Speaker A: Also in many cases, you would see that even after the first tech transaction, not all the money is being stolen, so copycats the original hacker itself. There is a lot of room for damage control, even after the fact. And the third misconception that we hear is that, okay, you can detect the attacks before they happen, but I can't do anything about it. I think that we proved it wrong. Hypernative stopped more than 2 and saved more than $200 million of customer money. And if everyone were using Hypernative, we could have probably prevented more than a billion dollars of loss. So there is something to be done.
00:02:50.495 - 00:04:07.733, Speaker A: And this is why we created HyperNative. HyperNative today to monitor on and off chain data sources in real time, runs hundreds of different kind of detectors and models, from machine learning to other techniques which are meant to detect risk in a variety of different categories before it happens, and connect these detections to automated actions that can actually save and prevent loss automatically. And how do we do it, how all this magic is happening? When we thought about this problem, we wanted to find a way to detect all sorts of different kind of vectors and vulnerabilities because there are endless. In the end, if you look historically, there are just too many different tech vectors, there are just too many vulnerabilities. You can't just check everything that happened before because then you'll miss that new thing, that new vector that is happening. And this is why hypernative approach is looking historically as well, but also classify malicious actors. What we found out is that we are very good at detecting malicious actors before they do something bad.
00:04:07.733 - 00:05:20.735, Speaker A: Even if we don't know what they're going to do, we know to classify them and then we know to understand they are going to attack your protocol. One example of that is that we found out many attacks are happening when the attacker deploys smart contract. And this smart contracts are the actual attack, the actual contracts of the hackers before they trigger the attack. Hypernative One of the vectors that hypernative does today is to monitor every smart contract that is deployed now also on Solana, be able to classify in a super accurate way that this contract is an attack contract. And then through a fuzzing simulation, real time understanding of the logic of the contract, understand that you are the target and helping you recover from that. Going back to why audits are not good enough, what we found out is that security is a holistic problem, right? Even if all your code is correct, you can still get exploited from variety of different ways. One example is the front end.
00:05:20.735 - 00:06:01.965, Speaker A: So maybe someone hacked through DNS hijacking, BGP hijacking. Just hack your AWS infrastructure that you hold your web application and replace your web application. So your users are connecting their wallets, pressing the buttons. They think they are interacting with your contracts. Everything is okay with the contracts, but they are actually sending funds to someone else. So there are many different types of attack vectors that you as a project need to cover. From front end attacks to things that are related to your wallets, market manipulation, customer specific attacks that are happening to your protocol, smart contract vulnerabilities.
00:06:01.965 - 00:07:01.525, Speaker A: Hypernative we try to be that one stop shop that knows to monitor, detect all of this and help you to automatically prevent it with these different kind of integration actions, either on chain or off chain. And why is the team good at what it does? It all starts with the people. Hypernative team Combine hundreds of years of cybersecurity experience and applying machine learning in cybersecurity in Traditional markets combined with members that are very versatile and experienced with blockchain and defi technologies. Over the last two years we've been working. Today we are with more than 130 customers. You saw the statistics in the start. HyperNative today knows to detect almost everything with close to zero false positive and working with some of the big names in the industry today as customers.
00:07:01.525 - 00:08:20.505, Speaker A: Some of our customers are listed here and they all trust us to make sure that they are secure and that if anything bad happens to them, we have the means to automatically protect them. So why does it matter to Solana and why we are presenting here? Solana foundation shared the same thinking as hypernative that everyone should have a base layer of security that protects your projects. What we usually see is that builders and new projects a lot of times don't really have a security person in the team very early and even very late especially they don't have enough focus or time to think about all of these things to create all of these things internally. And we want everyone that is building in the Solana ecosystem to be protected and have this base layer of hypernative capabilities. And this is why we are offering a free account for anyone that is building on Solana. Every project can essentially register. I'll show it by the end of the slides how you can contact us but you can onboard the platform in a very easy manner and start using hypernative.
00:08:20.505 - 00:09:04.061, Speaker A: One of our I want to announce few projects already are using Hypernative today in production from the Solana ecosystem. I want to highlight one of them Squad's wallet. So I'm sure many of you heard or are using Squad. Squad is the leading multisig provider for the Solana ecosystem and I'm going to present three use cases that the squads team are going to leverage hypernative on Solana. The first aspect is the multisig monitoring. Essentially you are using. You have a wallet or a few wallets.
00:09:04.061 - 00:10:21.693, Speaker A: You want to make sure that you are monitoring any suspicious or abnormal behavior happening in these wallets from ownership changes, large money movements, transaction initiation, even before they are actually triggered on chain and so on. Essentially to save you from internal or external threats and be able to maybe send these funds to cold storage or do something about these threats. The other aspect, and this is an aspect that Hypernative is working today with a lot of fun funds and asset managers, but also projects you will be able to trigger automated actions with squads wallet based on Hypernative detections and alerts. So a lot of times we work with Asset managers where what we do is they model the positions and the protocols that they invest in. Hypernative essentially knows to detect risk in these protocols before they happen. For example, that these protocols are going to get hacked, trigger an action in the wallet to actually unwind or withdraw the funds before they're actually sold, before they're actually lost. And we've done this.
00:10:21.693 - 00:11:36.199, Speaker A: It's already working in production and many funds have saved considerable amounts of money with it. This is now today integrated also with so you can define this and this works not just for security reasons, but any action or any logic that you want to track on chain. You can essentially connect that action to a squad action and trigger transaction on chain. And the other and the last point that we are working is that we are helping squad's team essentially save and make sure that their on chain presence is secure. So to summarize, to summarize, I think that we've seen hypernative as a super effective tool to protect anyone that's interacting and anyone that is building or investing or running in web 3. We want to make sure that you all have access to this technology. So we did this partnership with the Solana Foundation.
00:11:36.199 - 00:11:55.525, Speaker A: So please feel free to go to our website hypernative IO, fill up the form and you can get access. You can also email us to contact hypernative IO or even directly send me a telegram message with my handle Jessagi. Thank you everyone and stay safe.
