00:00:06.040 - 00:00:33.903, Speaker A: This is a huge stage. Okay. Good afternoon, everybody. I'm Chris Osborne, the founder and CEO at Dialect. In June, we launched Blinks, a new technology in collaboration with Solana Foundation. Lynx or blockchain links change the way that we discover, share and. Did I lose my.
00:00:33.903 - 00:00:57.807, Speaker A: There it is. Try that again. Blinks or blockchain links change the way that we use share and discover the web. 3. Internet. The atomic unit of shareability on the Internet is the URL. Blinks give URLs superpowers and let your users take action right from where the link is shared.
00:00:57.807 - 00:01:47.623, Speaker A: Instead of having to go to a website to take an action, Blinks let your users take action right from where the link is shared. They teleport the action right to where the link is shared. As a part of the launch, we teamed up with the Wallets and some of our favorite dapps to do something incredible. We put crypto right into crypto. Twitter, is my mic going out? Can you hear it again? There we go. On launch day, you could swap tokens and LSTs with Jupiter, Sanctum, Meteora and Phantom, buy and mint, NFTs with truffle and Tensor, vote on governance with Helium and Realms, and subscribe to premium content with Access protocol, among other things. And you could do it all directly from your timeline.
00:01:47.623 - 00:02:44.805, Speaker A: This was made possible right on desktop with integrations from your favorite wallet extensions like Phantom and Backpack. No new downloads were required to make this possible. We launched in June with 12 blinks and two wallet integrations. Today there are supporting wallets and over 400 blinks have been built by hundreds of developers, from the biggest teams to a wave of creative new startups shipping links first before even building their first apps. We've been absolutely blown away by how much you all have been enthusiastic, by your enthusiasm, by your enthusiasm about this new technology. We've also shipped a host of new capabilities and have others coming soon, like sign message, optional transactions and external links. Blinks are a whole new way to take your product to market, to do it at lightspeed and to share it everywhere.
00:02:44.805 - 00:03:27.485, Speaker A: I'm here today, however, to tell you about what's next with Blinks and how they go so far beyond Twitter and the Web two platforms and create a new kind of hyperportable, hyper composable Internet. Blinks construct, deliver and distribute the things you want to do on the web. 3. Internet. Whether that's signable transactions or messages, but they do it in an interesting way. Instead of delivering transactions via a website or a mobile app, as is typically done today or requiring developers to integrate and understand your SDKs directly. Blinks deliver ready to sign transactions directly from URLs.
00:03:28.225 - 00:04:16.205, Speaker B: This simple restructuring has enormous consequences and opens up a wide array of creative new opportunities. So let's go through some of them. Yes, Blinks let you deliver experiences directly to Web2 platforms like Twitter, but you can also teleport buttons directly between Web3Dapps, creating a more seamless, composable and immersive experience for your users. Drip, one of Solana's leading creator platforms, uses Blinks to bring functionality from their partner sites into their platform directly. Mallow Blinks let you bid on auctions and Tensor Blinks let you buy NFTs on their marketplace. With both of these, you do not have to go to the underlying site. All of this happens right on Drip.
00:04:16.205 - 00:05:01.191, Speaker B: Mobile wallets are the front door to crypto for millions of users. Blinks will transform them into super apps with on chain experiences sprinkled throughout the entire product. Deploy your crypto to earn more using DeFi, list your NFTs or buy new ones. Take action on timely alerts and maybe even buy a Keystone hardware wallet. Blinks teleport the whole blockchain right into your wallet and will bring a new generation of users more on chain. Similarly, innovative socialfi products like Bags are bringing crypto right into their chats, giving your users more to do with their friends. I also see I'm almost on time here, so I'm going to go through these a little more quickly.
00:05:01.191 - 00:05:47.855, Speaker B: They transform the way that we can do security, empowering teams like Blowfish to do more interesting things in security analysis. And as I mentioned before, Blinks dramatically speed up your time to development working with third party providers. The last point I want to make here is that beneath all of this, Blinks are an ambitious new way to build experiences in your actual product. Blinks can now make your product experiences shareable, literally the buttons inside your dapp. Every experience I talked about before is capable. If you build your product with Blinks today, Crypto promises to create a composable Internet in which we own our identity and can take action from anywhere. Blinks are the language of that composability and the technology that will finally take it to market.
00:05:47.855 - 00:05:51.965, Speaker B: We can't wait to see what you build with them. Thank you.
