00:00:01.280 - 00:00:56.284, Speaker A: Ladies and gentlemen, I always start as, like, an MMA moderator. I'm really sorry about that. Welcome to today's Fireside chat, which we've been preparing for weeks. And we're about to share with you a kind of what we both geek out about, which is culture and history and archeology, but also show how that can be tied into the wondrous world of blockchain and the various kind of connections between high tech and these seemingly old school subjects that we can kind of better understand not only what history actually means to us, but understand history to help crack open the future and the human condition. So it'll be some improv, it'll be light banter, highly humorous and just generally impromptu conversation. I would love to. It's an absolute honor to introduce dear friend and a wonderful expert in this field, William Rudolph Lobkowitz.
00:00:56.284 - 00:00:56.812, Speaker A: Hello.
00:00:56.908 - 00:00:57.348, Speaker B: Hello.
00:00:57.436 - 00:01:14.172, Speaker A: Welcome to your own house. Thank you. So we actually had an event happen this morning, which kind of signifies the connection of the modern and the old, so to speak. Would you mind telling us what that was?
00:01:14.268 - 00:01:14.944, Speaker C: Yes.
00:01:15.524 - 00:02:17.244, Speaker B: Well, firstly, I thought I might introduce Sarah a little bit as well, in some way, shape or form, since this is sort of a more of a fireside chat. But we've been working together since 2021, mostly geeking out about history a lot of the time, too, but as a cultural anthropologist as well, and someone who has a very wonderful understanding of history and its importance, but also someone who has a great understanding of how technology can help deepen our understanding of that. We've been working very closely in collaboration with our own collections, which some of you have had the opportunity to see upstairs, but also with different historic properties where we can look for ways to find how to bring them to life and how to keep them relevant in the 21st century. When we. I have my various ancestors who are here looking down upon me. These are my. We've got my ten times great grandfather, who's the man who looks like a poodle, then the eight times great grandfather on the left side over here.
00:02:17.244 - 00:03:15.710, Speaker B: And I think it's interesting being the witness of their gaze right now, thinking about where we are today. Speaking about blockchain and technology here, I don't think this would totally surprise them. I think their concept of what the world looks like today would be the surprising thing, because as much as we talk about how revolutionary this technology is, how we're making great strides and boundaries, we don't know whether this is really respectful to our history or our culture. I think it's wrong to think in this way. Because all of those different, my different ancestors and all of these different people through history were really striving to find new ways of creating new societies that we can live in new ways where we can make contributions as well. Well. And so some people came up to me today and said, you know, thank you for letting us be here.
00:03:15.710 - 00:04:30.778, Speaker B: And I said, thank you for coming, because we can continue putting paintings up on the wall and saying, this is good art and you should appreciate it. But if it doesn't have any relevance in our society today and we're not able to find new ways to connect with it, understand it, and use different tools to do so, it won't last the test of time and what has already been a 700 year history. So Sarah, in her work as well, I wanted to also say, is a research fellow at Oxford as well, is working with the Czech Technical University and runs a research group called Chaos. They don't cause chaos all the time, but they're looking sometimes, but they look at different ways to do that. But one reason why we've become such close friends is that she has this. She's not only fascinated with the history, but she's also been so critical in popularizing this history and helping people understand it and look for new ways for us to work with it today. So today when we, what was happening literally in the concert room right before you started your programming here today, we had signed a memorandum of understanding between our cultural institution and the Czech Technical University here, which was a great stride for us.
00:04:30.778 - 00:04:55.270, Speaker B: It doesn't seem like it's only the second official memorandum we signed with a czech university, and it's with a technical one. The one we signed with before was with the historical faculty. And that might be surprising. There are other institutions and cultural institutions that we can work with here, but I think the technical university will allow us to take great strides and share things with more people as well.
00:04:55.462 - 00:05:54.996, Speaker A: Absolutely. Thank you, William. I'm blushing and very honored that we could do this thing together and that also helping the culture come to life, because I actually remember one of the first times that we met was here during NF Castle. And I would love if you could tell us a little bit more about that, because it was just over a year ago that the last NF castle finished, and roughly about this time, I was still recovering from the incredibly intense hangover that I had. But it was also thanks to William, but also thanks to Josef and porn, that I slowly but surely kind of dragged myself into the blockchain world. And one of the things I was fascinated by is that it's actually not that different from the principles of evolution and social structure and peer to peer exchange that have been happening for, I dare say, millions of years, from exchanging shells in the court du pigeon, which is an archaeological site, which shows one of the first examples of trade, of the archeological evidences of trade. We actually haven't technically or principally moved on all that much.
00:05:54.996 - 00:06:39.468, Speaker A: We've just digitalized the process. And blockchain has just completely fascinated me. I might say maybe something slightly controversial, but I'm actually really happy for the crash that happened, not because of necessarily the contents of your wallets, which I realized was dramatic, but because it's forced people to look at other use cases and the use cases of using blockchain in places like archeology, culture, history. So I'm wandering, will, because you understand this infinitely more than idea, and you've pioneered this in the Czech Republic, and also you talk about it on a global scene, how you have used the phenomenon of nfts beyond just a picture of a monkey, how you've utilized that in helping your collections come to life, but also kind of help history be cemented and understood in a whole different way.
00:06:39.636 - 00:07:39.788, Speaker B: I'd say. With our approach to blockchain, we try to create historical precedents for everything that we're seeing. You were mentioning the exchanging of shells. The idea of a public ledger dates back to the time of Mesopotamia, where you had proof of people's ownership of different properties that existed. And those of you who joined me on the tour today, I gave a little bit of context behind these collections, which have been lost twice and regained twice, first under nazi occupation and then under communist occupation, where our ability to actually restitute these pieces was contingent upon receipts that paper receipts that were given to us by two totalitarian regimes, which literally had Heil Hitler at the end of that receipt. And that was used to reclaim this property in restitution in the 1990s, which was led by my father. Now, you have to imagine we're dealing with 20,000 movable objects spread across 100 different locations during restitution, the complexities around just reclaiming that heritage.
00:07:39.788 - 00:08:43.714, Speaker B: But then, on top of that, having to prove that we were the owners of it resulted in us first restituting those receipts and then using that to prove. And so in the context of our own history, of our family, we've lived through different wars, conflicts that have happened throughout the course of history. This building has been witness to the spark to the 30 years war, which was the defenestration of Prague that happened two palaces away from us here. And being able to have evidence of different historical events that happen throughout the course of history. Ownership structures that have existed as well, is something that is desperately needed and is incredibly important, I think, whether it be for us as individuals. But I come from an arts background, and I spent a short time period working as a researcher at Sotheby's in the old master paintings department. One of the biggest issues we have is around provenance history behind different paintings, where we have to actually prove that the actual lineage of these pieces is authentic and real.
00:08:43.714 - 00:09:22.786, Speaker B: And art historians are notorious for making up some of these histories as well. And so it all has to be proven. The wonderful thing about code is it can't, depending on whether you can work your way around it, if you set things up properly, we won't be able to manipulate those things in our own pursuits of that, we try to create those historic parallels. And I'll get to this Nf Castle concept, which you had originally asked me about when we first started exploring it. That was the reason we started exploring blockchain, were for those reasons. And then we realized we really didn't know much. We needed to learn more.
00:09:22.786 - 00:10:37.454, Speaker B: I started traveling with a group of friends to California, London, France, and learning more about this technology. And then we decided to host a conference here in Prague called Non Fungible Castle, which was an opportunity for us to connect both the blockchain and the cultural space, where we invited people from two completely different fields to have a conversation and sort of form a narrative about how these two different groups could work together and create lasting change. And the unique ability of this palace, in these buildings, in our family, I think, is to act as mediators between these different groups so that we can create that understanding. So we had crypto degens on stage with, like, the head of the Salvador Dali foundation, for instance, which was absurd, but it was really fun because they got in a heated debate, and I think it was important for them to raise their concerns. So the head of the Dali foundation was a complete nonbeliever in this technology, actually. And we knew that putting him on stage, too. We knew that he would actually criticize it, but it allowed him to actually poke holes into different arguments, and then vice versa, and for people to learn from one another.
00:10:37.454 - 00:11:41.216, Speaker B: So when we think about. So that conference was great in doing that. And one thing we also pioneered during that conference was this concept of proof of patronage, where we use historical precedents once again, upstairs in the collections, where we have a receipt from Beethoven, acknowledging his receipt of 175 gulden for the lobkowitz's patronage of his music. So you have the original working parts of the third, fourth, and Fifth Symphony upstairs, which you can see. But that receipt we used as a way of creating a concept called proof of patronage, where we took a painting that was in need of restoration, there would be a whole or a scratch in the canvas. We would take a digital reproduction of that piece and sell it as an NFT at the cost of the restoration of the piece, meaning that when you purchase the NFT, you're paying for the restoration of the piece. And six to nine months later, we then send them a second NFT as an airdrop, where they see the restored piece in its final form.
00:11:41.216 - 00:12:16.872, Speaker B: And this way, we're taking people on the journey of philanthropy, where they can better understand what goes into putting these pieces together. We treat them exactly as we'd treat any other donor, and it's like adopting an animal at a zoo in many ways, too. But these animals are different paintings, and many of the painting, this lady you see over here is the result of a restoration. Actually, there's another lady over there in that room. That's a result. There are 65 different paintings that we managed to restore, including this room. We're actually really lucky we're in this room because there's a lot of things I can point to.
00:12:16.872 - 00:12:58.508, Speaker B: This is the Chinese Belvedere, which is painted with these beautiful frescoes that date back to the 20th century. We created a 3D NFt, actually working with known origin, where it actually allows you to import the NFT into certain digital metaverses where you can walk into the space, see exactly what it looked like before and what it looked like after. And you're capturing a moment in history in that transformation, which is interesting. So that's been our most successful endeavor, I'd say, in this space, but we're continuing to explore as we keep moving forward. But the conversation is so key between the different groups to do it.
00:12:58.676 - 00:13:46.188, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. And it's a beautiful example of how, like, a spark go. That sounds like a. Some kind of communist quote, but, like, how a spark can cause a fire, you know? And with Williams and the family's work, it's inspired a lot of people around the Czech Republic, and not just in the Czech Republic, to get the ball rolling with really using blockchain in the cultural sphere, including myself, because I was, first of all, I had no idea what you were talking about. And I was like, okay, I really need to educate myself so I can hold my own in a conversation. And I became absolutely fascinated by this. Not only do we hope to pursue this at Oxford with Doctor Katherine Eccles, who is very much exploring how to digitalize cultural heritage in a scalable way, but purely for me as an archeologist, blockchain actually becomes very, very interesting in how you record history.
00:13:46.188 - 00:14:14.288, Speaker A: There's this kind of age old kind of philosophical question that you ask archaeologists. When do you stop being a grave robber and you start being an archaeologist? And part of that, actually is just the period of time that passes between the active live history and, like, between the thousands of years of what you're exploring. But at the same time, we often see history as something long in the past without realizing that we're actually living it. We're living through an israeli Palestine conflict. We're living through a war right now. We're living through an economic crisis. We live through a pandemic.
00:14:14.288 - 00:15:04.724, Speaker A: Like, in a thousand years time, there'll be kids, poor bastards, you know, reading this in the history books, trying to get all the dates lined up, and thinking, oh, my God, what is the interpretation of these events? And it's very much our responsibility to have that interpretation in as diverse way as possible, but also in a way that cannot be changed. Because, I mean, I'm a huge fan of memes. I don't know how about you guys? But memes are great. And there's this great meme that basically says, oh, isn't it cool that, like, only the good guys ever won wars in history? And it's very much the case that if you do win a war or if you do have the economic or kind of military superiority, you get to write that interpretation of history and even key events. I mean, I was in bed at 02:00 a.m. Which shows you how slightly unhinged I am reading about Hannibal's crossing of the alps. And I was.
00:15:04.724 - 00:15:34.840, Speaker A: Sorry, I was reading some of the interpretations. And actually, even one of the most prolific aspects of the punic wars, we don't understand. We don't know how many elephants survived. You know, some say twelve, some say one out of the 37. It all depends on the roman interpretation of basically the sources of the time. But that's just Hannibal's crossing of the alps. Imagine how many different interpretations of history archaeology are being done and how that's being used to justify the present.
00:15:34.840 - 00:16:23.706, Speaker A: The ruling of the nation states, foreign policy, domestic policy, all of that is often based on historiography that is often highly skewed. So one of my huge hopes is using blockchain to make history as objective as possible, the interpretation as kind of cemented as possible, but also in archaeology, to prevent people, for example, from stealing our stuff and stealing our ideas. To give you a concrete example, I just returned from a expedition in Guatemala where we're looking for a lost maya city. Unfortunately, there's an embargo on the information, so I can't tell you nothing. But in January, there might be something. Who knows? Nonetheless, like, one of the things that happened to us from a previous expedition there is that kind of competing archaeological team. We don't know who it was.
00:16:23.706 - 00:16:48.154, Speaker A: The Americans stole one of the stele that we left there. So we basically dug it carefully underneath some earth. We left it there, hoping to return to it the next season, and voila, it was gone. And then the people who were working said, yeah, they basically just have a helicopter. They lifted it out of here. We're like, yep, the czech expedition doesn't have money for a helicopter, but that's fine. But it's not just about the physical object anymore.
00:16:48.154 - 00:17:55.420, Speaker A: For example, what they then do is they take it to a museum and they chronologically alter the interpretation of that stealer to make sure that we cannot trace that interpretation to that particular stealer, and that they're basically, like, in the clear, because there's no context for that find. And, like, all that, like, basically we have some, like, very grainy photographs from, like, a motorola phone and maybe, like, some notes in the field book. So using blockchain as a proof of find or a proof of discovery, but also proof of interpretation, because often you chat by the campfire and you say, oh, this stealer might have a snail with a penis playing basketball, which you might laugh at. That's a genuine maya iconography that has been discovered. So, I mean, archeologists, whenever we don't know, we just say it's a fertility ritual, right? But this is a snail with a penis playing a ball cord game is an actual thing that we have seen many times, worryingly and scarily enough. I mean, the Maya were not as ethereal as we think they were. But, for example, you say that interpretation, where do you write it down? How do you record it? You're just chatting amongst friends, and then someone can basically leak that out and publish that before you.
00:17:55.420 - 00:18:31.814, Speaker A: And then all the. But it's not just about the prestige. It's all about the grant money and the h index and the citations that then go to that person, which means that you won't be able to get money for your research just because you were too loose with your interpretation of a snail with a penis. So using blockchain for archaeology, as ludicrous as it might sound, is something that will really help history, I think, form and shape itself, and it's the best gift that we can give to the future generations as well. Sorry, I got all teary eyed about a snail with a penis, and that's the last time I used that phrase today. Sorry, will.
00:18:33.794 - 00:19:42.614, Speaker B: I won't circle back to the graphic nature of what you just said. The thing I wanted to acknowledge there, which was quite interesting, is capturing historic moments, actually, when you, as an archaeologist, visits the site and trying to make sure that we have some evidence of you being there, seeing the site. This is something that we were also quite interested in exploring, proving people's participation in historic events. There is one issue we had in this country, for instance, for a while, where people pretended or said they were actually participating in the Velvet revolution, for instance, that happened in this country in 1989. And we see these different po ops on different Twitter spaces that we're on and everything, and some of us may poo poo it in that moment and say, oh, it's just another po op. I don't know if I need this. But it's actually very interesting from a historical perspective to show where people have traveled over time, what they've experienced, and proving that you've participated in an important historical moment.
00:19:42.614 - 00:20:56.648, Speaker B: And when I see these are politicians that we're working with today who claim to have been there in that moment, when really they were supporting some of the regimes that were actually in place that were preventing these freedoms and the creation of our democracy. It's very, very difficult to prove. And this is another thing we tested at our conference. It's really, we used it as a wonderful breeding ground for testing different things and seeing what actually worked. Many people are testing NFT tickets in different forms for events and what's taking place. We had a lot of trouble doing this because we had a lot of attendees of our conference who were not crypto natives, and we were worried that if we were going to do this, people wouldn't be willing to set up a wallet purchase, crypto purchase the actual ticket. And so we worked with another company, which is check based here, called STRV, which was able to create email bound wallets where people could actually pay in fiat for tickets to then eventually get the NFT tickets themselves, which they can later claim on their wallets if they'd like to or not.
00:20:56.648 - 00:21:59.884, Speaker B: But we stayed true to the concept of actually using nfts that prove your attendance in a certain event. And the NFT itself transformed over time based off of what portions of the event you scanned in for. Actually, this was an incredible nightmare and very difficult to put together and drove our team absolutely insane from an organizational perspective. So I felt, and it's also very difficult from my perspective, because I'm trying to explain to our internal team here the importance of us trying to prove this. This is a historical moment where we're testing out this technology, but it's still. People don't understand the feat of what we are actually able to achieve on the back end, which can be quite disconcerting sometimes. But that's, again, why I'm so excited you're all here, because helping people better understand how we're able to change our societies, or speaking about it in terms that people can understand.
00:21:59.884 - 00:22:53.654, Speaker B: For instance, the way we did this was through a ticketing app where it generated a QR code that changed over time. And the QR code represented multiple wallets that you could associate with, with that QR code. So you scan the QR code, it checked your different wallets, you could connect to different chain based wallets and would determine whether you had the NFT needed to actually access the space. And what I would try to explain to people is imagine your Apple wallet and all those different cards that you have, or tickets and everything. Imagine if all of that is represented by one QR code. It could be your university degree, it could be the access to your home. And this is what I'd say has been the biggest struggle for us generally, is trying to figure out how do we explain this in a way that's understandable and comprehensive for people to get until eventually they'll become commonplace.
00:22:53.654 - 00:23:15.774, Speaker B: And so that's where I think I'm grateful to people like Sarah, too. It's the historical context that explains this isn't anything different. We shouldn't be afraid, and that we should. If something doesn't work for you, or if there's something that intimidates you, how can we adjust the product or what we create to fit what your needs may be?
00:23:16.434 - 00:23:54.056, Speaker A: Thank you, by the way. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a few minutes left. I also want to give you the opportunity to ask some questions, but I've got a final. I say one question. It's like one question, but there's three hidden within that, the way that I talk, but just a quick precursor to that. I want to ask about the fetish of the physical object, because we're still like, I think, in our minds not quite able to divorce that a certain way. And just to give a concrete example, with this Guatemala shtick, one of the things that we're not allowed to do, unless it goes through a really long round of the guatemalan bureaucracy, is publish whatever photos of whatever finds and whatever buildings we might find.
00:23:54.056 - 00:24:24.440, Speaker A: And given that Guatemala has been a dictatorship for the last 40 plus years, they had a civil war on. They actually had elections while we were in the jungle. So we had an escape through Mexico. It was a lot of fun. I didn't tell that to my mom and granny. One of the things that we can't do is, for example, we have to wait for a really long time to show any evidence of the finds themselves. One quick bypass that we found is actually virtualizing and digitalizing some of those objects using photogrammetry and 3d scanning and recreating them the way that they might have looked 3000 years ago.
00:24:24.440 - 00:25:07.338, Speaker A: We're actually able to show them without showing the actual photo, because guatemalan bureaucracy doesn't account for 3d scanning. It doesn't account for augmented and virtual reality, which is quite interesting, and we're playing around with that at the moment. But I want to kind of circle back to both a fascinating guest that you had at last, NF Castle Luti art, but also how you view, you know, the future of your own collections and the future of your own physical objects that are everywhere around us. Because, of course, we can have, you know, 3d scans, but there's still emotion. We are humans, and it's your family stuff that you've been collecting for the last 700 years. So how do you kind of bridge the realm between the physical and the virtual in your head? And also, like in the Lobkowitz family.
00:25:07.386 - 00:26:15.540, Speaker B: Strategy, I mean, I think this is an issue for museums around the world, is when we talk about digitization and finding ways to make these pieces more available to people, I think that's an incredibly noble and important pursuit. However, we can't forget that these objects still need care and help and preservation. And so digitizing can help people understand these things, bring them closer to people, so that you're not creating physical or financial barriers for people to understand the art, which is fantastic. But the practical and thing that we will have to deal with in the end of the day is that these pieces still need to be taken care of. And this is where licensing becomes an incredibly complicated field as well. There's nothing preventing any of you from taking your iPhone or your Android, taking a photo that will be of a high enough resolution of these different paintings to post it in your rooms and do whatever you like. But one thing that helps fund these collections are licensing things that we do around products or things that we do.
00:26:15.540 - 00:27:01.544, Speaker B: There's technically, though, nothing stopping someone from taking a photo of this lady and creating a pillow, which creates problems. We still need to find ways to support these collections and make them accessible. So the way we think about technology as well is we want to enhance our understanding of the pieces, but not take away the physical experience that you can have with them. And you mentioned Ludi art, which is an interesting example. The people who put together this organization are of nigerian origin, but live in the UK. And there have been huge issues around the british museum. And some of the pieces are a lot of the pieces in that great majority of the pieces in that museum that have been taken over the course of Britain's colonial history.
00:27:01.544 - 00:28:36.552, Speaker B: And the Benin bronzes in particular, have been something that have captured the attention of many different people around the world, because this is the national heritage of the kingdom of Benin, which represent what is today modern day Nigeria, primarily, that has. That has these pieces that are critical to that cultural heritage, which were systematically taken and looted from the king's palace. And the concept that this group came up with is that they were stealing back their heritage. And so they went into the british museum, they scanned these pieces using photogrammetry, and they claim back the piece without necessarily stealing it. Technically, there are all sorts of issues around that from a licensing perspective, from the perspective of the museum, but they weren't really going to get into an argument about this whatsoever, because it was problematic from a pr perspective, to say the least. Regardless, it was actually a really great initiative, because they worked with different artists, nigerian artists, to create different interpretations of that Benin bronze. And they shared the data with them, open source, so that they could actually create their own nfts based off of the project, which supported nigerian artists in that area, and also raised a little bit of understanding or know how about this crisis.
00:28:36.552 - 00:29:35.724, Speaker B: So it was very interesting. And generally, the way museums are going about the NFT space or blockchain, I think they're still really exploring this. I was invited to a talk that was organized by the Ministry of Culture of France. And we were one of three international institutions that were invited for this talk. One was the Uffizi museum, which was represented by the italian museums, who sold a version of their Michelangelo's rotund as a one of one that was sold, I think, at €300,000. But 50% of the profits went to a partner company they worked with, and another €75,000 went to legal fees. So probably one of the most well known pieces in the Ofizzi sold, generating a profit of €75,000, which eventually led to the italian government banning all digital sales of works of art within all national institutions.
00:29:35.724 - 00:30:53.934, Speaker B: And they were basically saying that the issues that they were having around this, the other institution was the Belvedere, which created kind of a 10,000 collectible project, which they sold different tiles of the kiss by Gustav Klimt, where about 75% of the tiles were just pieces of gold, which led to the market actually not being so successful. And they spoke a little bit about that, but it was another interpretation of creating a community around it. And then there was us, and then there are twelve other institutions in France which were also looking at their own projects. But it's funny how the perspective has changed now, where it's not necessarily about, and this is where we're heading, too, it shouldn't be about generating, necessarily huge amounts of profit for the museum. There are still revenue sources that are needed, obviously, so it is welcome. But I think the way people are looking right now in the museum space are, how do we create communities around our museums so that we will encourage younger audiences to continue visiting? To give you perspective, with our own institution, we raise money every year to support these collections. And everything we do, the entire collection staff and curators who work here, are all from privately raised funds that support their salaries and their activities.
00:30:53.934 - 00:31:43.010, Speaker B: Our restorations are done based off of how much money we're able to raise to support the collections. And we do this without, primarily without public funding or very limited. And the age bracket for most of our donors are between 60 and 80 years old. Now, from my perspective as a next generation and someone who is trying to think about how are we able to preserve these things for the future, it's become abundantly clear that we really need to look at finding new ways to generate interest in these collections, where it becomes relatable to other people, where we're not sitting in an echo chamber of our curators thoughts as we're going through, but finding ways to make this culture as relevant as possible for people so that they want to find ways to preserve it, protect it, and share it with others, which is the mission of these collections. Sorry, that was a really long answer.
00:31:43.042 - 00:32:41.530, Speaker A: As well, but extremely interesting. I think the wonderful thing is you've created such a welcome, open sandbox here, and absolutely everything's our popularization with this in academia, that we are in our ivory towers kind of talking very kind of obscurely about things that only interest us. And it's both a role of cultural institutions and academics to make sure that we can talk to the average person, and I think, at least, like in my head, something that sticks out. Last year at NF Castle at Nella Hosavest, where you had people basically collecting NFTs as they completed certain activities, and there were kids running around collecting NFTs without even realizing it. That's exactly the kind of use case how you can bring something that was a kind of fetishized thing for people to speculate on and buy lamborghinis from, to actually being a pro people tool and a pro people technology that can also give another dimension to culture, which is so, so important. So thank you so much for pushing that forward and having the bravery. I know it's often not easy.
00:32:41.530 - 00:33:01.718, Speaker A: And with CTU and Oxford, I'll do everything that we can to support those endeavors, whether it's virtualizing physical buildings or objects and trying to make that dream of tomorrow a reality. Right. Anyone has. Yes, the cyberpunk. Steampunk. Gentlemen, I love your mask. Please.
00:33:01.806 - 00:33:02.594, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:33:03.574 - 00:33:11.994, Speaker C: How do you see the concept of the immutable authenticity in the era of AI generated content, both of you?
00:33:12.614 - 00:34:02.896, Speaker A: Oh, thank you. That's actually a very good question. We discussed this again last year's NF castle with Sophia robot from Hanson Robotics, where we discussed, when something is generated by AI, obviously you can track that somehow in the database and to at least like register that moment of generation as a unique moment, obviously, sometimes with the structure of neural networks. And by the way, I'm no expert at this, I merely pretend. But from the little that I do know, it's very difficult to trace which concrete training data that image picked to generate, like what you're seeing at the end, or whether that's what generated, like a poem or a song or whatever that might be. So I think that we need to be able to pinpoint in the database the genesis of that moment and to basically be able to kind of associate that with a concrete kind of generating program. Because there's a big difference, again, with licensing.
00:34:02.896 - 00:35:20.450, Speaker A: OpenAI, at the end of the day, is a private company. If you have an open source generative algorithm. I've seen people. This really kind of made me angry when, for example, Dali in mid journey first came around, there were these kind of small, speculative, I call them the nineties businessman in the Czech Republic, where you kind of speculate with other people's work and other people's intellectual property, and they would generate images in Dali and then sell them, create their own gallery and then sell them for huge amounts of money, just because they were relying on the fact that people don't understand what generative AI actually is. So they generate them for free and then sell them for 50,000 czech crowns a pop, which I actually find disgraceful, especially given that the generative AI mechanisms were partially invented by Thomas Mikolov, who's a czech scientist who doesn't get really any credit for them these days, because he created them as open source mechanisms that people can use so that it gets start being popular, and basically so that the science can progress. So he forewent about 40 patterns to make sure that algorithms like word two vec, which contributed to the augmentation of Google translate, for example, can be used by the general public. So where do you trace the scientific discovery that goes back, you know, ten years to someone who's highly speculative then using the fruits of that labor to generate profit for themselves? It's a massive minefield.
00:35:20.450 - 00:35:42.094, Speaker A: But it goes back to the point, at least for me personally, I was mentioning about history. It's not just history with wars and interpretation of kind of museum heritage, but it's also history, just purely human actions. Scientific discovery, proof of thought, proof of discovery. And I think that blockchain can be really helpful in that. Also in the AI space. Sorry, monologue, sorry.
00:35:43.234 - 00:36:44.166, Speaker B: I think I have less to add in this space as well. I'm less of an expert for sure. What I will say in our case, I think our use of artificial intelligence is there are a lot of really interesting use cases. We spoke with the Czech Technical university today about some things they could look at. One thing that's quite interesting actually, is that our painting by Pieter Bruegel the Elder is a painting that is a series of six paintings, and one of them is lost. And one thing that would be very interesting, if you can replicate the hand of the master as much as possible, is to determine what that six painting could look like. Another area that's interesting is looking at how can we eliminate a lot of manual labor that is done by our curators to catalog our collections to we have 4 library and archival material, and just cataloging that material should take somewhere between seven to ten years with current practices.
00:36:44.166 - 00:37:47.418, Speaker B: At the moment, what we're talking again with the university about is whether we can create where that we can train models to actually read and analyze. Historic German Kohenschrift is a very specific type of writing to actually analyze and digitize and transcribe many of the pieces that are here and create a brand new catalog based off of that, or even ask it to generate a new cataloging system based off of the different material that exists. So it's about eliminating human labor and learning to work with it. And we have a bet right now between one of our curators and one of the people from the Czech Technical university. The winner gets a crate of champagne. Whoever is able to transcribe and recatalog just the catalog that was written in 1923 that we're still working with to this date, gets a creative champagne. So we're going to see who wins, the curator or AI.
00:37:47.418 - 00:37:48.922, Speaker B: But it's a fun test.
00:37:49.098 - 00:37:50.374, Speaker A: We have a lot of fun.
00:37:53.034 - 00:37:54.294, Speaker C: Any more questions?
00:37:56.514 - 00:38:41.934, Speaker B: Yeah, one more question. So we mentioned AI, and effectively, AI can create a lot of things without limits, and that's a bit hard for art because they can be too much. Another current is generative art. Wonder what are your opinions on that? I'll start because at our conference we organized, we actually had a lot of generative art pieces on display. And I think it's very interesting because we had a large debate about this, people from the artistic community. There are a lot of people who actually hate generative art with a passion. And I had a conversation with a director of a museum institution here about one generative art piece that we had put on display.
00:38:41.934 - 00:40:00.570, Speaker B: Where we tested this, we asked a group of artists known as, oh my goodness, obvious, based in Paris, actually, who are an artist collective that create generative art pieces. And we gave them access to 150 images of maps that we have in our archive, which aren't on public display. And they're incredibly difficult to display because there are these massive books of maps, and you would have to turn a page to see each one physically, and they're just sitting in a library. So we gave them scans of those pieces, they inputted those inputs into their algorithm to create a brand new animated piece that was trained on their algorithm to put that together. The amount of work that went into that, there's actually quite a bit of work that goes into that coding, and there's artistry in the code itself in order to create a piece. For me personally, I see code as a form of, if it's creating some sort of output, I see it as a tool to create something, to create a work of art that creates some difficulties around the area of AI, I think. But when I'm thinking about generative art, which is done with a purpose, to create something as well that is of an artistic nature.
00:40:00.570 - 00:41:01.684, Speaker B: I see code similar to a paintbrush and those advances of technology. Where I have trouble is when that artistic quality making the separation between artistic quality and an artistic idea that came about and just sort of putting something together for financial gain. And this is something that you see very often in the NFT market. And one thing that really I did not like about the space, because you had these 10,000 collectible projects that were put together which were primarily being created by generative art, but like generative pieces that were being generated by a machine which have artistic qualities but were not art for art's sake, they were done for image composition. Exactly. And that, I wouldn't call that a work of art. I would call it an instrument for.
00:41:01.684 - 00:41:04.844, Speaker B: There's not an artistic act that goes into it as much.
00:41:06.504 - 00:41:45.398, Speaker A: Thank you. Yeah, just very briefly on that, I think I love historical parallels for that reason, because a very similar debate was going when there was the rise of the impressionists. Because basically, okay, I love van Dyck, for example. I love the old dutch masters, but at the same time with manufacturing and the industrial revolution, you had the manufacturing of paintbrushes. Suddenly you didn't have to have a workshop of 20 poor, underpaid bastards preparing your paints and your canvas and everything. And essentially the old school generation got quite angry about the fact that suddenly you have Monet and Manet sitting by the Seine and they can whip out three paintings in a day. That is disgraceful.
00:41:45.398 - 00:42:25.068, Speaker A: We had to labor with blood and sweat and tears for three months to create one cuff on a collar. So I think that we're going through a very similar thing now. And it's important also to create these historical parallels so that people realize, exactly as William said, that there's a lot of art that goes into the code, into making sure that the thing even runs to help with the post interpretation for the post processing. So, yeah, it's definitely not a conversation that we have for the first time. And I think it's a thing with AI in general, with humanity, that we love hard work because it what gives us justification, because that's the way our society is currently structured. And that's one of the things that I'm interested to look into in our research group. I have no answers.
00:42:25.068 - 00:42:28.264, Speaker A: Just like fascinated by very similar things. Yes.
00:42:29.644 - 00:43:04.254, Speaker D: Hi. So obviously you guys are like history experts, right? But I want to connect back to what you mentioned in terms of, like, thinking in, you know, 5000 years, you know, the children of that time, kind of like looking back and thinking also. Okay, what are your thoughts on the technology not necessary for the historical pieces that we have. One of the most amazing collections I've seen in my life here. But for the artists of now and of the future and the tools that they can use with this technology for themselves now and for the future generations.
00:43:07.014 - 00:43:39.204, Speaker A: Just very quickly from me, I think what we will have to deal with is a restructuring of the hierarchy of culture. I used to work in museums very briefly when I was working for an AI company. We used to predict visitation based on various internal, external factors. So, for example, we figured out why people are not coming to the National Gallery anymore. And it wasn't because of Brexit, it was because it was very expensive to stay in the center of London. So people would just stay on the outskirts of London. And even though that the National Gallery was for free, the trains are so expensive that it wasn't worth for them to come into the center.
00:43:39.204 - 00:44:31.554, Speaker A: So it was a different way in which people started interacting with culture and interacting with the city as well. And I think there is, unfortunately, in some circles, or at least like I saw this, in the kind of old british institutions that I'm most closely associated with a huge kind of snobbery and elitism and kind of like a knowledge barrier that doesn't really allow people, even though it's free and even though you want to democratize it, people feel awkward because they don't know as much, they don't know the connections, and they feel scared to even enter the space. So, like where I studied archeology, it's the same type of people studying archaeology over and over and over again. So I think that what we're going to be seeing is a diversification and a democratization of who is involved in high art and high culture. And that's going to massively change the dynamics of society because the two are so closely intertwined. How? I don't know, but I just hope to get as many people involved in it as possible because it's the most beautiful thing.
00:44:33.294 - 00:45:15.674, Speaker B: I agree. We're at an interesting crossroads here. I'm quite concerned with how much people really appreciate our cultural heritage and how the importance that people draw upon it. And I hope, looking back, that people will remember our history and where we come from. I find culture to be the source of what makes us who we are today and history. It creates the national identities from the countries we come from, from who we are as individuals. It's history, art and culture that gets us to where we are today.
00:45:15.674 - 00:46:08.564, Speaker B: And it's the first thing, however, that's cut in any national budget, whenever there's a crisis, it's the first thing that we scoff on. When politicians think about, oh, what should we really be spending our money on as well? But when we think about our personal identity and trying to protect something like that, I think it's the most important thing we can do because it protects who we are as individuals. So I hope in the future, when people look back on this time, people will think that there is a, a group of people that feels a sense of responsibility to protect that as well, even if, especially in the arts industry, it's one of the most underpaid industries for people who work in it. But the reason people do, I think, is because they're passionate about protecting a legacy and a heritage that we all source our identity from very often as well.
00:46:11.544 - 00:46:30.850, Speaker C: Amazing. Thanks a lot. Thanks a lot again, Sarah and William. If you two start a podcast, I will subscribe to that if you talk about art history. Well, thank you again. One round of applause for these two. Amazing.
00:46:30.850 - 00:47:09.852, Speaker C: So this was it. That was the whole programming that we have or even didn't really prepare for the event. We will still be able to cowork here until I think, like, 06:00 p.m. There might still be some tea and coffee to drink. And tomorrow, if you still stick in town for a couple more days, join us here as well. There won't be any scheduled talks, but I hope we'll get to talk to each other. Just sit in this gorgeous place in the imperial hall and just work and talk about tech and now even art and history.
00:47:09.852 - 00:47:34.216, Speaker C: So thanks again, Audi. Yeah, if you want, go for it. Thanks all for coming. And there's the event on 28th. So if you are sticking here around for a couple of days, later on, and on 28th Tuesday evening, there's a beerfi developments meetup. So you're really welcome to come there. Yeah, awesome.
00:47:34.216 - 00:47:51.504, Speaker C: If there is, like, anything else you wanted to share, like, some people were asking me about an after party. I didn't really plan anything, but there is a group of, like, 250 people. I'm sure you will find your peers there. So please just do you and, yeah, again, like, I'm bad at, like, descending, so, like, this is it. Well, I will just shut up now.
