00:00:00.200 - 00:00:20.702, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Delegateway refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony so Sano. And today's the 2 June 2022. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So there's been a bit of drama around the op airdrop. I mean, so there's two parts to it, I think. I think one of the bits of drama is just the general vibe towards airdrops these days.
00:00:20.702 - 00:00:58.874, Speaker A: There's a lot of entitlement around that. There's a lot of people thinking that they should have gotten more than what they got. There's a lot of people kind of angry that they basically tried to farm the airdrop and it didn't succeed because their address gets filtered out and all that sort of stuff there. But something unique to optimism and the OP airdrop was a foreign post that was kind of like posted by, not by someone from the team. I think people got the wrong idea. No one from the optimism team posted this, but someone posted something on the forum, on the governance forum, basically saying, hey, we shouldn't give any future airdrops to people who have sold unispop, optimism's first airdrop. And this obviously ignited a lot of discussion within the community.
00:00:58.874 - 00:01:41.060, Speaker A: And one person in particular, Kobe, decided to kind of like weigh in with you. You know, all the reasons why this is a bad idea. Now, the actual post itself, you can go give a raid. But what I want to focus on is kind of like his reasons for why he thinks it's a bad idea to basically, I guess, buy users or future, like buy users from getting future airdrops just because they sold the first one. And I resonate a lot with, with his reasoning here. So let's just go through it one by one so that his first reason is that they, you know, people sell because they think the valuation of op is currently too high and they can wait until it becomes aligned with their expectations in order to participate in governance and thus have a larger governance share. So I think this is true for a lot of, a lot of kind of like tokens in general.
00:01:41.060 - 00:02:23.166, Speaker A: I mean, as I said, I don't particularly want to spend too much time talking about the price or valuations of these things, but, you know, if you look, kind of look at past tokens and how they've been distributed, and if they have a, like a low circulating supply and a high fully diluted value, more often than not they trend down, right? So that might be something people are kind of like playing defensively against. They don't want to be stuck kind of like, you know, holding the bag if it was kind of, like, overvalued to them. And maybe later on they'll buy back in when they think it's a fair value. And I've seen a few people in the Discord channel say that, and that's a totally kind of, like, valid thing to do. Right? And then Kobe's second point here is, you know, people think that the valuation is okay, but they expect a post airdrop dump. They want to buy lower, and they think they can sell quickly before this air trough dump happens and rebuy more. Op.
00:02:23.166 - 00:02:52.456, Speaker A: Again, this goes to the trend of, like, most of the airdrops that we see, especially in bear markets where, you know, they have, like, a lot of hype behind them. I mean, op was one of the most hyped, kind of like tokens and airdrops. And they start off at a really high valuation and then trend down over time. You can go look at so many different tokens, even if they're part of, you know, really, really amazing projects. Ens, for example, tokens been down only because it launched. I pretty much like, I mean, it launched, it got a lot of hype, and then it was a high volatility diluted coin. Not as bad as others.
00:02:52.456 - 00:03:31.614, Speaker A: You know, they did a healthy airdrop for people, but still, right. Generally, it was, it was definitely kind of like, fits in that dy DX, things like that. Right? So, so, yeah, I mean, the valuation maybe is, you know, can be okay as well on some of these things, but there's might, I mean, more likely than not, there's usually, like, an airdrop dump, right? Because people, obviously people want to sell, like, the free money that they got. So some people will kind of, like, wait for that to happen and be like, okay, well, I'll sell now, and then I'll wait and buy back in sort of thing. Kobe's third point here is, you know, the airdrop is meaningfully large for a person's net worth. So selling some tokens makes a big difference to them, but they still believe in the future of optimism. Again, totally resonate with this.
00:03:31.614 - 00:04:13.226, Speaker A: Look, guys, like, depending on how many tokens you got, this could be a $1000 airdrop or it could be ten, $10,000 airdrop, right? So even a $1,000 is a lot of money to, to a lot of people. Like, imagine, you know, you said to someone kind of like, that's not even in crypto. Hey, here's this kind of like free $1,000 from this airdrop that you got from basically just being active within kind of like the crypto community. But, you know, don't sell it because you might not get tokens in the future. I mean, it's just kind of silly, right? So of course they're going to sell it and why shouldn't they? Like, I very much encourage people to, to sell it if it's, if it's kind of like money that could really improve their lives. You know, that thousand dollars can go a lot, a long way for a lot of people, and a lot of times it's more than that. So.
00:04:13.226 - 00:04:36.204, Speaker A: Yeah, again, totally don't blame people for wanting to sell if it's kind of like meaningful for their net worth as well. Right, next point, you know, they saw people sold on airdrop addresses and rebought another addresses to anonymize their on chain activity. Again, legitimate thing to do. Might be a bit, kind of tricky with taxes and things like that. I'm not sure how many people do this, but there is definitely a class of people that do. And then obviously he mentions the tax obligations. And I talked about this yesterday.
00:04:36.204 - 00:04:58.214, Speaker A: That is probably one of the main reasons people would sell, I would say. Because as soon as you claim it, in a lot of jurisdictions, it's basically taxed as normal income. And you have to basically cash out some to pay the tax. Or if you've got the money already, you don't have to kind of like pay it, but you still have to record it. And so you don't have to cash out the tokens to pay it. You can probably pay it from, from other money that you've got, but you still have to record it. Right.
00:04:58.214 - 00:05:19.426, Speaker A: So, but a lot of times people just kind of cash out what they need for, for taxes there. Um, and there's last two points here. You know, people are selling 90% of their crypto portfolio because they are scared of the bear market, but they will we buy in a couple of years. Of course, you know, that makes total sense as well. Um, and they are fucking wrecked. And this dollar and this income helps them a lot. Maybe one day, if they're no longer wrecked, they can afford to participate in governance of the projects they believe in.
00:05:19.426 - 00:05:52.084, Speaker A: Again, again, this goes back to his other point about people sign because it's a material part of their net worth. And yeah, if you're wrecked, if your portfolio has been down only because you bought at the top in November of 2021 and you're still around, definitely you want to be taking all the money you can get. And I don't blame people for that again. Now, definitely go read kind of, like, Kobe's post here. It's quite lengthy and jives dive deeper into this stuff. But yeah, I just wanted to kind of, like, highlight the reasons why people would kind of, like, sell, even if they're bullish on optimism and op, even if they want to participate in governance. You know, there are always reasons why people kind of, like, want to sell these things.
00:05:52.084 - 00:06:36.576, Speaker A: And look, I thought it was just, the original proposal was interesting, but interesting doesn't mean that I think it's good or bad. It just means that, like, it caught my attention, was like, okay, you know, I've thought of this before in the past. Like, I mean, I've thought about how to do airdrops, like, differently a lot of times, and I've spoken about it on the refill because I think airdrops at this point in time are mostly broken and mostly don't lead to the outcomes that people want them to lead to. It's all well and good for people to get free money. Like, I'm, I'm happy for people who get this money, and it's actually making a material difference to their lives. But in saying that, I think at the end of the day, there's a lot of entitlement, as I said, with these airdrops, and a lot of people just think that it deserves more than what they've got. And the funny thing is, a lot of these people will literally just sell it as soon as they get it.
00:06:36.576 - 00:07:25.150, Speaker A: They may not even kind of, like, need the money for any of the reasons that, that Kobe's outlined here. They may just be signing it because they want to go buy some more stuff for themselves, right? Maybe some more luxuries, or maybe they want to, want to kind of, like, increase their net worth, or maybe they want to stack more ETH instead of having op. And it's kind of like, okay, well, should the airdrop have gone to those people to begin with? And who knows, right? Like, I'm not saying it should or shouldn't, but, and it's very, very hard to filter for that. Um, but, yeah, I I think that just airdrops in general, there's a lot more kind of stuff that needs to go into it. I did praise optimism's airdrop originally, and I still think it's better than prior ones because of the criteria that they use. And I'm not just saying that because I got a big airdrop from it I think in general, widening the criteria set instead of just using, hey, you used optimism a couple of times. Here's some tokens, or you used our app a couple of times here, some tokens.
00:07:25.150 - 00:08:04.506, Speaker A: I think widening this set is really good, but there has to be much more thought put into airdrops rather than just the criteria that's required. And there needs to be kind of like much more thought put into tokens in general. Like, you know, if people want or if teams want, if projects want, if communities want the tokens that they love to stop going down, only they have to improve the tokenomics. Like I've talked about uni a bunch on, on the refill before. I get that. You know, potentially sometime in the future uniswap can turn on the fee take and that fee take and go to uni holders and always kind of like well and good. But you know, the longer that takes, the less faith people have and you know that they just sell right, or they just don't buy uni.
00:08:04.506 - 00:08:42.626, Speaker A: And it's taken a while at this point. And, and the thing is, is that uni still uniswap, still young. I'm not saying whether they should or shouldn't, but, and I spoke about, I think I spoke about this yesterday, that Uniswap's governance is quite, quite, quite kind of like bad right now as well. I don't know if I talked about, yes, I was talking to someone about this where I basically said that, yeah, I was talking to someone on a call, actually didn't say it on the refuel. But basically what I was saying was that I think a lot of people in this industry get the wrong idea about kind of like leadership and coordination roles. It doesn't mean that a project is centralized just because it has some sort of leadership or someone coordinating things. It's actually a really kind of like needed thing because you've seen what happens to projects that don't have these roles in place.
00:08:42.626 - 00:09:17.744, Speaker A: They kind of say, hey, we've got a token now we're decentralized into the community, and they kind of like put their dao out there and then they just kind of fail because no one's coordinating, no one's leading. And anyone who steps up to lead is usually not the right person for the job. Like, the funny thing about leadership voids is that they most of the time get filled by the wrong people. And we've seen this play out like plenty of times in crypto and outside of crypto. So those are all things to consider there. But I encourage you to read Kobe's kind of like forum post here and all the replies as well. You know, I mean, some of the reply, or probably most of the replies aren't really great, but there are some gems in there, some back and forth and things like that as well.
00:09:17.744 - 00:09:42.318, Speaker A: So yeah, I think it's a, it's an interesting proposal overall. Again, it didn't come from the core team. Even if the core team thinks it's good or bad, it didn't come from them. It came from some random account on the forum. Now, whether the random account belongs to the core team, I don't know. But, you know, that random account did it what definitely wasn't the, the core team on the face there, so. And not, nor do I think they really would be caring too much about this sort of stuff.
00:09:42.318 - 00:10:08.482, Speaker A: Like, I feel like future airdrops, the way they're going to do it, is probably going to be like very different to the way they did the first airdrop. They're going to learn from it, they're going to be iterative with it, just like they're going to be iterative with their governance process. I kind of covered that last week, I believe, or the week before or something like that. But yeah. Anyway, go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description. Alright, so something that I kind of like, want to talk about when it comes to, I guess like aetherium's dominance within the ecosystem.
00:10:08.482 - 00:10:42.660, Speaker A: Now this is a screenshot taken from crypto fees dot in fo, which is one of my favorite websites for tracking various things within. Tracking, sorry, the fear revenue of different crypto networks. Now this is so on there. They've got like apps and layer ones and L2s and everything. So I've just filtered it to show layer ones and L2s, kind of like here. So basically what you can see from this is that the top six of the networks that are generating the most fear of a new all EVM based. So ethereum layer one, obviously the EVM binance smart chain is literally a fork of ethereum.
00:10:42.660 - 00:11:07.926, Speaker A: It's just a centralized fork. Optimism is EVM equivalent. Layer two arbitrum is EVM compatible. They use their own thing called the AVM, but it's basically functions the same way as the EVM avalanche. The C chain is obviously like a straightfork of Geth and polygon. The PoS chain is also kind of like EVM equivalent. There is forked but like modified with their own consensus engine and things like that.
00:11:07.926 - 00:11:36.414, Speaker A: So same with kind of like avalanche, right? And then if you kind of, like, made your way down the list, like, if I bring up crypto fees on kind of, like here, there are a few others underneath, but I didn't feel like it was relevant. But there's Cardano, Nia, and then Phantom, another EVM chain. And then just like, a bunch of inconsequential change. But Cardano has, what, $17,000 of 24 hours fees. Nia is at 13,000 and phantom is at 12,000. So again, inconsequential. Just generally there.
00:11:36.414 - 00:12:13.514, Speaker A: But yeah, you may be wondering why I look at fair venue as something to be proud of or something that is kind of, like, important. It's because I think it's one of the hardest metrics to game. You can easily kind of like game or manipulate things like total value locked active addresses and other kind of metrics like that. But with fear of renew, it's extremely hard because of the fact that, I mean, at least on a theorem layer one, you know, 80% ish of those fees are burned. So, like, if you're trying to. And the rest of it go to miners. So even if kind of like miners wanted to, I don't know, for some reason make the fear of a new look larger than what it is.
00:12:13.514 - 00:12:42.924, Speaker A: They could do that prior to 1559, and it might have kind of worked. If they work together, it's some kind of, like, weird thing. But post 1559, it's kind of, like, irrational because they'd be burning 80% of the money anyway. Right. And the thing is, the reason why I look at kind of like, fair revenue as well, is it just represents block space demand. Like, how in demand is block space? Well, Ethereum's block space is in extreme demand. That's why people have gone to other networks, either layer ones, L2, side chains, whatever you want to go to.
00:12:42.924 - 00:12:56.196, Speaker A: That's the excess demand. That's kind of like falling off. That's the people who can't afford a theorem layer one. And again, that's. That's kind of like a result of, um, the in demand block space here. And you can see obviously, uh, binance, smart chain. Sorry.
00:12:56.196 - 00:13:17.322, Speaker A: Obviously. Sorry. I should say optimism. Had a spike here because of the op token launch. Uh, they typically at around 50 to 100,001 day fees. Uh, same with arbitrum, uh, avalanche fees, actually. Uh, the funny thing about avalanche is, I think I mentioned this, but they basically, their fees and activity on the sea chain collapse because the thing that was driving most of the activity, some crab game moved to its own subnet.
00:13:17.322 - 00:14:00.146, Speaker A: So it kind of cannibalized itself there. And on polygon, the fees are so cheap, uh, even though they have lots of transactions, more than a theory, um, uh, it doesn't really add up to that much fear revenue, so. And, and binance smart chain here is kind of a, um, a unique thing because, you know, you never hear anyone on crypto, Twitter or anyone in the kind of like west really talking about it or using it, but it's very popular in Asia from what I've heard and from my own investigation. So it is essentially like a shitcoin casino taken to the extreme. Most of the things on there are rugs. It's, most of the things are just kind of like shit coins that you gamble on, kind of like all these kind of like dexs and things like that. And most of the people on there are literally just in it for the casino.
00:14:00.146 - 00:14:26.486, Speaker A: It's basically the casino wing of binance. Right. And I don't think that's a good or bad thing. Like, obviously these protocols are going to be used for whatever they're going to be used for because they're, they're kind of like neutral. And binance smart chain actually kind of like surprised me with, with the staying power that it's had. I thought it would have kind of like gone to the wayside, but yeah, it had a lot of staying power here. But as I said, like in, particularly in Asia, not really that much in the west.
00:14:26.486 - 00:15:13.630, Speaker A: All right, so what's my kind of like, point here? Well, my point here is that the EVM, the ethereum, kind of like, I guess architecture is just so stupidly popular and so widely used that even though it is strictly, quote unquote, worst technology, same with solidity. And, you know, kind of like, annoys a lot of developers. It's going to be used indefinitely. It's going to be like JavaScript, it's going to be ubiquitous, everyone's going to know it. Like, if you're in smart contracts, you have to learn solidity, even if you're not kind of like going to be programming in or going to be working on EVM or anything like that, because we've seen how hard it is to bootstrap other ecosystems. I mean, Solana is the biggest ecosystem outside of, sorry, the basic system that uses something that is not an EVM, that is not solidity. And they've struggled to gain adoption.
00:15:13.630 - 00:15:29.262, Speaker A: That's one reason why they've struggled to gain adoption. You know, I think the other things are like their network going offline as well. I mean, that happens way too frequently. I mean, it used to be a joke, but now it's happening every other day. It's kind of scary. I wouldn't trust any of my funds on that network. But that's, I guess, like that's an aside to what I'm saying here.
00:15:29.262 - 00:15:55.690, Speaker A: Basically, my point is the EVM being such a moat is actually crazy good for Ethereum, even if it's not directly driving value to ETH as an asset. Because obviously any of the activity on binance smart chain is settled in BnB because you have to use BNB to pay the fees. It is not, you know, settled in ETH. Right. There's no ETH being paid for fees. Same with something like avalanche, same with polygon, even because they use matic. Right, but I at least the pos chain for Polygon.
00:15:55.690 - 00:16:30.708, Speaker A: But I think, you know, obviously with the L2s, they use ETH as the gas token, they settle back to ETH for their security, pay all that good stuff. And obviously all of the value on layer one, Ethereum, flows to ETH. But I think there's also a bunch of secondary value that flows from these kind of other chains as well. Because think about it, people bridge in and out of binance smart chain from Ethereum, they bridge it and out of, you know, for avalanche and polygon as well. And that bridging incurs a fee on Ethereum layer one. And there's also a lot of, there's probably a lot of arbitrage that goes on between them and maybe even multi chain mev. Maybe it's happening in a limited way right now, but I think that it might happen in a bigger way down the line.
00:16:30.708 - 00:17:05.604, Speaker A: So there's always first and second order effects of this sort of stuff, but it just further reinforces and cements Ethereum's moat because the EVM is just so, I guess, like prevalent within the ecosystem. And the last two things before I move on, the thing is, is that it's very easy for developers to redeploy their code to EVM networks because of the fact that they don't necessarily have to get audits. I don't really have to change anything. The tooling remains the same, and the same is true for users. Like to use any of these networks, all you have to do is change your RPC and metamask. And it's pretty much the exact same experience as layer one ethereum. Just with different phase, essentially.
00:17:05.604 - 00:17:43.183, Speaker A: Right. So from that point of view, that's why kind of like, these things are so dominant and that just kind of like, keeps building the network effect, keeps reinforcing it. I think it's pretty interesting. So. So, yeah, just wanted to kind of, like, say some things about that, but moving on. So the former employee of NFT Marketplace, Opensea, Nate, is being charged in the first ever digital asset insider trading scheme. For those of you who don't know the backstory here, Nate was the head of product, I believe, at Opensea got caught trade doing insider trading by buying some nfts before they were available to the public, I believe, or, sorry, he was buying nfts that he knew was going to be on the, going to be on the front page of OpenSea.
00:17:43.183 - 00:18:24.204, Speaker A: And I don't think he made much money from it. I think it was like a few tens of thousands of dollars. It wasn't really that much. But essentially he's been charged here for insider trading, which is from the Department of Justice, justice in the US, which is, I guess, interesting and scary. Right? I don't have a legal opinion on this, obviously, I'm not a lawyer, but what my opinion on this basically falls down to, I'm gonna be watching this closely because nfts aren't securities, right? At least they aren't. The ACCA isn't classifying them as securities. They haven't brought any kind of, like, I guess, as far as I know, cases against NFT issuers to kind of like, register as a security.
00:18:24.204 - 00:19:20.306, Speaker A: And if nfts are securities, does that make every collectible security? Does that make my Pokemon cards a security? Do I have insider information when I trade my Pokemon cards or buy things because of, you know, sorry, my insider trading, if I have some kind of information that someone else doesn't have access to due to these things, like, you know what I mean? Like, it's kind of weird when you think about it because at the end of the day, like, nfts, yes, they're financialized products, yes, they're on chain. But I think they're distinctly different from something like a normal ERC 20 token. So I'm gonna be watching this case close, closely. I don't know. Like, I mean, I think obviously this is weird as well for the fact that, like, Nate did some insight. Like some. I mean, he did insider trading, but it was like such a small kind of like a thing for him to do, you know, when he was at Opensea and he's being charged for it, but there's scams, Ponzi's, griffs, all these sorts of stuff happening all the time.
00:19:20.306 - 00:20:01.230, Speaker A: There are centralized exchanges doing insider trading, trading against their customers all the time, and nothing happens to them. So basically what this shows to me is the Department of Justice is going after the easy targets, the ones who probably don't have the money to defend themselves so they can set precedent. Right. And as I said, I'm not a lawyer, don't have legal experience, but. But this is just my read on it, because if they were to go after one of the, I don't know, centralized exchanges for insider trading, they have to have a pretty ironclad case against them. And they know that if they go after them, they're going to be in court for a long time because they can. The defendant will be able to afford, you know, an all star, kind of like kick ass legal team that will drag it out for years to come.
00:20:01.230 - 00:20:24.320, Speaker A: Whereas with Nate here, you know, opensea's not putting up any legal defense for him. He's not even at Opensea anymore. He's gonna have to fork out for it on his own, and he's probably not gonna be able to do that. He's probably just gonna say to them, okay, well, you know, what's the deal here? Like, what deal can I take? And there's probably gonna be a deal of whatever. Like maybe there's a fine, maybe there's some prison. I don't know if he'd get prism time over this. It kind of seems extreme there, but maybe there's kind of like a fine.
00:20:24.320 - 00:20:58.322, Speaker A: Maybe he gets banned from trading. Did you know any kind of assets for a while, whatever, right? So I think it's all about precedent. It's all about kind of fear mongering as well, and kind of like scaring other people. But at the end of the day, I feel like, you know, I mean, look at Doe Quan. Like, he's still out there, he's still doing things. Like, what the fuck? Like, you know what I mean? I'm just kind of running it through my head right now, and I can't really describe how. How, like, just frustrating this is to me personally after being in this ecosystem for so long, seeing so many scammers and grifters and insider traders get away with things.
00:20:58.322 - 00:21:21.758, Speaker A: And then the Department of Justice in the US goes after this person who, yes, okay, he did some insider trading, but the value of what he did was so low. And this is just like, kind of like one guy. So, like, he had an whole operation of insider trading and he was already fired. Yeah. I don't know, I just, I feel sorry for Nate then. That's a funny thing to say. I, I can't remember if I, I don't think I went hard at him when it, for this first happened.
00:21:21.758 - 00:21:46.956, Speaker A: I'm pretty sure I talked about it on the refuel. Obviously, insider trading is, um, you know, he's wrong. Obviously what he did was wrong, but I really feel sorry for him because now he's going to be made an example of. He's not going to be able to afford a kick ass legal team. He's not going to be able to defend himself against this. He's going to probably have some public servant who basically says, kid, like, take the fucking deal because you're going to go to jail if you don't, or you're going to go bankrupt or you're going to go broke. Right? So I think he's going to end up taking a deal or something.
00:21:46.956 - 00:22:10.054, Speaker A: And as I said, I don't know. I mean, I don't think he's going to get prism time for this. That would be really extreme. And in that case, I would kind of like, be like, yeah, this is just ridiculous. Like, I'm pretty sure people would probably rally around raising money for him to get a better lawyer at that point. Because if the, if the DOJ could kind of like, get him put in prison for this, like, they're gonna, they'll go after a lot of other people with, with precedent as well. So it's, it's kind of scary there.
00:22:10.054 - 00:22:32.262, Speaker A: But again, not a lawyer. If you think I'm completely off basic and completely wrong, let me know if you have legal experience. But that's kind of like my view on things. All right, Peter from the Geth team put out an interesting tweet today where he said, hey, world. It feels odd that I have to tell you this, but blockchains aren't here to take your lunch. We don't want to replace the way you do you. We want to extend what's possible and create new ways to do new things.
00:22:32.262 - 00:23:06.562, Speaker A: We don't want to redo old stuff. We want to explore. So this is kind of like what I've been saying for a while as well. Like, I don't believe what we're building in Ethereum is meant to take down the evil banks and evil traditional finance system and evil institutions that exist today. Ethereum is just building better and potentially better and kind of like newer and more efficient institutions that people can opt into using instead of using the existing system. So, for example, people can opt into using Defi instead of using tradfi, right, for a variety of different things. Obviously you can't do everything in DeFi that you can do in tradfi right now.
00:23:06.562 - 00:24:05.274, Speaker A: Obviously it's riskier, but that's an option people can opt into using decentralized social media, right, something like lens protocol instead of using a web two platform. Obviously this stuff still early, but you kind of like get where I'm going with this. It's not about taking down anything. It's about kind of like developing new ways of doing things and new ecosystems, as kind of like Peter says here, in order to give people a choice. So I just kind of like wanted to highlight this because I think it's an extremely important point that a lot of people kind of like don't get because I think what happens is especially people outside of crypto, they see the bitcoin community which is very much about tearing down like the Fed, tearing down fiat, making sure all these institutions collapse, you know, tearing down the banks, which is ironic because they always celebrate whenever the banks are adopting bitcoin. But anyway, and I think people see that and they kind of like attribute that to the rest of the ecosystem, which couldn't be further from the truth for the ethereum ecosystem. I have not seen many people in the ethereum ecosystem kind of champion, kind of like tearing down things or, or kind of like calling things evil or anything like that.
00:24:05.274 - 00:24:32.500, Speaker A: It's more about building new and better systems. So just kind of like wanted to highlight that from, from Peter here. Alright, so Volts protocol is now live on Mainnet in an alpha launch stage. So the alpha launch means that the LP is capped at $1.5 million per pool. Don't know if this is being kind of like reached already the cap here, but, but yeah. So basically what you can do with volts is trade rates with leverage for the first time in Defi, earn market neutral yield and build the future of finance.
00:24:32.500 - 00:24:56.596, Speaker A: So you can opt in, change and change everything. There's a little video here if you want to check that out and you can join their discord channel. So yeah, this is pretty cool. I mean disclosure here, I'm an investor in vaults, kind of like protocol here. They've been heads down building for quite a while and now it's finally live on Mainnet, which is really, really awesome. So basically what vaults is in a nutshell. And they describe themselves as a non custodial automated market maker for interest rate swaps.
00:24:56.596 - 00:25:31.018, Speaker A: Now if you don't know, I mean, I think a lot of you would know what an Amm is like, it's uniswap basis. I mean, uniswap is an amm, right? But if you don't know what interest rate swaps are, you got to go learn it, right? Like, I mean, this is something that normal, regular people in the traditional finance system will pretty much never touch. It's not something that you need to touch really. It's something that a lot of traditional finance people, people do something a lot of banks do. It's very important to their day to day, but it's, it's definitely not something that you and I have to worry about. But now with Defi, you get the opportunity to do this sorts of stuff if you want to. So you can go check it out.
00:25:31.018 - 00:25:54.066, Speaker A: I'll link this in the YouTube description. But yeah, this is, this is cool. Cool to see it on Mainnet. Cool to see, I guess like you'd be, I mean, you'd be able to trade these rates with leverage as well. So if you're like DJ and you can go leverage. I know I tell you guys not to leverage all the time, but I know some of you are just going to do it anyway, so, so this gives you the ability to do it right. I'm of the opinion that like we should, we shouldn't not build tools just because they're risky and dangerous.
00:25:54.066 - 00:26:25.714, Speaker A: We should build all the tools that we can and people can, you know, should be able to do whatever they want with them, but we should still warn them of the kind of like risks as well. And I actually like how vaults is launching with a cap per pool. They're not just going full dj and where they're like, you know, hey everyone, throw lots of money into this and it'll all be good. No, I mean, this is a new protocol on Mainnet. Um, gotta obviously run it through its kind of like paces here and make sure that, that everything's running smoothly before putting more and more money in. But also not just kind of like security wise, but also the mechanism of, of how vault's protocol works as well. So you can go check that out if you haven't yet.
00:26:25.714 - 00:27:08.934, Speaker A: Alright, so the EF ecosystem support program has published their latest grantee roundup. So basically for those of you who don't know, the ESP or ecosystem support program gives money to various teams within the ecosystem to build various things. So this update highlights nimbus for their fluffy portal client and portal network development, which is basically working on lite clients for Ethereum and Paul Miller for Ethereum cryptography improvements as well. So you can read the blog post for a full breakdown here. I just wanted to highlight that for you guys. I'm coming up on time here, so I'm going to try and get through the s of these updates. Coinbase Cloud today announced that they have donated or committed a million dollars for public goods funding through Gitcoin, including $200,000 for the upcoming grants around 14.
00:27:08.934 - 00:27:34.028, Speaker A: This is awesome. I love this. I mean, the funny thing is Coinbase cloud, I mentioned them yesterday, how they've done really well with client diversity on the beacon chain front. They seem to really care about Ethereum beyond just kind of like profiting from it as a kind of like exchange, right? I mean, Coinbase cloud is obviously part of Coinbase. They profit off of Ethereum by kind of like enabling trading of Ethan, the other Ethereum based assets and stuff like that. But they're also giving a lot back. They're, you know, they're obviously a staking service provider.
00:27:34.028 - 00:28:15.566, Speaker A: They, they care about client diversity, they adhere. They kind of like listened to us and we said, hey guys, you know, you need to get that prism usage down. And now they're kind of like donating a million dollars to public goods funding, which, I mean, you guys know, a public goods maximalist. I love seeing this sorts of stuff, but I think it sends a strong signal when companies like Coinbase does do these sorts of things because it basically says, hey, you know, yes, we're a centralized company, yes, we kind of like our for profit company, but we can still give to public goods. We can still kind of like give lots of money to public goods and you should as well. So very, very cool to see this and thank you to Coinbase for putting to putting money towards public goods. Alright, so May was another record month for ENS.
00:28:15.566 - 00:28:52.200, Speaker A: So there was 365,000 new ETH registrations last month. There was $9.6 million in protocol revenue, 3900 ETH in fees, 57,000 new ETH accounts with at least one Ans name, and 10,500 ETH of Opensea volume. And you can see the chart here comparing it to other months ANS is on a tear. That's pretty crazy, right? I mean, you can see back in November ish, I guess, when the token launched, obviously they had a spike in activity and then there was, you know, kind of like a lull there, but it still ended up kind of like higher than it was before the token. But now we just had two straight months of like really, really awesome growth. So amazing to see this.
00:28:52.200 - 00:29:20.576, Speaker A: I mentioned yesterday how I thought ENS was one of the only sustainable applications in kind of like Ethereum right now. And you know, this is proof of that. I think so, yeah. Congrats to ens on, on this growth here. I'd love to see it continue. All right, so another project that caught my eye today is one that I haven't talked about before, is coming from kind of like GFX labs. And today they basically said in a tweet here today, GFX Labs is proud to introduce the world to interest protocol or interest defi or IP.
00:29:20.576 - 00:29:48.812, Speaker A: It's the next step in the evolution of defi inherits. It inherits most of the strengths of maker, aave and compound, while removing weaknesses here. So how does it work? Basically, IP, or kind of like interest protocol provides over collateralized loans to borrowers. These loans are denominated in USDI, which is IP's new stablecoin. And USDI can also be minted by depositing USDC. USDI rebases to reflect accrued interest. All USDI earns interest and all USDI can be redeemed for USDC.
00:29:48.812 - 00:30:22.104, Speaker A: Now rebases doesn't mean this is an algorithmic stablecoin. It is tied to kind of like USDC here. And rebases based on kind of the interest accrue doesn't rebase based on some arbitrary rule set that will lead to a death spiral. So just want to kind of get that out there and you know, it's like kind of like a normal money market rates for depositors and borrowers determined by IP's interest rate curve. High utilization means high interest rates to attract deposits, while low utilization encourages borrowing. At every utilization rate, IP best are there and a compound a borrowing rate. So basically a competitor to the existing money markets out there.
00:30:22.104 - 00:31:01.212, Speaker A: It's cool to see that they accepting three collateral right now from, from launch ETH or wrapped e throughout bitcoin and Uni. Uni is an interesting choice there. I think maybe its liquidity profile is good enough to have them kind of like onboard here, but I'm sure they're going to onboard other assets as time goes on. So if you're looking for a new kind of like money market protocol to kind of like look into and one that does things a little bit differently with that kind of like rebasing for reflecting the interest here, definitely go give interest protocol a look. You can go check out this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so immutable announced today they're launching the first prototype of their end user reward system.
00:31:01.212 - 00:31:30.028, Speaker A: So for a limited period of time, trades on any supported marketplace on immutable can be eligible to get part of a $2 million reward pool which is denominated in IMX tokens. If you're an immutable user, definitely keep this in mind. You may be eligible for some of these rewards. If you are on there. You kind of like trading nfts or kind of like interacting with marketplace with the various marketplaces on there. There's a few on there now. I think, you know, they've got the gods unchained, got alluvium, there's a few other guild of guardians and some other kind of like games on there and they're on boarding more all the time.
00:31:30.028 - 00:31:43.124, Speaker A: So definitely a lot to do on immutable these days. So you know, and you're going to get rewarded for it. It potentially rewarded for in a IMX tokens starting June 2. So starting today. So definitely check this out for more details. I'll link it in the YouTube description. Description.
00:31:43.124 - 00:32:10.286, Speaker A: I finally here, just wanted to give a kind of like quick shout out to Michael Sproul here for kind of putting together. He's put together a new staking machine in preparation for the merge. You can see the specs there. But I just love, what I love about kind of like when people share this is everyone's got their own kind of like unique setup. Like you can see here he's got like this pink silver stone case, which is just really cool, really eye catching. Could you imagine someone coming over to his house and being. And kind of looking at that and being like, hey, man, like, what's that? Like that, that's cool.
00:32:10.286 - 00:32:29.870, Speaker A: And he'd be like, oh, it's my staking box. And he could probably get into a conversation with someone and explain what staking is, what ethereum is. And it's kind of like a conversation starter. And I've said this before about my own box, which used to be behind me, but now it's like over there, I'm in the old videos. You can see it, my staking box. But it definitely is a conversation starter with people. And I get to kind of like eat pill them to some extent, so.
00:32:29.870 - 00:32:46.600, Speaker A: And what I love about kind of like at home staking like this is that you can do anything you want. You can have any case you want. You can put it in a desk. Like, there's PCs that people put into desks. You can mount it on a wall. You can have like a really fancy case and kind of like get creative with it, right? Get creative with the specs. Kind of like, get creative with everything.
00:32:46.600 - 00:33:07.012, Speaker A: And I think it's just really cool. And I just wanted to kind of, like, highlight that because if you are someone who solo stakes make it interesting, right? Like, if you. If you actually. I mean, if you're into it, like, maybe you're not into that sort of stuff, but I mean, me personally, I love building computers. I built computers since I was like 13 years old. I love everything got to do with technology. I mean, like, I built this bad boy behind me.
00:33:07.012 - 00:33:20.900, Speaker A: This is my main computer. It's huge. It's. It's the Corsair 1000 D case. It's like a meter high. Um, but, like, I built all that, and I'm adding stuff to it all the time and kind of tinkering with stuff. And I have other computers that I built to around me, obviously, my staking box and a bunch of other things.
00:33:20.900 - 00:33:34.258, Speaker A: I just love it. And I. What I love about my staking box is that I built it, put it there. It's been humming along. You know, I sometimes kind of, like, upgrade it. It had more storage space from time to time as well. But, yeah, I just love kind of, like all that sorts of stuff.
00:33:34.258 - 00:33:45.834, Speaker A: But anyway, I think on that note, I'm going to end it there. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
