00:00:00.570 - 00:01:18.698, Speaker A: So to this point we've enumerated many examples of markets that play a huge role in the technology ecosystem and we've also discussed one of the many dimensions along which you can compare and contrast these different markets namely the degree of centralization or decentralization in those markets. So where I want to go next is I want to talk about the types of ways that markets can fail or the kinds of challenges that can arise when your main managing one of these markets. I'm mostly just going to focus on one particular challenge the challenge of congestion. So when you're in the happiest situation that your platform has so many users there's an overwhelming number of options for the possible transactions but before I talk about congestion on the next slide, let me say a little bit about the reason it's so common to see congestion in technology platforms which has to do with network effects. What's a network effect? Well that's the effect that one user of a good or service has on the value of that good or service to its other users. Generally when people talk about network effects they mean them as a good thing so usually people are referring to the increase in value of a good or service because of more users of that good or service. A related idea you might hear about is something called netcaf's law.
00:01:18.698 - 00:02:36.562, Speaker A: And that points out that in a market, from the perspective of any fixed participant, the number of your possible trading partners is growing linearly with the number of other users. But the number of overall possible pairings, the number of possible trades is growing faster than linearly with the number of participants. It's growing quadratically with the number of participants. Now, the platforms we've been discussing for the most part exhibit very strong network effects so for example, should we be surprised that one or a few social networks are so dominant? Well no, because there's very strong network effects you want to use the social network that your friends are using so naturally you have everybody piling on into the same social network because of the network effects. Similarly, should we be surprised that there are so few dominant operating systems? Again, no, for the same reasons right? So as a developer you want to be writing applications for an operating system that lots of people use and as a user you want to be using an operating system which is serviced by lots of different developers. And more generally, in the situation where you have strong network effects, you should be expecting there to be one or a very small number of big players with almost all the users and then everyone else being a quite small player. And in this situation, for those major players, they're going to have to deal with congestion in their markets.
00:02:36.562 - 00:03:37.272, Speaker A: So many participants that it's not even realistic for one participant to evaluate all of the available options for their possible transactions. Now, of course it's much better to have too many participants than to have too few. The latter problem is a problem known as a market being too thin. And of course we've seen countless startups over the years fail for having too thin a market attracting too few participants. But still having lots of participants has its own challenges, which we'll talk about on the next slide. To finish this slide, let me just connect this idea of network effects and these sort of dominant players to something maybe you've heard about in the news over the years, which is antitrust regulation of technology companies. Perhaps you've wondered to yourself when you hear about Silicon Valley leaders sort of griping about the prospect of government regulation, maybe you wonder why would anyone want to regulate these big tech companies anyway? What are they trying to accomplish? And there's several answers to that question.
00:03:37.272 - 00:04:21.540, Speaker A: But often a really big part of the answer has to do with network effects. The concern being that is suppose you have a big platform with lots of users and there are very strong network effects. Well, in effect your users have a very high switching cost. If one of your users switches to a different platform which has fewer users, they're going to enjoy less network effects. So there's a high switching cost for a user to leave a platform with lots of users. And so the concern then is one of these platforms with strong network effects and lots of users that they might be able to exploit these high switching costs of its users in various ways. Maybe they don't feel pressured to innovate, maybe they raise their prices, maybe they engage in anticompetitive behavior.
00:04:21.540 - 00:05:34.508, Speaker A: And these are the kinds of worries that lead to some to call for increased regulation. At the extreme, people discuss sometimes breaking up a company like Google or Facebook into multiple smaller independent companies, which has happened in the past, for example with at and T Bell back in the 1980s or with Standard Oil seven decades before that. Now on the other hand, having a big market share is not in and of itself a crime and nobody wants to simply penalize success on principle. So to justify government action against a company it's necessary that a company also engages in anticompetitive behavior. And that was exactly the government's charge in the US versus Microsoft case about 20 years ago. So the government claimed that Microsoft at that time was exploiting its dominance in the operating systems market to extend that dominance to the Internet browser market by bundling Internet Explorer, Microsoft's browser bundling that in with Microsoft's operating system and doing this without necessarily innovating, without offering a superior product. And maybe you've heard that in recent years Google has also been embroiled in similar situations and stands accused of exploiting its dominance in search to also conquer other sectors.
00:05:34.508 - 00:06:08.308, Speaker A: The European Union in fact a couple of years ago fined Google about $5 billion for anticompetitive behavior. The US. Has not taken any action, at least as of yet, and in fact, this is actually pretty common, that you see these kinds of cases proceed in Europe before in the US. And if you've wondered ever why that was, it's because the law is a little bit different in the EU versus in the US. The US. Tends to focus on whether consumer prices have been driven upward. And of course, Google's sort of a strange case because using Google's basically free, while the EU uses a broader definition of anti competitive behavior.
00:06:08.308 - 00:06:36.240, Speaker A: And it was on those grounds that they decided that Google's behavior qualified. So that was a little bit of a know. I just wanted to help connect these concepts that you're learning to the real know, the stuff you read about in the newspaper. As far know the short course goes. The main takeaway from this slide is just that in the types of systems we're talking about, there are strong network effects. So you're going to see platforms with tons and tons of users. That is, you're going to see markets that are challenged by congestion.
00:06:36.240 - 00:06:46.100, Speaker A: Next, I want to drill down on some of the options available to you if you have a market with congestion about how to ensure that it continues to function and smoothly.
