00:00:54.530 - 00:01:20.400, Speaker A: Hey, everybody. Good afternoon, good morning, good evening and welcome to another ETH Online summit. So today we're really excited to do a summit on the impact that Ethereum is having on our world and different aspects of what Ethereum has been able to achieve over the last few years. I'm your host for today. My name is Jacob. I'm part of the ETH Global theme. And, yeah, really excited to be here with all of you today.
00:01:20.400 - 00:02:02.966, Speaker A: So, as I mentioned, today's summit is called the impact of ethereum. We're going to dive deep into a bunch of different topics, from even the climate to public goods, to the future of work, privacy, all kinds of different aspects that Ethereum has started kind of impacting as we kind of explore more of this kind of infinite garden that we're building in together. So, really excited to have everybody joining us here on ETHGlobal TV. Feel free to log in and take part in the conversation there. If you have any questions for any of our speakers as well. As the day goes on, drop them there as well. I'll be keeping track and I'm happy to kind of spend a little bit of time at the end of each talk to kind of surface those questions to our speakers.
00:02:02.966 - 00:02:41.106, Speaker A: So, yeah, welcome everybody, for being here. I want to go over the schedule real quick. So we're kicking off right now with a talk by Scott Moore, which I'm really excited about on Ethereum as a public good. After that, we're going to have Bruno from the Aztec team joining us to chat about Ethereum in the privacy landscape. We're going to have Ben West, also from Gitcoin, chatting at 02:30 p.m on beyond the Merge blockchain enabled climate solutions, which I'm really excited about. Later this afternoon, we have Tina from the Station team and coming to talk about the future of work, and that being on Ethereum.
00:02:41.106 - 00:03:30.710, Speaker A: We have Wayne Chang from the Spruce ID sign in with Ethereum team, who's going to be chatting about Ethereum's identity layer. And then last but not least, we're really excited to have Camilla Russo from the Defiant here to chat about how Ethereum is having impacts on creators and especially to chat about the new movie that she's working on. So that's what our schedule looks like for today. And without further ado, I think we'll just jump right into it and welcome Scott Moore onto the stage. Scott, feel free to unmute and share your video and, yeah, really excited to hear a little bit more about how Ethereum has been kind of building itself into a public good. And, yeah, just all the kind of crazy, solar punk crypto outcomes of that. So, Scott, when you're ready, feel free to share your video and I'll get the screen share out of here.
00:03:30.710 - 00:03:32.600, Speaker A: There you are. Hey, Scott. How's it going?
00:03:33.290 - 00:03:38.122, Speaker B: Hey, going well. Can you see the screen here? Does this look okay?
00:03:38.256 - 00:03:44.602, Speaker A: Yeah, everything's great and I love the awesome. So I'll get out of the way and excited for your chat. Thanks.
00:03:44.656 - 00:05:33.418, Speaker B: Yeah, appreciate you having me on. I actually have given a kind of similar version of this talk and I kind of yoled it into this a little bit. But I think the real kind of interesting thing that occurred to me to kind of talk about in the last few months was we do have this whole conversation going on about solar punk and other X punks and I think there's something interesting to be said just about kind of abstracting away from that and just talking about ethereum itself as a public good. And so what I wanted to do with this talk is give a bit of context on what is this sort of Plato's cave that we're in around these different narratives around solar punk and so forth. How do we kind of go beyond that towards the core mission that Ethereum is driving? And then how do we talk about, in particular the ways that Ethereum is kind of allowing us to reimagine what we mean by public goods in the context of the Web Three but also just generally in the context of open source software? And so to start, maybe the easiest thing to do is just to talk about what are these different kind of narratives that we've been seeing the space over the last probably six to twelve months. And I think a lot of this stems actually from cyberpunk roots, like back from sort of the Neuromancer era in the 1980s, even a little bit before that, which was largely the starting point for cyberpunk, which kind of advocates for strong cryptography, very intense privacy preserving technologies. John Perry Barlow is probably like one of the most famous members of this movement and really with the Cyberpunk Manifesto, sort of like gave probably the most compelling and most detailed case for this movement.
00:05:33.418 - 00:07:08.006, Speaker B: But ultimately what we've sort of landed on is an evolution of that which tries to take sort of the individualist notion of cyberpunk and frame it in more of a collective, collaborative way. So the goal of this sort of solar punk ethos, which started back in sort of 2008, was originally really, well, how do we build environmentalism into our sort of notion of tech as a force for good? And how do we find more ways to build a sort of open future where technology facilitates better global sort of coordination? And in Web Three, that just seemed to make a lot of sense as a philosophy where everything we're doing is kind of revolving around coordination. It's all coordination in some sense, and creating sustainable convivial, kind of like pro social connection is something especially in the Dow space, more recently in the last six months, that's become very popular to sort of not just talk about, but actually, I think, take action on. So even beyond Gitcoin, which is mostly where I spend my time I co founded that back in 2017. There's lots of projects in the data space that are really focused on trying to have more intentional conversations about the values that we're creating in web3 in Ethereum in particular, and how we're basically trying to create this. Connection between people and their environments, whether those are sort of digital spaces where sometimes there's a lot of noise and we want to kind of create a sense of peace or actually just the physical environment we're in and how we make sure the technology is facilitating that connection. And obviously, most recently the merge has been a really big part of that conversation.
00:07:08.006 - 00:08:39.402, Speaker B: So I think those are kind of two not opposing forces, but juxtaposed ideas of what the space is trying to achieve. And I think there's people on kind of both sides of those. And that's what's led to sort of the emergence of lunar punk as a critique of principally the openness of solar punk, the kind of like optimism of solar punk and its sort of like failure to really imagine a future in which privacy is front and center, especially in the face of a lot of real risks if there is too much openness and transparency, which principally is the risk to a lot of more marginalized populations folks, that we are trying to make a positive impact for. And so really, it kind of emphasizes privacy and collective action and still giving people individual agency rather than kind of like making everyone part of this aggregore that subsumes everything before it. And so it kind of advocates for a more realist approach to the sort of like political landscape, which really goes back to full circle, the sort of cypherpunk movement, john Perry Barlow's ideas. And I think we've kind of gotten to this point where the reason I kind of started with the idea know these are really interesting ideas, but maybe not the most useful framings is I think what we've sort of realized is that we're all kind of to some degree although this term is a bit controversial in other circles, like techno optimist. I think everyone here believes that technology can have a fundamentally positive impact on the way that we work together in the long run.
00:08:39.402 - 00:10:05.270, Speaker B: And I think that regardless of approach, if we can build technology that leads to some collective human thriving, then we should try and do that. And we can do that in a way that kind of, I think, fulfills each of these narratives without actually creating any sense of conflict. And so I think what's really important for us is to think about then why is Ethereum part of this techno optimist movement? And how do we think about these sorts of framings as kind of like a relevant part of the Ethereum ecosystem, a relevant part of the Ethereum narrative? And I think kind of the juxtaposition right now in a lot of broader tech is between the kind of accelerationist, AI sort of like growth at all cost, relatively algorithmic way of thinking about growth and about technology and about techno optimism. And I think Ethereum fundamentally presents a little bit more of like an agendic agent based form of that in which we can think more deeply about the way that we push back on existing social structures or political structures. As the only means of coordination, the way in which we kind of push back on large companies or kind of large, kind of capital based actors for economic coordination, and then the way that we sort of can reverse these trends towards institutional power. All these are social things. They're based on us as agents, as people, not necessarily algorithmic things.
00:10:05.270 - 00:11:09.674, Speaker B: And I think that's like, what's really kind of fascinating about Ethereum and what's really interesting about this sort of particular flavor of techno optimism that we can try and achieve regardless of the particular implementation details. So I think the fundamental part of Ethereum being a sort of public good comes back to this sort of techno optimism, the notion that by building better technology together, we can create this kind of future that we want to see and move beyond this baggage of previous institutions. And I think there's actually some really interesting stuff that I'll talk about in a minute about how that actually reframes our notion of public goods altogether. So I kind of talked about this, but basically we're scaling coordination. That's what we're doing. We're doing that in a sort of person by person, relationship based way. We're trying to figure out ways to coordinate as people at scale, even regardless of our own sort of opinions about the world or own belief systems or even our own kind of broader objectives, things we're trying to achieve in the world.
00:11:09.674 - 00:12:28.660, Speaker B: We can kind of work together in a pluralistic way to achieve what we want to achieve. And I think what's interesting about the traditional ways of looking at scaling systems is that you kind of, as you build a really massive, like, Dunbar's number, kind of talks about this 150 numbers of scale. But really we're talking about systems of tens of thousands of people, probably hundreds of thousands or millions. Even when you get to that scale, it's very hard for people to relate to each other, to feel a sense of solidarity, to build in a values aligned way. But it is very possible for us to build systems that allow those relationships to grow large enough, to grow kind of like carefully enough and with enough kind of background technology that we don't lose the sort of underlying structure of the agreements that we've created together, these sort of like shared agreements with each other. And I think this is sort of like the fundamental conceit of the coordination meme is that what we mean by coordination is coming to show agreements with each other in kind of a scaled up way and doing that towards effectively, sometimes very different ends. But ultimately I think finding ways to basically scale coordination is at the heart of ethereum and kind of to me at the heart of this.
00:12:28.660 - 00:13:29.074, Speaker B: What ethereum has to offer in a techno optimist context, it's not going and building kind of like exponentially increasing AI that kind of like subsumes similar to the sort of aggregate war example. Like everything around it, it's about building. And whether that's true is a whole conversation in itself. But it's about building kind of systems that allow us to work with each other over time. I think it's very hard to overemphasize how hard a problem that is. And I won't go into a lot of depth here, but I think this is really the fundamental piece of what we're trying to achieve and why I think it's going to be so important for us to kind of think carefully about the narratives that we're putting forward and basically how even across narratives, we are able to build systems that allow us to work together. And in that sense it's kind of ethereum.
00:13:29.074 - 00:14:33.990, Speaker B: This is the other sort of techno optimist angle of this is our alternative to doomerism. We sort of have this pervasive notion in broader society at web3, I think to some extent maybe in the last few months as well, where we think, oh, everything's going to fail. We're doomed to the systems that we've created for ourselves and to the problems we face as people. I think that's fundamentally misguided and I think that it kind of fails to recognize what we've already achieved with sort of ethereum as a technology in the ways that we've taken agency and understood back over sort of existing institutions. Still other fights to come obviously with, for example, the tornado cash situation that emerged and many others in that sort of vein. But we can sort of also use these coordination tools to fight for those causes and to fight for other causes we believe in. We can mint our own cooperative currencies in order to kind of work within the constraints we have and find capital needed to fund those efforts and then we can design incentive mechanisms to keep people working on those things long term.
00:14:33.990 - 00:15:12.166, Speaker B: And I think this is very much the heart of coordination. All these things is what we sort of mean by coordination at scale, but it's also fundamentally what makes this whole enterprise like techno optimist. And I think it's sort of this sense that we are together in a sort of bottoms up collective way, not top down collective or bottoms up individual way going to take back agency and sort of control over the systems that we have kind of like let run loose in the world. And so okay, the whole point of.
00:15:12.188 - 00:15:14.466, Speaker A: This talk is public goods.
00:15:14.498 - 00:16:27.818, Speaker B: Why is ethereum a public good? What do we mean when we talk about public goods? What are we actually talking about? So a lot of the narratives before are kind of around the idea that we have sort of a lot of confusion about what it is that we're trying to achieve at the narrative level. We have a lot of sort of progress that we've made in terms of tangible ways to improve coordination. Techno optimism helps us kind of promote that as a very good thing to do in an sort of like person to person way. And in turn we actually now have these funding mechanisms and so forth that we can use, which I'll get to, and we've, with Gitcoin tried to do this as a core part of our mission. But what are these things that we're actually funding when we're funding things in ethereum and funding this coordination tool? Why is that a public good? So traditionally the notion of public goods comes back to this sort of Paul Samuelson 1954 sort of paper around non excludability, non rivalry. Things that are public goods are things that can't be excluded. No one can be excluded from them or they're non rivalrous.
00:16:27.818 - 00:17:28.578, Speaker B: One person's access to this good does not restrict another person's access. And one of the interesting things about that framing is that it kind of was born out of almost the sort of idea that these public goods of sorts were sort of aspirational they were sort of pipe dreams. And if they could be funded, they could be funded in mostly a top down collective fashion by traditional states or state actors. And I think the major kind of problem with that has been that it didn't allow us to think big enough about what we actually wanted to achieve. And it kind of was partly, I think, how we ended up with institutions that ran them up in ways that we didn't necessarily intend them to do. And so there's a lot of nuance to the way that we reframe public goods. But I think one very simple frame is the things that we want to see in the world are things that produce positive externalities for a broader group than the initial people involved in the process of maintaining that good.
00:17:28.578 - 00:18:28.694, Speaker B: And the traditional example of this like an electrical grid in a city transportation network, they have lots of really interesting kind of positive externalities that we can think about. So one in the transportation case, property value goes up every time a new subway station is created in, say, New York City. There's lots of people that want to kind of go towards that and there's now an externality for other people around that specific local area. Same with electrical grids. If you have an electrical grid, you have people that can now be part of a community, be part of the city, and that's very good for everyone. The probably less local example which we've started to see really emerge in conversation in web3 with learning communities is the notion of a university. And that's sort of where I think things like kernel or things like emerging sort of like groups like Forefront or like Metalabel and so forth are really starting to explore some interesting territory with the work that they're doing.
00:18:28.694 - 00:19:54.418, Speaker B: Seed Club there's a lot of communities like clubs that are basically technically private. Technically you can't just go and learn at the university and they cost money to be part of you can't just access it with zero capital through, but you can actually still produce massive social gains via these institutions. And of course that's why in the traditional world universities are funded by the state, funded as a public good in that sense. But I think what we're sort of forgetting in this way of thinking about so right now we've kind of created, you've got electrical grids, transportation, universities these are all things that are fundamentally for most people's conception public goods, despite this kind of dissonance around well wait, I have to pay for this. How are we really considering that non exclusival, non rabbit risk? And you can see how that might create issues in the definition. But there's more interesting examples that I think start to create even more confusion for us than those. And I think open source software is sort of like one of these where I think there's certain things like say the library that we all use to build web3 applications, something like Ethersjs and something like Uniswap, which we I think recoil at the idea of as a public good.
00:19:54.418 - 00:21:20.586, Speaker B: And I think that's because there's this distinction between the token holder and the broader community and we sort of have this notion that there's an in group and an out group and if you're not in the token holder community, you're suddenly at ODS with the rest of the community or they're at ODS with you. And I think fundamentally this is where the notion of positive externalities becomes very useful. The greater the network grows, the more not only the token holders benefit, but anyone who just happens to use in day to day interaction, the protocol itself also benefits. And so in this sense there's a little bit of a difference between the sort of traditional way of thinking about public goods and the way that Ethereum kind of redefines those to be about these positive externalities, especially in the face of existing fees, possible restrictions to use, and especially in the face of different classes of members. People that are or not token holders, people that are or are not delegates, people that are or are not core team members. And I think this is something that is still fundamentally important for us to wrestle with and explore. As we think about what we're building on Ethereum and we're thinking about Ethereum making impact, we need to be thinking about basically what is that boundary point that we think is acceptable.
00:21:20.586 - 00:22:36.054, Speaker B: And I guess my case here today is that a lot of these things that we are debating about sometimes on Twitter.com or whatever it might be as being, oh, they're not really public, they don't meet this criteria, they don't meet this strict definition. I would argue that in many cases those are things that we fundamentally all benefit from in a way that approximates something that we would like to call a public good, even if it's not the traditional way that we define it. And so in that sense, I think funding more of those things, I think building more of those things, I think finding ways to help people understand and educate people about more of those things is itself a public good. And it is something that actually is fundamentally in line with the sort of agency techno optimist vision that I think we all want to start to push forward as sort of ethereums in this network. And so fundamentally, we have a few examples of this that I think we're all sort of familiar with but that I think are worth looking at, that we should be supporting in some form or another. Admittedly, I may be biased towards some of these.
00:22:36.054 - 00:24:08.420, Speaker B: I think that portable, especially private identity like ENS with something like Seismo, which allows for that sort of privacy. I think that sort of form of identity is a really cool and important primitive for us to be able to, for example, solve subwoofer systems, ensure that we have some pseudonymous identities, that we can all sort of interact. With each other through so that we can kind of move beyond this amorphous, sort of like dark forest into something that's a little bit more visible, while still giving people the option to keep privacy, especially when they are at risk of serious retaliation from, for example, state actors. I think this is where Solarpunk ultimately kind of like in the extreme gets it wrong, which is that yes, we want techno optimism, but we need techno optimism in a way that allows for people to consider privacy good and to consider privacy as a fundamental human right. And that's I think just a really cool application that obviously ENS has done an amazing job with and many others are starting to really explore deeply. And I think there's a reason this being like a really important topic for ethereum just because we, I think, haven't had a sort of portable layer for our own lives on the internet, despite the fact that we use the internet probably more than probably more than once a day. I think it'd be very unlikely to find a lot of people who use it exactly once or less than once a day.
00:24:08.420 - 00:25:07.986, Speaker B: I think that there's a lot of examples and I could go through them for a long time, but I also recognize that I have a limited amount of time, so I'll kind of just go through pretty quickly for the remainder. But basically we've got decentralized storage. The DWeb principles are kind of like part of what Filequin and IPFS have contributed to in terms of how are we thinking about creating systems that really prioritize user agency and decentralization and so forth. In general. I just think having decentralized storage kind of fits in with this need that we're talking about to have fundamentally distributed kind of global coordination systems. And I think that the more centralized you get, the more you run this risk of basically capture the network in a way that isn't shared with the users, shared with the broader community. And I think that's one of the reasons this sort of positive externalities framing for public goods works in Web Three much better than it did in previous iterations.
00:25:07.986 - 00:26:36.786, Speaker B: Which is that for each of these, actually, but especially for these kind of core identity storage primitives having the infrastructure that you're building be shared, even if not everyone is owning a portion of that infrastructure equally in a co op, for example, I think is very important for the long term. Sort of like sustainability of web3 for ethereum and is kind of the core part of what we're building here. The other two kind of components I think are a little bit higher up the stack. But it's basically things like optimisms, retroactive public goods funding, quadratic funding, those are ways to help us in a grassroots way signal and basically fund things that we care about. I think this is really important because traditionally again, what is the reason that this sort of state funding as the only mechanism for public goods became so prominent? Well, because it's very easy to kind of collect and aggregate value and then kind of put that out into the world in a sustainable way if you're a government. But it's very hard to do that at a grassroots level and especially hard to do it in a way where you feel like your voice is being heard. So having some ability for people to locally sort of signal what they care about and then to be able to aggregate those things into a kind of preference map is really important and I'll get to that a little bit more in a second.
00:26:36.786 - 00:28:07.838, Speaker B: And then modular governance tooling which I think is just very important for any of these structures, these dows, these tools that basically are allowing for kind of the creation of public goods on Ethereum, this modular tooling is important for that to take shape. So basically the thing that I'm focused on a lot day to day is this idea of collective sort of intelligence, collective decision making via things like quadratic funding. What quadratic funding basically means, I think everyone kind of knows at this point is just that you're trying to essentially fund a large group of projects in a given area based on local individual preferences and then basically philanthropic funds are matched according to that preference map. And the reason this is important is, again, in the state case, you don't really have the ability to really have a lot of say there's. Not really, actually, despite kind of a lot of academic conversations on this, a lot of participatory budgeting that happens in practice. But this is kind of a web3 form of that participatory budgeting where we can actually take the action that we want to see in the world and know that it will be listened to by a broader group of philanthropists or folks that are helping to fund the ecosystem at large. And I think this is a really important kind of like example of what will be a much broader design space around the coordination of funding in the future.
00:28:07.838 - 00:29:14.678, Speaker B: And I think that again, there's this really interesting conversation about to what degree do we kind of rely on collective intelligence, to what degree do we rely on experts, to what degree do we rely on AI as the ultimate expert, as this kind of meta expert. And I think there's a real conversation to be had about how much should we let go of our own sort of capacity for decision making and there's trade offs there. Of course, certainly experts are better for some decisions than others, but I think that's like a fundamental question that we're going to have to grapple with. And I think ethereum is a really great kind of shelling point for having conversations around those tools in context. So in the end, I hope that by creating all these kinds of dows, by creating all these sort of like different ecosystems that are creating their own local impact, creating positive externalities in the process, we're able to basically create a kind of impact network. And David Ehrlichman has talked a lot about this. He wrote a book on it called Impact Networks, I believe.
00:29:14.678 - 00:30:23.098, Speaker B: And it's a very interesting idea in the sense that I think there wasn't really the cipher punks have this notion of we're all going to independently build our own tooling, work independently and solve for we're going to fight the state through our own kind of heroic action. I think the solar punks have the notion that we can do this collectively and work with the state and be kind of like a happy family. I think the lunar punks are kind of like trying to be more realistic about those things. But I think regardless of those different narratives, the idea that we can actually form impact networks locally together with some kind of broader end coordination that's achieved again as a result, I think that's ultimately where a lot of this is going and where the benefit of ethereum, the impact of ethereum comes in. So hopefully that kind of got most of the points across here. I think I'm out of time. So all I'll say is ethereum, I think is a public good.
00:30:23.098 - 00:30:40.480, Speaker B: I think the notion of public goods needs to evolve from where it is today. And I think that if we find ways to evolve. That definition, we can coordinate towards a more techno optimist future. So thank you very much.
00:30:43.410 - 00:30:59.366, Speaker A: Thank you, Scott. That was awesome. Maybe a quick question just before you go. If anybody wants to start actively participating in being a part of this kind of public goods movement using Ethereum, where's a good place for them to start doing that?
00:30:59.388 - 00:31:54.294, Speaker B: Right now, I'm definitely biased towards Gitcoin as a place to do it. I think going to the Gitcoin discord and just getting involved, optimism as well is just starting up and they have lots of initial grants. I think honestly, at this point, there's no real shortage of places to make an impact. And I think it's a question just of what kind of impact do you want to make? Find the thing this is like, everyone gives this advice, but find the thing that you're passionate about, right, and leverage that passion and find ways to basically work with a group that needs that skill set. And a lot of the original challenges of this with Das was you kind of tried to do that. And I think there wasn't really a good process for onboarding and getting people involved. But I think that as people have started to realize, hey, you need structured leadership in DAOs, I think that started to change.
00:31:54.294 - 00:32:21.840, Speaker B: And so I think that people going to DAOs now, certainly relative to a year ago, will have a better experience. Kind of like finding the path in finding the way to get involved. And I would say any of those organizations I mentioned are really good starting points. ENS as well. Filecoin Protocol Labs as well is doing really good work in this area. Feel free to reach out if you have questions about orgs to get involved in and I'm sure I can find one.
00:32:22.850 - 00:32:37.542, Speaker A: Amazing. Yeah. Thank you so much. Really great having you here, Scott. And I mean, congratulations also on you're chatting about coordination and how hard that is. Almost 40,000 people donating in the last Gitcoin Round that just closed yesterday. That's like a crazy amount of people.
00:32:37.542 - 00:33:01.222, Speaker A: So congrats on success on Gatecoin Round 15. Thank you so much. Awesome. Thanks for being here, Scott. And, yeah, we're going to kind of chat about our next upcoming talks here. So thanks again, Scott, for Ethereum as a public good. Scott also mentioned a lot about how privacy is a critical and important part of this whole infrastructure layer.
00:33:01.222 - 00:33:27.574, Speaker A: So, I mean, really excited to have Bruno. Didn't even mean to have this back to back, but I mean, it's possibly a perfect segue to have Bruno come here and chat about both the work that Aztec is doing in this domain and just in general, the kind of crypto privacy landscape that Ethereum has been able to impact over the last couple of years. So, Bruno, when you're ready, feel free to share your video, share your audio. Good to see you. Yeah, good to see you. Thanks for having me. Of course.
00:33:27.574 - 00:33:35.642, Speaker A: And yeah, whenever you're ready. Happy to turn it over to you. Yeah, let's do it. Cool.
00:33:35.696 - 00:33:36.780, Speaker C: Can you see that?
00:33:38.270 - 00:33:41.770, Speaker A: Yep. It looks good. Cool. Hey, everyone.
00:33:41.920 - 00:34:26.898, Speaker C: My name is Bruno Belinsky, and I'm here to talk about ethereum and the crypto privacy landscape. So, real quickly, the agenda I'll run through one is a little bit about me and Aztec, the project I work for. I'll talk briefly about some of the other privacy solutions being built in crypto today. I'll briefly touch on zero knowledge generally and how ethereum makes privacy possible today. And I'll also take a second to talk through some of the logical fallacies that usually come up in conversations about privacy that I think are important to address. First, about me. A lot of what I'm going to be saying today is oversimplified for the sake of brevity.
00:34:26.898 - 00:34:44.734, Speaker C: Of course, none of it is financial advice. I encourage everyone to do their own research, and I also encourage everyone to reach out if they have any questions. I'm always happy to talk offline. So, about me. I run ecosystem partnerships for Aztec. That means I lead the Aztecs Grants program. We are launching version two of the Aztecs Grant program soon.
00:34:44.734 - 00:35:27.494, Speaker C: If private DeFi is something you want to work on or you're really just passionate about privacy and want to discuss it, just reach out and let's find a project for you to be working on in the space about Aztec. Aztec is what I like to call a ZK ZK roll up. I like to say one of those ZKS is for scaling ethereum and increasing the throughput of transactions that can settle on ethereum. The other ZK is for privacy. The way it works is that we batch transactions on a roll up. We interact with L protocols via solidity interfaces. What that means is that there's no need for L protocols like Uniswap or Ave or Curve or lido or Element.
00:35:27.494 - 00:36:13.500, Speaker C: There's no need to redeploy your L One contracts. There's no need to fragment your liquidity across a variety of ecosystems. You can just users that come onto the Aztec network can interact with your L One DFI contracts privately without needing you to fragment your liquidity, which is a real benefit. We expose a software development kit for people to build private DApps on Aztec. And we've also built our own consumer front end called ZK Money as a working example. So today, if you go on ZK Money, you can buy lido, staked ETH, you can interact with element finance, you can interact with the L protocols you know and love privately via Aztec. So I encourage you to go check out ZK Money and see what it's all about.
00:36:13.500 - 00:37:06.198, Speaker C: In terms of the other privacy solutions in the space, I think it's important to highlight a nonexhaustive list of them. There are so many cool projects being built in the space. There's so much awesome research and development being done in the space. I think people sometimes ignore the fact that the cryptographers, the researchers, the operators, the people working at Aztec and these companies are pushing forward not only the crypto system, but also mathematics, cryptography, theoretical computer science. They're doing really incredible cutting edge research across a variety of spaces. And here's like a very nonexhaustive list of some of the other projects in the space. But I think it's important to talk through more than specifics about each of our projects a little bit about the general features that you see today in crypto privacy projects.
00:37:06.198 - 00:37:32.770, Speaker C: So, big caveat. I'm going to caveat the whole presentation again, brevity, leaving stuff out, trying to make it quick and dirty. All these projects are multidimensional. A lot of them have different use cases, different user bases. They are trying to appeal to different leaders, different perspectives. Here are a couple of the features that I tend to see in crypto privacy projects. One, cryptography being used as a solution for scaling and privacy.
00:37:32.770 - 00:38:08.830, Speaker C: Many of the privacy solutions are building an alt l one, many are interacting with ethereum l one directly. Really, it's not only privacy that people are trying to solve, but also privacy at the same time is solving scaling and throughput of ethereum. Generally, many of these projects have some form of shielded transactions where users can selectively disclose information. They can selectively share the information that they choose to share. They are private by default. But there is some form of shielding or unshielding that is in the user's hands. All this is secured by cutting edge cryptography and mathematics.
00:38:08.830 - 00:39:01.650, Speaker C: There's ecosystems of DApps being built on a lot of these private projects for additional user functionality like DeFi payments. There are projects on Aztec building private multi sigs for really a lot broader than just privacy with payments. There are private payments, but there's also private DeFi and a whole sleuth of various privacy focused ecosystems of decentralized applications. And finally, a lot of these projects either expose a software development kit and or an in house built programming language that allows developers to build in programmable privacy to their decentralized applications. Yeah. And so really the summary here is these projects are incredibly multidimensional. But these are some of the features that I tend to see in a lot of these projects.
00:39:01.650 - 00:39:40.830, Speaker C: Really quickly, I want to talk about the zero knowledge stuff that underpins these whole systems. People a lot smarter than me are working on the math and cryptography that are underpinning these systems. And there is a ton of resources and explainers and internet for learning more about zero knowledge. I'm going to keep it really high level. I do recommend either the Zero Knowledge podcast or a 16 z's crypto research series or really there's just an absolute plethora of resources out there. To learn more about zero knowledge, I encourage you to go do that or to reach out to me. And I'm happy to point you in their direction to dive deeper.
00:39:40.830 - 00:40:31.050, Speaker C: But for my 101 high level overview, the cryptography that underpins these systems, most of it is via this primitive called a zero knowledge Snark. Snark stands for succinct, non interactive arguments of knowledge. But really the point of them is that you can prove the validity of some statement without exposing any of the inputs that go to that statement. So I like to give one example, which is I want to go out to a bar, and there's three main parts of this interaction of me entering a bar. One, I need to prove that I am 21 plus I can drink alcohol legally in the United States, et cetera. Two, I don't want to expose my name, my birthday, my address, my picture. I really don't want to expose anything about myself except for the fact that I am 21 plus and can enter the bar.
00:40:31.050 - 00:41:57.990, Speaker C: On the other side, there's a security guard whose job or bartender or whatever at the bar whose entire job is verifying that I am of legal drinking age to enter that bar and drink. This seems kind of like a dumb example trivial. Why would we be optimizing for something like me entering a bar? And I understand that, but what I'm trying to explain via this example is zero knowledge Snarks give us the possibility of me proving that I am 21 plus and can drink legally without exposing any private information for me. And that's a good mental model to apply to a variety of different interactions that happen on Ethereum today or may happen in our lives in the future. And we're working on building out these primitives so that they can be used for trivial stuff like going to a bar. I think a mental model that the speaker before me, Scott, touched on briefly is there's a dark forest of bad actors out in the wild of ethereum? And right now, our two options are basically expose information to a centralized intermediary, like a trusted centralized intermediary, which kind of defeats the whole purpose of the space that we're building. Or two, just putting your information out in the wild for any of these bad actors in the dark forest to come grab, abuse, take advantage of, find a way to steal your information, or take advantage of the fact that your information is non private.
00:41:57.990 - 00:42:59.766, Speaker C: By using zero knowledge Snarks and some of the other cryptography and advanced mathematics being built in this space, we can remove the need to trust a centralized intermediary or not trust anyone at all. What we can do is trust math or trust Ethereum and trust Ethereum instead. So if there's questions on zero knowledge stuff, we can talk a little bit more about it after. But this is like a general framework to think about this as so how does ethereum itself actually make privacy possible today? These roll ups, at least in Aztecs case specifically, you generate these proofs proofs that I am 21 plus without exposing any of my information. But you need to post your proof somewhere. You need a trusted layer to post these proofs onto. And the ideal situation is that you can post these proofs somewhere where no single institution can restrict my posting of these proofs to anyone without my permission or without any intermediaries dictating who can and cannot view the proofs that have been posted.
00:42:59.766 - 00:43:45.734, Speaker C: And we want these proofs to be there indefinitely so that you can use those proofs to reconstruct the state of the roll up. The transactions that you're doing on Aztec Ethereum as the trustless global settlement layer, that is the place where roll ups can post their proofs today because Ethereum satisfies some of these qualities that are desirable for constructing proof systems. So, specifically, Ethereum is censorship resistance, censorship resistant. Excuse me. You can be confident that the Ethereum base layer, the validators in our Proof of Stake model, or the miners in the Proof of Work model, won't censor blocks that contain proofs. And so that makes it a great place for us to trustlessly batch and post our proofs there's. Also finality.
00:43:45.734 - 00:44:26.738, Speaker C: So the Ethereum base layer processes the proofs from these zero knowledge roll ups. Once those transactions are confirmed and finalized on the Ethereum layer, one, those aren't reversible, even if you are a malicious roll up operator. And three is data availability. Posting proofs to Ethereum is permissionless, and you are able to check those permissionlessly, which lets you independently verify the state of the Aztec roll up or generally roll ups. I actually saw this like, an hour ago. Yeah, from 12:00 p.m. Earlier today is Tim Baco, one of the lead coordinators of the incredibly complex and awesome move to Proof of stake.
00:44:26.738 - 00:45:19.222, Speaker C: Tim says that the number one problem he'd love to see someone come up with a solution to on Ethereum is private ETH transfers by default. Now, not to speak for Tim, but I think what he's trying to say here is that the base layer, Ethereum, have private ETH transfers by default on l one. But Aztec is a stepping stone to this. You can do private ETH transfers on Aztec via ZK Money today, right now, if you want to, while I'm doing this talk. So feel free to go check out Zkmoney and see how this works. But just to demonstrate how important it is for privacy to be the default on Ethereum rather than a secondary option that users need to opt into. When I'm talking about privacy in the space, there are a variety of logical fallacies that come up in these conversations.
00:45:19.222 - 00:46:01.750, Speaker C: And so I think it's really important to address logical fallacies up front. And Twitter, just 280 characters don't give you enough space to do it. So I thought it was valuable to talk through them right now, especially with the sanctions to Tornado cash recently by the United States OFAC. One thing I hear is that every privacy project is just a mixer. Now, on one end, the complexity of privacy projects today is still very high. And so I understand that not everyone can put in the time to understanding the nuances and the differences between our systems. But hopefully I've been able to demonstrate that privacy projects are doing a wide array of different things.
00:46:01.750 - 00:47:00.790, Speaker C: There's a lot of projects tackling privacy differently. A lot of them are building open source tools, asset included, open source tools for decentralized programmable privacy. So I think it's a little bit reductive to refer to every privacy project as just a mixer when there's a clear delineation between a bunch of our privacy projects generally. And it seems like a logical fallacy to bunch us all into one classification. Secondary is I hear this a lot. The technology is interesting, but bad actors that might abuse technology, make adoption or even research and development in this sector a non starter on day one. The reason this is a fallacy is you merely have to look at basically all technological development that's happened over the last four or five decades or really since all technological advancement that's ever happened in humanity.
00:47:00.790 - 00:47:43.910, Speaker C: And you notice how bad actors potentially abusing a system has never stopped us from developing technology that could be net beneficial to the world, to ethereum, to humanity. You can imagine artificial intelligence, which is a debate that's coming up more and more frequently. Artificial intelligence or gene editing via CRISPR or social media. A lot of these technologies could be abused by bad actors. But that doesn't make the research and development and really the community building and commercialization of these softwares, it doesn't make them a non starter. It never has. And so it's a logical fallacy to follow that argument as because a bad actor can use it, that makes adoption a non starter.
00:47:43.910 - 00:48:22.930, Speaker C: Frankly, I think this is a little bit of a cop out. Bad actors use our traditional financial system. Bad actors use basically every software tool that's ever been created. Just because a bad actor may use it does not mean that the technology itself is for bad actors or built by bad actors. And frankly, it's a fallacy that is far too common in crypto specifically, but the world generally. And I think it's important to face that fallacy head on and really call people out when they're abusing that argument. And finally, the third logical fallacy I see really frequently is you don't need privacy if you have nothing to hide.
00:48:22.930 - 00:49:34.198, Speaker C: That statement just doesn't follow, right? Like, you may not need privacy if you don't need privacy if you have nothing to hide. Nothing to hide just doesn't really relate to your desire for privacy. As my colleague John Wu loves to say, if you don't care about privacy, why do you shower with a curtain on? We all want and value and respect our privacy to differing degrees, but to conflate the desire for privacy to criminal activity. I e nothing to hide is just, frankly, absurd and unfair to a lot of people that want privacy for a variety of reasons. I mean, you could be a political dissident in a country like Ukraine that wants privacy for their safety and for their family's safety, or you might just not want your family members, colleagues, coworkers to see what you're spending your money on on the weekend. And frankly, the argument that if you have nothing to hide, you don't need privacy is completely a non sequitur illogical and should be called out when it's used. So, in summary, I believe privacy is a human right, and until the last few decades, basically not basically all monetary transactions were private by default.
00:49:34.198 - 00:50:33.150, Speaker C: Cash is private by default. And until the last couple of decades, we haven't really needed privacy in a financial perspective because it hasn't been an issue in the last two or three decades. Our technological advancement has been so rapid and so incredible that we've let a couple of big topics fall to the wayside. Number one is like our personal privacy, and number two is like our informational privacy, our data privacy, specifically in the context of social media. And so this is our opportunity to rebuild these systems with privacy as the default. Second, I just want to highlight there's a broad, diverse ecosystem of projects that are doing critical, critical research and development in a variety of fields outside of ethereum or blockchain, specifically like mathematics and cryptography and theoretical computer science. And a lot of them are just exposing programmable privacy tools for others to build using our open source software.
00:50:33.150 - 00:51:37.300, Speaker C: We at aztec believe that building privacy solutions, building privacy solutions on top of ethereum makes the most sense because of ethereum's credible neutrality, ethereum's censorship, resistance, and ethereum's immutability. And there's a lot of logical fallacies that try to muddy the water around privacy tech. And I think it's important to call them out when you see them. And I think in our space, we may be noticing in the last month, month and a half, we need to be united around a cause like privacy. We need the entire space to demand privacy, to demand the right to determining your own level of comfort around your privacy, and really pushing for that across the space. On that note, I want to leave everyone with a quote from phil zimmerman, the creator of PGP, a very widely used encryption software that we all use today, whether you know it or not, in email or a variety of other places. Phil said, sorry about that.
00:51:37.300 - 00:52:20.330, Speaker C: Phil said, throughout the 1990s, I figured that if we wanted to resist this unsettling trend in the government of outlawing cryptography, one measure we can apply is to use cryptography as much as we can now while it is still legal. When the use of strong cryptography becomes popular, it's harder for the government to criminalize it. Therefore, using PGP is good for preserving democracy. If privacy is outlawed, then only outlaws can have privacy. And I just want to tweak that quote a little bit. PGP has been great for preserving democracy, but we've got a next wave of privacy solutions that are here to help preserve democracy and preserve personal freedoms. So therefore, using Aztec and other privacy solutions out there today is good for preserving democracy.
00:52:20.330 - 00:52:35.810, Speaker C: If privacy is outlawed, only outlaws will have privacy. And I think that's the message I want to leave this on. So thank you all for your time. I can't even see how much time I've taken, so I hope I haven't run late or run short, but I'm happy to answer any questions from the audience. From Jacob.
00:52:36.150 - 00:53:08.826, Speaker A: Yeah, awesome. Thanks, Bruno. And yeah, what a great quote to wrap that up on. Yeah, I mean, we still have a little bit of time, so if anybody has any questions, feel free to drop them in the chat and I'll relay them over to Bruno here. But maybe just to kind of kick off a little bit of a conversation, we kind of touching on this at the end of your presentation. It does seem that maybe a little bit weirdly. Privacy is very political in a lot of ways, and I think also you can almost see that in your presentation when you're saying you're like caveats, not financial.
00:53:08.826 - 00:53:42.540, Speaker A: You're kind of prepped for this already in a way, because I think you've probably been spending so much time in the space. Just from a developer perspective, I can definitely see that as being maybe a bit of a turn off for some people. And I'm kind of curious what your thoughts are. But for people who are thinking about maybe building in the space or are very curious about kind of privacy, what either should they read? What should they kind of pull their inspiration for being in the space from? Really just kind of highlight anything that comes to mind as being, like, why this is an important space to work in, even if maybe there's a little bit of a political kind of action happening in that.
00:53:45.310 - 00:54:36.838, Speaker C: You should everyone should look up the quote that I just ended with, if privacy is outlawed, then only outlaws will have privacy. Phil Zimmerman's, I guess I don't know if he goes by Phil. Philip Zimmerman's paper on this is phenomenal. It's just an incredibly concise, succinct write up on why privacy is important. And he wrote this in the I guess I don't know the exact date, but early 2000s, far before this has been a discussion in recent months, and it's incredible to see how that is applicable today. I think a lot of people in crypto or I guess building technology in general, I can't speak for everyone, but we may not, for example, have not been old enough to even understand what was happening in the 90s when the discussion about weaponizing encryption tools was important. And I think it's important to get that historical context.
00:54:36.838 - 00:55:45.842, Speaker C: I think the argument about crypto in general, about decentralization, about credible neutrality, about a global settlement layer outside of one that's maintained by federal governments or world governments as a unit, it's become politicized because everything has become politicized. But I think myself, Aztec, I would imagine all the privacy solutions in the space would feel similar. We don't do this because we have the political ideology. We believe that it's a human right to have your own privacy and make your own decisions about what you spend your funds on, where your money is deployed, without exposing that to not only to your inner circle, but to the broad world of bad actors that are out there. And so we're just trying to build solutions where consumers can make their own choices about where they want to sit on that spectrum of privacy. And so I would encourage everyone to try and get out of a political lens when thinking about this, and just think about your fundamental human rights, what you believe in, how you want to live your life, and whether privacy is a part of that. And I imagine that almost everyone cares about privacy to some regard.
00:55:45.842 - 00:56:12.566, Speaker C: And so just think about where you sit on that scale. And two, try to understand your neighbor or someone you don't know. When they say that they sit in a separate part of that scale, they're not bad people for wanting more privacy. That's just their preference of sitting on a different part of the scale. So, one, read Phil Zimmerman's work on this. Two, feel free to reach out after, and I can send you some more resources. And three, just try and view the situation non politically and with empathy.
00:56:12.566 - 00:56:28.030, Speaker C: And I think we'll understand that everyone here is just trying to advance humanity and really defend our personal liberties. As everything gets more digitized and those liberties start to erode, I think that's all we're here for, is to fight for personal liberties.
00:56:29.170 - 00:57:01.178, Speaker A: Amazing. I'll definitely take a look at Philip Zimmerman's post after this. And then, I mean, you actually brought up what I was going to ask about as well. I also saw Tim's post earlier today on Twitter about sort of like ethereum l one transfers being private by default. As you mentioned in your talk, this is the case for Aztec right now. And Tim at the end of his statement said it could completely change what the end state of the space looks like. I read that and I was like, what could that mean? And I haven't had enough time to think about that yet.
00:57:01.178 - 00:57:10.238, Speaker A: Given that you've been thinking about the space, and Aztec already has this as an outcome, what could be some of those kind of end state outcomes that he's sort of hinting at here?
00:57:10.404 - 00:58:08.270, Speaker C: Yeah, and to clarify again, I think what Tim is saying that is that privacy at the base layer on the l One protocol, which is not what Aztec is. Right. We're an L2 roll up. But you have that functionality of being able to interact on l One privately, send transfers privately to other addresses on L One today. What is the use case? For me, at least the biggest use case for crypto, like the end goal, end state use case here is payments, right? Like we use payments, we don't get two and a half percent taken away from the credit card cartels out there. And we transact trustlessly and permissionlessly privately. Now, if you want to do anything, any sort of payment where you may not want everyone to see what you are paying, you just can't do that on l One today, right? Like, I am Brunny e, you can just go look at my address and you will be able to see all the things I've paid into.
00:58:08.270 - 00:58:27.240, Speaker C: And unfortunately, that's just the status quo today. But payments I'll go on a short tangent here. Aztec was actually started several years ago with the premise of bringing corporate debt onto ethereum layer One.
00:58:28.090 - 00:58:29.398, Speaker A: That's right, yeah.
00:58:29.564 - 00:59:16.280, Speaker C: Unfortunately, that's not possible because corporations value their privacy. And so if we want to enter into these two sectors, like payments generally and really widespread adoption in the financial markets, whether like DeFi or just like DeFi payments, global settlement, layer exchanges, really anything that you can imagine. Financially crypto being used for it requires privacy on the parts of everyone outside of the current crypto ecosystem. That is okay with the public nature by default. So I think if you want to look at it from a market sizing thing like global payments market, global financial market, just take like a small percentage of that. And this is the biggest industry. This is like ten X what crypto is today.
00:59:16.280 - 00:59:35.718, Speaker C: And it's impossible without privacy. And so I think that's hopefully that answered your question, Jacob, of how important is this? How transformational is this? How big is privacy for achieving this end state of ethereum and global adoption of ethereum as our trust settlement layer?
00:59:35.814 - 00:59:58.930, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. I think you nailed ahead on you hit the nail on the head there we go on that one. I mean, payments being such a big part of everything we do all the time, and really not being able to really tap into being a large percentage of that as a protocol, as an ecosystem, if not for privacy. Right? So enabling, that really absolutely critical.
00:59:59.590 - 01:00:32.826, Speaker C: And just one last note. The point here I'm sorry, I know I'm going a couple of minutes over. You probably could be privately transacting on ethereum l One today. Like, you could open up a fresh wallet, you could figure out a way to basically get privacy. But we don't need that for global adoption. We need completely easy adoption of privacy solutions on ethereum for that to really reach the mainstream, right? Like people are. Not going to go in and play this wallet roulette of hiding funds.
01:00:32.826 - 01:01:03.862, Speaker C: That's just not the way that we're going to reach global adoption. So we really need simple consumer interfaces for adoption of privacy on L1 Ethereum. And I think ZK Money is like a great step in that direction. I encourage everyone to check it out and just fund a little bit of money into ZK Money, send a private payment and see how awesome it is to see that Ether scan transaction as not Brunny ETH but Aztec roll of contract. No one can see actually who is funding the other side of that. So I encourage you all to go to Zkmoney and check that out.
01:01:03.996 - 01:01:06.326, Speaker A: Awesome. That was just ZK money, right?
01:01:06.428 - 01:01:07.174, Speaker C: ZK money.
01:01:07.212 - 01:01:07.606, Speaker B: Exactly.
01:01:07.708 - 01:01:20.540, Speaker A: Awesome. OK, great. Thank you so much for being here, Bruno, and for your chat. Really appreciated it and yeah, dovetailed so nicely with Scott's chat earlier, so that was just perfect. So thank you so much for your time and for being a part of this with us.
01:01:21.090 - 01:01:22.720, Speaker C: Yeah, thanks for having me, everyone.
01:01:23.410 - 01:02:08.198, Speaker A: Awesome. Okay, thank you so much again, Bruno. And we're going to move on to our next chat here, which is going to be with Ben West from the Gitcoin team. Of course, this chat is going to be called beyond the Merge blockchains Enabled Climate Solutions. I think everybody obviously should hopefully know in this chat that in the last couple, I guess the last week actually, it's only been a know, ethereum has received a massive upgrade called the Merge, which has dramatically changed its kind of climate footprint. Obviously we're all really excited about that and I think it bears repeating ad nauseam until people really kind of realize how amazingly impactful that moment was for Ethereum as a climate perspective. I think Ben's probably going to talk about more of it, so I'm not going to jump in all over it.
01:02:08.198 - 01:02:19.150, Speaker A: But yeah, without further ado, maybe I'll invite Ben up to the stage here to unmute and share his camera and his screen and yeah, welcome to the stream, Ben.
01:02:20.210 - 01:02:22.320, Speaker D: Thank you very much. Nice to be here.
01:02:23.570 - 01:02:35.414, Speaker A: And yeah, maybe I'll just turn it over to a I don't want to talk too much about probably stuff you're already going to talk about, but I'm super excited to have you here and excited to learn more about what you're going to chat about.
01:02:35.532 - 01:03:27.926, Speaker D: Well, thank you, sir. I definitely will talk about the Merge and we'll also talk about blockchain enabled climate solutions. So why don't I just go ahead and share my screen. So beyond the Merge, we have talked a fair amount as a community about the significance of this moment. I just want to start with this graphic from a piece that The Economist did about the Merge, which had the kind of bizarre title of Farewell to the Netherlands. But I think this little chart that they integrated really tells the story of the reduction of energy consumption and related greenhouse gas emissions from that moment where the merge happened. That line going straight down is not something you see very often.
01:03:27.926 - 01:04:22.790, Speaker D: It's pretty significant. And the idea of farewell to the Netherlands is basically saying that the amount of energy being consumed by the Ethereum blockchain and by all of us using it has dropped by 99.95%, or the equivalent of something like the Netherlands or Sweden or Chile would be another sort of comparable example. Of course, there's a range of different estimates about what that energy consumption looks like, but sort of the high end or most conservative, I guess you could call it, estimate somewhere in the neighborhood of 40 million tons a year, which would be the equivalent of the Netherlands or Chile or Sweden. So really significant and I think it's important that we kind of recognize the significance of that. And I'll talk a little bit more about it in a SEC. But first, just for the sake of introducing myself and kind of how I fit into this conversation.
01:04:22.790 - 01:05:00.626, Speaker D: My name is Ben. As you heard, I work for Gitcoin. I've also been doing a little bit of research on behalf of the Ethereum Foundation around blockchain enabled climate solutions. So I'm kind of wearing a couple of different hats here. But I'm going to focus a lot of the sort of use cases that I'm going to talk about today on projects that have actually come through the Gitcoin climate rounds in the last four rounds. And I know Scott was here earlier talking and probably talked a bit about Gitcoin, so I'm not going to spend too much time talking about what Gitcoin is. But for anybody who isn't familiar, you can definitely go check out Gitcoin Co and you'll find lots of information there.
01:05:00.626 - 01:05:43.220, Speaker D: For the last four rounds of our quarterly grants rounds, we've run a climate solutions round. We've now got over 250 projects in that round, which is just mind boggling. We had 26 in the first round we ran. It's definitely the cutting edge of climate solutions projects. I've worked in the climate space for over 20 years, mostly in the environmental nonprofit side, but I've also done clean energy plans and public consultations at the city and provincial level in Canada. It's a space that I think is just really exciting. I haven't seen this many people this excited about anything to do with climate solutions in many years.
01:05:43.220 - 01:06:47.350, Speaker D: It's become really a testing ground for new ideas and actually a place where a lot of VCs and others kind of go to look at what has the interest in what harnesses the wisdom of the crowds to really sort of show its value in this space. So I'll kind of walk you through a variety of different sort of use cases and approaches that are enabled by blockchain technology. And I think we're at a pretty interesting moment now where a lot of people are going to start paying attention to what's possible with blockchain technology who may have hesitated or taken a small sort of step back just because of concerns around energy consumption as it related to sort of using blockchain for climate solutions. Perhaps they won't be as concerned. Now, I also want to just recognize the contribution of our matching fund partners. It really is our partners who make it possible for Gitcoin grants rands to be a reality. And we've had a lot of different really exciting partners come on board in the last little while.
01:06:47.350 - 01:08:17.522, Speaker D: And it's really a mix of web3 projects, many of them graduates of Gitcoin funding, folks who got their start inside of Gitcoin, and also increasingly some folks who are kind of a step removed from web3 but are sort of dipping a toe in the space. Folks like Kimball Musk and Schmidt Futures, Eric Schmidt's Foundation and others who are starting to get actively involved. So really cool to see how this kind of mixture of partners from across the web Three ecosystems as well as increasingly folks who have an interest in climate solutions more broadly or in web3 specifically starting to get involved. So really the first thing that we end up talking about when we talk about these use cases is the idea of getting rid of middlemen, putting money directly in the hands of people. When I talk to people that are building on web3 technology on blockchains, it's really this kind of fundamental principle of blockchains that is the first thing that brings people to the table. It's this idea of reducing the need to sort of pay rent seeking individuals in the middle of transactions that just opens the door to a whole world of potential innovation. And I would say that that is kind of the first piece and then often we end up talking about composability and interoperability and I'll talk a little bit more about that later.
01:08:17.522 - 01:09:28.220, Speaker D: But just as a starting .1 of the really beautiful things to see happen has been kind of both on the side of helping when there's problems and this has been the case for funding going to folks in Pakistan with the Safe Pakistan Crypto Collective. But also we've seen it in terms of things like support for folks in the Ukraine. And of course, millions of dollars has gone directly to both the government in the Ukraine but also to a lot of different groups on the ground doing good work and just being able to put money directly in the hands of people where it's needed is, I would say, kind of the starting point for this conversation. Kind of beyond the merge now that we've seen this massive reduction in energy consumption. And by the way, I think it's worth pointing out that the merge is probably the biggest reduction in energy consumption from any industry in the modern era of human history. I've tried to think of anything comparable in terms of sort of the amount of energy reduction and had a hard time thinking of another example, really the closest thing would actually be the actions of countries, not the actions of industries or companies.
01:09:28.220 - 01:10:30.998, Speaker D: That reduction in annual energy consumption is super significant and as ethereum continues to grow, of course the emissions would have continued to grow along with it. So it's not only a reduction in potential energy consumption right now, but if we look at that, if ethereum gets ten x or 100 x in terms of the amount of use, the amount of value that's being derived, the associated emissions are not going to go up with it, which is really an admirable thing. And I want to just for any ETH core devs who are out there listening, I just want to give my personal thank you for that contribution. It really is significant. And know, so both in terms of direct funding to projects where there's a problem that we're trying to solve, where we're looking at climate adaptation, but, know, on the Mitigation side, just getting money directly. In the hands of people trying to do good things. Like, for example, this group, ayahuaka Uganda who's been a grantee on the Gitcoin platform.
01:10:30.998 - 01:12:01.062, Speaker D: They've said that really, without Gitcoin it would have been very hard for them to do what they're doing. It's given them the ability to plant trees, install solar panels in schools and health centers all throughout the area that they're doing their work. And this is just a couple of examples, but it's kind of the first use case of what the implications of removing middlemen can look like on the ground. The next use case that I'm going to point to is one that I think is really exciting actually, and probably one of the lesser known and understood, and one of the areas where I think there may actually be the most opportunity or significant amounts of opportunity. So first of all, using the composability and interoperability of various different tools that are built in the sort of DeFi space has opened up this door to direct financing of solar energy projects or other clean energy projects. And I'm just highlighting a couple of them on the screen here who are grantees from the Gitcoin grants. Round projects like Village Grid or Zero Labs or Make Change Possible, all at different scales and different locations, are actually using these DeFi protocols, these kind of lending platforms, borrowing platforms, different forms of decentralized financing so that people can directly contribute to funding solar projects on the ground.
01:12:01.062 - 01:13:16.222, Speaker D: And in particular, I want to give a shout out to the Solar Foundation, which is a group that's trying to harness these mechanisms to directly fund projects, actually for Iowaca, Uganda, as well as for people in Puerto Rico. More recently in basically an attempt to try to bring more resilience and the ability to basically have your own micro grids at the local level with the help of these kind of funding mechanisms. And what they're doing also ties into the folks at Zero Labs who are using renewable energy credits as a way to go about doing this kind of work. This is kind of the equivalent of carbon offsets, but for renewable energy, so where you can actually buy credits for a certain amount of electricity consumption. And I think these are really interesting and sort of novel approaches to bringing more liquidity directly into these markets and to make these kinds of projects a reality. And it's worth pointing out that these are investments that can generate a stable return over a period of time. And it's really beautiful to see how that capital can sort of find a home and more efficiently just actually make these projects a reality on the ground.
01:13:16.222 - 01:14:13.298, Speaker D: So some really interesting work happening in that regard. I also put up this group, Seven Energy, which is a company in Norway, or I should say it's an organization in Norway that's using what I would call sort of forward thinking policy to facilitate community energy. Like, they're actually using blockchain technology for decentralized grid management. And that's similar to what Village Grid does as well, to basically make it possible for people to buy and sell electricity directly from each other. And I think that this is one of those things where the potential for it is exponential, but it also has barriers in the so called meat space. So luckily, in Norway, there's policies that really make it difficult for electricity providers, the folks that own the grid infrastructure. It makes it hard for them to limit the ability of communities to do this.
01:14:13.298 - 01:15:16.326, Speaker D: And in some cases, where people would like to see things like this happen, they run into obstacles with regulators. There are some examples, though, that are not at the community level even, but even just at the individual building level. In the process of the research I've been doing, actually found a company based right here in Toronto, where I am in the birthplace of Ethereum shout out to know who have actually been using blockchain technology to facilitate microgrids at the condominium level. So the charging infrastructure for electric vehicles usually is kind of a one way process. You're pulling electricity off of that charger, you're paying a fee. But what is being made possible by this company in Toronto is that they're actually making it possible to actually sell your electricity back into the condominium complex. So the electricity that you've got stored in your battery, for most people, their automobile isn't being used over 90% of the time.
01:15:16.326 - 01:16:12.406, Speaker D: That can now become a backup battery. And if you imagine that at scale in a condo complex, imagine the entire underground parking being filled with vehicles that have electric batteries in them. And I think increasingly in the years ahead, we're going to see more and more vehicles where that's the case, especially as people are seeing costs rise around the world for gas. It just becomes increasingly an opportunity for that parking garage to now become basically like a backup battery bank. And that can be useful in the case of blackouts, but it can also really help with moments of peak demand. In a lot of jurisdictions, when you are at kind of peak parts of the day, people are charged more for electricity because there's such a demand on the grid. And that can also result in using natural gas or coal fired power plants that may not run all the time, but are sort of used as a backup source of electricity.
01:16:12.406 - 01:18:00.030, Speaker D: Now, if you can sort of manage that more efficiently and actually draw power from batteries that are within a building, not only are you creating a new revenue stream for those automobile owners, but you're also potentially creating the ability to reduce that sort of additional demand on the grid itself during those kind of peak moments. So yeah, I think the financing of clean energy and the facilitating of decentralized grids is a totally fascinating and very rich ripe opportunity for innovation. I think in some locations we're seeing kind of the equivalent of what happened in the Global South when people just jumped right over landlines and went right to cell phones. I think we may see the same thing happen with these micro grids and distributed grids facilitated by blockchain technology where we'll actually see solutions popping up that were financed perhaps by micro loans from a whole bunch of different people on the other side of the world who are all getting a little bit of return from the money that's being generated by selling that electricity between neighbors and also opportunities for whether it be local farmers and business. Owners and others who are renting out their rooftops or their land to facilitate these projects, to generate some income that they may not have had otherwise. So really a win win scenario and something that just wouldn't be possible in the same sort of way with the same sort of transparency, clarity and all the stuff that comes with the interoperability of all these various different D Five protocols and tools plugging into this space. Probably the most commonly known use case for blockchain technology in the kind of climate space is around the tokenization of carbon and other ecological assets.
01:18:00.030 - 01:19:02.410, Speaker D: Carbon offsetting is a very common approach taken by governments and companies to reduce their greenhouse gas footprint. Basically the hope is that companies will do everything that they can to reduce their emissions, or so will countries. But then if they're trying to reach a certain goal, often they'll buy offsets to help sort of fill the gap. And this is definitely the space where we see the biggest number of projects who are using blockchain technology again to bring additional liquidity, to sort of build on top of these various different DeFi protocols and to create what people are calling the refi space. The regenerative finance space and that takes a lot of different shapes and sizes. I kind of showed a cross section of a bunch of different interesting and innovative projects. Senkin in the middle of the screen here has created a dashboard that is kind of a clearinghouse for all kinds of different offsets that tells the stories of the projects, that helps to draw attention to the sort of different approaches that are being taken and the projects that are being directly financed.
01:19:02.410 - 01:20:41.822, Speaker D: Of course, the beauty of doing these kinds of projects enabled by blockchain technology is that it just opens up a whole world of possibilities in terms of cutting out middlemen again. And one of the biggest costs of doing carbon offsets is actually the validation and verification and I'll talk about that in a second. But really even just at the surface level, knowing how much is being paid, knowing whether an offset has actually occurred, all of that is stuff that's especially enabled by blockchain technology. And just because of the sort of ease of use of many of these protocols brings a lot more liquidity into the space, which is really a big part of what's needed in the carbon offset space is to just bring in more demand, which will then generate more and more of these projects actually occurring in the real world. So I also included a couple of other projects like Endangered Token or Neptune Chain who are trying to look at other ecological assets like forest preservation or the sustainability of the marine environment. Regen foundation and the Regen Network is a really interesting project and really a set of projects being built on top of a protocol that I think is really worth checking out. Doing some very interesting stuff in terms of looking at ecological value and also using their own standards to bring offsets directly on chain, as opposed to some other projects that are using preexisting offsets and tokenizing them, which basically can be very effective, but also has some limiting barriers when, say, a group decides to not allow that activity to take place.
01:20:41.822 - 01:21:33.380, Speaker D: As is kind of the ongoing conversation right now with Vera, the biggest voluntary carbon offset market right now. Also just want to give a quick shout out to return protocol. Really cool project that just allows you to set and forget offsets directly in your wallet so you can just basically set up a certain percentage of every transaction to go towards carbon offsets and you can just make that happen very easily. And of course, as I think everybody is well aware, user experience is one of the most important things for us to be wrestling with in the years ahead. Cool to see projects that are just trying to make it as easy as possible. So I'm not going to mention all these projects. Spirals and Refi south also doing great stuff, but as I tend to do, I'm noticing I got a lot of slides and only not as much time as I could talk endlessly about this.
01:21:33.380 - 01:22:47.830, Speaker D: So the next piece of this that I think really is important and it connects to the conversation around asset or offsets is the world of monitoring, reporting and verification or MRV. Tracking emissions is definitely super important and verifying impact is super important. And Oracles have become a big part of conversation around blockchain technology in recent years. There's some great projects like Astral and Shamba who are trying to use Oracles to help with the verification of offsets. So like if somebody makes a claim that they're protecting a piece of forest, how do you know? And part of the way you can do that is using satellite data. Weather data also becomes very important and even in some cases, even putting monitoring devices directly in the soil or at a farm can bring that information on chain and be used as an additional layer in that stack of technology that can help actually verify the validity of emission reductions. And Shamba is already using this technology to help bring new revenue to farmers in various places in Kenya and elsewhere in Africa.
01:22:47.830 - 01:23:43.610, Speaker D: Really exciting to see what they're doing. I also want to give a shout out to blockchain for Climate Foundation. They're big fans of ethereum so if you don't know them already, you should definitely check them out. They've been around for many years, run by a guy named Joseph who I've known for many years in Vancouver, super lovely guy. And they have been trying to bring the Paris agreement, the greenhouse gas reduction agreement, onto the Ethereum blockchain for many years and meeting with a lot of politicians and others. But really at its core I think it's important to understand that using blockchain to actually do the carbon accounting in a transparent way is fundamentally a very important and useful attribute of what blockchain can bring to the climate space. Already the government of Canada, British Columbia and many other places in the world are experimenting with this.
01:23:43.610 - 01:24:54.062, Speaker D: It's much needed. There's a real lack of standardization of how greenhouse gas accounting is done in terms of how the information is shared. There's a hodgepodge of databases and spreadsheets that are floating around out there in the world and it's very hard to wrap your head around exactly what's being done in that space. So I'm actually very excited about that sort of overarching like how do we use blockchain technology just for the monitoring of greenhouse gases and climate impacts as well as that sort of more on the ground monitoring of specific projects that are making claims. And if we're going to pass our money to folks having that sort of level of verification. In short, I think blockchain could actually basically solve some of the biggest problems with carbon offsets logistics and supply chain efficiency is probably the least sexy and potentially one of the most important uses of blockchain technology in terms of reducing energy a tremendous amount of energy use goes into the movement of goods around the world. Already big companies like meersk and others are using blockchains, in their case, I think private blockchains.
01:24:54.062 - 01:25:35.454, Speaker D: But increasingly we're seeing how this can be super important in this space. And the graphic that I included here is from the folks at the Rocky Mountain Institute who are doing some really interesting work in this regard. Also a shout out should go to the folks from Filecoin Green who are doing some very important work in this space as well around sort of attestations and different ways of sort of monitoring impact and folks who have had a lot of experience working directly in this space. So yeah, each one of these pieces I could spend an hour talking about. But let's just say that logistics and supply chain efficiency, super important and another really exciting opportunity in the blockchain space.
01:25:35.492 - 01:25:36.830, Speaker A: To really have an impact.
01:25:37.890 - 01:26:08.290, Speaker D: Finally, the last use case that I'm going to highlight is actually community arts and culture projects. Culture does not change all by itself, and this is one of the things that we fund through Gitcoin grant surrounds that I think is kind of underrated in its importance. On this page, there's a bunch of different interesting projects. One of them is a video game. One of them is a documentary. Reef Phi Dao, who has the cutest name in all of crypto. I always just call them Reef Dao because I get confused.
01:26:08.290 - 01:26:58.666, Speaker D: But they're trying to protect the Great Barrier Reef by making a digital twin of the Great Barrier Reef in sort of a metaversal space where you can buy portions of the reef. And it'll finance researchers who are making 3D models of the Great Barrier Reef using some innovative new underwater cameras. And to be honest, it was the first time that I really got excited about the metaverse. As much as I'm into games and whatever else, I hadn't really seen the implications of a metaversal space. As part of Climate Solutions refi, dao is doing some really interesting stuff. There's also a lot of different conferences and educational programs like Open Campus that are seeing funding coming in. Hibiscus Dao is a group that's looking at standardization for reducing energy consumption in the fashion industry using blockchain technology.
01:26:58.666 - 01:28:09.198, Speaker D: That's their logo up in the top right corner and some just amazing artists for anybody who pays attention to Gitcoin. You've probably heard us talk about solar punk art. Definitely one of the coolest things that I see happening in the space is just kind of this visioning of how the world could be. And I think that the more that we have that conversation, get people excited about the real world, use cases that we talked about today, but then sort of imagine what it looks like in our day to day lives, I think that's what it's going to take to really start changing people's perception and understanding of the value of this kind of technology. So I just wanted to sort of end off with this idea of just one last thing about Gitcoin, which is people say, I've got a friend named Pranav from Refi South who says people come to Gitcoin for the funding, but they stick around for the community. And I think that really is the secret sauce of the web Three space in general, and Gitcoin in particular. The interoperability and composability of our tools really leads to this collaborative space where people support each other.
01:28:09.198 - 01:29:05.554, Speaker D: It's been very exciting to watch these projects over the last four grant surrounds evolve and grow and collaborate, learn in public. Sometimes things work, sometimes things don't, but we all kind of take big steps in the right direction as the result of that kind of approach. So I love seeing these kind of quotes from various different people in the community about the experiences that they had with Gitcoin. To me, it's really just amazing to sort of watch this evolve and grow. If you haven't checked out any of our Twitter spaces, we've done a bunch of these shill spaces for folks in the climate space as well as just others on Gitcoin. And it's been really exciting to sort of see all these different projects come and share what they're working on and often make new relationships in real time. And sometimes people find co founders or they find developers or they find funders, or they just learn about something interesting that's going on somewhere else in the world.
01:29:05.554 - 01:29:33.366, Speaker D: So that's definitely a very cool part of what you see happening day to day at Gitcoin. And I'll just leave it there and say I would love to talk to anybody who is interested in what could be done in this space or is curious to learn more about this space. I threw my Twitter handle and my telegram up there. Feel free to come and find me and talk more about what is possible in the Web Three climate solutions space. So thanks for the time to chat.
01:29:33.398 - 01:30:27.798, Speaker A: About all this stuff. Thanks for being here, Ben, really appreciate that. And I think awesome overview of just like all the different kind of things that are happening in the space and what's been made possible. I know we're a little bit over, but I kind of want to ask a couple of questions that come into mind and if anybody has any other questions, feel free to drop them in the chat as well. But yeah, now that we've kind of done this major improvement, as you mentioned to kind of, I guess wipe the energy efficiency or the energy usage of the Netherlands off the map, and Ethereum's usage now is, I think, more representative of the volume of what it should be. Given that all these other climate solutions and things that are happening on chain exist, is there a way where we could measure that impact in a way where maybe ethereum could almost. Be not even just carbon neutral, but also like carbon negative.
01:30:27.798 - 01:30:30.126, Speaker A: Is there a way where we could kind of get to that point?
01:30:30.308 - 01:31:54.600, Speaker D: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, some things are easier to count than others, but definitely the offset protocols and the renewable energy credits, many of those projects actually have dashboards. A big shout out to the folks for ETH for Climate, which is kind of a new coalition that's just recently come together that's actually talking about offsetting historic emissions from the ethereum blockchain, which I think is a noble and worthwhile activity for me. The bigger picture really is just like how do we make ethereum a massively positive contributor to climate solutions regardless of just historic emissions, but also kind of beyond the emissions calculations and things like carbon accounting, for example. It's kind of hard to quantify what the impact of that is, just having better information in the hands of people more readily or things like their arts and culture projects, again, sort of harder to quantify. But definitely there are a lot of ways that we can use blockchain technology to monitor the impact of all of these projects. And I'll give a shout out to the folks at Zero Labs and to the folks at Klimadao who both have some great dashboards already that they're experimenting with and anybody who wants to take a look can go find the discord for ETH for Climate and you'll see a lot of that conversation happening there.
01:31:55.450 - 01:32:43.302, Speaker A: Amazing. And then maybe one last really quick thing that comes to mind for me. You mentioned yet historical ethereum. I think it's to your point about earlier in the presentation about how you can't think of any proxy or equivalent to that much kind of energy usage being kind of flipped off in a switch outside of maybe government policies and stuff like that. It is a big change and I think there is a large kind of consensus almost that had formed during the proof of work days of ethereum that it is energy inefficient. It's part of the kind of battle against climate change that we need to go up against ethereum, not work with it. I mean, you probably spend a lot of time chatting with different people that maybe aren't as maybe kind of in the know as kind of the group of people that are probably watching this.
01:32:43.302 - 01:32:52.858, Speaker A: But what have you seen as a really good way to sort of reverse that narrative? Now that we really, truly have done that with technology, how do we now do that with kind of the more social aspect of it?
01:32:53.024 - 01:33:54.334, Speaker D: That's a really good question. And honestly, I think it's the storytelling around projects and use cases. That old saying, sell the sizzle, not the stake. I think because we're such like a developer, heavy space and still quite early in the sort of building out of tools, I think there's kind of an emphasis on talking about how everything works instead of the sort of why it's useful. And I think for most people, really, all they understand is kind of the payments or the sort of investment components of this. So my hope is that just by telling these stories of these innovative projects and the really interesting things they're doing with this technology and showing why that couldn't just be done with a set of Excel spreadsheets or some traditional database structure or how that the removal of middlemen takes a bunch of rent seeking activity out of the mix and puts more money directly in the hands of people. Or even things like the electric charging station in buildings in the city that I live in.
01:33:54.334 - 01:34:37.946, Speaker D: To me, you don't even need to know that there's blockchain under the hood. There making that work. But maybe when you do learn that, then you'll have sort of a different view of this technology. I can tell you I've talked to a lot of climate oriented organizations and individuals over the years from working in the space for many years. But since I've been working at Gitcoin and even before as a person with an interest in crypto and I've been telling a lot of people, let's just keep having this conversation after the merge, because people have been a little bit reticent but sort of interested in what was possible. And I think there's going to be a big influx of people showing up who are sort of maybe now open to seeing what is possible in this space. And that's really exciting to me.
01:34:38.128 - 01:34:54.850, Speaker A: Amazing. Well, I appreciate your time, Ben. I'm also a fellow Torontonian, funny enough, and I had no idea that those chargers in my condo building are connected to A blockchain. So maybe I'll message you after to try to figure out what's going on. Yeah. A pleasure to have you here, Ben, and thank you so much for your time.
01:34:55.000 - 01:34:56.642, Speaker D: Thanks for having me. That was a lot of fun.
01:34:56.696 - 01:35:35.582, Speaker A: Cheers. Cheers. Okay, great. So kind of moving on to another topic that I think is really interesting. It's been a topic that's been obviously in the news over the last couple of years as people are kind of adapting to new ways of working. Kind of in parallel to that, I think maybe a little bit quieter has been this kind of innovation of the future of work and people building and doing things in a permissionless fashion on ethereum. So I wanted to invite Tina from the Station team to come and give a chat about kind of the work that's being done both at Station and just kind of broader in the ecosystem and just sort of like kind of what is happening in the space and how ethereum is impacting it.
01:35:35.582 - 01:35:47.506, Speaker A: So Tina, without further ado, I'd love to kind of welcome you to the stage and feel free to share your video unmute and yeah, it'd be awesome to go from here. There you go. Hey, Tina, good to have you here.
01:35:47.688 - 01:35:48.962, Speaker E: Great to see you.
01:35:49.096 - 01:35:57.078, Speaker A: Awesome. So, yeah, feel free to share your screen if you have something to share and I will get out of the way. And I'm excited to hear what you hear, your presentation. We're excited about this.
01:35:57.164 - 01:36:03.414, Speaker E: Awesome. Can you see my screen okay?
01:36:03.612 - 01:36:05.640, Speaker A: Yeah, it looks great. Awesome.
01:36:06.090 - 01:37:13.760, Speaker E: Thank you so much for having me. I'm Tina. I'm one of the co founders of Station Labs and we're building a set of decentralized tooling to help contributors and Dow members coordinate and collaborate with each other more permissionlessly. So this is a very broad topic and I kind of put kind of air quotes future of work because we all know that it's been kind of abused as kind of this buzword throwing around both in the VC sphere and also kind of in ethereum and kind of wanting to start off as like what even is the future of work? And we see that definitions have evolved over time. Some people believe that the future of work is remote work, it's distributed work. There's this idea about new models of value attribution distribution, around creator economy, around gig economy. And then we have this open source ecosystem that is super close to kind of Ethereum's Foundation and Ethos and generally the larger crypto ecosystem as well.
01:37:13.760 - 01:39:10.386, Speaker E: So I think that honestly, it's a combination of a lot of these concepts all in one. And I think a lot of times when we look at what's happening in ethereum, what's happening with dows, what's happening with this new class of labor, sometimes it's very easy to kind of see things in silos where these are very groundbreaking things are happening in ethereum, which oftentimes are true, but also the same movement is also happening beyond. So I think the goal of the talk is really kind of put things more contextually and really look at the current stack of kind of global distributed work and the kind of existing infrastructure to support that and kind of like envision and ideate what the possibilities could be moving forward. So a big move around the future of work is really this idea of in the past we worked in offices and now we're working online, but also this idea of relationships are now becoming much more digitally native, where we meet people on Twitter, we meet people on GitHub, we meet people on these digital platforms. And then because of the proof of work that it's both a very crypto native concept, but also it's a concept that is prevalent in other digitally native platforms as well, like GitHub, where you have a provenance of the work that you've done. And because of these relationship, you see this kind of reflection of the offline space being reflective of these online relationships that are also very authentically built based on what you've done on the Internet. And the reason why we're all here right now at ETH Global is because of this distributed network ethereum and now people are gathering in real life and offline and offline kind of discussing topics that unite us.
01:39:10.386 - 01:40:41.578, Speaker E: And really kind of one framework that I really like to think about is actually through the lens of urban design because why we need cities. I really love this book called Order without Design by Elaine Bertold and he kind of talks about how cities are essentially labor markets. And one quote that resonates with both myself and also a lot of other Dow leaders and founders in this space are really kind of thinking about the Ethereum and also generally Dows as a labor market, as a city. So what does a city need? So we have a well functioning labor market, brings together people with varied but complementary knowledge and skills, the preconditions for innovation and a well functioning labor market also makes possible every other urban attraction like orchestra museums and art galleries. So we are already seeing that kind of the early glimpses of that in crypto and in Ethereum ecosystem. We have protocols like yearn and index co op that are very well organized and cooperative dows with a variety of different functions. The same way that we in a company, we have all these different functions but we also kind of see these urban attractions that start to emerge from that central economic activities of people producing valuable protocols, generating economic value for the Ethereum ecosystem which kind of subsequently increases the value or demand of Ethereum as a participant.
01:40:41.578 - 01:42:31.970, Speaker E: Just like how the value of kind of the US or the value of New York is kind of increasing the demand of people wanting to migrate into that city and ecosystem. So from urban attraction perspective, we see kind of FWB which is a great social dao throwing events in real life in Ottawa, California which actually completely I think changes the town's perception of crypto. And now I am aware that recently they also received like a 13,000 donation to kind of spin up another more ongoing initiative on the local level to have kind of more crypto communities to gather and meet in real life in Idawild, which is kind of a crazy impact on the real world economy if you think about it. And then there's Dows like bright moments where they're hosting events, exhibitions, shows inspired by their collections of NFTs. And really, their NFTs are great, and they're beautiful, but it's very clear also that it's much more beyond the artwork itself, where these artworks are just collections of identities, where people who have the same kind of artwork from the same city could find and discover one another and then go to these events and actually see each other in person. So if we look at Ethereum as this new city, then we already kind of saw this kind of early glimpse of we have complementary skill sets and we have some cultural events that are happening as we know. It's still super early and many people are complaining about how the space is generally inaccessible for most people.
01:42:31.970 - 01:43:45.020, Speaker E: And activities and economic kind of engine haven't really been started before. We really can onboard majority of the and morph people into the space and benefiting from this ecosystem trying to go a little bit more philosophical and look at the dimensionality of work here what is actually work and what does work consist of? And I will say that there's like a few dimensions that we want to kind of use as a framework to look at where we are in the digital labor space and where we are for specifically ethereum. So for work, we have tasks, we have mobilization, which is a group of people completing tasks and doing things towards the same goal. And as you build this meaningful relationship with the people that you work with, you're developing this sense of belonging, this sense of identity. And as you slowly discover these places of belonging, you also actualize and really find out kind of what you are called for. And these are the concepts that should be familiar with anybody who has studied either urban design or just design in general to understand. These are the different.
01:43:45.020 - 01:45:04.390, Speaker E: Some like to use the framework like Marslow hierarchy of needs and others just like to kind of stay a little bit more abstract. But if we actually look at the intersections of a lot of these themes, we start to see different shapes of work that is happening both within crypto and outside of it. So we see git economy bounty boards as sitting in the intersection of mobilizing task and gig workers. We see in the intersection between mobilization and belonging as corporations and global corporations startups distributed work and also of course we're very familiar with DAOs and in the intersection of belonging and actualization we traditionally have this perception of nation states and churches. But right now we see the rise of maxis and wagme culture and kind of belief systems and almost like close to kind of a religious type of state that is being formed by the formation. Of also token networks and kind of on a spectrum. We see kind of on the left side being labor that is much more mercenary like all the way to labor, that is much more missionary, that are driven by a shared purpose, a mission, and also the value that's being created.
01:45:04.390 - 01:46:31.054, Speaker E: And those values are much less monetary, but more so around your sense of identity and self and what it kind of means to be a part of the network. And I think in terms of ethereum this is a more realistic look at where we are right now. We have traders, bounty hunters, AirDrop farmers, one token and axie players kind of representing labor that's more on the opposite. On the left side of spectrum which are tasks, more fungible tasks and labor. On the right side we have meaningful labor that's being produced which is storytelling and actually creating movements around being a bitcoin maxi or ethereum maxi and LARPing, which is an ultimate form of belief, which is role playing as in a nine developer or really kind of finding this new self on the Internet. And then we have everything in between which is kind of the real infrastructure to make this a viable path to connect between the tasks and skills that can be practiced in the ethereum network and also the meaning behind and the vision of decentralization and permissionless. And right now the reason why I grayed out the two circles in between is these are still being built and being constructed and they're still super early in their formation.
01:46:31.054 - 01:48:03.934, Speaker E: And what are they? They're the hackers, they're the product designers, they're the community stewards, funders, educators, meme perpetuators. They're the people that are actually kind of starting to realize the lack of infrastructure in the space and how it's very difficult to actually sustain their living or actually have a full time job just strictly in this token network and taking a step back to look at how the global digital labor infrastructure kind of functions. This is like super broad strokes, definitely a little bit reductionist, but really there's a few layers here on the foundational layer and the base layer. We need local laws and compliances to ensure that if I'm a worker, I'm compliant of the local labor law and also I'm getting paid in my own currency so that I can consume local goods. And then kind of in the middle there's this network that allow me to find work in the first place. And those are the toolings and marketplaces for example upwork and recently braintrust that emerge as this flattening of the global labor market where if we analyze cities at labor market, we are now seeing that we don't really have to live in New York anymore to have access to a higher pay job. And that is the whole idea of strife increasing the GDP of the internet as a payment.
01:48:03.934 - 01:50:05.698, Speaker E: Rail and I think a lot of the messages are also true here, where with these marketplaces now, if you are someone like anywhere in the world, you're able to find opportunities that otherwise you have not found in your local market. And in order to actually coordinate people from different time zones, we're now seeing productivity tools like GitHub Notion Telegram emails, very standard boilerplate tools now both in crypto and outside of it being that coordination. Rail but if we look at a decentralized digital labor infrastructure versus a centralized global digital labor infrastructure, what is different and what are the possibilities here, which I think is the most fun to think about? Like if now the topic is the future of work on Ethereum, is that right now in absence of local laws and compliances, in the absence of nation state as this enforcer and disforcing function of any type of viability and legitimacy and enforceability of agreements made between individuals. In absence of that, can smart contracts, can a lot of these crypto native primitives actually play the role of providing that accountability and trustlessness between individuals nodes, individual nodes and contributors in the network? And kind of looking being a little bit more practical here. I think there's generally two approach when it comes to constructing this base layer, the crypto rails, the payment rails, which is I think the most well understood, which is embedded value distribution when you create some type of work. So that's on a very practical level that is like when you perform a task, when you finish a piece of work or a bounty, you immediately get paid in crypto or when you farm in a polygon based game, you get paid in that token immediately. That can be consumed later or be staked in another protocol.
01:50:05.698 - 01:51:16.918, Speaker E: These are very familiar primitive for anybody who is here. But then I think the more interesting part is really about how can we actually start to radically think about the compatibility of smart contract and IRL law. And the other thing that's very interesting but very hard is about the enforceability. Like in absence of legal infrastructure, can we actually enforce some type of outcome and consequences when agreements have been violated? And this is like I think the least talked about. There are a few groups like Lexdow and Dow that have emerged that are kind of solving that problem. But really, I think we're still super early in that development of finding the right kind of legal frameworks that both work on chain to create that record and trustless feature of law, but also being able to be backward. Compatibility so that it can still remain compliant for local laws, if that's the desired outcome, which I believe it is for many crypto organizations, irregardless of their status around Anonymization and Pseudonymity.
01:51:16.918 - 01:52:20.666, Speaker E: And then the more interesting and exciting part really lies in this idea of identity. So when you are a labor and you're a contributor on ethereum and within this web3 ecosystem, you have a wallet. What does that even mean as now you have an identity that's completely different from the one that has been defined by traditional nation state and laws that have been constructed in the past. We don't no longer have a passport, we don't have an ID. So your ID really is kind of the activities that have been associated with the wallet. So there's some ideas here that I think this deck was made in the past 48 hours and really it was like a quick just very early thinking around the ideas, around the possibilities that can enable by Wallace entry future. So we have protocol driven marketplaces here, meaning that with the presence of something like uniswap or pseudoswap, the idea of having a set interface in a centralized platform is less attractive.
01:52:20.666 - 01:53:45.030, Speaker E: Like in reality, if you were to think about a more liquid labor marketplace, it could potentially be more decentralized and really be driven and the incentives really be driven by the protocol with kind of players incentivized players helping. Verify the quality of labor and the refers helping curate the network of talent as well, where it's less so about the platform, but more about the individuals that are actually curating a talent marketplace, which is a very exciting future. And then we have the idea of when you participate actively in the protocol and when you actively participate in a Dow, how that onchain action actually broadcast to the entire network and that becomes your reputation that we've traditionally been outsourced to a lot of web two platforms like LinkedIn or Upwork. And then the other interesting things are like blurring lines between cells and groups. So as an individual and as an individual who possesses wallet, you can sometimes also represent a Dow. And the idea of being wallet centric kind of creates the possibility of one person creating six and seven wallets and representing different selves in different groups, group identity, if you also have a multi signature wallet. And of course it's this kind of absolute upset kind of ownership over your work history and provenance, which is a lot of times not true right now, but the possibility of it is immense.
01:53:45.030 - 01:55:20.940, Speaker E: When what does it mean philosophically when you actually have true ownership of a lot of the things that you've done on chain? And the last piece which is very interesting is like when in a traditional corporation, you get onboarded, you become a worker, an employee of this company, and that means that you have the permissions and access to its set of tools, benefits and all the implications of someone becoming an employee. But what does that mean when someone becomes a member of many Dows and many communities? And how does that status translate between tools and tools as we are moving into this more multi client future with protocol kind of at the center and then of course with the coordination rails also will look different when the lines between organizations start to blur. Like, we see pods as a very popular concept, like popularized by orca protocol, now called metropolis, where we see this idea of your self identity being represented by a pod that's registered on chain and that kind of gives you access to a bunch of different again, like, other tools or information that otherwise you do not have access to. So looking at this whole stack, we see actually a lot of fragmentation across the whole stack. So right now we kind of see this fragmentation of identity and reputation and knowledge because a lot of the work is still being performed in web two platforms. So that after you write amazing posts on discourse that post. Would not be associated with your identity when you move to another platform.
01:55:20.940 - 01:56:16.906, Speaker E: And the lack of data interoperability is a part of that issue. We see a lack of accountability, meaning that if a bunch of pseudonymous people are working together, there's really no way to enforce that something is going to happen. And the consequences are also very hard to enforce. And even if we have accountability, like when there's dispute, aragon actually did a lot of innovation here where they have a dispute court called Claros. I think actually Claro is another project but they basically create decentralized dispute resolution kind of channels but right now those channels are not properly incentivized either. So that there's still, I think, a lot to be done there and we're still super early in this future but without these very core infrastructure, I think we're still pretty far from kind of entering to this future. But with that said, some teams and some people are already living in the future and then we have some examples here.
01:56:16.906 - 01:57:20.110, Speaker E: So on the base layer, these are examples of escrow contract and backward compatible contract that are created by Lexdow. They're super dope strongly recommend taking a look. We have identity layer that is being designed by teams like Guild and some other teams being mentioned here. Really the idea is that once you are part of a Dao, then that identity of yours can be carried to any other applications that you interact with on the blockchain, on Ethereum. And then we have a coordination layer which really is about embedding incentives when you perform a piece of work and Gitcoin is a great example. There's already a talk on Gitcoin that was amazing that talked about how the Gitcoin's vision is really building this open grants protocol where the kind of number of reviewers of grants are kind of scaled linearly with the people that are applying for grants, that are designing grants. So there's some very exciting feature there.
01:57:20.110 - 01:58:54.350, Speaker E: And then we have tools that are very tactical like Wonderverse, which is building a bounty board where after you perform a task, you automatically get paid as well by the work you do with very granular, with the very granular ability to get attributed both credit and also rewards and putting a lot of things together and kind of shared a little bit towards the end of what we've been building at Station. Really kind of how we've been. Thinking about this is protocol at the center and really think about what are the universal data structures that can be leveraged both by us but also by others to build different type of creative clients to establish these trustful relationship on chain. And on the client side, we have a very friendly app that allows anybody to propose to another person to work together in web3. So if I know your ENS address, I can send it to you and be like, hey, do you want to work on this together and define the terms of how the payment will be issued? Like milestones splits vice. Versa and then sign it to prove that there's this public verifiable record on IPFS that people can refer to if were a agreement were to be breached. And then when those activities start to emerge, when people work together in the use cases of, let's say, creator economy, like someone wants to engage a community of fans, or in the case of a Dow, where they're looking to sponsor 100 developers to go on top of their protocol and also involving the community in decision making process.
01:58:54.350 - 01:59:28.498, Speaker E: We're seeing this emergent network of projects, protocols, contributors, voters that are all participants of this network that actually built a more decentralized reputation system that ideally in the future can replace KYC, which Crypto has a very ambiguous relationship with. So that's the end. Thank you so much for having me. I had a blast just talking through the very philosophical lens of the future of work on Ethereum. We can jump into any questions or ideas.
01:59:28.674 - 01:59:55.534, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. Awesome. Thank you so much, Tina. I appreciate you jumping through everything with us and yeah, that was awesome. I think you touched on so many of the different, I think, opportunities for where this could be headed and I think it's still very early and I think at the end there you kind of tied it up with what is some of the current work that's being done in the space. And even that work, frankly, is very early. I think there's a lot of opportunity for new things to happen in this space and yeah, if anybody has any questions, feel free to drop them in the chat.
01:59:55.534 - 02:00:54.738, Speaker A: And in the meantime, I'll jump into some of the ones that I had going through this. I guess from my perspective with Dows in particular, one of the main things that I've seen as requests from DAOs is basically, for lack of a better way of putting it, like talent people that are smart, that are capable joining those dows and being able to execute things on behalf of the Dao. I know you talked a little bit about how we're kind of adding more structure into dows which will also kind of help run those more efficiently and I think also Scott mentioned that as well as part of his presentation earlier today. On the public good side, I guess it seems like to me, the early experimentation, there is more on that. If you had that kind of four Ven diagram image that you had more on the kind of tasks and very early piece, what would you recommend right now to Dows that are kind of like what should they basically change structurally so that they can move up a rank on that list of Ven diagrams?
02:00:54.834 - 02:01:53.426, Speaker E: That's a great question. I also touched very briefly about on this in a talk where we start to see pods being a very popular structure among DAOs as like a subgroup sub working group. There's different names to it, but really it's just a group of people working together within the Dao and kind of. Give them the autonomy to make decisions kind of more in a more centralized way without compromising on the decentralized nature of the entire organization. So it's almost like there's some level of centralization on a local level, but keep the global level of the organization more decentralized to ensure that there's diversity of thoughts and opinions and no power is actually being over concentrated on the top. But in terms of day to day operations, we all know that if it's truly decentralized, nothing gets done and not all decisions need consensus. So it's much more frequent now we see very centralized, almost like mini startups that operate within the Dow that kind of resemble this pot like or working group like structure.
02:01:53.618 - 02:02:24.798, Speaker A: Awesome. Yeah, I definitely noticed that's been sort of a pretty consistent theme even just through the work that I was doing as being like an optimism delegate, like moving from just like everybody reviews all proposals to now they have working groups as of this iteration recently. I know Gitcoin's done a lot of work in here. ENS has done a lot of work here too. It's been really exciting to see. I have a bit of a prop but I'm not going to force you to speak on it, but I just saw this really interesting tweet this morning. Not during the presentation, I swear I was paying attention.
02:02:24.798 - 02:02:47.994, Speaker A: A tweet from Shreyas who helps run Llama, that like hundreds of people today, some pseudonymous are earning a full time income working for open source protocols, getting paid in open source money, often gaining ownership over governance decisions in these protocols. This is actually wild and underrated. I think. This is also very wild and underrated. I agree with him here. I'm not going to ask if you agree or not. I know I'm putting you on the spot there.
02:02:47.994 - 02:03:22.542, Speaker A: But I think part of the opportunity is that outcome right for everybody where they're able to kind of participate in such a way and get access to permissionless money, permissionless work and just be able to be part of this ecosystem. You could speak to that if you want to speak to it, but if not, then kind of my main question was just sort of like he said, hundreds of people. For that to be thousands of people or tens of thousands of people, they need access to kind of resources and things to kind of understand the space a lot better. What are some of the kind of resources that come to mind and places to start for people who are interested in having that outcome?
02:03:22.686 - 02:04:26.774, Speaker E: Totally. I think back to the city analogy, I feel like we first need companies to be built in the cities, like create the economic, create jobs to actually have kind of people migrating to the city. So I think we're still so early in that process of just not enough protocols that are profitable, exist to generate enough value for them to employ kind of new talent. But outside of that, I think a lot of the things that we mentioned in the presentation still hold true, where some of the base layer, like the financial legal infrastructure, the financial is the easiest part in crypto, but the legal also is one of the hardest. It's like, how can we be Batwort compatible at the same time? Leveraging the power of smart contracts to automate a lot of these traditional, very costly processes that are really hindering a lot of these developing markets to tap into what America's legal system, despite having a lot of flaws, still enable, which is a very powerful system for capitalism to shine, to kind of enable those economic opportunities for more countries as well.
02:04:26.972 - 02:04:42.234, Speaker A: Amazing. Very cool. Well, thank you so much for answering my questions there. I didn't see any new questions come in on the chat, but I did see a lot of great presentations. This is interesting. Excited about this. So thank you so much for being a part of this, Tina, and for joining us for this chat.
02:04:42.234 - 02:04:56.194, Speaker A: And yeah, if anybody else wants to chat with you in a different place, feel free to drop your Twitter handle or give you the shout out so that people know where to find you. Go, where do we find you?
02:04:56.392 - 02:05:01.650, Speaker E: You can find me on Twitter. I'm fkpxls fake pixels but without the vowels.
02:05:03.030 - 02:05:06.294, Speaker A: Awesome. Okay, cool. Thank you so much, Tina. Really appreciate you.
02:05:06.412 - 02:05:07.126, Speaker F: Thank you.
02:05:07.228 - 02:05:08.598, Speaker A: Enjoy the rest of your day.
02:05:08.764 - 02:05:09.590, Speaker F: Bye.
02:05:11.530 - 02:05:43.600, Speaker A: Okay, great. Awesome. And then we have two more talks coming up. So we heard Tina talk a little bit about accruing all of this sort of work that you're doing in a decentralized way on ethereum towards identities and people having wallets, being kind of the new primitive. That worked out really well because the next talk that we're talking about is by Wayne on the Spruce team, and Wayne's going to be chatting about ethereum's identity layer exactly. Kind of what that's implying. So maybe without further ado, I don't want to spoil anything, so maybe I'll just invite Wayne up right away.
02:05:43.600 - 02:06:13.180, Speaker A: And Wayne, when you're ready, feel free to kind of share your video, your mic. There you are. Nice to see you. And yeah, really excited about I think, you know, identity is one of those things that the ecosystem has been working on for a very long time. And I think especially over the last couple of years, we've gained, I think, a tremendous amount of clarity on what that can look like and what are the kind of different outcomes and impacts of having a fully decentralized identity can be. So maybe I won't spoil anything, but maybe just kind of hyping up this conversation a little bit.
02:06:14.590 - 02:06:33.780, Speaker G: Yeah. And I think from if you've been listening to Tina's talk, she does refer to this identity layer that stretches across on chain activity, also stretches across off chain activity. So I hope to just add to the discussion with what that identity layer can be, how wide and encompassing it can be, and how we start thinking about it.
02:06:34.870 - 02:06:36.914, Speaker A: Awesome. I'll let you share your screen when you're ready.
02:06:37.032 - 02:07:15.546, Speaker G: Yep, here it is. So, ethereum's identity layer. Let's start with pretty high level what is know, potentially could be a discussion that is for hours. Right? But as developers and also people, we want to have a working definition. So when we say identity, at least it refers to something of the same semblance. So there are very technical definitions for what identity is. From ISO, the International Standards Organization, they formally defined digital identity as a set of attributes related to an entity.
02:07:15.546 - 02:07:50.858, Speaker G: I don't think it's false, I think it's true. But also it doesn't help us that much because then anything could kind of be identity. So, at a place called the Internet Identity Workshop, highly recommend this conference if you're interested in identity, decentralized identity. I think OAuth Two was invented there, at least standardized by a lot of the folks who go there. What's happening next? With decentralized Identifiers and verifiable credentials, a lot of the same people show up there. So if you're very interested in identity, highly recommend it. It's in, I think, Mountain View every twice a year.
02:07:50.858 - 02:08:34.742, Speaker G: And they came up with a definition that identity is the way we recognize, remember and respond to people and things. And it kind of adds an operative context to that. So it's not just a set of attributes related to an entity, but it's kind of what do you do with those attributes? Maybe some of those help with authentication, maybe some of those help you retrieve who you're talking about and make decisions on how you're going to respond. Right. So with this context, I think it helps make a lot more sense. Brief history of identity through, let's call it Web Two and Web One, web Zero back in ARPANET and whatnot. But typically when you look at the traditional identity markets, they're divided for enterprise and for people.
02:08:34.742 - 02:09:31.114, Speaker G: And interestingly, it's kind of converging. So if you've ever seen like OpenID Connect or OAuth Two or LDAP or Active Directory, any of these things, this is kind of what the enterprise identity management and also some end user identities are talking about. So in the 80s, people needed to have accounts to log into timesharing, systems or computer networks for their work. So we started to do identity management, sending emails around corporately, and that evolved into more complexity. People needed to also manage access. And then most recently, the trends have been, why do people have those access? What's their title in that organization? Or credentials? What are their certifications that give them that access? That's a lot of what the let's call it Web Two identity landscape is looking at. And it's really related to compliance and insurance and all that.
02:09:31.114 - 02:10:25.420, Speaker G: So from organically people using identities on the Internet, they had aliases and emails, right? And then you had all these services emerge in the could go on BBS systems and have a certain alias there, or IRC, et cetera. 2000s, we saw the rise of social media and more data linked to people's Identifiers. And of course it's used for advertising, which funds a lot of the free platforms. And in the 2010s we saw the emergence of sign in with your favorite internet giant and as a convenient way to not have to remember a username and password, right? So that's kind of how the story is to date. And we're very excited about decentralized identity. A lot of those other structures are kind of top down command and control. Either a company sets up everything, or maybe a large tech company decides how it's going to work with everyone.
02:10:25.420 - 02:11:14.278, Speaker G: Basically, you can use open protocols and open standards towards that. But just like how we saw with SMTP and email, even though these are open protocols, it kind of converged to just a few entities who are the main implementers. And you can't even run your own email server unless you really understand how email servers work and how not to get blocked. So we think that decentralized identity has to do with statements about reality by anyone. And that can include stuff that happens on chain or off chain. Statements about reality are things as basic as I live in this town or so and so went to a certain school, and this Ethereum address has a certain balance, right? These are all statements about reality. Some of them can just live on chain.
02:11:14.278 - 02:11:57.240, Speaker G: Every time someone creates an Ethereum transaction, there's a signature involved, right, and something happens. The Ethereum blockchain can attest to the state of itself. You can look it up through an indexer or crawl the transactions and understand the state of the system. And that's a statement about reality by Ethereum that is fully verifiable. If you look at the signatures and the previous state of Ethereum, et cetera, there are also statements about reality that are off chain that can be represented as JSON with a signature over it or other formats. So things like there's a certain email associated to an Ethereum account, or there's a certain Twitter handle associated with an Ethereum account, discord candles, et cetera. You can link these data together.
02:11:57.240 - 02:13:05.066, Speaker G: But maybe it's a statement about reality. We say nothing about if it's true or not, so it really matters who's saying it. So if Ethereum is saying it, and you have cryptographic evidence about an Ethereum address for Ethereum addresses balance, maybe that's a very convincing statement. However, if someone says this Ethereum address is corresponding to this person, and it's A Rando who says that, maybe you don't want to trust it, right? So it really depends on who's making the statement and what kind of evidence they can present towards that. And how you interpret that is commonly called a trust framework in the world of identity. So, like we said with the second definition, it's used to recognize, remember and respond. So if you're building a DAP that is trying to assemble a bunch of Dow hack victims into a support group, if they're not super wealthy from ETH, you might have kind of a rule set that uses their digital identity assembled across on chain and potentially off chain activity, right? So wanchain ETH, we check if they're a hack victim.
02:13:05.066 - 02:13:42.518, Speaker G: That's something that you can just look up on the blockchain based on their activity. Previously there was mentioned your behavior on Dows, your behavior in trading NFTs or anything else staking assets. Those are all claims, those are all statements that can be verified by the blockchain. Same with ETH balance. And you might have the user bring in their Discord handle. Maybe there's a witness that is able to attest that someone made the identity proof. There was a project called Keybase that did this and there are more open source ways to do this now, but basically someone can prove that they have a certain Discord handle.
02:13:42.518 - 02:14:54.286, Speaker G: You might have used Discord and one of the many plugins for Discord to demonstrate your ethereum address ownership, right? And then all of a sudden you're able to make that association. Well, what if you could also take that fact and it's signed and you can present it wherever you want. So with this set of details you're able to recognize, remember and respond from a combination of on chain and off chain data. So ultimately the model we want to move to, to enable decentralized identity so it's truly emergent and not just top down. We want instead of the user logging into the platform or application and then the application accesses its proprietary database, instead of that, we want the user to make the application log into their database and have all discretion over what's in there and how it's accessed, even revoking access or changing the scope of it as they want. This can contain those digital statements that are off chain and also the application can look up additional statements on chain and form a comprehensive identity, but in a way that the user controls. It's like you start with a poker hand and you pick which cards you actually want to reveal, right? You don't need to just show everything all at once.
02:14:54.286 - 02:15:40.362, Speaker G: If you put everything on chain, bad for a lot of reasons, but that's one of them because you don't get that level of control about what you want to reveal to the world versus not. Whereas if you're securely connected to an application and you have some degree of trust for the application, you may decide to disclose more data and how the off chain approach works. Commonly. A popular data model used is called Verifiable Credentials, which is a global data standard from W three C. And we have this so called issuer holder Verifier model. And this is if you enter the world of decentralized identity and DIDs and whatnot, you'll see this a lot. But the issuer, such as a school will issue credentials saying that perhaps this person has a Bachelor's of Science degree.
02:15:40.362 - 02:16:24.510, Speaker G: The holder will be able to present it to a Verifier who wants to know if that's true or not and who said it maybe their employer. And they can be convinced that this person actually went to a school and got a degree. Right. The really important thing that we care about in this model for decentralized identity is basically that the holder is isolated from all these other components. That is, we're moving towards user centricity or wallet centricity in that these statements are held in the wallet in a way under the user's discretion. We don't want issuers holding all the credentials for people, and we don't want Verifiers holding all the credentials for people. We want this idea of sovereignty where the holder has discretion about where those credentials live, how they're secured and how they're processed.
02:16:24.510 - 02:17:06.218, Speaker G: This is what gives us more ability to choose what gets disclosed to whom. And finally, all this is coordinated with what's called a Verifiable data registry. How do you know what are accredited institutions to accept things from, right? What stops someone from just spinning up a public private key pair and starting to issue credentials? Well, there are these things called Trust Frameworks that can live in Verifiable data registries that you can choose to accept. So you can say, okay, I like the Trust Framework that has all the accredited institutions by whatever body. Or maybe for Dows, there's a token curated registry of Dows. And you're like, yeah, that's the Trust framework. Any of those DAOs issuing statements, we can federate and accept statements from them.
02:17:06.304 - 02:17:06.602, Speaker A: Right.
02:17:06.656 - 02:17:40.440, Speaker G: So these statements can be signed by Ethereum addresses and stored off chain. They can also be represented as Ethereum transactions too, but you wouldn't need something like Verifiable credentials for that. You can just write a smart contract and conform to certain EIP and that's it. So this allows us to have interoperability between claims made on chain but also off chain, all rooted in Ethereum addresses or even a Dow issuing them. Right. So this gets us the spectrum of it. It increases user control, and as a result, we get privacy too.
02:17:40.440 - 02:18:44.010, Speaker G: So as a result, not your keys, not your crypto evolves into not your keys, not your Identifier, whether your refers to someone who has a private key for something or a collective with a multi SIG that controls a Dow based Identifier such as a Gnosis Safe address. And I think that the keys users having keys is one of the really critical junctures. A lot of people have thought about this model where you can sign things off digitally in your keys and you have a lot more digital rights as a result. Well, seeing this critical mass adoption of MetaMask and other ethereum wallets into the tens of millions. We are able to lean on a lot of what they've done, including key management, which is one of the toughest problems in decentralized identity. What if you lose your keys? What's at stake here? That's a tough problem, and many wallets are working on this. Some other interesting approaches use smart contract wallets EIP twelve seven one, such as argent becomes a really nice UX.
02:18:44.010 - 02:19:26.678, Speaker G: And most of the time wallets stay are used to sign blockchain transactions. But we think that there's a lot more possible if you squint. And you look at this as the most successful public key infrastructure adoption event ever, what else can you do? Well, one thing that we can do with keys is authentication. You can sign something to prove that you're the account holder. Right? And that's exactly what we've done with sign in with Ethereum. We collaborated with the Ethereum Foundation and defined a standard message format for how someone will use Ethereum accounts to sign into a website that's off chain. This way, if you already have an Ethereum account, why collect an email and do that whole verification flow when already you can use that to sign into something? Right.
02:19:26.678 - 02:20:22.938, Speaker G: And instantly all your on chain activity associated that particular account is available for the site to look at. Because you can have multiple wallets and multiple accounts, you're able to pick your different profiles. And with things like zero knowledge, you're able to add additional privacy measures. You might be able to spawn a new Ethereum address just for a website and use zero knowledge proofs to show that you indeed did have certain transactions. You're not going to say what the other Ethereum address was, but indeed you did that before. So this is the direction for basically new classes of DApps that will give you a richer experience because they know a bit more about they're actually talking to the Ethereum account holder. This is different than Connect Wallet because with Connect Wallet, all you're doing is just telling the server, this is my Ethereum address, but you have no proof for it.
02:20:22.938 - 02:21:02.642, Speaker G: Anyone can spoof that. But with sign in with Ethereum, the server definitely knows they're talking to someone who holds the key because they were able to present a challenge and get a correct response from the account holder. So how it works is that we just standardized the message format. This has been going on for like three, four years already. People have been using authentication flows, but we just standardized what the message format was going to be. And it's heavily inspired by JSON Web Tokens, which is live in production across billions of users, probably. But we made it palatable to be displayed in wallets.
02:21:02.642 - 02:21:31.978, Speaker G: So it's a rigid grammar, very little opportunity to inject malicious statements or anything. We intentionally made it that way. And basically we add security features too, once we standardize, and also UX improvements. So if a wallet is able to recognize this rigid message format. It can actually be smart enough to show a login dialog. So it really feels like you're logging in as opposed to just trying to sign a personal message. Additionally, we get important security properties.
02:21:31.978 - 02:22:32.286, Speaker G: The most important one that we care about is called domain binding. So when it says domain wants you to sign in with your Ethereum account let's say it's example the wallet actually has an opportunity to check that it's coming from example over a TLS connection. And eventually, maybe as we move to peer to peer encrypted systems I can check domain binding for that. But since most stuff is served over TLS today we can check that and you can know that you're not getting man in the middle attacked with pretty high. Right. And this is a big problem for Wallets and DApps that use this approach where you make someone sign a message and all of a sudden it can be forwarded to an attacker can forward that message, make the user sign it on the phishing site and then pretend to be the user. Right? This is really scary, I think when you're trying to use that signature outcome to create new key material to encrypt stuff, for example, or generate new keys, right? Because without the domain binding any phishing site could just recover your encryption keys.
02:22:32.286 - 02:23:25.198, Speaker G: But if the wallet refuses to let or gives a big scary warning if it notices it's the wrong domain then that actually really improves security properties. So if you're a wallet or working on one or know someone working on one I would really love if you mentioned hey, it'd be great if you supported sign in with Ethereum because it's going to increase protections for your users. And we are collaborating with the MetaMask team on adding this protection for all MetaMask users, for example. And what happens after sign in with Ethereum? Well, we think we start simple and make something that just works for people. And we've seen it take off with a lot of DApps using sign in with Ethereum. And after that we think that there's a really strong link to decentralized Identifiers and Verifiable credentials. Decentralized Identifiers have a whole ecosystem of use cases.
02:23:25.198 - 02:24:04.180, Speaker G: There are a lot of companies building open source software to work with decentralized Identifiers. You can look into that spec if you're curious. And Verifiable credentials are statements about reality. Our work with decentralized Identifiers and Ethereum addresses is defining a did method called did public key hash because most blockchain accounts, including Ethereum addresses, are hashes of public keys. So I call this Opera Winfrey approach to distribution in which look under your seat, you already have a did if you have an Ethereum address. We just defined a way to make all Ethereum addresses valid DIDs. And you can further define signing methods so that you can issue credentials with them.
02:24:04.180 - 02:24:51.786, Speaker G: So you can imagine a decentralized social media network that every time you click Follow, you're actually in the background signing a Verifiable Credential, issuing the fact that you followed someone and they get a copy and you get a copy, right? And maybe there's a revocation list in there too in case you decide to unfollow them. But with this you have a portable social media, a collection of signed JSON. Every signed JSON represents a follower you have or someone you followed. And you can take this with you to anywhere else. And if you follow those Verifiable credentials down to who signed it, it's the actual end users, right? It's not the platform that you're entrusting as the ultimate authority. So that's how we get to decentralized social media for follows, for blog posts, for likes. These things can be represented off chain as Verifiable credentials or on chain as transactions.
02:24:51.786 - 02:25:50.366, Speaker G: When you represent them off chain, you can have much better control over your privacy and we can define canonical ways to put them on chain as you want to disclose them to everyone. Another exciting use case after signing with Ethereum is letting the user's smart contract govern the user's cloud infrastructure. Meaning that if you have a smart contract that defines a list of hosts that you say are okay to do something for you, then off chain those hosts can recognize that list. And maybe that's where your data storage is, maybe that's your storage locker. Look in the smart contract or my ENS name in the records, I'm going to have the hosts that are authorized to be my data vaults. And you might even be able to sign permission slips for people to take over to one of your hosts sign by your Ethereum account and maybe they can do something like upload a file or download a file. This is the architecture used in our project called Kepler at Spruce.
02:25:50.366 - 02:26:49.522, Speaker G: And another thing that we're really excited about is we think that you're going to use keys for a lot of things. I think sessions, we might see fewer cookie based sessions being used. If we can have session keys, we can interpret a sign in with Ethereum message as a delegation to Ephemeral key in the Dom, just as a session key that can be used to create transactions that can be used to issue Verifiable credentials, that can be used to access data. Anything that you would do with cookie checking. Now we could just have these transactions that work off chain, right, to services that can receive them. So when we assume that the world is built on PKI and everyone has a key, there's a lot that can shift in the infrastructure and also it's a huge opportunity to empower the user instead of trusting a central intermediary. One innovation that we've created at Spruce towards this is called Cap Grok, which stands for Capability Grok.
02:26:49.522 - 02:27:58.438, Speaker G: Grok is kind of a nerdy term for understanding something as we understand sign in with Ethereum to be delegation of privileges to a key to do stuff. We think it's really important that the user has an opportunity to understand exactly what permissions they're delegating. It's kind of like when you're linking your social media account to a different site and basically it's asking you what's okay to share and what's not. Well, this interface is going to get more and more complex if you imagine that we live in a world where most of your stuff is stored in your own data vault that you have discretion over. How do we make sure that a user has informed consent and they're actually able to understand what they're actually sharing? This is a huge problem. Like most people who read privacy policies or who read the word privacy policy, they think it means that the company is going to keep their data private, but instead it talks about exactly how they're going to share their data. Right? So how do we make sure that there is this holistic bridge between what's in the technical capability, the real access control, the permission slip that you're writing, and a user's opportunity to understand what's going to be shared and what can't be.
02:27:58.438 - 02:28:29.906, Speaker G: Right. So this way you can use your Ethereum account for a whole suite of off chain services and designate access to other services. But it only works if the user can understand exactly what they're doing. And that is going to be one of the toughest, UX challenges to handle, but one of the most important ones too. So based on this, I think we're going to sign in with Ethereum to the key controlled revolution. If you're trying to get started, login XYZ has documentation on how to integrate things. You can follow Spruce on Twitter at spruce.
02:28:29.906 - 02:28:43.770, Speaker G: ID and follow me on Twitter at wycddd. DD is my favorite Unix tool. Or connect with me on the coolest social media network, LinkedIn, but that's kind of it. I'm ready to talk about anything you want to answer, questions, et cetera.
02:28:45.070 - 02:29:25.640, Speaker A: Awesome. Thank you so much, Wayne. I appreciate the chat. Mean, as I kind of mentioned at the like, we are on the cusp of this really unique time where I think to your like, everybody has a did look under your like, it's all there, and it's time to finally use these in really interesting ways. So I think it's a really exciting time. If anybody has any questions for Wayne as well, feel free to drop them in the chat and I'll relay them here, but maybe just kind of get kicked off here. I think commonly when we think about especially verifiable credentials and things like that, basically at some point when you go far enough down the stack, you need to have trust.
02:29:25.640 - 02:30:11.346, Speaker A: You know, if know a student of Harvard or something, and I want to verify that and have a credential on my did that proves that I got a degree from Harvard, which maybe is something people. Would want to have at some point down the like you have to trust Alice at Harvard who's issuing degrees to know at some point there's something there. So given that's the case, how do you think about establishing those trusts and what should that be looked like to be as trust minimized as possible. And for those actual Credential people, those people who should be giving actual credentials like Harvard, that's a really useful use case. They should think about doing that. What are some of the best practices that they can employ to be as trust minimized as possible in that stack?
02:30:11.538 - 02:30:29.574, Speaker G: Yeah, great questions. Two separate ones that I'm going to tease out. But the first one is you're talking about trust anchors. How do we know who to trust to begin with? Right. What does bootstrapping this look like? Very timely, I think. On Monday there's a conference called Rebooting the Web of Trust that is starting. Kicked off really interesting papers.
02:30:29.574 - 02:30:56.378, Speaker G: Everything is open source and on GitHub there. But basically a Web of trust was kind of the traditional way to do this. Before we all consolidated on certificate authorities, there was something called Spooky. Spki simple PKI, which worked like you shared a bunch of public keys and you didn't need a central authority. So if you squinted it, it was kind of like Web of trust. Right. And I think that a really important point, is that it depends on what you're verifying.
02:30:56.378 - 02:31:49.142, Speaker G: Maybe you care about what a doctor says about your disease, but you don't care about what your chef says about your disease and so you have to care about who's issuing the statement. Well, if it's an accredited institution like Harvard, there are existing trust frameworks in place. So for universities in particular, there's a group called IMS Global and it's a consortium of all the accreditation agencies and they decide what a transcript looks like together. So right now a lot of it's just paper world, but if you move that digital into a trust framework, you could rely on that to get started. And in Web three, that's one critical role I see for centralized companies that have built a pretty strong brand. If you trust that brand to make statements. For example, Coinbase says this person has over two ETH in their account.
02:31:49.142 - 02:32:16.798, Speaker G: Maybe you trust that from Coinbase. And then Dows I think, are also really important for this too. If Raid Guild says they did a project, then maybe we trust that they completed it because they have a great reputation in the space for completing certain kinds of projects. Right. And as other Dows specialize, they might state claims over certain kinds of statements that they can make. And I think that the brand for the issuer is really important to consider as part of it. And that kind of leads into the other question.
02:32:16.798 - 02:33:35.320, Speaker G: As an issuer of these things and trying to implement these Credential frameworks, what should you think about? Well, I think it's really useful to think about it through this issuer holder and verifier model. And usually the hardest part to bootstrap is the issuer, but what makes the model work is that someone wants it to verify something, right? So if liquor store wants to verify your age or like that you're over 21 saying you buy liquor, well, that's the demand. And who's going to say that? Who does a liquor store trust? Right? So if you start from an issuer's perspective, you can think about the data that you have that people would trust you to say as Harvard, and that's probably a really broad scope of things. And because Harvard is a strong brand, maybe they can even reach outside of academia a bit, but that's probably where their bread and butter would be. So if you're dow working on future of work stuff, and you have a collection of completed projects as anointed by the multisig, well, you can issue certificates of completion to people. In fact, you can even help preserve their privacy because you can cut a new credential to an uncorrelated ethereum address. You can say, yeah, this person did a medium sized job and it was successful, and we're not going to tell you the addresses involved, there's like thousands of medium sized jobs accomplished, but that person can use that credential and access something else without necessarily revealing too much.
02:33:36.570 - 02:33:57.710, Speaker A: Got you. Okay. Very cool. Yeah. And I think that very interesting to think about this because yeah, I never actually heard this term trust anchor before, but it works really well for this concept. And I'll take a look at some of the other stuff you mentioned there, too. Yeah, you have this existing even in the traditional paper world, if you think about it, like, your birth certificate is basically the trust anchor that sets up everything else.
02:33:57.710 - 02:34:08.034, Speaker A: Right. And there's a lot of kind of interesting parallels there. So it makes sense that there's already been some kind of work done in this space, even existing systems that we have. Yeah.
02:34:08.072 - 02:35:08.600, Speaker G: And what we're really excited about as we transition to the digital world for it and there are things to avoid too. But what could be the case is that there was some mention in the previous talk about there's an interesting relationship between crypto and KYC and potentially replacing KYC with something else that also reduces fraud and other things that we don't want. And well, when you represent things digital, it's a lot more inexpensive to do that. So if you have a bunch of other facts about yourself that together have the same level of assurance as like a passport or something, you don't even have to identify who you are, then that could be very interesting to preserve privacy, to increase user autonomy, increase equity. Some people have issues getting passports, for example, and if they need to access services, what are other pieces of data that could convince someone to give them access to services. If it's digital, it's a lot cheaper to think about those data, how to represent them and how to present them.
02:35:08.970 - 02:35:22.922, Speaker A: Yeah. And more efficient, more easily establish these things. Gotcha. Very cool. Awesome. Okay, well, I don't want to take too much of your time. I know we're already over a bit, but yeah, really appreciate you being here, Wayne, and thank you for walking us through that.
02:35:22.922 - 02:35:31.710, Speaker A: And like I said, very exciting time to be thinking about this tonight. I guess there's even more stuff to watch next week in this regard as well.
02:35:31.860 - 02:35:33.470, Speaker G: Thanks so much for having me.
02:35:33.620 - 02:36:05.534, Speaker A: Thank you for being here. Okay, great. Okay, thank you. And we are going to move on to our last talk in just a minute. We're going to go for a quick five minute break, and we're going to be back at 04:15 p.m.. Eastern, which is in about five minutes, as I mentioned. And we're going to be joined by Camilla Russo from The Defiant, who's going to be talking about how Ethereum is impacting creators and especially how that's been affecting her life as a producer of a new documentary that's coming up on Ethereum's Foundation.
02:36:05.534 - 02:43:49.064, Speaker A: So stick around with us. We will be back in about five minutes and we're really excited to have Cammie speaking at this event. Hey, everybody. Excited to be back. Hope you enjoyed some low five beats during that break. And, yeah, really excited to say that we have Camilla Russo with us, who's going to be joining us in just a second. When I was thinking about putting together The Summit, one of the key ways in which Ethereum has had a huge impact and the key people that they have is creators.
02:43:49.064 - 02:44:25.180, Speaker A: And Camilla has been a creator not only as a journalist, but also in her work at The Defiant and also now as a producer of an exciting new documentary that's coming up, or actually full exciting feature like film that's coming up, actually not a documentary about the creation of Ethereum. So instead of making myself look like an idiot on stage, I'll probably enjoy I'll just invite Camilla up right away to chat about this and her work, both of the documentary and how Ethereum has been able to impact the creation of it. So, Camilla, when you're ready, feel free to share your video, share your audio, and really excited to have you join us on stage.
02:44:29.290 - 02:44:33.222, Speaker F: All right. Hi. Is this working okay?
02:44:33.356 - 02:44:34.518, Speaker A: Yeah, everything's great.
02:44:34.604 - 02:44:55.120, Speaker F: Okay, cool. Super excited to be here. Thank you for inviting me. Thanks for the intro. Yeah. And it's really crazy that I'm seeing my book being turned into a movie. So, yeah, excited to chat about that.
02:44:55.730 - 02:45:36.762, Speaker A: Awesome. Yeah, I think on my side, I was really inspired to hear a bit about just the process of turning from journalist to basically company startup creator to then now book writer and now movie producer. I think this has been a crazy journey. Maybe it'd be great to kind of walk through a little bit on the timelines of kind of how you just started out and just kind of getting into it. And then we'd love to kind of dive a little bit more into kind of the new stuff that you've been working on. But I think it'd be great for everybody to recognize how quick that journey was for you to go and just kind of give a sense of those milestones for you.
02:45:36.896 - 02:46:34.750, Speaker F: Yeah, sure. So my background I'm a journalist. I started my career well in a newspaper in Chile, but then came to the US. And was at Bloomberg News for eight years covering all sorts of markets. Was based in Argentina, in Spain, and in New York, where I'm at now. And my final two years at Bloomberg were focused on crypto. I actually kind of wrote my first crypto story in 2013 in Argentina about kind of this growing bitcoin community there, but was able to really focus day to day in kind of the crypto beat starting in 2017 and then covering kind of all the craziness of that time.
02:46:34.750 - 02:47:24.030, Speaker F: Everything was really boring in comparison and decided I would just stay in crypto. And that's where kind of the idea of the book came about. So this was like end of 2017. I had always wanted to write a book and covering crypto. It was like, there has to be a book idea here somewhere. And I started thinking about what the biggest stories in the space were and it was pretty clear that that was Ethereum. That there was a gap there in that there were no books on Ethereum at the time, or at least notebooks kind of telling the story of how Ethereum had come to be, how it was founded and created.
02:47:24.030 - 02:48:57.806, Speaker F: And so I decided to take that on, and that's kind of how the book idea came about and luckily found a publisher, Harper Collins, interested in seeing it come to life and then started working on the book all through 2018 and left Bloomberg in January of 2019 to finish writing The Infinite Machine. And because I had been kind of at the same spot for too long, for eight years, I decided I wanted to be an independent writer. And then that kind of evolved into just the idea of The Defiant. So The Infinite Machine and The Defiant are pretty kind of tied because it was researching for The Infinite Machine that I was following the Ethereum community around, all the hackathons, all the ETH global hackathons conferences, and just was seeing all this innovation coming from the Ethereum community and especially DeFi emerging. And I realized it was super undercover to me. DFI in 2019 was by far the most interesting thing happening in crypto. And so I decided to start a D Five focused newsletter with The Defiant in June of 2019.
02:48:57.806 - 02:49:08.160, Speaker F: And, yeah, that really stemmed from my research of The Infinite Machine. So that's kind of how everything came together.
02:49:09.010 - 02:49:56.142, Speaker A: Amazing. And I think the timing of that should be noted that I think to recognize that DeFi was such an important part of this ecosystem, I think in a lot of ways, early, right. Like, I think 2020 is like when DFI summer hit, and it was absolutely chaos, and a lot of people were it was just like an amazing period of explosion of new things happening in DFI. But to have noticed that a year early and then be, I think, in the right position and have built the brand over that year in between, to be able to really report on everything that was happening in a really measured way, I think was something that the ecosystem really needed in summer 2020 and, of course, beyond. But, yeah, it was amazing to have you be a part of that, and.
02:49:56.276 - 02:49:59.338, Speaker E: Very helpful, I think, for the entire yeah, I'm glad.
02:49:59.434 - 02:50:47.098, Speaker F: I really hope so. My goal with The Defiant was to bring just, like, high quality, objective, unbiased reporting that I had learned at Bloomberg, bring that into crypto and just focus it on specifically finance, which I think there are some great crypto media and publications out there CoinDesk the blog. They do great work. But I was seeing kind of this missing space of just, like, finance focused information and DeFi focused information that was really just, like, had really high standards. So, yeah, that's what we've been trying to do at The Defiant.
02:50:47.274 - 02:51:26.842, Speaker A: Amazing. Well, I think you've been very successful in doing so. Very exciting to see that happen. And then as you were sort of kind of, in a way, doing both of these, as you mentioned, they're very kind of interrelated both the book and the defiance, I guess. Kind of curious as you were going through and chatting with people and interviewing and meeting the community and as you mentioned, for kind of working towards this book. I guess what comes to mind is maybe a story or an anecdote or something that you learned as you were doing this that you hadn't heard before, that was really unexpected, that either was really positive or really negative. I don't know, however you want to take it.
02:51:26.842 - 02:51:34.880, Speaker A: But I guess really curious what was a really cool story that you had heard that you hadn't heard before while you were kind of researching for the book?
02:51:38.450 - 02:52:47.720, Speaker F: That's so hard. I think I did, like over 100 interviews for the book. Let's see, to me, when I was researching for The Infinite Machine, a lot of just like, the ethereum founding story, I had no idea. I came into this pretty knowing, of course, about vitalik knowing just what an exceptional and just charismatic person he is. And I thought, there's this really great character that can drive this story. And I knew some about kind of the other co founders at the time, like I had interviewed for, you know, at Bloomberg, but I really didn't know about all the drama that happened in Ethereum in its early days. And as a writer, I was really happy to see that was the case.
02:52:49.130 - 02:52:50.518, Speaker A: Source material, right.
02:52:50.604 - 02:52:51.240, Speaker B: Yeah.
02:52:52.090 - 02:54:08.400, Speaker F: So I guess these things are well known now, but at the time, 2018, when I started researching for this, I hadn't seen this written anywhere. Kind of this tension between Ethereum being a for profit company and a nonprofit foundation, the fallout with kind of different factions between founders, kind of what I call in my book this kind of Red Wedding situation, all of that tension yeah. I thought was so interesting at the core. It really spoke to just the values that later made Ethereum what it is. The fact that this vision for a nonprofit foundation, this open protocol, that vision for Ethereum was what finally kind of won out, was, of course, what has driven and shaped the network and the community to be what it is today.
02:54:10.450 - 02:54:48.410, Speaker A: It's amazing to hear. Yeah. And definitely, I imagine that that sort of, I guess, kind of pivotal thing at the foundation story at the beginning. It does make for an interesting opportunity to write and be able to tell that story and that kind of foundation journey a little bit of like a hero's quest in some way. Yeah, I think just to kind of pause and reflect a little bit on that. The community is largely built up of at least at the beginning, of kind of idealists, but largely just people who really excited about technology and often weren't writers, I think.
02:54:48.480 - 02:54:48.714, Speaker B: Right.
02:54:48.752 - 02:55:45.934, Speaker A: And I think this, in a way, is a testament to the importance of having writers in the space to be able to go back and tell those stories. Because at some point, and that feels like now a long time ago, the kind of foundation story but at some point, the story of the merge, for instance, will need to be told in a much more cohesive, really easy way to read. And it's so fresh and so new right now. But of course, that's going to be another big kind of pivotal moment in the Ethereum story. So, yeah, I think just, I guess, a shout out to all writers, not just to you in the space, but just being able to tell that story for people who I would say are not often too worried about telling that story themselves. And I think it's still an important story to be told. Kind of maybe transitioning from the book to now your kind of new project that you're working on that you announced recently, which is the movie or the adaptation of that book.
02:55:45.934 - 02:56:02.660, Speaker A: I guess maybe it'd be cool to actually kind of hear a little bit more about kind of just how did that even start? I have no idea how to write a book. I have no idea how to turn a book into a movie either. So I guess how does that journey even start for you? And where did that begin?
02:56:03.370 - 02:56:46.500, Speaker F: Yeah, it's been pretty crazy. I didn't really expect my book to be turned into a movie. I mean, I could only dream of that happening. And now that it is, it's really crazy. So basically, we published a book in July of 2020, and about a few months after that, I started getting some inquiries from a couple of movie studios about the rights of my book. So how it works is that.
02:56:50.870 - 02:56:51.186, Speaker A: The.
02:56:51.208 - 02:57:19.150, Speaker F: Author usually owns the rights to sell their books to producers who want to turn that book into a film. I held those rights, and so I was getting increase as to potentially selling them to different movie studios and producers. So I had some initial conversations.
02:57:24.050 - 02:57:24.800, Speaker A: And.
02:57:25.410 - 02:58:28.820, Speaker F: It was fine, but I didn't get a sense of these groups having a real understanding of what crypto was about or just didn't see kind of a commitment to actually making it happen. My agent told me of all the movies that get sold, maybe like, 1% actually get turned into a movie. So it's like movie studios kind of like, buy these rights as an option. So it's like, okay, maybe we will one day take this and turn this into a movie. But it's not a sure thing that if you sell your rights, your book will actually be shown on screen. And so that was really hard for me to decide. It's like, okay, do I give this up and maybe lose an actual chance of seeing this on screen? And then this Spain based production studio reached out to me.
02:58:28.820 - 02:59:35.830, Speaker F: It was through someone who was actually in crypto to this day. Francisco Gordillo has a hedge fund that invests in the space, and he's been kind of around since 2014, really kind of early on involved in crypto. So that was a really good sign to me. It's like, okay, they get it. They're literally invested in the space, and they also offered to make me a part of production, so they offered me an executive producer role in the movie. So even though they weren't like a Hollywood studio, I decided to go with them because I saw just like, a bigger chance of my book actually making it to be a movie and because I would be more involved in production. So that's how that happened still.
02:59:35.830 - 03:00:20.600, Speaker F: I was really clear with them, like, okay, I'll go with you guys, but I still want this movie to be a Hollywood movie. I want this to be shown all over the world. I wrote this book for a mainstream audience and for this story to reach everyone, and so I want the movie to have that same kind of impact. So the vision for this movie is for it to be like the social network, but for crypto. So a dramatized story that's meant to be like a blockbuster is kind of the big dream. So that's what we're going for.
03:00:20.970 - 03:01:04.994, Speaker A: Amazing. And I guess that has to be, like a very, I think, very emotional journey, I would imagine, because the book, I'm guessing, is you put so much work into that, that must feel, in a way, like a little bit of a piece of you right. And to then kind of license that out to somebody else, where maybe you're not totally sure exactly how they'll respect the amount of work that you put into it, honestly. Especially in the case where, like you said, I didn't know that only 1% of these things get often turned into movies, these agreements. So, yeah, I imagine that must have been quite an emotional journey to kind of go through. And I really happy to hear that you found somebody that you could trust and also that you're part of the movie, I think, in a lot of ways, too. Right.
03:01:04.994 - 03:01:13.270, Speaker A: As a producer, maybe worth speaking to, what kind of influence and maybe kind of impact you get to have as a producer, because I'm actually personally not too familiar either.
03:01:13.420 - 03:01:30.030, Speaker F: Yeah, that's a good question, because I had no idea about the film world. But executive producer sounds like, okay, that should be at the top, but it really isn't.
03:01:30.690 - 03:01:32.170, Speaker A: It sounds very fancy.
03:01:32.330 - 03:02:35.010, Speaker F: Yeah, but it's really kind of when you're the producer, then you actually have hands on influence on how things are made. Executive producers are more like an advisor kind of role. So executive producers usually kind of help with bringing in investors or bringing in kind of their network. It's like, okay, maybe they're really well connected with actors and they can get a good cast, or maybe they're well connected with investors. It's really, like, more of an advisor role. Or maybe they can just weigh in on the script, which, of course I want to do. But it's not like I don't get a real say, actually, on how the movie gets made, but I do at least get a chance to kind of look behind the scenes at how it is getting made.
03:02:35.010 - 03:03:03.690, Speaker F: So I'd rather take that than nothing. What it does is I can be involved and I am involved in the funding of the movie. And so we can get into that how I wanted to bring in NFTs. And then I luckily get to at least look at the script and kind of give my opinion, although I am not kind of directly involved in writing it.
03:03:03.840 - 03:03:18.554, Speaker A: Yeah, that makes sense. Got you. So, yeah, every time I said producer so far, I suppose I should have said executive producer because the fancier title means advisor instead of the actual yeah, got it. Okay, cool. Awesome. Learn something new every day. Yeah, I mean, that's a perfect segue.
03:03:18.554 - 03:03:47.260, Speaker A: I mean, I think one of the reasons why I in particular thought about having you on was part of that kind of fundraising process, or even mobilizing the community that you've been able to build over the years to be a part of this movie. So, yeah, maybe I think it totally makes sense to segue into talking a little bit more about that. As you mentioned, did you use kind of NFTs and the community that you built over the years to be a part of this movie and be part of that journey with you?
03:03:47.630 - 03:04:17.380, Speaker F: Yeah. So when we started having kind of the first conversations about funding, I immediately thought, we should do this with NFTs. This is going to be the first feature film about Ethereum. We should bring in the Ethereum community and bring in Ethereum kind of technology somehow into the production process. And NFTs seemed like a good.
03:04:19.510 - 03:04:19.874, Speaker A: You.
03:04:19.912 - 03:04:33.334, Speaker F: Know, the other producers agreed and we started to brainstorm on how this NFT project would actually work. So that's kind of the genesis of that.
03:04:33.532 - 03:05:11.678, Speaker A: Awesome. And then yeah. Can you maybe speak more to maybe even just the thought process about that? I know that over the last couple of years, a lot of creators, like individual creators, have basically gone through this exact mental math of just sort of thinking about how they can get their work into more of the hands of people that support them and do so in a more direct fashion. Using NFTs, using Blockchain, using different primitives to kind of do that. Yeah. Maybe even diving into a little bit more about the different kind of options or different ways that people could help be a part of it through the NFTs that you were offering.
03:05:11.854 - 03:06:25.210, Speaker F: Yeah. So when we started thinking about the NFT side of the movie, the first thing was we want these NFTs to be a way to involve the Ethereum community into the production process. So by giving these tokens some sort of utility or kind of reward attached to them. So what we decided is that we would treat these tokens as kind of backstage passes into production. And so there's like, different Easter eggs attached to these NFTs. So some of them will give you the ability to be named in the credits of the movie so your name appears at the end. Some of them give you an invite to the premiere of the film, others make you an extra.
03:06:25.210 - 03:07:29.022, Speaker F: There's like 20 NFPs that allow you to be an extra in the movie. And there's also an invitation to visit, like, a shooting location. So that was kind of our way of just involving contributors to the funding process into production. I'll say that ideally, kind of the obvious and right way, I think to do this would have been to share kind of the royalties and actual kind of equity in the film with NFT holders, of course, kind of discussing that with lawyers. It was like impractical to do. Nobody wants to go to jail. But it's this situation we're in with kind of lack of regulatory clarity that we have to just be careful how we do things.
03:07:29.022 - 03:08:35.170, Speaker F: And so we found this way of adding value to NFTs without having to just step into kind of murky regulatory waters. So that's kind of on the utility side and then on kind of the actual just, like, visual aspect, like the design aspect. It's one of my favorite things about the project. So we decided on kind of this is the utility. And then I reached out to one of the people who had been involved in the creation of the Ethereum logo. And I thought it'd be really cool if this guy also designs our NFTs. And then it happened that he is involved in a group of artists in Cuba.
03:08:35.170 - 03:09:55.402, Speaker F: He organizes this group of artists together with a professor at the University of Havana, and they make sure that these artists are able to sell their work in kind of like a global market via NFTs. And I thought it was an amazing project. So I said, why not bring in this group of artists to make the visual kind of side of our project? And then we just decided to open up that process to any artist, but especially artists in emerging you know, this is just very close to me. I'm originally from Chile. I lived a long time in Argentina. And I really do believe that crypto has the opportunity to actually change lives in emerging nations and make a bigger impact. Of course, in developed nations, crypto has the opportunity to upend the financial system and make it much more efficient and also be more inclusive.
03:09:55.402 - 03:11:06.574, Speaker F: But for countries where you really have a deeply devalued currency, where you have currency controls, where you have extremely corrupt governments, that's where crypto can make an even bigger impact. So I just wanted to bring in artists from those areas and regions of the world and provide kind of a platform for them. So we opened up the process for any artist to apply, and we ended up with a group of 36 artists from Cuba, Argentina, Tile, Venezuela, Kenya, India, and a few other places. And they designed the collection, which is each artist designed ten versions of the Ethereum logo. And then we divided that into mosaics and then programmatically combined these tiles. And so the result is a really cool, just like, explosion of Ethereum. It's really colorful and different textures and styles, and it's just really cool.
03:11:06.574 - 03:11:09.382, Speaker F: So really happy with how that turned out.
03:11:09.516 - 03:11:44.106, Speaker A: It's amazing. Yeah, I took a look at them after I saw you chat about this the first time, and they're absolutely beautiful. I think mosaics of just exposures, like you said, of colors and shapes and everything, they're really beautiful. So that's awesome. And I think one other thing that's worth noting is I just realized, I think you've been doing interesting stuff with NFTs for actually a while. I remember one of the first NFTs I got, aside from a crypto kitty way back when. Was when I pre purchased your book in 2020 and you did these kind of voice notes for everybody and minted those as NFTs.
03:11:44.106 - 03:11:55.550, Speaker A: And that was the first time I ever realized that an NFT could be more than just, like, a picture. I didn't realize it could be also. Yeah, so that was, like, a really cool unlock for me back then, too. And yeah, cool. Kind of like full circle there.
03:11:55.640 - 03:12:01.458, Speaker F: Yeah, you're right. I kind of even forget that I did that. I did this kind of proof of preorder.
03:12:01.634 - 03:12:02.534, Speaker A: It was awesome.
03:12:02.652 - 03:12:04.166, Speaker F: Yeah, you're right.
03:12:04.348 - 03:12:26.186, Speaker A: It was really cool. Awesome. Well, I don't want to take up too much more of your time. I know that we're at the kind of scheduled time here, but well, thank you so much for being a part of this. I'd love to just give you a second if you can shout out where we can learn more about the movie. If there's any place that's like, a resource for us to learn as we kind of wait for its reveal. But yeah, where should we turn to to hear more about that movie?
03:12:26.298 - 03:12:44.194, Speaker F: Yeah, thanks for giving me the opportunity to share. So we have, like, our website is theinfinitmachinemovie.com and Twitter, I guess, is the other best place at Eastmovie. And then you'll find links to the discord as well.
03:12:44.392 - 03:13:03.100, Speaker A: Amazing. Okay, well, thank you so much, Kamala. I cannot wait to watch the movie. And thank you so much for being a part of this. Really excited and yeah, thank you so much. And I think that actually brings us to the end of our day today, so I'll just kind of quickly share. Thanks again, Camilla, for your time.
03:13:03.100 - 03:13:27.838, Speaker A: And I just want to kind of give a quick overview for everybody else as a big thank you for being a part of this. Of course, if you're part of the hackathon that is going on right now, I do want to note that submissions are due on Sunday at 03:00 P.m.. So get your pencils going and get your submissions in. You could start now. Submissions are open and yeah, otherwise, happy hacking. And thank you so much, everybody, for being a part of this.
03:13:28.004 - 03:13:33.560, Speaker F: Nice, thanks. And also, good luck to everyone participating in the hackathon on.
03:13:34.010 - 03:13:34.806, Speaker A: Awesome.
03:13:34.988 - 03:13:35.474, Speaker F: Bye.
03:13:35.522 - 03:13:37.140, Speaker A: Thanks, Kevin. See you, everybody.
