00:00:00.240 - 00:00:34.938, Speaker A: Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of the deluge refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cisano, and today's the 24 May 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So we had a few merge updates to actually get through over the past 24 hours. So first off, I want to start with what Terrence from the prior Labs team kind of shared here, something called Bopstan. Now what is Bobstin? It is a semi major version release candidate. As we move into upgrading the longstanding public public test nets for the merge, there will be no breaking changes between the Bopstan release candidate and the final v one 2.0
00:00:34.938 - 00:01:05.462, Speaker A: release unless late unexpected issues are found in the Testnet upgrades. Additionally, this release contains a few important phase zero, thus affecting all phases fixes, deprecations and clarifications. Please review these and ensure our software releases contain these updates prior to Mainnet Balatrix. Now Balatrix is going to be the mainnet kind of like fork on the consensus layer side, that's the name of it. And Paris is the consensus layer side. Sorry, the execution layer side. And these two forks are going to happen, you know, kind of like@main.net
00:01:05.462 - 00:01:28.304, Speaker A: but in terms of like the test nets here, this is what we want to see, right. This is the release candidate that we want to see. Kind of like going onto, onto Robston obviously as the first public testnet to go through the merge here. So if you want to kind of get more details about this, you know, about kind of like what it changes and things like that, you can kind of read this here. But I mean we're close. Guys are really, really close at this point in time. And also main net shadow fork six.
00:01:28.304 - 00:01:57.592, Speaker A: So I mentioned yesterday that I wasn't sure if there's any more shadow folks before Robston. I think there's gonna be one more. And that's mainnet shadow fork six, which is scheduled to happen around the 31 may using the same configuration as Ropston, which is gonna be that bobst in configuration there. And then around June 8, obviously the Ropston public test that will go through the merge transition and the merge is coming. We're getting so close, guys. Like, I think, you know what I think is funny how like the markets are obviously super quiet right now. Like there's literally nothing happening.
00:01:57.592 - 00:02:28.464, Speaker A: I mean it's crab season. We kind of like go up a little bit, then we go down a little bit and like everyone's kind of like what's going on, like, where we're going to go. It really feels like 2019. Again, this was the exact same feeling I had in 2019, where there were so many positive developments with Ethereum happening, but the price just did nothing. It just sat there. And, you know, the funny thing is, I think that, I mean, there's a few differences between then and now, but in terms of, like, the price action, the major difference is the fact that ETH isn't down like 94% or 90% from its all time high like it was in 2019. Right.
00:02:28.464 - 00:02:57.744, Speaker A: It's, it's kind of like it is down, obviously, from 4900 quite a bit. But, I mean, if it went down from there, 94% ETH would be at $300. So, you know, let's, let's count our lucky stars that we're not repeating that, or at least we haven't repeated that yet. Obviously, I don't think we're going to go that low, but, you know, anything can happen. But anyway, I don't want to talk about the price too much here, but I just want to kind of like, say how just the feelings are really, really similar. And the thing is, in 2019, we didn't really have any major upgrades going live for Ethereum. I mean, the beacon chain didn't launch till December 2020.
00:02:57.744 - 00:03:25.740, Speaker A: There was just a lot of heavy development going on during that time. There are obviously testnets and things like that. But, you know, it's looking like, as I mentioned yesterday, August is a kind of high chance for mainnet merge to go through. And that's obviously a major thing for us all to look forward to. So I think that, I mean, I haven't really been looking at the price at all, kind of like lately. I mean, you know, I always have kind of like the chart up, but like, I've kind of like, minimized it a lot lately because I'm just like, why do I even need to kind of look at this thing? Like, there's no point at the end of the day. I mean, I don't even know why I look at it normally, considering.
00:03:25.740 - 00:03:45.540, Speaker A: I don't really kind of like, you know, my, my bullishness on Ethereum isn't dictated by what the current ETH price is. Like. I, I don't look at, like the day to day stuff. My, I obviously look at the five to ten year time horizon. Um, but the thing is, is that if you look at the day to day stuff in terms of, like, developments happening on, on Ethereum itself, outside of the price, there's always something happening. I mean, I do a daily show on it. Right.
00:03:45.540 - 00:04:00.380, Speaker A: Then I have to prove it to you guys that are kind of like religious watch and listeners. But yeah, I mean, the merge is going to be here before we know it. I can't wait for this. Just June 8, as I said yesterday, I'm so. I'm like a kid waiting for Christmas. Like, I'm just so excited. But yeah, that was kind of like that update there.
00:04:00.380 - 00:04:36.286, Speaker A: And then there was something here from Tim Biker around testing the merge. This is basically more targeted at kind of like the application kind of layer testing or level testing and kind of like developers that run applications. As far as owner, I know the kind of like the change that I guess, um, affects developers from the merge is basically the, the changing block time. So obviously blocks go from 13 seconds to 12 seconds. And any, any kind of, I guess some developers that have kind of like maybe hard coded a block block, kind of like timing into it or anything like that might be affected by this. But you can read this thread from Tim Bico to kind of like get an idea around that. There's a bunch of great, great things here.
00:04:36.286 - 00:05:11.512, Speaker A: And if people are kind of like using the difficulty kind of like opcodes in order to kind of like build their smart contracts and stuff like that, I mean, yeah, you'd obviously want to know that. But as I said, this is for developers. Tim has a really great thread here going kind of like through all this. And I guess for just curiosity sake, for any of you, Tim has a TLDR down here where he says testing the merge is the priority for all client and testing teams. That said, client teams in the EF can't single handedly replace quality assurance for all Ethereum projects. So if you're building on Ethereum, now is the time to pay attention and make sure you are ready. So obviously there are kind of like the protocol level testing and the application level testing.
00:05:11.512 - 00:05:48.910, Speaker A: The EF and core devs are pretty much all focused on the protocol level testing as they kind of like should be an app level testing should be done by each of the kind of like developers in their communities and things like that. So just to kind of PSA there, taken serum has a really great little visualization that they're calling watering the merge here. So you can see this represents the deposits into the ETH two contract for spring 2021 here. So this is really cool. They've done a bunch of this account taken theorems have done it, has done a bunch of different kind of like visualizations over time. You can see if you just scroll through them, basically. Like, I mean, most of the time, they only tweet out different kind of visualizations of things that they've done.
00:05:48.910 - 00:06:12.802, Speaker A: I think it's just really cool to see these sorts of things and see them kind of like, I guess, shown in a different kind of, like, way here. Like just seeing kind of like, kind of like deposits going to kind of the. The beacon chain or the ETH two, sorry, d two deposit contract, which obviously goes to the beacon chain. It's just really cool. So that's just something I wanted to kind of, like, highlight for you guys here. And I always think that I always, I just love seeing these. So taking theorem is actually a great follow if you're into kind of like, visualizing these sorts of stuff.
00:06:12.802 - 00:06:34.546, Speaker A: As I said, like, you can scroll through, you can see all the visualizations that they do here if you would like to do so there. All right, so Josh Stark shared this new dashboard from stablecoins. Wt. WTF? Built by Dennis and Mike here. So what this dashboard shows is a bunch of different metrics. So if you go to stablecoins, WTF? Kind of like you can see slash about. I mean, this is the.
00:06:34.546 - 00:06:48.456, Speaker A: What they've linked here. You can kind of, like, see what it's all about, what they're tracking and things like that. But some of the screenshots that Josh kind of, like, shared, I want to. I want to show you guys. So you can see here stable coin market caps over time. So this only shows the last kind of like month. But you can see the dip here, right? And that's.
00:06:48.456 - 00:07:20.350, Speaker A: That's the dip that everyone's been talking about. It's like, well, you know, stable coin supply isn't going up anymore. That means that people are actually cashing out stable coins to fiat and kind of like exiting crypto. And that is pretty much like, I guess, expected in a bear market, right? So, I mean, I wouldn't expect anything kind of like, uh, more than that. Um, and then you can see stable coin volumes below here, which is interesting because that spike there. One guess what that spike is. Well, of course, it's when terror collapsed, right? It's when the UST drama happened, because obviously people were trading the UST stable coin for other stable coins and all that sorts of stuff.
00:07:20.350 - 00:07:47.680, Speaker A: And, you know, that, that volume spike there, which is absolutely massive, by the way. We went from an average of about, God, what, 50 to 75 billion, kind of like daily volume to almost $200 billion in daily volume. So obviously a huge spike there. But yeah, that was due to the kind of like terrorist stuff going on there. And there's a few other metrics here like the die price and die volume and market cap and velocity. Again, volume spike was due to the UST stuff. But you can see here the price is pretty stable around a dollar.
00:07:47.680 - 00:08:21.246, Speaker A: Market cap has come down because a lot of people mint and die because they want to leverage their ETH. So they'll put their ETH, or I guess like other assets these days into maker. And essentially what they'll do is they'll draw die to kind of like leverage ETH or leverage on another asset. And that's kind of like its primary use case a lot of the time. So obviously the DAi supply is going to go down when the market's bearing people are closing positions by paying back Dai and essentially destroying Dai rather than creating it in order to kind of, I guess kind of, kind of get on leverage. There a few other charts here. I think there's one other chart here.
00:08:21.246 - 00:09:00.494, Speaker A: It's just what I was showing you before, this kind of like landing page that kind of like shows you all the stable coins, their volume, their current price, market cap, all that good stuff there. So definitely check out this website if you're interested in stable coins. It's at stablecoins dot wTF about. So an interesting little tweet thread here from Hal Press today that kind of like caught my attention because I think Hal is funny because he's saying, he seems to be saying things that I think maybe the people that have been this industry for a little while, such as myself, just can't be bothered saying anymore. Like we still believe this sorts of stuff, but we just can't be bothered saying anymore. We've been saying it for so long, we get attacked anytime we say it. And yeah, there's a lot of that going on there.
00:09:00.494 - 00:09:33.400, Speaker A: But anyway, what did Hal say? So he starts off his thread by saying, the reality is the BTC narrative is dead. There are no new nation states adopting it. And for those that have already adopted it, things haven't gone so well. There are no large institutions successfully using it as a store of value. As a result, there are no convicted buyers. And then he goes on in this thread where kind of like with a bunch of different tweets saying, you know, the only buy, the only buyers are bottom pickers and crypto native whales who have learned to buy panic as a monkey making, as a money making trading strategy. However, these parties only buy weaknesses and not strength, IMO.
00:09:33.400 - 00:10:10.056, Speaker A: This is why it struggles to hold price above 30k, but as a pretty good support below it. If crypto is going to emerge from the bear, it would not be these bottom pickers who drive it out. There needs to be a new narrative that people believe will actually derive sustainable upside in the long term. The only chance for this to happen is with ETH in the merge. I believe this does have the potential to drive sustained upside because it directly impacts structural flows, has the potential to drive a fresh narrative, can lure institutional capital back into the space. Furthermore, I think in time ETH will be a superior store of value anyway. And last tweet here, I do not have a strong view if this will prove to be a durable bottom in crypto broadly, but I do believe if it is going to be one, the rally out of here will have to be led by ETH and not BTC.
00:10:10.056 - 00:10:45.408, Speaker A: Now, on that last point, the rally out of 2020, there is a lot of debate around it, but I mean, I think so looking back on 2020 and what kind of like, really kick started us, there was a bunch of kind of like buyers kind of like coming in, like Saylor, for example, and institutional kind of like buyers. And that was like a big narrative back then. But there was also the narrative of Defi, which drove a lot of ETH buying pressure, and then the ETH BTC ratio just skyrocketed from there. Right. And kind of like went up a lot. And then it kept going up during, I guess, like, you know, BTC going up as well, like with the institutional stuff, with Tesla buying BTC and all that sorts of stuff. But Hal is right here.
00:10:45.408 - 00:11:34.100, Speaker A: Like, I've been saying this for quite a while, but, like, where is the kind of, like, interest going to come in, like BTC? And I wrote about this in the newsletter the other day, but BTC hasn't done what its proponents said it was going to do in the kind of like, perfect situation. So let me put it to you this way. BTC for the longest time has been memed as an inflation hedge and as a digital gold. Right. Well, what happened during the last couple of years, or I guess, like even just during the last six months, uh, during the really high inflationary period, BTC has gone down with everything else. It is still trading like it is a risk on tech kind of like asset, rather than a risk off inflation hedge. And because of that, I think a lot of people are going to see that and be like, okay, well, you know, why would I buy bitcoin when originally it was kind of like, said to be an inflation hedge? And that was the upside potential in it.
00:11:34.100 - 00:12:06.804, Speaker A: And, you know, that's where all the upside would be during times of high inflation. Well, that didn't materialize at all and hasn't materialized at this point. I don't think it's ever going to materialize. I've always been bearish on that, I guess, kind of narrative around BTC because it's just, I mean, it's gotten less volatile over time, but it's just not, in my eyes, something that can be used as kind of like an inflation hedge or a store value, especially over the short term. Right. It just, it relies too much on faith in my eyes. Like, obviously everything relies on faith to some degree, but BTC itself just has no real utility.
00:12:06.804 - 00:12:49.848, Speaker A: And I've always been a utility maximalist when it comes to kind of like the most value that will be driven to these assets. That's why I'm so bullish on ETH, because ETH has an enormous amount of utility, right. It has staking, it has defi, collateral, it has, you know, obviously being used to pay fees, which are really kind of like quite high on Ethereum. Kind of like uses money within the ethereum economy. There's just so many different ways to use ETH, right. And that gives it a really, really strong monetary premium. So from my point of view, I've always believed that ETH's utility kind of like properties will drive the most value to it and will lead to the flipping because I don't think BTC has durable and lasting buyers at the end of the day, and especially as how mentions here with the merge coming up now, you have a massive issuance reduction coming.
00:12:49.848 - 00:13:15.560, Speaker A: But it's not about the issuance reduction per se. It's about how that issuance is being reduced. Right. And I think, you know, more people expected EIP 1559 to do more for the price than what it did. I never really expected it to be short term bullish. I expected it to be long term bullish because of the fact that while ERP 1559 burns ETH and removes it from, from the supply, it doesn't impact, as Hal likes to put it, the structural flows of the asset. Right.
00:13:15.560 - 00:14:07.206, Speaker A: Like a lot of the ETH being kind of like burned, kind of like isn't coming from miners or anything like that. But when you look at the kind of like the merge and what it's doing for the issuance reduction, that's directly coming from ETH that we know most of that, it gets sold, like gets market sold because miners have to sell it, they're forced the sellers, they don't have a choice. I mean, they can hedge their positions, but at the end of the day, they still have to pay for electricity, for hardware, for maintenance, all that sorts of stuff. So they are forced sellers that we know with 100% certainty they are. And it's, we have plenty of proof of that for every proof of work network. Right? So once you remove that, once you remove millions, tens of millions of dollars depending on the price of kind of like ETH, of sell pressure, then that really does start to impact the structural flows as how is kind of like mentioned in his bankless interview there. And when you do that kind of.
00:14:07.206 - 00:15:04.978, Speaker A: Hal had the great quote in bank, in the bankless podcast he did, which I always refer back to. You go from needing those millions of dollars a day of buy pressure to just sustain ETH prices kind of like at a, kind of like at a sideways level to needing that much kind of like sell pressure to stop the, stop the price of ETH from going up. I've butchered that kind of like quote there. But essentially what it is, it basically means that if we sideways right now and demand stays the same, well, if we're removing all these structural sell pressure and demand stays the same as it is today, then logically we should go up. Then what happens during demand spikes? What happens when we have another bull market where demand really goes up and we have both that massive issuance reduction where we don't have those kind of like structural sellers anymore and we have 1559 and we have all the other things that make ETH bullish. What do you think is going to happen to the ETH price? Like people, I think they look too short term. I have some people kind of like coming after me these days being like, you're so bullish on ETH and, you know, it hasn't done what you said it was going to do.
00:15:04.978 - 00:15:32.434, Speaker A: It hasn't gone to ten k yet or anything like that. Like I've been calling ETH ten k since 2019, since it was $100. I was talking about the issuance reduction since January 19. Don't come at me with this bullshit of, oh, you've, you know, nothing you said materialized. You guys know, like five to ten years plus is my outlook in these sorts of things. I'm not in this for like, let's, you know, get rich quick overnight. Let's, you know, let's kind of like, um, I think that ETH within a month is going to go to these ridiculous prices or whatever.
00:15:32.434 - 00:16:16.134, Speaker A: No, if a theorem succeeds, like, I think it will, at being that global settlement transfer layer. And if ETH accrues the value of that, which I think it will, then, as I've said before, guys, like, I haven't been shied about this. I think it could be worth $10 trillion eventually, which is a, you know, around, I guess, depending on the e supply at the time, it's like $100,000 ETH, right? Like, I have full faith in that. Like, I'm not just saying that because it was a bull market. I am saying that because just looking at everything and taking everything into account, and if Ethereum succeeds at what it's trying to do, then there's no reason why it can't get to that. So I always get, like, a little bit annoyed when people kind of, like, come at me with that. And I know they're probably first cyclers and they probably don't know about the history of me kind of like calling this, you know, calling for a $10,000 ETH since 2019 or anything like that.
00:16:16.134 - 00:16:47.750, Speaker A: But I'm not just saying these things because it was a bull market. I will say these things. Bull or bear, you know, unless something structurally changes with Ethereum's fundamentals, I'm not going to go, you know, turn bearish on ETH. And there's, I'm not seeing any reason to turn bearish on ETH. Even in the. Amidst all the kind of, like, I guess, some late other layer ones that kind of, like, took a bit of market share away from Ethereum. I mean, to me, that was still kind of, like, bullish in a way because of the fact that it just meant that aetherium was kind of like, you know, in extremely high demand, that we actually needed a release valve, people.
00:16:47.750 - 00:17:46.875, Speaker A: I needed to go to other networks to kind of, like, get that aetherium experience because there wasn't enough room on Ethereum. And that's really bullish for the L2 ecosystem, which is, which I believe is going to be better and, you know, more scalable, more secure than, than all the other layer ones. So that just makes me even more kind of, like bullish on ETH. So, yeah, I mean, I totally agree with Hal. He, I actually suggested to him that he, we should talk about that on a daily gray drive through episode, and he replied, saying, you know, it'll only be worthwhile fair if we have someone there to articulate the BTC case as well, I think. I mean, I don't really want to have, like, a guest episode with, with kind of like a BTC kind of like Max and kind of like the 8th Maxis because I feel like they, I mean, I just recently listened to the debate between, between Justin Drake and Lynn Alden. And while it was a constructive debate and while both sides presented kind of, I guess, like good points, I just feel like these things, I don't know, I kind of like feel like no one's mind's going to be changed.
00:17:46.875 - 00:18:17.046, Speaker A: Like things are so tribal. Maybe you change some people's minds, but I don't know. I don't know how, like, I don't know how much I want to do a debate with her, but I'd love to have how on just to talk about not, maybe not so much kind of like ETH versus BTC, but just like ETH itself and how we both kind of like obviously have the same views on things, but how he looks at it from a different lens. We'll see. We'll see. I'll probably have him on eventually, but we'll see how we'll go with that. But yeah, just wanted to kind of like talk about that little thread that, that help Hal put together today because I think it's very relevant, especially in times where ETH is kind of like crabbing the structural kind of like bull case.
00:18:17.046 - 00:18:47.196, Speaker A: The fundamental bull case for ETH hasn't changed just because the price went down from the all time high, guys. Like if anything, it's only gotten stronger. So. So, yeah, just wanted to kind of like get that out there for you guys. But anyway, I'm going to move on to the next updates here. So meta portal Dow has been unveiled today which is a research DaO focused on decentralized governance and token value accrual models across the crypto gaming ecosystem. So they're not just focused on kind of like doing governance, doing decentralized governance and token value accrual for anything.
00:18:47.196 - 00:19:23.566, Speaker A: They want to do it for the gaming ecosystem. Now, you guys know that I've been quite bearish in general on crypto gaming because pretty much all of them just look like Ponzi's. There's this really popular one right now called Stepn, which I mean, I wouldn't consider it really a game, but it's basically you, you kind of like walk and exercise and you earn some kind of like some, some kind of like tokens or nfts or something like that. But it's all dependent on kind of like new players coming in. So it starts to look like a new, kind of like pyramid scheme because people are only doing it because they're earning money from it. And for those, that money and that yield to sustain itself requires new entrants. And yeah, you can see where I'm going with this.
00:19:23.566 - 00:19:46.642, Speaker A: It just basically becomes a pyramid, right. So I'm not sure how sustainable something like that is. I mean, I don't think it's sustainable at all, to be honest, because axie Infinity wasn't sustainable either. And I think that's because, okay, on one hand, creating a good game and a game that actually keeps players interested is really, really hard. And I went through this with World of Warcraft. I played World of Warcraft not from day one, but from like two years after it came out. I started playing in 2006.
00:19:46.642 - 00:20:17.476, Speaker A: So I experienced like the peak of the player base, which was, which was in 2010 during the wrath of the Lich King expansion. I think they peaked at like 12 million players in kind of like the west kind of market that I was servicing. I think it was more if you included maybe China and Russia and places like that. But after that, what ended up happening was they couldn't keep the momentum. The game degraded in quality. People lost interest in it over time, obviously, and didn't develop. All the good developers and good people at Blizzard kind of left.
00:20:17.476 - 00:20:54.010, Speaker A: And what you were left was with basically a husk of its former self. And these days the people, I think there's more people playing kind of like the classic version of World of warcraft than there is playing the, what's called the retail version, which is like the current version. They're still releasing new content for it. But, yeah, I mean, so I've been, I've been through this. I've been through kind of like what it's like to create. And I've been a big gamer in general, what, what it is to create a good game, especially a game that keeps people kind of like entertained for a long time and it's really, really hard. Now throw in kind of like these Ponzi mechanics, it becomes even harder because to sustain the kind of like, I guess, ridiculous revenues you might see for those two or three months of mania.
00:20:54.010 - 00:21:16.974, Speaker A: I mean, it seems basically impossible. You can't sustain that. And what ends up happen, ends up happening is you have kind of like this, you know, slow, slow, slow growth, spiking growth, and then come back down again and then kind of like slow, slow growth again. And it's not just unique to kind of like crypto gaming, I guess you could call it, or play to earn or whatever you want to call it. It's also happened with Defi a lot, too. Right. Because this industry has like a, has an obsession with incentivizing things.
00:21:16.974 - 00:21:55.658, Speaker A: And obviously that's just kind of bringing back, bringing forward growth and you have to pay for that later on. But in saying all of that, I still think it's cool that something like metaportal Dao exists because of the fact that if we want to improve what, you know, everything that I've just kind of like, outlined, then we need a structured way to do this. And focusing on things like governance and token value accrual design for crypto gains in particular, I think is a good, good way to kind of like, do this. So if you're interested in learning about how they're actually going to do this, you could check out this kind of like, blog post here, which I guess is a newsletter that you can subscribe to as well. So you definitely should go check that out. But. But, yeah, I mean, I'm cautiously optimistic on the future of kind of like crypto gaming.
00:21:55.658 - 00:22:22.520, Speaker A: I want to see it. See kind of like more, I guess, like creative games more kind of like games that actually are fun to play rather than just kind of like Ponzi Ponzis with, you know, a gaming skin on top of it, because that's what a lot of them are. And I don't like that. I don't think that's fun. I think it's actually pretty predatory and I think it gives the kind of like, whole crypto ecosystem a bad look because gamers already hate nfTs. They're probably going to hate it even more with, you know, if we just keep ponzifying things. Right? So anyway, go check this out.
00:22:22.520 - 00:22:50.154, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description. All right, so optimism has an update around their token airdrop today. So they started this tweet throw by saying optimism is for the people, not the sibyls. We've been carefully analyzing op airdrop number one, for Sybil attackers that slipped through the cracks. We're happy to announce that we've removed an additional 17,000 Sybil addresses and recovered over 14 million op tokens which have been distributed to kind of like the. The rest of the. The people that were getting an op airdrop here.
00:22:50.154 - 00:23:29.090, Speaker A: 17,000 addresses. Guys, that's. That's pretty insane, right? Like, when you think about it, and at the same time, it's expected because everyone's trying to farm airdrops for. For things that haven't got a token yet. And I think at this point in time, guys, all of the teams are pretty much hunting for these, these kind of like these addresses now, and there might be some that fall through the cracks. But I think at this point in time, the days of kind of like sibling and airdrop and pretty much over, like, it's dead, like you're not going to be able to succeed most of the time with this sort of stuff. And I think, you know, when you, when you kind of think about it like that, it's actually really healthy because obviously you don't want tokens going to people who are just kind of like farming it for the sake of it.
00:23:29.090 - 00:24:06.094, Speaker A: You want tokens going to actual community members and the people actually care. And as I've discussed before, I think optimism's airdrop is one of the better ones because of the fact that they're airdropping tokens to a bunch of kind of like different people that did different things. Now, is it perfect? No, surely it's not perfect. And obviously I have a bias here because I'm getting a healthy op token airdrop and I'm also an investor in op as an angel. So just to disclose those, but my airdrop isn't informing the way I think about kind of like airdrops. What I like about it is the fact that they took various different, I guess, criteria and didn't just say, okay, if you used optimism, you get an airdrop, right? They took it. You know, if you have a multi sig, if you used gitcoin, if you did all this sort of stuff.
00:24:06.094 - 00:24:36.266, Speaker A: But there has been a bit of, I guess, feedback on the gitcoin thing where they're only rewarding people who donated on layer one with gitcoin, which I actually think is kind of crappy. I hope they kind of like, change that and actually reward people did it on L2 as well, like ZK sync and then obviously the Polygon Pos chain. But I guess it makes sense since those things are competitors. They maybe don't want to promote the competitors. But at the same time, I don't know, I feel like that's not really a excuse. I feel like they should kind of like reward people who did it at L2. But we'll have to see.
00:24:36.266 - 00:25:05.884, Speaker A: I mean, I think the op token is due any day now at this point, right? Like, I think they did say, you know, in the next few months, a month ago. So, I mean, yeah, I could still wait, you know, they could still wait till June or July. We'll have to see, like, I don't know. Like, I did say I'm an investor, but I don't know when this is gonna go live or anything like that. We'll have to see when they kind of like, decide to do it. But yeah, I guess at this point, if they're kind of still hunting for, for kind of like these addresses and stuff like that, maybe it's coming later rather than then sooner, but we'll have to see. I don't know.
00:25:05.884 - 00:25:38.840, Speaker A: But anyway, good to see that they've kind of like filtered out these civil attackers. Very, very positive. All right, so just wanted to give a quick shout out to Swagtimas here, who I've given a shout out to this before, but just wanted to kind of do it again. He maintains something called the Starknet roundup, which is a substat that you can subscribe to, which basically every week Swagtimus goes through and kind of like gives you an update on what's happening in the stark net ecosystem or the starkware ecosystem here. And there's a lot happening, as I've pointed out before. So if you're interested in keeping up to date with Stockware and Stocknet, you can. This is the newsletter to subscribe to you.
00:25:38.840 - 00:26:01.784, Speaker A: You really don't need to subscribe to anything else except this, I would say, at this point in time, at least, to keep up with Starkware and Starknet and all those sort of good things there. And definitely follow Swagdemus on Twitter. He's a great follower. I'm following him. Really entertaining. Basically an ETH Maxi. Maybe he, maybe he won't kind of like, like being called that, but, you know, you know, he's got the ultrasound money going on there, does a lot of L2 stuff.
00:26:01.784 - 00:26:32.420, Speaker A: Talks like an 8th maxi. So maybe, maybe he is. But yeah, if you're interested in kind of like anything ethereum, starkware, L2 related as well, definitely give swagdem as a follow here. All right, final thing to highlight is that arbitrary and put out a tweet today saying they're hiring, so they're looking for talented builders who enjoy working on cutting edge tech. You can go to jobs, Lever Co. Off chain labs to see all the roles they're hiring for. They're hiring for people across engineering partnerships, finance, marketing, people, ops, product, basically hiring for lots of different roles here.
00:26:32.420 - 00:26:50.956, Speaker A: So if you fit into any of these, you should definitely go check this out. I mean, getting a job in the bear market, like a crypto job in the bear market, is probably the best time to be getting a job. There's less competition for them and you could secure yourself and you can stack more fiat to stack more to go buy more ETH as well. Right. You know, during a bear market. So. So, yeah, I mean, I started working in the.
00:26:50.956 - 00:27:29.094, Speaker A: In the depths and the heart of a bear market in crypto, mid 2019. That was, like, the depths of it there. And, you know, I joined set July of 2019, I think, like a few days before my birthday, which is pretty cool. And I stayed with them for 18 months, pretty much until, like, 8th, broke new all time high again, and then kind of, like, left, obviously, to do, to do my own stuff. But I, those 18 months were, you know, working at set was one of the reasons why I was able to go through the bear market as well. I mean, they kept me financially stable. They'll, you know, allowed me to kind of, like, pay attention to crypto without him to worry about a non crypto job, you know, and kind of like, obviously they paid me so I was able to stack more eat as well.
00:27:29.094 - 00:27:46.974, Speaker A: Right. So that was that. You know, all those sorts of things. I think that's what I tell people. It's like, if you want to focus all your attention on crypto in a bear market and you're working a non crypto job, just get a crypto job. And there's so many people hiring right now, so many teams hiring for different roles, you shouldn't have an issue. At least kind of like finding something that you can apply for.
00:27:46.974 - 00:28:11.008, Speaker A: Obviously, you have to compete with other people for the roles, but, you know, doubt yourself, guys. Like, if you're listening to the refuel and if you've been a listener for a while, I'm sure you've picked up enough knowledge by now to go kind of like, um, go work on one of these teams, especially the Ethereum based teams. But anyway, I think on that positive note, I'm going to end it there for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:28:11.008 - 00:28:11.464, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone.
