00:00:00.440 - 00:00:33.415, Speaker A: Let me let the show begin. I'll hand it off to our session chair. Okay, let's begin our first morning session. My name is Hye Young Gi. I am a professor at the physics department here at University of Toronto. All right, without any further delay. It's 9:14, so I'm going to start.
00:00:33.415 - 00:01:46.075, Speaker A: We have two talks in the morning before the coffee break. Our first speaker is Andre Braztoria from the University of Chicago. And Andre is going to tell us the assembling and controlling photonic quantum matter, solid fluid and kets. Big button moves forward, bottom one moves backwards. And if you want to highlight anything, go ahead and use the very top button. Hold. Yes, I do.
00:01:46.075 - 00:02:44.735, Speaker A: Is it turned on? All right. Thank you so much for the introduction. Giving the first talk means I have the pleasure to thank the organizers for putting together this wonderful conference on topical research on quantum information and quantum control, and also for giving me the opportunity to give a talk on our recent efforts of using superconducting circuits to find new ways of both preparing and controlling synthetic quantum materials that are made out of interactive photons. As a disclaimer, I've only started recently my position at nyu. So the results I present today is mostly work that I did in my postdoc position in the Schuster and Simon groups at Stanford. Okay, so a bit of background. If the clicker works.
00:02:44.735 - 00:03:27.435, Speaker A: Sorry, I can use this. It's a bit of. Now I know why it doesn't work. So a bit of motivation why we're doing these experiments. We're trying to understand strongly correlated quantum materials, both from a fundamental perspective of trying to understand exotic phenomena and condensed matter physics, but also from a technological perspective and trying to use these collective quantum phenomena for different applications, especially for quantum information. And this is where, you know, trying to solve these systems when they're large becomes kind of a hard problem to do classically. So that's why there's a growing effort and interest to engineer these quantum systems.
00:03:27.435 - 00:03:53.295, Speaker A: They can mimic the quantum phenomena of interest. And there have been a variety of platforms that that can. You can isolate your quantum system and perform control. And the system that I'll be talking about is interacting microwave photons in superconducting circuits. Okay. And this is where the idea of a quantum simulator comes in. You have a model Hamiltonian of interest.
00:03:53.295 - 00:04:44.015, Speaker A: You want to study the ground state, you want to find the ground state, or study some complicated many body dynamics. And there are generally two approaches to this. And both of them have, of course, their advantages and unique disadvantages. There's just of course, the digital approach, where you have a universal digital quantum computer, where you're trying to, essentially the buzzword is you're trying to characterize your Hamiltonian by decomposing your Hamiltonian evolution in terms of single and two qubit gates. And this promises a universal quantum simulator. But with the caveat is that you need a lot of single and two qubit gates with low errors to be able to perform with good fidelity or simulation. And then there's the analog approach where you try to implement your model Hamiltonian directly into the lab, where if you can do it, you can directly sample your dynamic dynamics in real time.
00:04:44.015 - 00:05:47.443, Speaker A: The caveat is you have to be able to implement your Hamiltonian with the platform that you have in your lab. And this is the sort of approach that I like to take where I'm interested in building these analog quantum simulators with superconducting circuits. And this is where the circuit QED field, which is the circuit version of cavity QED. This is where both my PhD and postdoc groups, we've put together most of the tools for assembling these quantum materials made out of microwave photons. We can confine photons in lattices of microwave resonators where the lattice themselves have some interesting band structure and imbues the photons with some form of effective mass. We can use the nonlinearity of circuits composed out of Josephson junctions to introduce interactions between our photons that otherwise don't interact. We can introduce dissipation to engineer reservoirs for officially thermalizing many body states.
00:05:47.443 - 00:06:43.353, Speaker A: And also we can introduce elements that can induce an effective magnetic field for protons to look at topological materials. But I'm not going to go into detail about all of these components. I just want to highlight the model, the system that we're working in our lab, which is a one dimensional Bose Hubbard model, or you can think of it as we are patterning a one dimensional lattice where our particles, which are photons, are tunneling different sites and they're experiencing strong onsite interactions. The strong energy penalty for having two particles in the same lattice site and this competition between the kinetic energy and the interaction. As the experts in the audience would know, this gives rise to some strongly correlated phases for a Mott insulator and a superfluid. So this is the model and this is what we expect to see in the model. But how do you actually implement this in the lab with superconducting circuits? This is what I want to go over briefly.
00:06:43.353 - 00:07:28.945, Speaker A: Since we're dealing with bosons, it seems quite Natural to implement our sites as harmonic oscillators where we can confine our microwave photons. The simplest object we can make in the lab is essentially what I've drawn here in an LC oscillator. But we also want to introduce interactions. And just having LC oscillator is not enough to have any types of interaction. And there are many ways to introduce interactions in our circuits, but the easiest approach is to just replace that inductor with a Josephson junction. And this Josephson junction you can think of, it decreases enharmonic energy spectrum. You can either think of it as a particle that's now confined, that was previously in a parabolic potential, is now in a cosine potential and it gives you this anharmonic energy spectrum.
00:07:28.945 - 00:08:07.573, Speaker A: Or I can just think of this junction as a nonlinear inductor that changes its inductance quite a lot by about 40% every time you introduce an additional quanta of electromagnetic energy. Okay. And this is an important tool, obviously for quantum computing because this allows us to resolve and perform quantum control on the lowest two energy states. That's our qubit. But for what we need to do, this is how we're using the non active junction to create sort of these contact interactions in our site, where we have this energy penalty, that is the enharmaticity to add an additional photon in this lattice site. Now, you can't be interesting physics if you just have one object. You need to couple them to form an artificial lattice.
00:08:07.573 - 00:08:55.024, Speaker A: And the easiest thing we can do is just to couple our qubits, which for the experts, if people want to know these, we call them transmon qubits. We couple them through a capacitor. And if you think about the electromagnetic energy stored in that capacitor, we can model it essentially as having our photon. If we put a photon here, it will essentially tunnel between two lattice sites. And this is exactly what we calibrate in our measurement. Okay, so if we put together these two ingredients, then this gives us our one dimensional Hubbard model where the transmon qubits are these blue crosses I'm showing in this optical image. So these are the lattice sites of our tight binding lattice where microwave photons or quantum particles are tuning between each lattice site and they're experiencing strong onsite interactions.
00:08:55.024 - 00:09:29.379, Speaker A: When we pattern our circuit, both the tunneling energy J and the onsite interaction U are fixed. These can be tunable, but for our system, they are fixed. And the only thing that we can tune, but it is quite a rich tuning knob, is the on site energy of each lattice site. So we now have control over the lattice potential. And this allows us to create quite interesting many body states. Okay, so just briefly showing you the full device I showed you the time binding chain of transmons. This is where you can think the lattice is happening, the science is happening.
00:09:29.379 - 00:10:40.917, Speaker A: One thing I glanced over is the fact that we don't just have one junction, but a loop of superconducting loop, let's say squared that as we inductively couple bias lines to each qubit, this allows us to through a magnetic field that's spreading the loop allows us to tune the Josephson energy of our Josephson junction and allows us essentially tune the effective inductance of our qubit. And therefore we can tune their energy levels and we can tune in real time the potential profile of our lattice. And we can also do site resolve microscopy where we can tune each individual transmon to its dedicated microwave resonator. There are different energies, but through what's known as the dispersive regime of cavity qed, this allows us to probe the occupation and any type of operation in the block sphere, any type of observable in the block sphere of the transon by just probing the dispersive shift and essentially the homodyne response of our oscillator. So this allows us to measure the occupation and other forms of coherence functions for each individual site. So what are the parameters of our circuit? Where. Well, let's start off with.
00:10:40.917 - 00:11:22.295, Speaker A: So we compared to the lifetime of a photon to be in our lattice, our tunneling rate is about three orders of magnitude faster than that. So we're in the coherent quantum regime and our interaction energy scales, the enharmaticity is an additional order of magnitude larger. So we're in the many but machine. And for the experts in the audience, this is what we call hardcore bosons, where on site interactions are greater than the tunneling energy. All right, so there are many groups in the world that are focusing on putting together these circuits to create these Hubbard models, these synthetic materials. But putting together these circuits is obviously exciting. But it's only the beginning.
00:11:22.295 - 00:12:09.601, Speaker A: It's only the first step, the first journey. Because what's equally important and actually very challenging, and it's sort of the whole topic of this conference is that you want to build tools to sort of target certain many body states. You don't just want to put in particles and they just let them disperse and look at some properties. But if you want to target specific many body states, that becomes a challenging problem. It becomes A many body problem where you're trying to prepare some entangled state and think of ways in which you can control it. And this, this ties into not just many body physics, but also quantum information and quantum enhanced metrology. And even if you prepare this entangled state, you can think you, it still becomes a challenge as to how to efficiently probe it and confirm that you've prepared a target state that you wanted to prepare.
00:12:09.601 - 00:13:18.033, Speaker A: And this is sort of the main scientific thrust of my previous postdoc group, but also of my group as well, where we're trying to come up with new preparation schemes as well as new types of probes and control techniques. And I'm just going to briefly glance over a few of them. Some, some work that we did where we use both dissipation and disorder to prepare solids and fluids of light. And also using site resolve control to actually prepare superposition of a solid and a fluid in which, and using side resolve control to even see how that maps to a highly entangled state that we can try and probe using a single qubit using a many body version of a ram's interfront. Okay, so how do we prepare a solid, in this case a Mott insulator for photons using dissipation, where we have this object which is a qubit that has to refill, has to refill itself with a photon every time it's empty. How do we do that? Well, we just use optical pumping plus dissipation. We have a two photon transition that excites the two photon state of this object that we call the stabilizer.
00:13:18.033 - 00:14:39.487, Speaker A: And then we introduce energy dependent dissipation where we produce, where we introduce a very leaky LC oscillator that's resonantly coupled to the two to the one transition of this harmonic oscillator. And this allows us to always stabilize the state to the one fock state. Now if we couple this stabilizer to our lattice, then this allows us to shuttle photons into our lattice until we reach one photon into each lattice site. And this is how we stabilize an insulator, a mod insulator where the filling front the filling dynamics is it stops, it's suppressed. Because now we have to pay and interaction energy, which is our many body gap, to be able to put an additional particle in this insulator. This works quite well, not just for mod insulators, but any type of incompressible phase of matter where you have this robust many body gap that prevents you from interactions, that prevents you to put in an initial particle that's how we prepare solids, but how do we prepare fluids? Specifically, how do we prepare compressible states of matter where you don't have this robust energy gap? And the way we do that is we use a different type of ingredient, different type of what you normally call a flaw in our system. This is where we use disorder or more specifically, site resolve control of our lattice sites.
00:14:39.487 - 00:15:57.085, Speaker A: In this protocol that I'm showing here, where on the left, we detune our lattice sites, our qubits far away, such that we're suppressing tunneling. In this regime, any type of multiparticle state is just a trivial product state, which means that we can easily prepare it by putting in by localizing photons into specific lattice sites by applying the appropriate calibrated microwave by pulses. Then next what we do is we slowly bring the qubits into resonance and we do it slowly such that we're following an adiabatic trajectory, such that we're always staying in the same instantaneous eigenstate. And this allows us through tunneling. This allows us to start from localized photons in the disorder regime and delocalize them into a strongly correlated fluid through tunneling enhanced quantum fluctuations. Then we detune the lattice sites very fast and perform our measurements of population as well as coherence. To benchmark this method, we can look at the single particle picture where here I'm showing you the eigenstates and the eigenenergies as a function of disorder, where because of the adiabatic trajectory, there's this one to one correspondence between where we put in our particle and which quasi momentum state we delocalize into.
00:15:57.085 - 00:16:46.285, Speaker A: This is the data showing you when doing snapshots of the density profile along different disorder implementations, where we start with the photon that's localized in this qubit. Then as we slowly decrease the disorder, now we can see that it localizes into the lowest order quasi momentum state. So this is the single particle benchmark. Now we can also do this for free particles. Here I'm showing you the spectrum, the calculated spectrum of eigenenergies for the free particle band, where for strong disorder we start with free particles, the highest energy free particles are localized here. And then we ramp down the disorder to near degeneracy. And we can see in real time how these particles are delocalizing as we look at different density profile snapshots at different disorder strengths.
00:16:46.285 - 00:17:33.314, Speaker A: And here I'm showing you the same thing for density profiles for two free and four particles. As you're going from a delocalized regime, localized regime to a delocalized regime. And one interesting thing is we see that the density profiles, they change as a function of the filling fraction. And this is where interactions play a role. Because if you do some quick calculation, if you assume your many body wave function has just some confinement but no interactions, then obviously all the density profiles should have the same shape, mimicking a single particle response. But now if I add a little bit of, if I add infinite contact interactions in my wave function model, then I can see that I'm reproducing the right density profile. This shows you that indeed the interactions are shaping the density profiles of our fluid.
00:17:33.314 - 00:18:53.929, Speaker A: But another, more concrete way to look at how these particles are interacting and delocalizing and they're ordering themselves is to look at something that people in our field use a lot. They're looking at strongly correlated materials, which is a pair of correlation function, which is a probability of simultaneously detecting two particles being present in the lattice at some finite distance x. So a G2 measurement where here I'm showing you the data for different filling fractions where you can see that there's a spatial anti bunching where G2 is less than 1, that scales with the density. The insight there is that as you put in more particles, they have less space to delocalize out to before they start to interact with their neighbors. And now if we rescale this, if we scale this data, this axis of space with the density, we can find that our correlation functions are all matching a universal curve that for the experts in the audience, this is a model for Tungstrardo gas, which is a gas of bosons confined in one dimension, subject to strong infinite contact interactions. And you see some weak oscillating correlations. That is just a sign of what is called Friedel oscillations.
00:18:53.929 - 00:19:31.225, Speaker A: This shows you that there's some weak crystalline order because of the large contact interactions. And we observed this, and this is assigned to show that as you're confining your bosons in 1D, they're acting as fermions due to the interactions. Okay, so for this last part of the talk, I forgot when I started, but I'm guessing I have five minutes. Six. Okay. Six plus five. Okay.
00:19:31.225 - 00:19:42.981, Speaker A: I was looking at the clock. I assumed I started. 10. Okay. Yeah, I'm gonna talk slowly now. I apologize. Oh, yes, that was.
00:19:42.981 - 00:20:57.245, Speaker A: People should feel free to stop me now that I have more time for questions. I should have said that at the beginning. Anyway, so for this last part that I'm going to go slowly over hopefully not too slowly, is I want to change gears a little bit. And the way we were kind of thinking about this new direction is sort of asking something that might be vague, but more of a fundamental question is how can we interface quantum computers with these synthetic quantum materials in a way that we can maybe come up with new techniques for probing and controlling them? Okay, but that's vague and very general and maybe too broad. But let's go back to the quantum fluids that I just browsed over, probably too quickly. And despite the fact that we're preparing something out of in our circuit with some photons that are quantum particles, you repair some quantum eigenstate, the control itself is classical. What do I mean by that? Well, we're using side resolve control, but we're doing it with some classical waveform generator in the lab, and we're biasing some classical currents to our qubits, as I described before.
00:20:57.245 - 00:22:41.623, Speaker A: But lattice sites themselves are quantum mechanical. So then we ask this question, can we use the quantum nature of the lattice itself to perform quantum control of the lattice configuration? And if we can, can we actually leverage it both to look at maybe different types of dynamics in the system or maybe prepare some interesting entangled states that would be otherwise hard to do if you just had classical control in our system? This got us thinking more in the direction of looking at transport and how we can look at transport of particles and condition that transport through a lattice configuration that now depends on the quantum states, the Quantum state of 1, or you can think of even several qubits. So now you can have a lattice configuration that is a superposition, a quantum superposition of many configurations. And this presents an interesting prospect of now being able to interfere different unitary evolutions in our system. And so the simplest case to them trying to dissolve this even more and trying to think of probably what's the easiest thing that we can demonstrate, which is maybe having a lattice configuration that depends on the quantum state of one qubit. Well, that's kind of sounds like a transistor, but, but for photons. And here I'm showing you this cartoon where the idea was, well, what if we just have photons or some mini particle state on the left hand side of our lattice and then we can do some adiabatic control where we bring that state or those sites to go lower energy, such that if we were to satisfy the adiabatic theorem in principle, they should shuttle over to the right hand side.
00:22:41.623 - 00:23:24.679, Speaker A: But now can we engineer this transistor where now the shuttling, this transport is now Conditioned on the quantum state of this middle site, which we call sar, on similar control qubit, where this transport or this transfer, this many body state is conditioned only on this ancilla having a photon. And if it's empty, then you still keep your initial state on the left hand side. So that's kind of the cartoon. But let me go over the details of the protocol. So we start with photons in a seven site lattice, free photons on the left. It's disordered. And then we bring the lattice sites as we did before in a near zero disordered configuration.
00:23:24.679 - 00:24:01.517, Speaker A: But now it's a different configuration. Not all the sites are resonant with each other. But you have this middle site that is our control qubit. We have this metal side that is now detuned by its interaction energy. What does this mean? This means that now our transport of particles from the left to the right is mediated through tunneling through the two photon state of the control qubit. But now this resonant tunneling is conditioned on having that ancillary sign being occupied with a photon. Because you can't put in, you can't occupy the two photon state if you don't originally have one photon in that lattice site.
00:24:01.517 - 00:24:31.743, Speaker A: So this was the idea. Yeah. Transport mediated by the two photon state implies that now your transport is conditioned on the this control qubits quantum state. It has to be in the one state to tunnel through. So in this case, what I've drawn, this middle lattice site is completely empty. Which means that even if I remove this order to a configuration where it's inverted, so the left sites are at lower energy, these free qubits are still excited on the left. Nothing happened at near degeneracy.
00:24:31.743 - 00:25:06.455, Speaker A: In this transistor configuration, I essentially have a solid, it's a mod insulator where there's no tunneling on the other side because the ancilla qubit is empty. Now this changes completely. Now if I put a photon in the ancilla and now you have this two photon state mediates the delocalization into a fluid. Okay. And then if we introduce disorder and follow this ad by trajectory. Now my free photons are on the right hand side. And this is an interesting way to say that actually we've made a conditional few body swap operation.
00:25:06.455 - 00:26:02.725, Speaker A: But now this control qubit is quantum mechanical. So it doesn't need to be either a hole or a particle. It can be a superposition of a particle and a hole. And this is sort of what we originally envisioning as the hallmark of this photonic transistor. Because now if I originally start with photons on the left, but now I have a quantum superposition of essentially our lattice configuration going to this transistor configuration. Our photons are now in this lattice, are now prepared in a coherent superposition of being in a solid and a fluid state. And now if we adically reintroduce disorder, then now this solid plus fluid superposition corresponds to this highly entangled new state, or you can think of it as a cat state where I have this coherent superposition of having free photons localized on the left hand side plus free photons localized on the right hand side.
00:26:02.725 - 00:26:40.441, Speaker A: Okay. And you might ask, well, we use this ancilla to prepare this highly entangled state. Can we ask more of this ancilla qubit? And the answer is yes, we're going to use it also for benchmarking the long range to measure the coherence of this highly entangled state. How do you measure coherence? Well, I assume most of you know that the idea behind the Ramsey interferometer, but we use it a lot as qubit people. We prepared the qubit with a PI over 2 pulse in the block sphere, let it process for some amount of time. And this allows us to measure some Ramsey fringes shown there. That gives us two pieces of information.
00:26:40.441 - 00:27:37.525, Speaker A: The frequency tells us the energy difference between the spin up or spin down. This essentially tells us it is a perfect way to calibrate the qubit frequency in our experiments. And the fact that we're seeing oscillations implies that this is indeed a coherent superposition of zero plus one or spin up or spin down. The many body version of this would be to perform this entangling operation that I described previously. Now let the system evolve to for some time delta T to accrue some relative phase between the two components of our cat that is proportional to their energy difference. And then we disentangle by performing the reverse transistor operation to move all of that phase information into our control qubit or ancilla qubit. And if we measure now the Ramsey fringe, it is much faster because now it's not just processing at its reference frequency, but now it's also processing and the energy difference between the left component of the cat and the right component.
00:27:37.525 - 00:28:23.071, Speaker A: If we do Fourier transforms, we can see that the indeed this energy difference, this precession frequency difference, corresponds to the expected energy difference of our two CAD components. And this again verifies that we have entangled C for two reasons. Well, it's definitely Coherent superposition because you're seeing coherent oscillations in our Ramsey fringe. And the energy matches what we would expect for this Newton state. Okay, and let me wrap up, since I think this is the last minute, by trying to benchmark the entanglement in our system to see how it can be used as a sensor. The idea is that you have this new state. What people normally do with entangled states in general is you may try to make them very sensitive to external parameters.
00:28:23.071 - 00:28:51.455, Speaker A: Now with circuits we have many external parameters. But let's control B introduce something here. We do this for both 5 qubit cats and 7 qubit cats. We intentionally detune some qubits below by minus delta and above by plus delta. And now we look at the Ramsey fringe frequency. We only have to measure one qubit to determine what is our sensor detecting. And we can see that the Ramsey fringe frequency has this collective enhancement in the phase that that single qubit cruise.
00:28:51.455 - 00:29:54.603, Speaker A: And this collective enhancement essentially scales by measuring the slope of the Ramsey frequency as a function of this designer perturbation has a slope that exactly matches the system size of our of our cat. And you know, this sensitivity skills of the system size is exactly the Heisberg limit that essentially dictates the fundamental limit of how sensitive you can be allowed by quantum mechanics. Okay, so with that I just want to wrap up saying the other things I did not cover. But we're hoping to add more and more lists to new types of preparation schemes and new types of probes and control. I'm happy to talk about it more during this conference. Let me quickly acknowledge my former postdoc lab. The PhD students that I worked with for the quantum simulation projects, Our TV collaborator, Caden PIs, David and John, and also advertise.
00:29:54.603 - 00:30:11.085, Speaker A: I'm starting my own group at nyu. We're been there for about six months, but things are going smoothly looking for students and postdocs having fun building lab piece by piece. So stay tuned. Thank you so much and happy to take any questions.
