00:00:07.770 - 00:00:22.106, Speaker A: All right. Hi everybody. Come on in if you want. I'm going to kick this off. It's 430 now and if people are joining later, that's okay. I'm going to talk to you about Cello. So thank you for joining.
00:00:22.106 - 00:00:40.230, Speaker A: I appreciate you folks being here. Looking forward to seeing what kind of ideas you have. And if you need any help, look for people with bright yellow shirts. We are in one of the main halls. I want to talk about Celo. Today. Celo is a blockchain protocol.
00:00:40.230 - 00:01:11.778, Speaker A: I can't move this blockchain protocol that is built for what we believe is prosperity for all. The blockchain started with a focus on mobile user experience. So trying to help people reach people through their mobile devices. It being the most common computer that people have access to. And first off, I just want to say who I am. My name is Eric Nakagawa. I'm actually from San Francisco and I'm happy to be here in Tokyo and looking forward to meeting each of you.
00:01:11.778 - 00:01:48.958, Speaker A: I lead the developer relations team for the Sela Foundation. And I have here Anna and a bunch of folks at our booth who are here to help out throughout this whole thing. So we'll be here with you as long as we can. We've got Anna Harpal, daniel and Viral. So I'll talk about what's sello and do some demos. Then we'll talk through Bounties because I think you folks are going to want to know how to maximize your chances for winning a bounty from the Cello prizes. So like I said before, Celo is kind of built with a focus on prosperity for all.
00:01:48.958 - 00:02:36.794, Speaker A: We actually launched a project back on Earth Day, which is coming up, by the way, next week, back in 2020. And when Cello started, we didn't have the word regenerative finance. What we had kind of focused on was social impact, climate and things like that. But now with the word regenerative finance, it's allowed us to have a better word or term to use to kind of describe the work that we do. And the way that we look at the work that we do on Sello is to focus on more than just the financial impact. We also want to figure out a way to have an additional change that in many cases can be climate, it can be helping your community. And some of the projects that have been built on Celo focus on refi.
00:02:36.794 - 00:03:06.790, Speaker A: And actually, some of the early kind of leaders in the space have been around the concept of universal basic income. There's a project on Celo that I love called Impact Market, which helps to distribute money to people all around the world through a UBI kind of concept. Another one that recently joined Cello. It's a project you should take a look at. It's called good dollar. Good Dollar is also another project that helps to distribute money to people where they need it. And actually one of the projects here.
00:03:06.790 - 00:03:37.646, Speaker A: If you're looking at Bounties, superfluid launched on Sello to support good dollar support good dollar's migration to Celo. And so if you're looking for bounties to stack, take a look at Superfluid. They are launched on mainnet, not on testnet right now. But if you folks need some help, come find us. We can help you get set up with Cela. You don't need a lot of tokens to deploy your contracts. Other things that Sella has helped focus on has also been national capital backed currencies.
00:03:37.646 - 00:04:26.398, Speaker A: And that means things like land and trees and tokenizing that and this is very common nowadays, but just remember two years ago nobody was really talking about this and we're happy to be a part of and have so many more people joining this community with us. Other things that actually attracted me the most to Sell was the concept of community currencies. I'm from Hawaii. I live in San Francisco, but I'm from Hawaii. And the concept of the value of land being given to the people to do something with it I think has been really powerful and I've actually benefited from some people that have locked away land for native Hawaiians. Also kind of creating money without debt or nurturing the community of people that are building these things that are either climate focused or social impact focus. We also won a prize, which is cool.
00:04:26.398 - 00:05:07.230, Speaker A: We won a crypto award last year. I'm very happy to be recognized. So what is cello? Cello is l one. So if you're thinking like, how does this help me? If you're writing solidity this weekend and you're going to be deploying your contracts, you can deploy to ZVM compatible and allows you to a lot of tooling that we'll get into that can help you to deploy your contracts. We also have a bunch of core contracts that can help you out. There are several stablecoins that are over collateralized stablecoins that can be used as a core part of your if you're building like a DeFi thing, you can support CUSD which is a USD type stablecoin, c Euro cereal. So you have some support for Brazilian users out there.
00:05:07.230 - 00:05:36.502, Speaker A: And then as I mentioned before, Celo was launched with a focus on mobile. And what we mean by that is everybody here has a phone. I'm pretty sure of it. But how many of people have you met with a phone that don't have a crypto wallet? It's actually very common. So one of the cool features that Sello had built from the beginning has been a concept of being able to send money to a phone number. And the way that it works is very straightforward. If the phone number you do a lookup and if that phone number has a wallet address, you just send to that wallet address.
00:05:36.502 - 00:06:05.166, Speaker A: If it doesn't have a wallet address, you can set up an escrow so that when that phone number is attached to a wallet, it can then release those funds. And so it's a great way to onboard a lot of people. So again, I don't know. I'd love to hear some of your ideas, kind of areas of focus. But if you're trying to build for Global South or any sort of emerging market, or you're looking for ways to help onboard new people into the space, not just people that have been in crypto space for a long time, or they still call it crypto, like me, but into the web. Three space. Then take a look at some of those tools.
00:06:05.166 - 00:06:58.178, Speaker A: And one of those tools would be called Otis, which is a way to securely prevent people from kind of just like attacking the service to figure out who's in your address book and account. Social Connect, which is phone number support. And then we've also started adding support for things like GitHub and other social accounts that just help you to send money on solo without needing a wallet address. If you look at how many people are using, are these numbers a little bit outdated? Over a million unique wallets and seeing where people are based, it's quite a large number of people. Again, spread in Latin America, across Europe, in parts of Asia. And we're really proud of the number of people that are using Cello in addition to the people that are using it. There's a lot of companies that also support this.
00:06:58.178 - 00:07:57.666, Speaker A: So Cello has over 200 members of alliance for Prosperity, which is a commitment for organizations to support reaching Cello's goal of prosperity for all from, I think within the first month of launch, cello introduced the concept of carbon offsets. So from the beginning we've had a bunch of offsets in place and it's offset a large number of CO2. There are actually some new proposals coming out that will actually increase the amount that goes towards offsetting through both validator awards opting in, as well as increasing the amount of the amount that's being burnt towards the offset fund. There's over a thousand projects built on Sello. Again, these numbers are very round. It sounds big, but there's a lot of real people building projects on Sello. And I mentioned projects like Good Dollar Impact Market.
00:07:57.666 - 00:08:27.274, Speaker A: There's a lot of games, there's a lot of all sorts of projects. And again, these numbers a little bit outdated. But over 200 million transactions on Sello, I think last time I saw it was like around 250. So a ton of people throughout the world here's, just kind of a quick glimpse of users across over 150 countries. So when you're building on Sello, you're building to potentially help people in all these different countries all over the world. And we're really excited to see what you can build. So as I mentioned before, Sello is l one, it's proof of stake.
00:08:27.274 - 00:10:04.762, Speaker A: And what that means is nowadays it's a little bit different, but it means there's very fast finality. So if you make a transaction, it gets settled very quickly and it can be useful for people that are building financial services and they want to make sure that when something is completed, it's completed and submitted on chain. I'd mentioned the optimization for mobile first development. In addition to the phone number mapping, we also have some mobile ZK type support for lightweight mobile clients. I don't know if you could really work on that in a hackathon, to be honest, but something to think about when you're trying to build out your growth plan for your project if you do decide to turn it into something bigger. One cool feature that I like about Solo is again, when you're starting with somebody who doesn't have a wallet and they only have a phone number and they then associate their mobile phone with their mobile number with their wallet and tie that together, how do they transact, right? Like how do you start from no tokens or no gas? How do you pay for gas? One of the things that Sello does offer is being able to pay for gas with some of the stables so you can pay with CUSD CRO CRL and the Main Cello token. And the reason that this is, I think, really cool is, again, you could say onboard some person take their number, deposit, I don't know, a penny, and then have enough gas to transact as much as you need in that short amount of time until they actually either bring in some funds or do something of value on the chain.
00:10:04.762 - 00:10:40.306, Speaker A: So paying with ERC 20 tokens is a great benefit and that number of tokens that are supported can expand. In fact, Good Dollar right now is looking to include their token as a method for paying for gas. And the reason I think that's exciting is that could help to onboard tons of more people just with good dollar to pay for their tokens. It's not here yet. It's a governance proposal that's coming together and very exciting. We also have a bunch of Regent or Refi type building blocks. So Tucan recently announced retirement of carbon and that's pretty quiet.
00:10:40.306 - 00:11:36.726, Speaker A: I've never actually done that until recently. I've heard about the concept of carbon but never actually did something with it. I mean, even still today I can't even what does it look like? Is it in my it's hard to touch and reach but if you can do something on chain like that and this interests you, take a look at Toucan, who's deployed on Mainnet and available to you to build this weekend. The community is decentralized and just like every project, I mean, it seems obvious, but there's a lot of community proposals that actually I think someone here, Juan from the community is actually here, he's a volunteer, has been helping to create a Dao to focus on Latin America. So people that are trying to start things in Latin America can go directly to the people that know the things that the problems they're trying to solve and allows them to propose to those groups. We have also a bunch of cross chain interoperability out here. There's Hyperlane.
00:11:36.726 - 00:12:36.750, Speaker A: Hyperlane is another project you can consider as if you're trying to stack your bounties. If you're building for Hyperlane, include the they supported Cello kind of early on and some of the team from Cello started that company and it's a very friendly space. I mentioned the stablecoins and then transaction fees are very low. It's proof of stake so it's extremely low and really I think good for just doing either high volume of transactions or not impacting the user. So you're not like spending a lot of you're not having to second guess how much you're going to spend on these transactions. We have a bunch of primitives I know this is very hard to see which projects are supported on solo but some of the ones that I'm most excited about is our recent work around Chainlink is still not launched yet but working on that I mentioned Impact Market. There's full MetaMask support so you can just swap in the chain quite easily.
00:12:36.750 - 00:13:30.110, Speaker A: If you're looking for a mobile wallet, take a look at Velora, Valora and then also Opera. Again, there's tons of little icons that if you zoom in I'm sure you've heard of these projects and protocols. There are several AMMS like SushiSwap, we have Uniswap as well and I mentioned some of the other projects like Good Dollar and others like that. So there's a lot and I think you have all the tools you need to build in addition to the tooling that's there, there's also a lot of projects or companies helping to kind of again commit to the alliance for Prosperity. I mentioned 200 of them. Some of them include Mercy Core, T Mobile runs validators on Sello, Grammy Foundation. Impact Market now runs a validator so a lot of great projects helping to secure the network in addition to building on top of Cello.
00:13:30.110 - 00:14:37.410, Speaker A: And then as you're thinking about refine what that means, think about building your smart contracts with some purpose beyond of course it's a hackathon but can it do more than just accrue value? Can it actually have an impact beyond that? There are also upon launch I mentioned that a portion of the reserve was going to offset carbon and right now I think the amount is like 0.5%. With some of the new changes that are coming, it's going to be much larger. I'm excited about that. And if you're building into the refi space, consider building your project and pitching it to Climate Collective which is a fund that actually invests in climate projects. Again, I had mentioned on chain carbon assets if you go to Sellareseerve.org, you can see the full list of where that's all going and you can double check in terms of actually building this weekend you can launch on Infura infura support cello. There's also QuickNote, I think they might be a sponsor.
00:14:37.410 - 00:15:11.742, Speaker A: And then lava. If you're looking for a more decentralized endpoint infrastructure in terms of refi or tools to use, take a look at Toucan. I mentioned Impact Market and one of my new favorites called Spirals, which actually takes staking rewards and actually just redirects them for you to a bunch of climate protocol or climate options for cross chain messaging. They don't like you saying that, calling everything a bridge. Take a look at hyperlane. There's also Allbridge Portal and XLR support. And then oracle's chainlink coming soon.
00:15:11.742 - 00:15:29.638, Speaker A: We also have Redstone, Pith and Band and some others. And Superfluid. I mentioned superfluid. And for Wallets, if you're building, I would be building using MetaMask. It's so easy. But if you're trying to get into multi sigs, of course include Safe at Safe Sello.org deployed by the Safe team.
00:15:29.638 - 00:16:02.910, Speaker A: And then finally when you're troubleshooting your transactions, ether Scan is on Sello, but we call it Cello Scan because everything has its own name. So use that for troubleshooting your smart contracts on both testnet and mainnet. And then? Same thing for Explorer Sell. That's the alternative blockchain explorer. So what I want to do is just show a Quick project. I know you folks can't really build until eight, so you got a couple more hours. But if you're looking to just prototype and build something really quickly, I wanted to demonstrate.
00:16:02.910 - 00:16:42.998, Speaker A: So what we call sello, it's actually called ETH global Tokyo. You can scan this QR code if you're looking for a starter project. And this is just it running. What you'll get when you start it up is going to be a simple starter page with a video explainer a storage protocol running I think on both mainnet and testnet. And this is really simple, it just takes numbers. And the reason that we pull this together was Scaffold ETH is here and Solo Composer, which this project is built on, is based off of Scaffold ETH. We just added a bunch of changes to make it a little bit easier.
00:16:42.998 - 00:17:14.790, Speaker A: So if you're trying to build for React, we got you. If you're trying to build React Native, both expo or non expo, you can use that. If you want to use Flutter, because some people prefer building in Flutter, you can use that. And then we also have angular support too. Here's just a quick example. The reason that we wanted to give you folks this is you don't have much time and anything we can do to kind of help out is great. We also embedded in this, we expose a subgraph just to help with iterating through the responses.
00:17:14.790 - 00:18:02.280, Speaker A: And it's very simple. So it's already a published subgraph on the graph. And of course, demos don't work ever in real life, but trust me, these images are there. And you can use this to kind of jump start your project if you're going to be kind of doing NFTs or something like that. Or if you're going to be publishing data in some sort of fashion that may need a way to iterate kind of quickly through that data without parsing it yourself. Take a look at the subgraph support and then this is a little bit out there, but Masa Finance recently launched on Sello and we've introduced just a quick lookup for let me just kind of this will not work. I think I own this one.
00:18:02.280 - 00:18:36.980, Speaker A: So it's just a way to quickly look up similar to like ENS, Masa Finance. Take a look at that. And again, these are just some example projects. There's more that we've included in the repo. So there's a couple branches if you want to take a look at spiral's implementation, we have that as well. We did want to include it here because it was still kind know, these things are they might be not ready for production per se, but enough for a hackathon for sure. And then going back to my slides real quick.
00:18:36.980 - 00:19:27.880, Speaker A: So yeah, I wanted to show you folks this and then I wanted to show you Cello Composer. So if you're thinking that project seems a little bit too basic, you can use Cello Composer. And what Cello Composer can do is just like with just like with Scaffold ETH, you can quickly spin up like a bare bones project. Just want to run through this real quick. Give me a second. So you can run this. I'm sure it'll work for you.
00:19:27.880 - 00:19:47.850, Speaker A: It may not work for me, but you just run the command line and you can just quickly choose let me scroll down. Quickly choose like what you want to build. So you got react react native flutter and angular. And we built this to speed up time. This can get you started in like 5 seconds. I'm sure you don't need that much time. You can use two projects for accessing the cello network.
00:19:47.850 - 00:20:21.480, Speaker A: Either react cello or Rainbowkit and then hard hat or Truffle support. And it can come with kind of a basic subgraph. Again, it depends what you're trying to build. But we're just trying to help you folks speed up the time to launch your project and make sure you folks don't get kind of caught up with stuff because it's based off of Scaffold ETH, they can help you out. But we are happy to answer any question you folks might have. And another fun thing actually is I wanted to show you this. I wanted to show you folks this project.
00:20:21.480 - 00:21:03.170, Speaker A: This one is funny. So someone in the community actually built a chat GBT based off of our docs. And so you can quickly ask it like which libraries support fee, currency fee? Currency Support is paying gas with ERC, 20 tokens. So you can just ask it. Let's see if this demo works. Oh my gosh, of course. Anyway, so you can ask questions about how many validators are on cello.
00:21:03.170 - 00:21:25.340, Speaker A: You know how demos work. Oh, here we go. It actually came back. Okay, great. So it tells you any sort of information you might come up with. You can ask us, we're happy to help you out, but if you just have a quick question, just ask the Celo GPT project. The link is here in the presentation and then I think we can also include it in our Notes on the hackathon information page.
00:21:25.340 - 00:21:59.650, Speaker A: So let's talk about bounties. Sorry for taking so long, but we're here. So we have five different prizes we're going to be giving out climate refi focus, as I mentioned earlier, payments, DeFi, or any utilization of stablecoins. You'll be good there public goods and sort of community type efforts. If you're trying to build something that's more Dao focused, consider the Dao NFT gaming section. And then finally Wildcard, we're just going to choose the best project comes through. If you're looking for ideas for the climate refi bounty, take a look at topics like natural capital Tokens.
00:21:59.650 - 00:23:24.926, Speaker A: If you're building an oracle, if you want to add incentives, if you want to add liquidity for natural capital tokens, staking, regenerative, finance, or anything that offers stability. For payments, it could be lending front ends use cases for cross border payments, cross chain lending protocols using superfluid will count here specifically. And then low liquidity asset pricing auctions and then finally using mental stable. So I'd mentioned CUSD CRO c rail. For public goods, we are looking for projects that either have educational elements to it, some sort of content production either from the community or from your team, increasing awareness about sello that's more obviously helping benefit get the word out about cello. And then for DAOs, most of these are going to be Dow focused, but ways to kind of create the concept of more fractional Dows, more education. Some of these may overlap and you can apply for both if you think your idea fits the concept of dissolvable Dowels, like what happens when our job is done and we're able to move on, what does that look like? And then in the concept of NFTs, more dynamic type NFTs, we're interested in seeing those, especially if there's a refi component, especially with refi having a change in our planet, it should be able to reflect that on NFT, some sort of carbon NFT mechanism, play to earn, but with an offset component, some sort of carbon offset.
00:23:24.926 - 00:24:06.178, Speaker A: And then final wildcard. We're going to look for things that are more experimental, maybe more researchy. So like offline transactions, anything that deals with privacy. Take a look at Plumo, which is our project that helps to create a lightweight client, mobile client, ZK mobile client. We've been looking for ways to see someone in the community build a WASM like client, some sort of better way to kind of estimate gas. So like, gas estimation is generally hard, but something that could be better than what we currently have on chain would be nice and then some sort of method for in the community like voting on proposals, things like that. And as I mentioned before, when Solo started, we aimed for the mobile use case.
00:24:06.178 - 00:24:53.550, Speaker A: And the challenge with mobile use case is you're dealing with people who might not be technology literate or number literate. And so can you design a browser that can work for folks that aren't familiar with English kind of designs and layouts? And then finally, again, these are more researchy but like referral rewards or cashback programs for the specific criteria. It's actually not that complicated for us. We're just looking that your project matches one of the sello bounties. If you have a question, come and see us. If you are stacking your projects, here's a couple here that we're happy to talk to you about. So superfluid hyperlane, as I mentioned, safe, Uniswap and Graph subgraphs.
00:24:53.550 - 00:25:41.120, Speaker A: The main technical criteria is I'm expecting really cool projects, but you got to deploy your contract to testnet or mainnet and demonstrate it to somebody on our team. There's about five of us, so you should definitely have an opportunity to find someone to demonstrate and that's pretty much it. So we wish you all the best of luck. We will be hanging out both physically here and for folks who are working remotely or if they're not here right now, they're watching the stream. We'll be in the cello sponsor discord channel and that's it. Go. I think I have a little bit of time for Q A if anybody has specific questions and if we run out of time, I think we only have like three minutes.
00:25:41.120 - 00:25:53.670, Speaker A: Happy to have a conversation outside or away from the next speaker. Any questions? No? Okay, cool. All right, thank you very much, everybody.
