00:00:06.040 - 00:00:56.674, Speaker A: All right, so we are very happy to welcome Pablo Andujar Guerrero, who will talk about types and definable compactness in nominality and beyond. All right, thank you very much, Krishna. It's great to be talking in this seminar. Of course, would have hoped he would have done it in person, but maybe, maybe in a few more weeks, go back to how it was maybe last semester at builds. So this is going to be a 45 minutes talk, more or less. And what I'm going to do is the following. I'm going to basically present a result of mine about types in a minimal structures, and I'm going to talk about how this result characterizes a notion of the pineapple compactness or the final topologies in the omnimal setting.
00:00:56.674 - 00:01:56.964, Speaker A: And then I'm going to move into the beyond part. And what I'm going to do essentially is discuss whether this result might generalize to other settings beyond ominality. And what I'm essentially doing here is I'm talking a bit about the things that I would like or some of the things that I would like to be working on during the next weeks and months at fields. So hopefully by the end of the semester we'll have some answers about some of the questions I'm going to be addressing. Now, I'm saying this is work with Will Johnson because these topics, they are mostly things that I've been discussing with him during the last year, and I'm going to talk a bit about some of his results on the topic. So before anything, we have to establish some conventions. There are things that most of you are very comfortable with, but I'm going to mention them anyways.
00:01:56.964 - 00:02:48.248, Speaker A: So throughout M is going to be our structure and everything is going to be in M. The final is going to be, is going to mean in M, possibly with parameters. I'm going to be talking constantly about the final family subsets often denoted with the curly size. And by that I mean a uniformly definable family, which is of course a family given by some formula phi xy. And then the Corly S is essentially the fibers of the set defined by Phi in our structure M. Now, if family of sets is consistent, consistent meaning finitely consistent, if every finite intersection of sets in s is nonempty, types are always complete and over n. And we adopt the convention of considering types to be consistent families of the pinable sets.
00:02:48.248 - 00:03:35.194, Speaker A: So instead of focusing on the formulas on a type, we focus on the sets defined by those formulas in our structure m. So in particular, an n type n type becomes an ultrafilter in the Boolean algebra of the pinewall subsets of Mn. And finally, we have the definition of the final type, which is going to be very important. A type px is definable. If for every formula phi xy is set, the set of parameters that index sets in the type is definable. So essentially a type is definable is whenever you restrict it to any given formula, the restriction is a definable family of sets. So what is the main theory I'm going to be talking about first and introduce two quick definitions.
00:03:35.194 - 00:04:11.210, Speaker A: A family of sets s is downward directed. If for any two sets in the family there is a third one that is a subset of their intersection. And for convenience, I'm also going to assume that s does not contain the empty set. Moreover, given to families of sets s and f, we say that f is finer than s. If for any set in s there is another one in f that is a subset. So with this, we come to the main result of this talk. I'm going to call it theorem a and it says the following.
00:04:11.210 - 00:04:58.784, Speaker A: Let m be a minimal. The following call first, every downward directed definable family of sets extends to a definable type. So in general, in a structure you might have a definable family of sets that doesn't extend to a definable type. But what I'm saying is, as long as that family is downward directed in a non minimal structure, it is always going to extend to a definable type. And the second part says the following. For any definable type p, and in definable family of sets s in p, there exists a downward directed definable family f also in the type that is finer than s. So I might refer to two by saying any family s in p can be refined to a downward directed family.
00:04:58.784 - 00:05:38.954, Speaker A: So this is the result. And I'm going to ask that you try and remember this result throughout the talk, because I'm going to go back to it more than once. There are some immediate consequences of it. For example, it follows that a definable family of sets in a minimal structure extends to a definable type. If and only it admits a finer downward directed family. Right? Now this is kind of interesting because it's a way of describing that a family extends to a definable type, sort of like within the structure. And it's connected to something called pro definability of types that people like Pablo Kovidez, Vincent Die and Martin Hills are studying.
00:05:38.954 - 00:06:40.844, Speaker A: But I don't really want to get into this kind of corollary here. Instead, I want to get a bit more topological and talk about how we can use theorem a to characterize a notion of the final compactness for a minimal, definable topologies. All right, so definable topologies, what is a definable topology? A topological space x tau is definable if it has a basis that is definable, right? So we have a basis of opens for the topology. And as a collection of sets, this basis has to be the final one. So, some examples in a minimal structures, we have the canonical or minimal Euclidean topology. Of course, we have the final manifold spaces, such as the final groups. We could be working with definable spaces of Cr functions with our norms, which are examples of definable metrics, which were studied by Eric Wasberg in his PhD thesis.
00:06:40.844 - 00:07:38.920, Speaker A: And then we have spaces that are not really metrisable, like the speed interval, Alexandrov, double circle, the Moore plane. These are classical spaces in topology that are definable in the field of reels outside of minimality, we have the valuation topology in a value field, and moreover, say we are in the complex plane with a unary predicate for the reals, the plane topology is also going to be definable. So what we want, we have all these examples of the final topologies, and what we want is a usable notion of definable compactness. And it should be a first order property. It should be somehow captured by the theory of the underlying structure. So, for example, if a space is definitely compact, and you move to an elementary extension, and you can move to that space inside the extension, it should maintain that property. In this case, the final compactness.
00:07:38.920 - 00:08:24.524, Speaker A: So, I'm going to present three definitions for the final compactness that have proven themselves quite useful in different tame topological settings. And the first one is the one that I'm going to call the final compactness. And it says the following. The final topological space x tau is the finally compact if every downward directed, the findable family of closets has non empty intersection. And this is a rather nice definition. It has received attention in recent years by Fornasero, by Johnson, also by myself. And I'm going to mention some simple facts to try and argue that this is a nice definition.
00:08:24.524 - 00:09:22.554, Speaker A: The image of a definitely compact space by definable continuous function is always going to be definitely compact in a definably complete field m. Any definable continuous function f from k to m, where k is definitely compact, reaches its maximum and minimum. And then more generally, definable compactness allows us to generalize results on finite families of the final sets to infinite definable families. All right, so this is our main definition. But there is another, which I'm going to call type compactness. And first I want to have to introduce what I mean when I say the limit of a type. So let's Pbi type in some definite topological space, x tau with x in b.
00:09:22.554 - 00:09:52.026, Speaker A: Sorry, this sentence is not very clear. I mean, let's just let PBA type, alright, with x in p. That's it. We say that little x is a limit of the type if it belongs in every closed set in the type. Alright, that would be the limit of p. And the definition of type compactness is the following. A definable topological space is type compact if every definable type p that concentrates in x.
00:09:52.026 - 00:10:42.704, Speaker A: So with x in p has a limit in x. And this was the notion considered by Kulchovsky and Lesser in their book non archimedean theme topology and stably dominated types, where they work in the setting of value fields. And they consider that this is the appropriate notion of the final compagnates in this setting. And I want to upfront characterize this notion, because the characterization here given by number two is going to be very useful. So lemma one, let x tau be a defining alphabetical space. The following are equivalent. X tau is type compact, and every define our family c of closed subsets of x that extends to a definable type has nonempty intersection.
00:10:42.704 - 00:11:44.974, Speaker A: And it's pretty, it's pretty easy. How, how this is, this equivalence happens. Essentially, if you want to move from one to two, you have your family c. You know that it extends to a definable type. You pick a limit of that type, and that limit is clearly going to be in all the sets in your c, right? If, if you want to prove the other implication from two to one, you have your type, your definable type, and you want to find a limit, you have to notice the following every close set in a topological space is an intersection of basic close sets. And by basic close set, I mean the complement of an open in the basis. So it's enough to find a point in every basic closed set in the type to say that that point is actually the limit of the type, in our words, to say that that point is actually in every closed set in the type.
00:11:44.974 - 00:12:36.274, Speaker A: But the thing is, because the topology is definable, all the basic closed sets are definable. The collection of all of them is definable. So you can apply two, you can find a point here in this intersection where this c would be all the basic closed sets in the type, and that point is actually going to be the limit of your type. And that's how you would argue that number two here implies type compactness. So with that, we have two notions so far, one that I call definable compactness, one that I call type compactness. I want to briefly address a third one, which is sort of like the standard one in the minimal setting, which I call curve compactness. Space is curve compact, even with the pineapple curve is completable, which means essentially that it has a limit on both sides.
00:12:36.274 - 00:13:23.064, Speaker A: And again, this is a standard notion. Minimality was introduced for definable manifold spaces for the clinian topology. I want to briefly say, when it comes to the clillion topology, nano minimal structure, these three notions are equivalent to just saying closed and bounded. But the problem is, if you're working in other topologies, say in manifold topology, there's no obvious notion of boundedness. You have to look for other alternatives. Right? All right, so these are the notions. And what is the use of theorem a? Well, theorem a is going to be useful essentially to group the equivalence between the final compactness and type compactness.
00:13:23.064 - 00:13:54.546, Speaker A: So here we're back at theorem a. And the corollary is the let m be a nominal structure and let x tau be a definable topological space. The following are equivalent. X tau is definitely compact. X tao is type compact. Here we have the characterization of type compactness given by the previous lemma. And proving this is not difficult if we remember theorem a, which again had two parts, first part downward directly definable family extends always to definable type.
00:13:54.546 - 00:14:26.844, Speaker A: And the second part saying that any definable family s on some definable type, can always be refined to a downward directive one. So how do we use that to prove corollary two? Say we want to prove that two implies one. And let's see, be a definable downward directed family of closed sets. And we want to show that it has not empty intersection. Well, by the theorem, we know that it extends to a definable type. So what we have to do is pick a limit of that type. And there you go, that's a point in the intersection.
00:14:26.844 - 00:15:10.784, Speaker A: Now, to show that one in place two, we start with c, a definable family of closed sets that extends to a definable type. And using the theorem, we pass to the refinement. We let f be a finer, the finer will downward direct it family. And then we consider this family, f prime, we take the closure of all the sets in f, and this new family is still going to be downward directed. It's still going to be finer than c, but now it only contains closed sets. So we apply the definition of the final compactness. There exists a point here in this intersection, and then clearly this little x is also going to be in all the sets in c.
00:15:10.784 - 00:15:50.398, Speaker A: So that's how the corollary works and how you prove this equivalence from our theorem. A. Now, before I stop talking about compactness, I want to say something else. I have to introduce this class of theories that goes beyond the minimality. So, let denote the union of the following classes of deep minimal theories. They're going to be linearly ordered, DP minimal theories, unpackable BC minimal theories, and DP minimal theories with the final functions. So this, I think this essentially covers all the main examples of DP minimal theories.
00:15:50.398 - 00:16:36.054, Speaker A: So this would be weakly or minimal ACBF, strongly minimal, the fields of the addicts also. In fact, I think the only example that might not be covered here, and that's TP minimal, might be the additive group of ph addicts with evaluation. So, in this setting, what Simon Strachenko proved in 2014, the following. Suppose that the theory of m is indeed, and let s be a consistent, definable family of sets. Remember, consistent means it has a finite intersection property. Then s can be partitioned into finitely many subfamilies, each of which extends to a definable type. Now, this is not really what Simon S.
00:16:36.054 - 00:17:09.310, Speaker A: Turchenko proved. They actually, what they did is they characterized forking and dividing in this setting. But this is a rewriting of that result. And in fact, the consistency assumption here, it can be weakened to a simpler, to a weaker intersection property. But we're going to stick with this because it's really what, what we're interested in. And this clearly has a corollary in terms of understanding type components. But first, Pablo.
00:17:09.310 - 00:17:34.824, Speaker A: Yes. Can I ask what is unpackable? Unpackable. So when you have a busy minimal theory, you have a generating family of sets, right? Right. And this generating family of sets, you know what's called, I think it's called directive. It has this nice intersection property between them. I think any two are either disjoint or one is contained in the other, right. Something like this.
00:17:34.824 - 00:18:14.310, Speaker A: The thing about unpackability is that any possible generating family of sets in our busy minimal theory cannot be, has the property that one of these generating sets is not the union of finitely many others proper that are proper. So it's not the union of, finally, many other subsets that are also generating sets. Okay. It's like irreducible. There was an irreducible generating Fermi. Something like this. Something like this, yeah, exactly.
00:18:14.310 - 00:18:39.746, Speaker A: Okay, thanks. Yes. And the reason. Yeah, the reason, what they say in this paper is the additive group of the addicts. It's just, it's pc minimal, but it's, it's packable, it's not unpackable. So, all right, so we have the r theorem three. And now let me, let me say what a transversal is.
00:18:39.746 - 00:19:20.024, Speaker A: Even a family of sets s. A set t is a transversal for s if it intersects every set in s. All right? And I'm interested about the property of having a finite transversal. So whenever, when t is finite, and if you think about this, this essentially means that there are finally many points and every set in your family, it's going to contain at least one of these points. So the corollary is the following. Suppose that the theory of m is indeed, and let c be a consistent definable family of closed sets in some type compact definable topology. Then C has a finite transverse solve.
00:19:20.024 - 00:19:53.174, Speaker A: So why does this happen? We have our family c. It is consistent. We apply theorem three. We have this partition in finally many subfamilies, each of which extends to a definable type. But then by type compactness, each of these subfamilies have non empty intersection. So you pick a point in the intersection of each of these subfamilies, and with that you construct a finite transversal. So with that, we have this characterization of the final compactness in a minimality.
00:19:53.174 - 00:20:16.514, Speaker A: Suppose that m is minimal. We have a definite orthopedic space. The following are equivalent. The space is definitely compact. The space is type compact. Any consistent definable family of closed sets has a finite transversal, and moreover, all of the above imply. And if T's Hausdorff or m has definable choice, are equivalent to being curve compact.
00:20:16.514 - 00:21:10.946, Speaker A: So in general, curve compact is a bit weaker, but most of the time it's also going to be equivalent. Now, our theorem a is useful to prove the equivalence between one and two, and then the result from Simone and Starchenko is useful to bridge the gap from two to three. All right, so that's what I wanted to say, essentially about the final compact minimality. I'm going to go back to theorem a, and I'm going to give some insights into its proof. I'm going to start with the first part, you have a downward directed definable family. It always extends to a definite type. So this is actually something that we know is true in the whole class D of theories that I presented before.
00:21:10.946 - 00:21:49.544, Speaker A: And the reason is precisely by the Simone structure theorem. Suppose that the theory of m belongs in D. Then every downward directive definable family of sets extends to a definable type. Theorem a one holds in this setting that generalizes ominality. And the proof is quite simple by simulator. If s is a downward directed, then there exists finally many definable types p one pn such that every set in S belongs in some PI, right? That's what the theorem said. We claim that the whole family has to belong in one of the PI.
00:21:49.544 - 00:22:41.704, Speaker A: Otherwise, for every eye, we can find a set that commits that PI. But then by downward directedness, we can find another set that is a subset of intersection of all the sets we have constructed. And this set in theory would avoid every type PI for every I. And this is a contradiction, right? So because of downward directiveness, the whole family has to belong in one of the types. So because of this theorem, a one is not something I'm going to talk so much about, because I already know it works in this rather general setting. By the way, the theorem of Simon Starchenko, it's conjectured that it's true in all DP minimal theories. So theorem a one might be true in all node minimal theories.
00:22:41.704 - 00:23:36.538, Speaker A: However, I do want to mention something about the minimal proof of this result, because I think it's interesting that it follows from some topological axioms. In the minimal case, the proof of theorem a one relies on two facts. First, the fact that we have small boundaries for an independent x, the dimension of the frontier of x is always strictly less than dimension of x. And second, for an indefinable family s, the there exists n such that every set in S has at most n definitely connected components. So, as I said, what I find interesting about this is that it's a topological proof that it's based on this sort of like same topology axioms. And the first one in particular, it's rather popular even outside the minimality. We've seen it when dealing with deeply minimal value fields and these kinds of settings.
00:23:36.538 - 00:25:09.714, Speaker A: The second one, however, is not something that really works for valued fields. So if you wanted to use these kind of facts to prove the result, you have to find something that works that is not this condition. On the finally connected components in valued fields, everything is totally disconnected, essentially. And now I'm going to, I like to move to the second part, right, which said, once again, for indefinable type p and definable family of sets s in p there exists a downward directed definable family f that is finer than S. And this is something I asked in a paper published with Margaret Thomas and Eric Walsberg years ago, and in the first version it was a conjecture, and then I proved it, and afterwards, but we didn't update the archive and Will Johnson sent us a proof by email. And that's the proof I'm actually going to present, because I think wills proof gives some extra insight about something called ready visibility that I want to talk about. So say that a family of sets s is ready visible if the intersection of any two sets in s is a finite union of sets from s, for example, all intervals in a linear order, right? And the key observation here is the the restriction of a type to a redivisible family of definable sets is always downward directive.
00:25:09.714 - 00:26:02.106, Speaker A: Why? Well, you pick two sets in your family that are in the type. The intersection is going to be on the type, but this intersection is covered by finally many sets from the family. So at least one of them has to be in the type. And that's how you get the downward directness. So what Johnson noted is the following. If m is minimal, then for any definable family of sets s, there exists a redivisible definable family of cells c, such that every set in S is a finite union of cells from circumstances. In particular, if s extends to a definable type b, then the restriction of p to c is going to be a definable downward directive family finer than s.
00:26:02.106 - 00:27:07.834, Speaker A: So we have theorem a two. So I'm going to be going back to this idea in Johnson's proof, finding a redivisible family, and then any set in my initial family s is a finite union of sets from your redivisible family. But before that, I want to give some brief insights about how Johnson's proof, what makes his proof work. And it's the same reason my own proof of this result worked. It has to do with the minimal cell decomposition, and in particular the following. For a partial function f from m to the n, from m to the n to m, let us use this typical notation, right, this generalized interval notation to mean all the tuples x t where x is in the domain of f and t is less than f of x. The key fact improving theorem a two is that minimality allows reducing the question to the case where s is a family of the form, well, given by sets of this form.
00:27:07.834 - 00:28:05.934, Speaker A: And these sets are simple in the following sense. For any two sets of this form and for any x in the domain of both functions, the sets, essentially the fibers at x of these sets are nested, which means that one is always going to be a subset of the other. And that's essentially it. In other words, for any x in the projection of the intersection of these two sets, the fibers at x are nested. Right. It's that simple fact that really makes the proof, which is of course, rather, it's not something that's going to be intuitive from this fact, but it's really, this is what makes the proof work. And then, of course, the fact that, you know, these kinds of sets have a crucial part defining open cells and then cells, of course, in minimality, they have a part in, in describing every definable set.
00:28:05.934 - 00:28:46.854, Speaker A: So these are the insights I wanted to give about the proof of this result. And I want to spend the last, almost 15 minutes 13 talking about the setting. So whether this result might be true beyond the minimality. And I've already said something about theorem a one, right? Because of Simon Estrochenko, we already know it's true in this large class of TP minimal theory. So I'm going to focus on the second part on theorem a two. I'm going to start with this conjecture. And this conjecture is based on the insights I have just given about the minimal proof of theorem a two.
00:28:46.854 - 00:29:45.410, Speaker A: Suppose that there exists a collection of formulas by I with the length of x equals one, such that for every I, the family defined on m by the formula PI, sub I is nested. Again, this means that any two sets, one has to be a subset of the other. And suppose that in any model n of the theory of m, any undefinable set is a boolean combination of sets defined by one of these formulas. Then, theorem a two holds in M. So every defining family of sets that extends to a definable type can be refined to a downward directed family. And this is a conjecture because I have to sit down and see if everything works out and I can manage to prove it. But it's interesting to think, where does this hold? Which theories does this hold? So we have these formulas.
00:29:45.410 - 00:30:31.834, Speaker A: They are nested, and they are like the building blocks of every unary definable set. It sounds a bit like busy minimality, but in this minimality, the generating formulas, they don't have to be uniformly nested in this sense. And I don't think it's the case in like, for example, the p addicts. But I believe this conjecture would apply to weekly or minimal theories. Right? For example, take all the formulas defining left unbounded intervals. But what about the physics? And that's the next thing I want to talk about. So, apiotically closed field is a model of the theory of the theatics, right? And Johnston and Zhao recently, last year proved the following.
00:30:31.834 - 00:31:13.214, Speaker A: Let MBA theoretically close field. A subspace y of a definable manifold space is definably compact, even only if any or every one dimensional definable type p with y in p has a limit in Y. So one dimensional. It means that the type has one dimensional sets, essentially. And so you don't care about every definable type having a limit, only one dimensional ones. So this upfront is a bit weaker than type compactness. We are also not focusing on any definable topology, but on this manifold spaces on the pix.
00:31:13.214 - 00:32:22.804, Speaker A: But I thought this was a bit promising, and I've been discussing this with Will, and I don't know if he would actually call this a conjecture, but he does think it might be true that theorem a two holds symphonically closed fields. So in particular, the findable compactness and type compactness are equivalent for all the findable topological spaces. Right? So this is something he thinks he might follow from some work he's done and some work he's currently doing on the setting of the eadically closed fields. But, you know, he gave me some insights, but it's still a bit obscure to me, the whole thing. At this point, I've been trying to. I've been essentially interested in knowing whether there is a bridge between that possible proof in the theatic case and the minimal proof, or the possible proof in the weekly ominimal case. And at this point, I don't really know if there's a common argument, but I was discussing this with him, and we noted, we were thinking about theorem a two, and we noted this kind of thing, it's not going to work in, like, strongly minimal theories, and it doesn't work in acds.
00:32:22.804 - 00:33:09.402, Speaker A: But what will Johnson thought is maybe it's something about distality, something about distal theories that makes this result halt. And that's, that's the next thing I want to talk about, distal cell decomposition. So, let f be a finite family of the final subsets of Mn. An abstract cell decomposition for f is a finite family c of the final subsets of Mn, satisfying the following. The union of all of them has to be Mn. And moreover, for every set f in our family and every cell. So the sets in c here, we call themselves either the cell is contained in f or both are disjointed.
00:33:09.402 - 00:33:36.338, Speaker A: And that's it. So it's a very weak, very abstract notion. We have no geometric assumptions on cells or anything like that. We're only asking that cells are compatible with the cells in f and that they cover the whole space. That's it. So for example, here we have four cells in red, right? And say that the circles in black are the sets in f. And this would be like a minimal.
00:33:36.338 - 00:33:56.998, Speaker A: Right, like a minimal abstract cell decomposition. We're just picking the boolean atoms here as the cells. But we could have more. We don't need to have the minimal one, by the way. The cells, they don't have to. They can intersect each other. They don't have to be disjointed like in the picture here.
00:33:56.998 - 00:34:59.645, Speaker A: The important thing I wanted to note is note that the intersection of these two circles is going to be covered by finally many cells, and that's going to be important. So what is distal cell decomposition? Which is, by the way, it's also the definition of distality. Like a structure is distal if only it has distal cell decomposition. So let m be distal, like, for example, weekly or minimal theories are theoretically closed. For any definable family of sets s in m, there exists a definable family b, satisfying that for any finite f subfamily of s, there exists an abstract cell decomposition for f given by cells in d. So no matter how many sets you pick from s, as long as there are finally many, you're always going to find an abstract cell decomposition in your d. So D.
00:34:59.645 - 00:36:07.520, Speaker A: And d is called a distal cell decomposition for S. And the observation of will was all right. Any finite non empty intersection of sets in S is clearly going to be a finite union of sets in b, in particular of cells in the decomposition of those, finally many sets. And this is interesting, this might yield something. The issue is that d, however, is not necessarily redivisible. And that's a problem, right? Because what will show in the minimal case is that you could have something or not as strong as this, not like a distal cell decomposition, where the union of all the cells is the whole space. But he showed that you had this redivisible family of cells that essentially refine our initial family, right? In the sense that every set in our initial family was the final union of cells.
00:36:07.520 - 00:36:56.620, Speaker A: But here we have our distal cell decomposition, which is going to refine any set from s. But the family itself might not be redivisible, we can build a sequence right d so on, where dj is a distal cell decomposition of the I or I less than j. But as far as we know, there is no assurance that this sequence will become constant. If it does, if you have a family and it's a distal cell decomposition of itself, then you're good, you have a family that is redivisible but upfront. And as far as we know, this is not going to be the case. In general, I haven't really seen any comment about this kind of thing, though, in anything I've read. So I've read some papers about this.
00:36:56.620 - 00:38:08.124, Speaker A: It's from Chernikov. And what they do is they try to bound the complexity of distal cell decompositions in the following sense. They are like, all right, so if you pick n sets from s, you can always find an abstract cell decomposition in d of size, whatever, and they try to bound this number, the number of cells that you can find. But when it comes to a sequence like this one, and whether the description complexity of these families is going to grow and grow, or if it's going to sort of like stay constant and maybe in the end have one family that works for itself, I don't really know whether maybe someone you know in this audience or elsewhere knows an example of a theory where this just doesn't happen. So this was, this is it so far. And the only thing I want to do is make two last observations about distality, and one is the following condition. Suppose that M is distal and there exists finally many definable families, s one sn of subsets of m, such that every definable subset of M is a finite Boolean combination of sets from these families.
00:38:08.124 - 00:39:08.494, Speaker A: So this is a minimality condition, right, with respect to s one sn, like it happens and it happens in animal structures, then things kind of work, because we can pick the distal cell decomposition of the union of these families. And because of the minimality condition, d actually contains an abstract cell decomposition. For any finite family of the final subsets of M in particular, these contribute visible theorem a two halts. And this is essentially what happens in minimality. But as far as I know, it doesn't apply to weak minimality because you don't necessarily have finally many, as I said, as far as we know, for families. And I've been looking at, again, theoretically closed fields. I don't think you have finally many either, even though there are hunting fire elimination results and so on.
00:39:08.494 - 00:40:22.674, Speaker A: So I don't know whether it's an interesting setting beyond minimality, where this condition is actually the case where you have this tality and you have minimality with respect to essentially finding many formulas. The second observation is that if you only care about compactness, to prove that definable compactness implies type compactness, it's actually enough to show the existence of a revisible family, the final family b, such that every basic closed set in your topology is a finite union of sets in b. So our theorem a two, is basically thinking about any family and any type. But if you only care about trying to prove this implication between different notions of the final compactness, you only have to look at the family of basic closed sets. So, for example, say that m expands a linear order and that the collection of all convex sets is definable. If you think about the order topology, then any basic closed set in the order topology is the whole line minus an interval. So it's a union of two intervals.
00:40:22.674 - 00:41:33.274, Speaker A: In other words, for an indefinable x in m, if the order topology on x is definably compact, then it is type compact, because you can just pick that collection, the collection of all convex sets. Sorry, I'm saying interval here, but I mean convex set. And the collection of all convex sets is going to be sort of, it's going to refine, not refine, but it's going to have this property that it is redivisible. And moreover, any basic closed set is going to be union of, finally, many particular two convexes. And that was the second observation. So I'm going to leave you with some questions. Essentially, does theorem a hold in all distal structures? Or more generally, where does theorem a fault beyond the minimality? And more in topological terms, what characterization of the pinable compactness is available in other generalizations of a minimality? For example, I've been thinking about structures with a minimal open core, whether some of these arguments, some of the minimal arguments still apply there.
00:41:33.274 - 00:42:01.644, Speaker A: But I have my own questions in that, that setting. And then we have, you know, the minimalize less type based structure. This is essentially things I learned about in Philipp's talk from a few, from last month. But I thought it sounded very interesting. And I'm looking forward to this course on all these things and learning a bit more and see if anything interesting can be said in these settings. And that's essentially it. So, thank you very much for listening.
00:42:01.644 - 00:42:04.904, Speaker A: Okay, thank you, Pablo.
