00:00:06.650 - 00:01:04.718, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. Ethereum's big dress rehearsal for the merge is underway. Ethereum's oldest proof of work testnet has begun its transition to proof of stake, according to Ethereum core developer Tim Baco, who described the event as a net works first dress rehearsal for miners. The transition, better known as the merge, is scheduled to occur on the Robston testnet around June eigth, about ten days after a new Robston beacon chain was launched on May 30. Robston must activate its Bellatex upgrade to make the proof of work chain merge compatible and trigger a terminal total difficulty, or TTD hash rate number on the proof of work chain. Once both of those occur, which is estimated to be around June eigth, the merge should occur in two epics, or approximately 13 minutes. This is the final testing stage for Ethereum.
00:01:04.718 - 00:01:50.990, Speaker A: Previously, testing had been implemented on clients and Shadowforks. Robston is the first public testnet to undergo the merge. After Robston, Gorely and Sepolia will also be put to the test. The Robson news comes just a week after Ethereum's beacon chain experienced a seven block reorg, meaning two beacon chains were briefly running in parallel as nodes attempted to find consensus due to some validators running updated software which process blocks faster than others. Eventually, after seven blocks, the validators agreed on the correct chain resolving the discrepancy. The core issue of the reorg was validators, not running upgraded software. It will be mandatory to upgrade before the merge occurs.
00:01:50.990 - 00:03:14.954, Speaker A: Speaking of Ethereum and the merge, a recent report from Ethereum researcher Danny Ryan noted that liquid staking services like Lido, where users can earn proof of stake yield without locking their tokens into the beacon chain, pose significant risks to Ethereum. Notably, Ryan suggests that liquid staking protocols should self limit the amount of ETH they stake to avoid centralization and overall system risk. For example, Ryan wrote, if pooled stake under one liquid staking derivatives protocol exceeds 50%, this pooled stake gains the ability to censor blocks in a regulatory censorship attack. We now have a distinct entity, the Governance token holders that a regulator can make requests of censorship depending on the token distribution. This is likely a much simpler regulatory target than the Ethereum network as a whole. Rollup Token Op stumbles upon Rollout Optimism, the second largest Ethereum rollup by Total Value locked, officially launched its Governance Token Op on Tuesday via an AirDrop that saw 50% of Op's supply released. However, the token drop was not without its issues, as Op started trading hours before the official Optimism website was ready to go.
00:03:14.954 - 00:04:01.226, Speaker A: Due to traders claiming Op tokens directly from Optimism's smart contracts, the early Op trading took the Optimism team by surprise. We have not officially announced yet, but we're already experiencing an all time high demand, the team tweeted on Tuesday afternoon. We're working to heavily provision more capacity before our official announcement. In the meantime, the public RPC may respond slowly during the time Op became available via smart contract, and the Optimism front end was ready. The token dropped from a high of $4.40 to around $1, giving the highly skilled Web three users interacting directly with the smart contracts a huge advantage in trading the AirDrop. At 11:00 A.m.,
00:04:01.226 - 00:04:28.180, Speaker A: we deployed and loaded our smart contract with the Op tokens for drop number one, Optimism explained. Our biggest mistake here was failing to make this contract possible. Claims were open and we had no way to stop them. Op is trading at a dollar and $0.29, giving Optimism a fully diluted market capitalization of $5.4 billion. This comes in a bit lower than Masari's projection of a launch market cap of roughly $9 billion.
00:04:28.180 - 00:05:26.286, Speaker A: The Op token will be used in the Optimism collective Token house, one of two entities that will help govern the optimism treasury and network over the coming years. The CFTC goes after Gemini. The US Commodities Futures Trading Commission is reportedly suing the crypto exchange. Gemini. On Thursday, Bloomberg revealed the regulator is accusing Gemini of having misled the CFTC in answers to questions about the trading of a potential futures contract pegged to the price of BTC on Gemini's platform in 2017, and is alleging that the Winklevoss led exchange has violated the Commodity Exchange Act along with various regulations. Salana Goes Down Again According to data from Salana's status page, the main net blockchain went down for 4 hours and ten minutes on Wednesday. The network was restarted late Wednesday afternoon after coordination by Salana validators on a Google doc.
00:05:26.286 - 00:06:14.706, Speaker A: Based on a report from Salana, the network was taken down due to a durable nons bug that led to non determinism in the blockchain, where nodes generated different results for the same block. Notably, this affected withdrawals from major exchanges. As explained by Stakewiz.com, a Solana validator on Twitter, a durable nonce is a way in which a transaction can be signed offline ahead of time without requiring a recent block hash, which expires after two minutes. Usage has recently increased, particularly by exchanges, possibly due to their cold storage setups. Network outages are becoming a trend for Salana. The network also faced 2 hours and 5 hours of downtime, respectively, on April 30 and May 1 of this year.
00:06:14.706 - 00:07:19.906, Speaker A: Salana also experienced downtimes of 16, eight and 10 hours in January 2022 and 17 hours in September 2021. Furthermore, Salana recently lost track of real world time and is currently 30 minutes behind schedule due to slot times executing at a slower than expected pace. While this does not have any real effect on the network, it does hold economic consequences for the sole stakers as slower slot times mean less staking rewards. Tara suffered a $90 million hack months ago, and nobody noticed until now. A $90 million exploit from October on Mirror Protocol, a synthetic asset platform on Terra, was discovered this week by a blockchain analyst who goes by the moniker Fat Man Blocksec. A blockchain security firm also confirmed the exploit. Due to buggy code, a hacker was able to drain $90 million from Mirror due to a flaw that allowed an attacker to use a list of duplicate IDs to unlock more collateral than they had.
00:07:19.906 - 00:08:35.390, Speaker A: The bug has since been rectified, though it is unclear whether Mirror developers were aware of the hack when fixing it. Mirror joins Ronan as the second time a significant hack went unnoticed for a substantial period, despite the public onchain nature of the exploits. In addition to the $90 million hack, Fat Man also pointed out another Mirror attack that allegedly happened this week, which saw over $2 million drained from the protocol due to a bug in the Luna Classic pricing Oracle as of press time, this has yet to be confirmed. Tech Experts Criticize Crypto A group of 26 tech experts and academics published a letter to US. Lawmakers that took aim at the crypto industry. The group included the principal engineer at Google Cloud, Kelsey Hightower, Harvard lecturer Bruce Schneier, along with noted crypto critics David Gerard, Molly White and Stephen Deal. The group urged pro crypto lawmakers such as Senators Ron Wyden, Patrick Toomey, and Maxine Waters to take a skeptical approach towards crypto assets and to resist pressure from crypto lobbyists because blockchain technology will remain forever unsuitable as a foundation for large scale economic activity.
00:08:35.390 - 00:09:22.126, Speaker A: Five on Chain Stats To summarize May the first stat three through the end of May. Only three tokens in the top 100 by market cap bitfinex's, Leo, Tron's TRX and Paxos's PAX Gold are up year to date. Notably, Terra Classic is down 100% year to date, but is still the 82nd largest asset by market capitalization. The second stat, 53,000. On May 31, Optimism saw 53,000 unique addresses do something on its blockchain. Its previous alltime high 13,300. The third stat, 228.51
00:09:22.126 - 00:09:55.530, Speaker A: bitcoin's hash rate hit an all time high on May 6 at 228.51. Terrahashes Ford stat 51.75 ethereum NFT sales volume more than halved in May compared to April, according to data from Cryptoslam. Interestingly, Salana NFT volume only decreased by 18.43% and finally, $105.52 billion. The difference between the DFI market cap on May 1 and May 31.
00:09:55.530 - 00:11:13.890, Speaker A: Total value locked across the DFI ecosystem fell from two hundred and forty seven billion dollars to one hundred and forty two billion dollars in May, as data from DFI llama shows. Time for fun Bids if Kobe were in charge, nobody would get an AirDrop optimism's AirDrop, as explained above, was somewhat controversial this week due to a messy rollout. The AirDrop became even more contentious this week when Zero X John posted on Optimism's governance forum calling for all Op sellers to be cut off from future Op airdrops. Kobe, a pseudo famous crypto expert, took umbrage with the idea in his troll centric way I was extremely pleased to see this proposal canceling the future airdrops of those who have sold their initial Op. AirDrop seems sensible, well considered, and targets the heart of any crypto protocol the price of its token, wrote Kobe in his parody governance proposal. He went on to propose exceedingly sarcastic ideas like canceling the Op AirDrop for addresses that sold any tokens in the past six months, physically beating up any Op sellers. And my favorite considering issuing debt tokens that are acceptable by local debt collection agencies as an added revenue stream for optimism.
00:11:13.890 - 00:12:16.742, Speaker A: Seems like the optimism governance structure is off to a good start this week in crypto Adoption, Space, Burritos and Kanye. Despite a down market C Gemini laying off 10% of its staff due to a crypto winter, there was still a wide variety of big names announcing crypto adoption. Elon Musk announced last Friday that SpaceX merchandise will soon be purchasable with doge. So if you've been dying to buy that $45 kids SpaceX spacesuit onesie but haven't wanted to transact with Fiat, then your time is coming. Chipotle, the popular Burrito based restaurant chain, is now accepting BTC and ETH as payment through Flexa, a digital payments platform. And finally, Kanye West's Yeezus brand filed 17 trademark applications for blockchain based assets, including collectibles, currencies and tokens. Thanks so much for joining us today.
00:12:16.742 - 00:12:30.410, Speaker A: To learn more about Jason and the Nate Chastain case, check out the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Nuts, Mark Murdoch, Shashank and CLK Transcription. Thanks. Listening.
