00:00:00.330 - 00:00:23.754, Speaker A: You. Okay, cool. I've had a lot of coffee and I have a lot of slides and I don't have a lot of time. So I'm probably going to be bouncing for this a bit. I'm going to be talking about why proof of stake kind of makes sense but kind of maybe doesn't make sense. And particularly I'll be there we go. So this will be applicable to pretty much any proof of stake type chain.
00:00:23.754 - 00:01:04.142, Speaker A: But in particular I'll have a lens on roll ups for this while I'm talking about it. So we've all heard there's like a million different sequencer, decentralization options, shared sequencer, you can run auctions proof of stake, like all these different options. In particular I'm going to be focusing on these last kind of subcomponents of that which is applicable to a lot of places. So it's proof of stake and proof of authority and kind of like variations thereof. And my goal kind of by the end of this talk is to convince that those two are actually kind of the same thing. When you play out how this rationally looks, at the end of the day, whether you have a proof of stake mechanism or you just literally let your governance just say, hey, these are the people that we want to be our delegates, and you just don't even bother with staking. They kind of end up in the same place.
00:01:04.142 - 00:01:37.334, Speaker A: Roughly. So starting from really basics, what is proof of stake for? It is not to slash people's money. The fundamental reason why you have proof of stake or proof of work or similar things, it is fundamentally a civil resistance mechanism. We need people to vote for us and if you just let any single person, one person, one vote, you get civil attacks. So we need to meter who can actually contribute into this system. So the simple way to do that generally in any permissionless protocol is you tie it to some kind of real economic resource. So proof of stake, you put up stake proof of work, you prove that you burned energy, so you have submitted some real cost the other way around.
00:01:37.334 - 00:02:12.034, Speaker A: This is also you could just have basically like a permission setting, noting that the difference between permissioned and permissionless is actually kind of subjective in how people define it. But you could just basically have some form of trusted setup where we say like, hey, these are the people who are voting for us. We know who they are, we trust who they are. Okay, so looking at proof of stake, how does it play out when you actually look at what happens and where the incentives go? So simple, delegated proof of stake. If you don't do it in protocol, it'll rise out of protocol. But basically there's a clear separation between the people who have capital and people who actually want to run the operation. So you naturally need some form of delegation.
00:02:12.034 - 00:02:50.110, Speaker A: Like I might have capital that I want to stake, but I don't want to run this stuff, so I delegate it to someone else. That's super capital inefficient, among other issues. So you end up with liquid staking tokens. Like, this is what we see on Ethereum. This is why Lido popped up. So this helps provide people liquidity do the auto protocol delegation for them, hands people back like, okay, I don't want to stake, so I get my Steeth token and someone else, they go figure it out how to manage that. For me, one of the problems with liquid staking that people talk a lot now about is this kind of inherent principal agent problem between someone like Lido and someone like Ethereum or any other protocol is Lido may have a profit incentive that is not aligned with my values and my governance of my chain.
00:02:50.110 - 00:03:29.440, Speaker A: So this is why something like dual governance is pretty much necessary in my mind for any kind of liquid staking to be viable in the long term. So some way for that protocol to align itself with the underlying protocol. So in the case of Lido, what they're talking about is like, okay, what if we get, instead of just letting LDO tokens decide everything, we give Steeth holders veto rights who are presumably a subset of this Ethereum consensus that are aligned and will have a different motive than necessarily the profit seeking LDO holders, which is helpful. So then I'll get to the next thing. So proof of authority kind of is like this dirty word that whenever I try to say this, the reaction is generally, oh, that's super centralized. It's going to be way less secure. This doesn't work.
00:03:29.440 - 00:04:17.054, Speaker A: I'm going to try to convince you by the end of this that I think variation of this can be more secure and more decentralized than a proof of stake mechanism very clearly. So proof of authority, I think that's a reasonable term when you're talking about a truly private permission type blockchain, potentially even like an RWA one where circle has real control over this thing. Proof of governance. I'm saying that there's a clear, incredible governance mechanism place to choose these delegates. So it's actually a bit reminiscent of the way that Mustafa has described the difference between sovereign rollups and smart contract roll ups. It may be more of like a social distinction more than a very concrete technical one, but I do think it is important. So simple example would be like, look at roll ups they'll presumably take in the simple case, like, you have a smart contract bridge on ethereum that has very powerful governance for this roll up and for something like arbitrary murid, even.
00:04:17.054 - 00:04:49.670, Speaker A: See the initial form of this today, where you can force inclusion of a transaction through the L1 and they could forcibly remove the sequencer if they should so choose. And similarly, they could just choose like, hey, here are the ten delegates that we want to be our sequencer instead of the one. So now I'll start to go through concretely. What are the differences between all of them? So one is permissionlessness. So this is part of why I'm targeting this specifically at roll ups. I would say off the bat, this is obviously not an Ethereum type option. That should be very obvious why Ethereum does not want to be actively saying, like, hey, here are the 30 people that we trust to do this for us.
00:04:49.670 - 00:05:22.020, Speaker A: You want to let validator number 1 million join the validator set and be non opinionated about that, which I think is very different from roll ups. And that's the point here, is that sounds like a downside. But I don't think that roll ups are optimizing for the same thing that their base layers are optimizing for. They're already paying the base layer for that decentralized consensus in the first place. And that is why they're not going to even from an economic perspective, it's not even going to make sense for them to have validator number 1 million and no one's going to want to do that. And it doesn't add anything really. It's particularly for that kind of doomsday scenario that they're already paying the L1 for.
00:05:22.020 - 00:06:03.370, Speaker A: And in addition, kind of going back to Patty's talk before, it's actually very helpful in many cases to have permissioning because you want them to do things like enforce certain transaction ordering. Okay? And governance, this is very related to the point before Ethereum does not want active opinionated governance. That's like saying, hey, we're picking all these people. I think the practical reality is that for most rollups, though, they're probably going to have this. You look at the ones today and the simple examples like optimism, Arbitrum, they have this giant bridge. You're required to have some form of legible on chain governance that will be presumably powerful unless you think that they're optimizing for this very immutable type contract. And governance, which I tend to think is rather unlikely for most of these, but it does make a difference if you do so accountability.
00:06:03.370 - 00:06:46.058, Speaker A: This is like one of the things that everyone kind of harps against here is like, this is one of the big benefits of proof of stake is like, oh, we could slash the bad guys. And that is seen as one of the benefits. I tend to disagree with that once you actually play out what this looks like in the long run, because the reality is the large majority, if not all stake is going to be delegated. Like there's a natural economic incentive to separate capital from labor. And we see that play out very, very clearly in every proof of stake system. What I think is the real advantage of proof of stake over proof of work is it's not necessarily the slashing aspect. I think it's more so particularly once you play out the economics, it's the very targeted removal of who the malicious attacker is where in proof of work you nuke the hashing algorithm and you restart from scratch and you're kind of screwed.
00:06:46.058 - 00:07:13.734, Speaker A: So in proof of stake, it's not so much the slashing part of it that I think is necessarily the most important part of it. It's that you can very targeted remove, okay, these are the bad guys. These are people we want to get rid of. And you still keep the same thing here. If you have your governance, just electing them. So this is why I think economic security just gets a little overhyped sometimes. When you look at the simple incentives, you could have $1 billion or $100 billion if the guy who's the operator who's doing that, it's literally not his money.
00:07:13.734 - 00:07:53.380, Speaker A: This is not like an incentive compatible thing. It is just a reputation game that you are assuming that they don't want to light your money on fire, which is fine, but they also don't want to screw their business and lose out on all future profits. It's the same thing. It's an understanding that this is a reputation game and not like a cryptographic, crypto economic incentive compatible design. So the other point is so you realize, okay, so if it's not necessarily just as a punishment mechanism, you realize, but it is still important. Like okay, if I'm going to get slashed, I'm going to pick my delegator wisely. So it is an incentive mechanism for me to pick a delegate appropriately which does so moving.
00:07:53.380 - 00:08:59.282, Speaker A: Like this is from a post that Nick Carter had a while back, called it's the settlement insurance in stupid which is actually very good. So taking some pieces from it ledger costliness, you're talking about the amount paid to validators transaction selectors per unit of and like particularly in the proof of work context, you can assume reasonably closely this reward paid is proportional to very close to the amount of energy and real cost that is spent to earn that. And a greater salary to them means a greater security because it is more costly to reorgan that chain if you're paying them more because that means it is a higher cost to do so. And then on the other side is kind of badass quote from the prince that Josh sent me, which is kind of reminiscent of this. It reminds me of it a bit where if you're basically relying on mercenaries when the day comes when they're not necessarily aligned with you, you might kind of be scroogs. You probably want to have people who are aligned with you and not just always explicitly dollar for dollar profit seeking in a situation like this. So talking about settlement insurances broadly, system's ability to grant recipients confidence that a transaction will not be reversed.
00:08:59.282 - 00:09:40.614, Speaker A: So economic security, when we talk about it, we're talking about what is the cost to reorg the chain here. So proof of work, as I mentioned very simply, you have to pay some money to literally mine the blocks to do this proof of stake it's costless to simulate blocks. So when we're generally talking about the economic security, we're talking about the slashing. But as I kind of just described, that slashing is not necessarily deterrent if you're delegating all of the capital to that person. So it's not like the actual same protection there. So delegation does remove that and you start to realize it is more of a reputation game. So if we play out that scenario where you do have that separation of capital and labor, which is where the natural economic incentives lead to what is proof of stake at the end of the day it is back to that thing that I said in the beginning as like the fundamental thing.
00:09:40.614 - 00:10:43.914, Speaker A: It is a civil resistance mechanism and a mechanism for us to delegate who are the people who care about our system and those are the people we're going to delegate to vote for us. It is not necessarily a way for us to actually penalize them because there is an incentive for it to not be their money and have that separation again. So then the question is, okay, if this is a mechanism for us primarily just to actually pick people who are very aligned with us and have the right distribution of the validator set, is this the best mechanism for us to pick them? And this is where I have a rather strong opinion. I do not think that it is because it's a simple tragedy. The Commons if you take out liquid staking protocols, I think DPOs is the worst without them, arguably because what does regular user do in this scenario? I go look for who's the biggest validator, the second biggest validator, I go delegate it to Coinbase or whoever else. It's nice that you have a permissionless long tail, but the practical reality is the large majority of stake ends up going to like two or three people versus proof of governance. You're not putting like okay, my dollars go to this person, I select that person.
00:10:43.914 - 00:11:35.654, Speaker A: We are voting as a collective for what is the best distribution as a collective interest for all of us. So we can go intentionally pick okay, here are the 30 geographically distributed people that we like and we give them equal voting powder across them. I think there's significantly harder to corrupt and potentially more decentralized. And that's actually what we see with moving on here. This is the decentralization which kind of falls on that. What is decentralization? It's kind of that point that I was saying there of is it validator number 1 million that makes you decentralized or is it like the composition of what do we care about the top of the stake? And in particular this is kind of like the visual example of it. Which of these is decentralization? And particularly for a roll up, I would argue the second one is actually the much more important one, particularly because they are paying the L1 in this case for that doomsday type scenario of recoverability.
00:11:35.654 - 00:12:09.826, Speaker A: They are very much optimizing for what are the real time short term guarantees because also their reorg cost is being immediately reset once they go back to the L1. So I think the second one is more important. And the second one is actually like that is Lido's ethereum stake distribution. This is very intentionally what they do under the hood. It is we pick these 29 delegates who are decentralized, who are responsible, and these are the people that we equally distribute votes to. And that is the kind of thing that you can basically just in house to your protocol if you have the opinionated governance to do that. So in terms of capital efficiency, this should be intuitive TPOs incredibly capital inefficient.
00:12:09.826 - 00:12:36.318, Speaker A: Like it's not good for your type of roll up economy or whatever it is. LST is significantly better. But you are adding on the additional risk of these financial derivatives discrepancy between different types of holders, on bonding periods, et cetera. I would say proof of governance is absolutely optimal in kind of all of these dimensions. Everything stays in the native base asset. Everyone has an equal value capture to whatever it is you decide. You want to burn it, go ahead.
00:12:36.318 - 00:13:20.282, Speaker A: You want to send money to your treasury to allocate it based on whatever your subjective governance process is, go ahead. And you just have this explicit agreement like the validators get paid X year sequencers. And so this is what it comes down to is the alignment that I was kind of touching out with the dual governance before. So this is a section taken out of Danny Ryan, his very popular post on the risks of LSD, where he's talking about, okay, Lido is doing this dual governance thing which is supposed to like, okay, that'll mitigate the principal agent problem. But he's saying like, okay, but Steeth holders and ETH users, that's not the same thing. It is still like a significantly lesser alignment. And then hasu had a post after that pointing out, which I agree with is this is not just like a Lido liquid staking thing.
00:13:20.282 - 00:14:18.734, Speaker A: This is just like an inherent problem with proof of stake. People who are staking in DPOs, they are also not the entire superset of roll up chain users social consensus. There is a disparity there. So what do you want to have? Do you want to have your roll up token holders just like deciding by themselves, these are the people that we delegate to? Do you want to have an LST governance deciding it completely for your chain, that's maybe a little bit better because maybe it's more decentralized, but it's also maybe worse because you're less aligned. LST dual governance I would say is the best of those three because you're letting a subjective governance process intentionally decentralized, but retaining power over it to veto harmful actions. And the last one is the cleanest one of just why don't you have your own chain? Decide again, this doesn't make sense for something like Ethereum because they're not going to have that opinionated concrete governance process to be like selecting all these different Validators. But that is the exact opposite of what a lot of these roll ups are doing and I don't think it's a coincidence and happened to actually see it.
00:14:18.734 - 00:15:01.302, Speaker A: I think it was like a day or two ago. Optimism is, to the first of my knowledge, the first team to announce this in their governance post that they put out the other day, that they intend to basically this is their plan, at least initially for the sequencer. It appears that their token house will be able to initially choose who are the sequences that we want to whitelist and then their identity based citizens house would be able to veto those decisions. That is very different than just like a straight up token holders alt vote. And so that is kind of the point here. We all know that token voting is not necessarily the best and this lets you bring in that more subjective governance process that you may want to be creative with, even if it is just straight token holder governance. I would argue that the majority token holder governance as a collective would make a better decision than everyone doing it individually.
00:15:01.302 - 00:16:00.730, Speaker A: But when you also introduce something like this where you allow identity based governance to be able to have additional rights, that is a very clear advantage over these other ones where you're entirely subject to like okay, what do the token holders decide? So this is kind of related to that. Like who is the monopolist in this scenario? There are like short term monopolist powers of whoever is the sequencer, whoever is the validator in these protocols. I would argue the much more important monopoly power on any rational time span is like whoever chooses those people. So whether that's the token holders, the governance, like, whatever your mechanism is and this is like a similar quote again out of Danny Ryan's post, which is like yet Lido could become in that position. That's an important reason for dual governance, but that is a power that you don't want to be handing over and I don't think that is the power that the sequencer reasonably has. Yes, they could do things on a very short time horizon, then you can immediately remove them and they lose all of their future revenue. I think that latter person is the person who's actually in control there, clearly.
00:16:00.730 - 00:16:34.266, Speaker A: So as a quick summary proof of stake, it makes sense for protocols that are permissionless they don't want opinionated governance. That makes sense for Ethereum, but clearly LSTs will rise and they do help decentralize, meaningfully. In my mind, Lido adds to the decentralization of Ethereum very clearly on just look at the operators and distribution versus if everyone just gave that stake to coinbase, it's clearly significantly better. So some form of dual governance is also necessary in my mind. Proof of governance. I think that too many rollups are just over indexing to like okay, this is what Ethereum did, so we need to do the same thing. But I think that they are just like they are fundamentally building for a different thing.
00:16:34.266 - 00:17:19.350, Speaker A: Like Ethereum is building for roll ups. Roll ups are building for users primarily and they're like optimizing for very different things because they're already paying their base layer for all of those types of assurances. So I do think that this is very viable for them because they do have very different priorities and because sequencers are fundamentally just less powerful than L1 validators in particular they are getting this finality and that cost to reorg effectually goes back to zero. When you're posting to the layer one they are very short term guarantees. This is kind of the key. I would say synthesis of the whole argument is like as a summary, if we put things back together just like how does proof of stake end up playing out? You do some form of simple DPOs and okay, capital holders, they want some form of liquidity. We want delegation of stake away.
00:17:19.350 - 00:17:58.490, Speaker A: Liquid staking arises. That's very natural. It's capital efficient, it's better. But we have that principal agent problem. So we introduce dual governance and what did we end up with at the end of the day is a total separation of capital and labor because that's where all the economic incentives are. And we have a governance mechanism that is aligned with our chain that manages the delegate selection. So the only questions at this point remaining are really do we want to let that delegation sit outside the protocol? Do we want to have this taking mechanism, let Lido rocket pool, whoever decide that and then we try to rein them in with some sort of veto, right? Have a market there or do we just in house that because we have our own governance, we don't need to let them decide.
00:17:58.490 - 00:18:37.034, Speaker A: We don't need to leak value out to some other protocol that's going to take a chunk of all the revenues. And then why add these financial derivatives? I came from a financial derivatives background before this and I'm rather opposed to just layering on a bunch of financial derivatives on top of the consensus layer. If they're unnecessary, they tend to introduce a lot of hidden risks that we don't particularly understand. And I don't think it's a Pandora's box that needs to be open for roll ups necessarily. And in particular if we realize that it's primarily a voting mechanism, it's not like an incentive compatible deterrent. So we don't necessarily need it. And I think that it's a risk that is better to avoid.
00:18:37.034 - 00:19:01.562, Speaker A: So it's not even that. Proof of governance is like this perfect thing. I think that this is inevitably where you end up if you just play out the economics. I think this is the rational market outcome of letting these economics play out, is this is where you end up. It is the governance, it is the changes that is in control in the best case. So why not just enshrine that and put it in the best way? This is the reason that I'm kind of skeptical about it. Governance is really hard.
00:19:01.562 - 00:19:40.546, Speaker A: I do not doubt that. It's really, really hard to do this. Just saying, like, oh yeah, go replicate everything that Lido does. But in particular for chains like optimism, like Arbitrator, et cetera, that have an active, that have a very involved governance, that is thoughtful and is able to decide these are the delegates that are aligned for us, I think that makes a lot of sense. This is PBS day, and I didn't really talk about PBS. You could do PBS with all these. And I think it actually makes it easier because when you have a permission set, the simplest example would be like, you're kind of back to the mev gethy days more so where it's harder if you're trying to optimize for mev boost, like, oh, yeah, we need validator number 1 million to be able to do this.
00:19:40.546 - 00:20:01.518, Speaker A: And we can't trust them. If you have like ten people, five people, whatever it is, that you can kind of trust them, makes it a lot easier to not have a lot of these censorship and sensorialization problems. Like, the sequencer can add transactions in and you trust them kind of not to screw you. And that is all. These are the slides. Thank you. And I have no idea where I am on time.
00:20:01.518 - 00:20:04.480, Speaker A: I'm assuming I'm over and that Tina is up next.
00:20:04.930 - 00:20:28.180, Speaker B: Well, in fact, we're switching order a little bit. But before we do that, one question from the audience. Anyone? All right. Oh, it's going to be a tie. Somebody else.
00:20:31.530 - 00:20:58.394, Speaker C: Hi. Really enjoyed that. Thank you. And it's in line with mostly aligned with most of that. One question I do have is how do you think proof of governance affects liveness and the relationship between that and censorship resistance? Right. Because there does seem to be some use cases. Maybe it's a governance vote, maybe it's defile liquidation.
00:20:58.394 - 00:21:20.118, Speaker C: Maybe it's sort of a game that's being built on an L three that requires very strong liveness guarantees. And it strikes me there are a lot of instances where liveness failures can actually be censorship resistance failures. So I'd be interested to get your perspective on whether or not proof of governance changes that and your thoughts in general.
00:21:20.284 - 00:22:14.102, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, it's definitely primarily one of the largest reasons, I think that you should at least decentralize the sequencer to some capacity, even if you don't need to go to a meaningful extent. It is the simple fact of like, yeah, servers go down that is not a good thing for any application, whether it's high value or low value. I would say the absolute minimum that I would want is even if you have a default centralized sequence is governance votes of okay, we have these five backup hot backup sequencers that okay, if X number of blocks are missed, we just go to the next one. We go to the next one just like down the list and then open it up after that. So I do think it is critical, even if you want like a default centralized sequencer because it is super efficient, just like have one person giving you these guarantees, but be ready to go of like these are the governance selected people that we trust to fill in for us. Similarly for censorship, I think it is like, again, it is easier in my mind to do the PBS stuff when you don't have to trust validator number 1 million. You could say like, hey, we have 20 of them.
00:22:14.102 - 00:22:52.660, Speaker A: And the builder becomes less of a choke point now because, okay, they could see the block, they can add in the rest of the transactions. It looks more like mevgeth, which is helpful. And then also just the simple composition of the sequencer set themselves is I think it is much easier to get a graph that looks like the Lido distribution graph versus if you just let staking economics play out what you really care about here for censorship, resistance errors it's not like what's the composition of the last 5% of Validators? How many are in there? It's how many do you need to get to one third, 51%? Two thirds. And I think this is the clearest way to get a very broad composition across that. And then you could also add in other mechanisms if you want, like multiplicity et cetera to help with that as well.
00:22:54.630 - 00:23:03.080, Speaker B: Great question and great answer. I'm really curious of Nick's question, so I'm going to let you ask away.
00:23:04.970 - 00:23:11.678, Speaker A: Can you elaborate on why you think this is more appropriate for roll ups.
00:23:11.714 - 00:23:12.586, Speaker C: Rather than L1s?
00:23:12.688 - 00:23:52.902, Speaker A: I remember on the slide you mentioned the permissionless part of it, which I do agree with, but can you elaborate more? Yeah, so I guess I would say oversimplifying there. It's not necessarily just a layer one versus L2, as kind of shown in a lot of the screenshots there. One of the people who's been starting to tweet about this lately is like a sonny and I think this makes sense also for plenty of cosmos L1s where it's very similar to what I'm describing with the roll ups of like, okay, we have a very clear, tight knit community that's aligned on what our values are. We have an active governance process. We are able to manage this. So it's more of a neutral permissionless base layer is like what you're going for that would not want this. It's just not an option.
00:23:52.902 - 00:24:35.726, Speaker A: So ethereum is a perfect example of obviously they cannot do what I'm describing. It would make no sense. And that is reasonable in my mind because particularly for the base layer, that is generally the area that you're looking for. Like, okay, we want you to be completely credibly neutral, like no subjective process. Even if the free market economics are kind of concerning in the long run, I think it's also the place where you have a best shot of winning that battle, I would say, quote unquote, where if the economic incentives are to, okay, centralize all of this, there has to be some kind of soft pressure against that. And I think ethereum is a type of place where even if there's a slight incentive to centralize, it more, like there is a very strong community and a very strong push for decentralization. I think that's like a winnable battle to very intentionally keep it decentralized subjectively.
00:24:35.726 - 00:24:55.190, Speaker A: So there are different optimizations for different chains. So it's not necessarily just an L1 versus an L two. I think that just, generally speaking, broad brushstrokes like L two S tend to fall in that latter category of more opinionated, more active governance, and are optimizing more for real time guarantees as opposed to neutrality and long term nuclear war type resistance.
00:24:58.410 - 00:25:03.770, Speaker B: All right. Thank you, John. Thank you for your two X speed. Um.
