00:00:08.960 - 00:00:39.928, Speaker A: All right, so I'm going to talk about scaling climate finance with permissionless defi and why the time is now. About me real quick. I co founded a fund that focuses on Cosmos. We invest in Regen, we've been in Kaive, we've been in Quicksilver Stride in power chain, a number of others things that are kind of, you know, either focusing on defi liquidity, focusing on accounting of some kind. Regen Network is a good obvious one there. And yeah, I'll keep this part quick. So first I'm going to talk a little bit about climate and blockchain.
00:00:39.928 - 00:01:27.102, Speaker A: What is this stuff? Why those two? What can they do together? Then I'm going to talk about some of the new developments in Cosmos osmosis region that are interesting for devs to build with. Then I'm going to talk a little bit about the real world, why people would give a shit about this and how much money is actually out there to do something about this. Because if you haven't seen lately, we kind of have a little bit of a liquidity crisis in blockchains and blockchain ecosystems. And then I'm going to cover an example of what you could actually build with this stuff. So, real quick, trillions of dollars are pouring into climate finance. This is like, as of 2020, you are seeing about 800 billion and it needs to basically almost ten x, but mid century, and you'll see why. The market size for a lot of these things, just looking at carbon credits is pretty big ish.
00:01:27.102 - 00:01:56.848, Speaker A: Right now it's only 2 billion. It's two and a half billion last year. It's projected to be 30 billion by 2030. Corporate demand is actually going up as well every year. And Klimadao, Toucan and Regen Network have really led the tokenization of this stuff. If you look across that ecosystem, something like 90% of on chain carbon comes from Klima. Unfortunately, it's been bridged from Vera and other off chain registries and the quality is not there yet.
00:01:56.848 - 00:02:24.190, Speaker A: There's a lot of greenwashing, but that's being addressed. Regen was really kind of a trailblazer on this front. Why? Because these guys who I pointed to before, no offense to them, we like both of them, we invest in toucan, we like everybody here. But what we are really interested in is off chain origination of assets. Right. And bringing those in not just from some off chain registry, but originating them and then doing it on chain. Right.
00:02:24.190 - 00:02:46.300, Speaker A: That's interesting. So Regen has done a lot of that. They're poised to actually ten x their amount of original ecological assets by the end of this year. And we work with them pretty closely on this stuff. But we really think that you need permissionless scaling of client finance because in a lot of ways we think the trad finance institutions are kind of failing at that job. Right. I was at CoP 27 last year.
00:02:46.300 - 00:03:26.430, Speaker A: I got to see this stuff up close, up front. And let me tell you not to slight anyone who's everyone there is usually working in good faith. But what is cop like? When you're at the UN? It's basically two weeks of arguing over the opening sentence of a document that a bunch of other. I wish I was kidding. Like this is literally how it is. You know, the developing nations, developed nations that come together, they argue about the legal implications of a single word on the front page of a document for like half of that time. And the rest of it is spent on like well, what should we actually do? So like that's a problem.
00:03:26.430 - 00:04:11.898, Speaker A: It's a problem because basically this isn't enough, right? If you look at this, we need to scale up finance fast and I'll explain what you're looking at. This is one of my favorite little tools. It's called the road to ten gigatons. This is because by 2050 we need to be basically sequestering about ten gigatons of carbon a year, right? And so this tool at road to ten gigatons basically lets you play with six different carbon solutions. This is direct air capture, nature based solutions, biochar and other biological forms, soil carbon, ocean carbon, and enhanced rock weathering, which I'll explain what. All those are basically nature based solutions is afforestation, reforestation, let's plant some more trees, or let's make sure trees are still there. DAQ is just direct air capture.
00:04:11.898 - 00:04:51.592, Speaker A: All the fancy chemical methodology is seen where people are like we're going to engineer some way to capture carbon and keep it there for a thousand years. That's that stuff. Biochar is basically converting burning to this particular, basically fully combusted type of chemical that you bury it sequesters carbon for 1000 years. It's very interesting. Soil carbon, basically, if 1% of the world's carbon is in soil, if soil stored 3% of the world's carbon, we would not have climate change. When you think about it that way, soil is pretty important. Blue carbon, 90% of the entire world, 80% of the entire world's carbon is in the oceans.
00:04:51.592 - 00:05:13.450, Speaker A: And enhanced rock weathering is one of my favorite ones. You basically take a bunch of ground up rocks, you spread them across the world. They basalt rocks, to be specific. They take in carbon. Then you use that to replenish topsoil. So it's actually used in agriculture. If you go play with that stuff, you basically end up at the fact that by 2050 you need to be putting $2.2
00:05:13.450 - 00:05:38.874, Speaker A: trillion a year into the, into the carbon economy of some kind. And not just carbon. There's a lot more important stuff there. But I'm just going to focus on that because it's easier that way. So what's really preventing scale and liquidity? A couple things which should start to be obvious to folks who are building a blockchain yield curves for carbon assets I'm going to get into. They're really unpredictable. They're hard to kind of actually realize because we treat them all as fungible and they're not hard to price.
00:05:38.874 - 00:06:09.706, Speaker A: Basically what you're seeing right now in the markets is that quality is totally decoupled from price. And I'll show you a lovely graph where you're like, why are people paying $30 per carbon ton for shit projects? There's a very obvious reason why. Because there are no transparent markets, really in carbon. That's something that we do really well in DeFi for the most part. DeFi is pretty impressive centralized finance. You're like, why? What are these things happening for? I don't know. It takes entire investigations, the Panama Papers and all that to get to the heart of it, right? Trust.
00:06:09.706 - 00:07:02.292, Speaker A: I was basically speaking to a regional bank in the US a couple weeks ago. These guys were shilling me on a blockchain solution that they picked for asset management data, right? They were like, we picked this blockchain solution over three competitors because we needed to have immutability of the data, we need to have provenance, and we need to have some protection against double spending because some of the farms we've been giving loans out to have been originating carbon assets like carbon credits, and selling them to two different registries from the same farm. So we were like, oh, shit, how do we solve that? I think we have a little bit of experience with that one, right? In year 14 of blockchains. And lastly, fungibility. Carbon assets are treated as fungible when you go to the markets and buy them. But if you're actually a corporate purchaser, you need to hire armies of consultants and people would be like, what am I actually buying? So you need to look at what's going on with carbon assets. Are they fungible over time? No.
00:07:02.292 - 00:07:25.214, Speaker A: Are they fungible over methodology? No. So we'll see why real quickly. So basically, carbon acid yield is vastly different, right? This is just a little caricature, so don't worry about my x and y graphs. But this is just to show you that if you plant a forest, it looks more like an s curve. It takes a few years to start sequestering. Carbon enhanced rock weathering is really more like an exponential and then it tails off. Biochar is more linear.
00:07:25.214 - 00:08:25.454, Speaker A: If you actually draw a line on these things and you say, how much carbon did they do? At this point in time? It's really difficult to treat these all as the same asset because unless you have metadata that says this is how much they actually did, if you put them in a pool together, it doesn't make sense because one of them is doing way more carbon than the other and their permanence is different. And lastly, just to give you a few more ideas, if you're building this space, if you're building a nature based project right now, if you have a oracle or geospatial data that can tell you about land use changes, we already have this, actually. People been working on this for 15 years. Then you can begin to do things like build insurance products that insure against unforeseen, unforeseen events like forest fires. We actually can model this really well. And when you're sitting here in Defi, tell me if you've heard of something like an insurance product that can actually liquidate someone based on a particular event, that it gets information from on the outside world. We've done this right, like oracles.
00:08:25.454 - 00:08:56.634, Speaker A: All this stuff exists. Smart contracts based on oracle data off chain. So basically, the point being, this stuff is really, there's a lot of opportunities here. We treat these things as fungible. They're not by time or methodology. And then lastly, because the market is not transparent, what I want you to take away from this is basically if you look here, there are three carbon rating agencies to keep things really simple. I normalize this data and just said, you got aaa, you got whatever, let's call it ten.
00:08:56.634 - 00:09:24.924, Speaker A: From two to ten, you'll actually see that some people are able to buy projects on cents on the dollar that are rated really well. Other people are buying the same project and it's shit. Or a different project that's rated the same, but it's shit. This is basically a marker for. This is an OTC market where people are arbitraging stuff, right? If there's this much information arbitrage this is the market that needs more transparency. And if you bring it on chain, maybe that'll help fix things. So real quickly.
00:09:24.924 - 00:09:47.646, Speaker A: These are things that I think when I talk about Cosmos defi being a spot where we could actually address these problems, we just summarize them real quick. We have risk adjusted yield curves. Yes. We're in year four or five of that. Transparent pricing check. Non fungibility. Is there a way for us to put metadata and other assets inside these fungible things and probably have stages of fungibility? Yes.
00:09:47.646 - 00:10:22.484, Speaker A: Right. Financial primitives for risk management, such as reinsurance, stuff like that. Yes. And the things we get for free, which I mentioned getting shielded by this financial institution. I was like, my friend, where were you five years ago when I was trying to convince banks that you should be doing these things? So what does this actually mean if you're a real world asset manager? Let's say you're like a CFO or a CSO, a chief sustainability officer. What can these tools mean for you, really? You're trying to do something every day and you're running into stuff like greenwashing. You have made a net zero claim.
00:10:22.484 - 00:10:41.790, Speaker A: And then you go, great, check out this project. It is helping us deliver net zero air travel. Sorry, I laugh sometimes at that. That's the basis of this Delta Airlines lawsuit right there. Basically, they've been claiming, hey, our flights are. It's like, that's impossible. Not with the quality of data and the claims you're making.
00:10:41.790 - 00:11:15.438, Speaker A: If you're sitting on this and treating it like an asset in your corporate treasury, it's really difficult for you to say, what is the market value of that asset. And then lastly, if we buy and hold future carbon, which, side note, basically all voluntary carbon is a future contract, for the most part. Because you're saying, it's 2023, I want to invest in a carbon project. I'm going to collect that carbon in 2024. They're delivering it later. It's essentially a futures contract with physical settlement to some extent. I'm going to skip this one.
00:11:15.438 - 00:11:40.140, Speaker A: We already covered the problems, so really, the pieces are all here. Right? Let's cover them. Some of the recent things. So in April 2023, Osmosis voted on this. They're bringing in the OsMo NCT, the region NCT. That's just the beginning, right? You're now going to have USDC paired with some of those pools you can come in here with, ostensibly a fiat wallet and buy carbon on chain. Osmosis version 16 is here.
00:11:40.140 - 00:12:08.994, Speaker A: I actually took some of these features and have gone and done a little bit of customer research with real life carbon traders. You walk them through some of the things that osmosis v 16 does, and you have your custom trading ranges with concentrated liquidity. They cannot do this through CBL and Eex. These are some of the real life carbon exchanges. SaaS based cosmwasm pool module, for instance. It would be great. And I'll show you in action what I think this could look like if you could build.
00:12:08.994 - 00:12:52.426, Speaker A: If you go back and think to that sort of semi fungibility, it'd be great if you could as yourself permissionlessly say, I'm going to work with some enhanced rock weathering project developers or biochar. I want to bring that liquidity on chain. I want to differentiate it from all the fungible pools that are out there. You could do that now then pooling it to stable coins is something that, it could be huge then if you look at something like osmosis and composable finance. I don't know how much attention you folks pay to the other ecosystems, but there are a lot of these types of projects out there on other blockchains. So Openforest protocol and bitgreen are two projects. One is a Polkadot, I forget the term for a sovereign chain in Polkadot, so don't sue me.
00:12:52.426 - 00:13:36.412, Speaker A: Polkadot people near has open forest protocol where they basically have built, they've been on the ground in South America and a bunch of other places, and they have built two things. They have remote monitoring and they have an app where land stewards, landowners, basically go around and prove that the forest exists. And they get a disbursement of open forest protocol tokens. And they do it on a quarterly basis just to say, hey, this forest is still here, right? No one's being rugged like delta Airlines. And then lastly, it's just another way to bring in users, right? Like, if there are people actually doing this stuff in the real world, and there are, we build out to them, we can pull in some of that liquidity. So what do I think we need real quickly? I'll run through it. If you're looking at carbon, it'd be great if you could pull it by maturity and methodology.
00:13:36.412 - 00:14:13.730, Speaker A: Maturity means, is it being, is it like a futures contract? Is it going to mature at the end of 2023-202-4203 right. I need to be able to see in there and say if I'm holding a contract, is the thing I'm holding coming to mature this year, next year, ten years from now? I don't have that data today. And then methodology I covered already just with those vastly different yield curves, we need deeply liquid spot markets. Basically. We don't really have those. They're very shallow. And then lastly, if you want to talk about managing risk, if you're holding carbon like an asset, which is what I want people to do, what I want banks and financial institutions to do, they need to give them a way to hedge those positions.
00:14:13.730 - 00:14:36.090, Speaker A: So real quick, let's run through it. What does this look like? The Regen NCT, for instance. It's a basket of nature based carbon projects. Ideally, you'd want to break those out by year, and we'll cover that. It's just a start. What if you had two other tokens that covered enhanced rock weathering projects? Biochar projects, because these are categorically different assets. I think this would make sense.
00:14:36.090 - 00:15:22.032, Speaker A: Now from those yield curves, we talked about how if I'm building an enhanced rock weathering project for the next ten years, I know that it's an exponential curve. So I would want to say, is there some way for me to sell this at a discount to you so that I can start the project because it's really expensive, and then you have something that is only going to mature on the market over time and you have an arbitrage opportunity. Right. And I'll show you what that looks like. So basically, it'd be great if you could then say, let me pool those by the exact year that they come to maturity so that I have super clarity. If I'm a corporate institution, if I'm Delta, I can very easily say, yeah, I know we can make that claim because I bought this much carbon for 2024 of this type. Right.
00:15:22.032 - 00:15:57.434, Speaker A: It's not a thing they can do today, but there's still a couple issues. Your off takers can't lock in prices because right now, as I showed you earlier, it's really hard to get a market price. These net neutral goals that people are setting, they're set for fiscal years. So what you see, if you go in the regular card markets right now, you actually see that everyone really just kind of chills on their trading activity until November, December. That's because everyone's made net zero claims for that year. So then they panic and go, shit, how much more do we, how much more carbon do we need to hold to retire this year so we can claim that we're net zero. Right.
00:15:57.434 - 00:16:28.284, Speaker A: And then lastly, if you want to, you want to be able to actually say that the players in this market are actually participating in it. They're not only speculating, I want them to speculate. I don't want them to only be speculating. Right. And then I'm not going to cover perps because I think all of you probably know what perps are. But quickly, the most important thing about perps is that more than half of this liquidity has been obliterated by FTX. So there's a really big opportunity in perps, which is why perps are ready to blow up in cosmos.
00:16:28.284 - 00:16:43.316, Speaker A: If you've been around today, I can't even throw a rock and hit a project that's not building perps. You have margins. Nibiru Dy, DX, Levana, say injective. Probably more I don't know about. So let's cover why the perp matters. Real life example. I'm Deloitte.
00:16:43.316 - 00:17:02.946, Speaker A: I've said I want to be net zero by 2030. So I'm going to invest in an enhanced rock weathering project by undue carbon. Undue carbon does this enhanced rock weathering. It costs about $550 a ton. That's actually really expensive. Right. If I was showing you the, I showed you the price quality thing earlier, some people are paying on the high end $30 for a forest project.
00:17:02.946 - 00:17:28.452, Speaker A: That's because land is cheap right now. But in the future, the more land we use for this stuff, the higher the price goes. So it's projected to go up in price. Enhanced rock weathering, on the other hand, is projected to go down because the cost curve is going to bend over time because of engineering improvements, stuff like that. Problem is, we need to be doing this stuff tomorrow. And it's really hard to convince someone to say, hey, I've got this thing that's going to deliver carbon at $500. I've got this other one that's going to do a 30.
00:17:28.452 - 00:18:02.790, Speaker A: If you're in that situation, you're like, well, which 01:00 a.m. i going to do? Obviously, we'll do a 30. Problem is, we need to do both at the same time. What you can do on this is actually say, I will sell it to you at an 80% discount today if I can, so that I can fully fund the project upfront, I'll deliver the first two years of the project to you for free, off market at that price. And Deloitte goes, great. That's a fantastic deal. By the time that gives us a couple years to sit there and go, let's build this pool and see if we can get people to trade in it and discover what the market price is.
00:18:02.790 - 00:18:48.562, Speaker A: My bet would be that Deloitte got a great deal and they could trade in those pools for a big arbitrage premium. Right? Now, if you get this nice 50% discount, you can trade into those pools and actually make money on carbon, right? You have this position that's equivalent to a mortgage. You're holding the contracts for carbon that will be delivered next year. And then once there's liquidity, you can actually decide, do I retire this carbon and claim it against my goal, or do I trade it right? That gives people a lot. This starts having people think about carbon not as some, like, thing I'm going to get owned for on Twitter, for not doing right, and more like, oh, shit, I can treat this like money, right? Which is kind of what I think we need to do. Now. Imagine that they also take this money and we have someone.
00:18:48.562 - 00:19:33.520, Speaker A: One of those six builders in Cosmos has built a derivatives market where you can actually enter into another position if you're holding a bunch of erw contracts. It would be really great if you could say, well, I want to be protected against land use. All that land use stuff that Jashad was talking about earlier. If I open an NCT position and kind of hedge it against my enhanced rock weathering position, and then I have the. Because of land use considerations, NCT prices go up, that would be really great for me. So if I'm a chief financial officer at one of these organizations, I've really just done two things. I have a unlike, ungreenwashable claim to carbon that I'll be claiming as it comes off to 2023, 2024, etcetera.
00:19:33.520 - 00:20:31.908, Speaker A: But then I also have this position open that's funding nature based carbon with my degen activity, which I think is really great. It'd be even great if you could take some of the price action from those positions, like a small fee, and fund carbon projects with it. But I don't want to get ahead of myself. I just think it's a cool idea. So, conclusions, right? Basically, we have some really rudimentary on chain carbon projects, carbon markets right now. I feel like if we started to pool them differently, if we looked at stuff like the cosmos and pool modules, for instance, if you actually thought through how to do those, it unlocks a massive opportunity in both information and liquidity, because you can communicate much more information to this market than they're getting today if you actually look around and say, hey, what? Defi financial primitives mean something to the real world market. There's quite a few of them right, insurance perps, all these things have already been built, but they're mostly like, you know, for traders who are just trying to degen stuff, which, bless them, not one of them, not me.
00:20:31.908 - 00:21:07.140, Speaker A: But it's great that they're doing it. It'd be even greater if we could take what they're doing and plan it towards something like this. And then lastly, just to cover all this, right, like, there's so many product opportunities for devs in this ecosystem now with Regen, with osmosis, with all this stuff coming together, you could basically take half the stuff. I sat there and go build a pool today and start collecting fees on this stuff. And just some quick acknowledgements, everyone at Regen undudes. Those guys are good friends of ours and a bunch of other portfolio companies who really helped me think through this. And if you want to talk more about this stuff, this is how you can find me.
00:21:07.140 - 00:21:21.760, Speaker A: And I think I mentioned that I run cerulean ventures with my partner Matthew. We invest in this kind of stuff. So always happy to talk about it. And I think that's it. How do I do on time? Thanks, y'all.
