00:00:00.200 - 00:00:22.494, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deadly Way refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and the Nyssana, and today's the 9 November 2022. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. And getting into it is going to take a while today, I think. Obviously I missed yesterday's episode. Apologies for that. I kind of lost my voice, so I didn't want to do a refuel and then just sound croaky the whole time.
00:00:22.494 - 00:01:22.708, Speaker A: But I mean, the reason why this episode is going to be longer is not just because I missed yesterday, it's because it's been one of the craziest days in crypto ever. I thought that these craziest days were behind us for this part of the, I guess, crypto cycle, but it seems not. Now, obviously, I'm talking about all the drama that happened with FTX. I did touch on this on the last refill I did a couple of days ago, but obviously the situation has changed substantially since then and there is a lot to get through. There's also other things I'm going to get through, but I'm probably going to spend quite a while on this because I think it's very, very important and there's a bunch of things that I want to talk about. So let's start at the top. What, what happened here? What, what's going on with FTX? Why is everything, you know, selling off? Why is everything dumping? Why are we all losing money again? Okay, well, what seems to have happened is that the same thing that happened with three arrows capital and do Kwon with Terror and Celsius and Blockfi and, you know, I guess like a bunch of other things, there was someone that had a massive ego.
00:01:22.708 - 00:02:03.812, Speaker A: They got really rich during the bull market, made a lot of money during the bull market, were not positioned, did not manage their risk correctly during the bear market, decided to leverage up, right, do a bunch of shady things, let their ego get the better of them, and then blow themselves up. That is really the TL doctor, I guess, of the FTX situation, as well as all the other situations out there. So that's that one there. Now let's go into some more details. Well, the big announcement today was that CZ, CEO and founder of Binance and announced that FTS FTX asked Binance for, for their help. There is a significant liquidity crunch to protect users. We signed a non binding loi intending to fully acquire FTX.com
00:02:03.812 - 00:02:20.508, Speaker A: and help cover the liquidity crunch. We will be conducting a full due diligence in the coming days. Now, that was a tweet from. From CZ, and he goes on within a little bit of a mini thread here. And SPF has his own thread, which I can't show you because he has me blocked. But I'm sure you've all seen it by now. But I want to comment on this for a second.
00:02:20.508 - 00:02:55.404, Speaker A: So this whole bit of drama, or started a little while ago, but it really accelerated when CZ started spreading. I wouldn't say there were rumors, but started spreading the. This kind of information that FTX was in, you know, for all intents and purposes, insolvent, that they had this massive debt that was owed, and they were using their FTT token as collateral. And Cz said that he was going to sell, over many months, a couple billion dollars worth of FTT, I believe. And this obviously led to a sell off in FTT. And that just accelerated over time. And it basically really accelerated today.
00:02:55.404 - 00:03:24.354, Speaker A: I mean, when I went to bet, FT was $20, and now it's like $4. So, yeah, it really did accelerate overnight. That's another note. I woke up, and it was just absolutely insane this morning. I, you know, there's very few times where I've woken up to such, you know, craziness and such insanity, and today is one of those times. But I think this play from CZ, as much as I don't think CZ is a hero at all, I think Cz is just a better player than a lot of these other players. He plays the same game, but he's just a better player.
00:03:24.354 - 00:03:50.710, Speaker A: This is masterful here from him. He not only was able to wreck a competitor, but then he swooped in and basically says that he's entered in an agreement to acquire FTX.com. Now, this is a non binding kind of agreement here, which means he could back out at any point in time. And I'm actually not seeing what CZ would actually get out of this, to be honest. Because if he was to acquire FTX.com, comma, he would. He would acquire, with that, all their liabilities.
00:03:50.710 - 00:04:22.052, Speaker A: And it's come to light through a bunch of different threads, one of them here from Lucas Nazi at coin metrics, that FTX was actually using customer deposits as collateral, I believe, to take loans against through their. Through the Alameda arm, which they said was a separate company to FTX. But we all knew they always commingled and SPF had, you know, saying everything that was happening. So for all intents and purposes, it wasn't a separate thing. Maybe. Legally speaking it was, but practically speaking it wasn't. So basically, that's what happened there.
00:04:22.052 - 00:05:14.424, Speaker A: And I don't really see a reason why CZ would want to fill that hole, because my estimates put it at if all the customer deposits need to be covered, which I don't think everything would need to be covered, but probably the majority of it would, I would say maybe five to $10 billion around about, in terms of customer assets that need to be covered that were sitting on FTX. And how I arrived at that estimate is, it's very rough because we don't know who FTX is. Cold wallets. I still, I think we still don't know them. And I was just doing a naive calculation based on how much binance has in custody and then taking a percentage of that based on trading volumes of FTX versus binance and seeing what's going on there. And this is just FTX, not FTX us, which seems to be unaffected by this, since FTX us is based in the US, heavily regulated there. So I don't think SPF was wanting to do any funny business because he knows what can happen if he does that in the US.
00:05:14.424 - 00:05:47.434, Speaker A: But, but, yeah, so I don't really see a reason for CZ to go ahead with this. So he may back out of it still, we don't know. And at the same time, it's not, as I said, it's a non binding agreement, so he can back out of it with no consequences for himself. He can just let the, let them blow up. Either way, he's probably going to get FTX's customers because FTX's customers would, even if they're sorry we're not based in the US. So they probably already got binance accounts anyway, because Binance has a US arm as well. So they're all just going to flock there regardless of if CZ makes them whole or not.
00:05:47.434 - 00:06:32.336, Speaker A: Right? So I think. I think that, that that might be the more likely outcome. And on top of that, FTX, if they don't get acquired, we just have to, I guess, file for bankruptcy, and it'll be an empty gog situation where customers will not see their funds for a very long time. And I remember I warned about this a few weeks ago on the refuel to get your assets off centralized exchanges and centralized services. It doesn't matter who it is. Like, I know I've gone on record saying that I trust maybe something like Coinbase more than I trust these other entities, but it's more about like, who I trust who I trust least, right? Doesn't mean that I like, just because I say I trust Coinbase more than FTX and Binance doesn't mean that I trust them a lot, right? It means that I would trust my assets there more than on FTX or binance. But generally I just don't keep my assets on exchanges.
00:06:32.336 - 00:06:51.446, Speaker A: I use exchanges, sorry, centralized exchanges. I use them to on an off ramp with fiat. And sometimes I will, I will trade on them very rarely. I do most of my trading through DeFi. And by trading I mean kind of like investing, not actual day trading or anything like that. But this is why I keep warning about this stuff. Guys like you cannot trust any of these centralized services.
00:06:51.446 - 00:07:30.368, Speaker A: And I've gone through why before, obviously, because you can't trust their word or anything. And even if they were to do a proof of reserves, like you can't trust that that's, you know, if they do proof of reserves, you can trust that it's accurate. Maybe to that point, when they've signed for what addresses they have and everything, but they can do creative accounting in the background and then say, oh, we're just moving stuff around because we're switching cold wallets, blah blah, and you have to trust them on that. This ecosystem is all about removing trust. So if you have to trust someone on, on their word, it already is a red flag to me. But anyway, absolutely masterful play from CZ here. I have to give him big kudos for this because he was able to take out one of his main competitors and then come in and say that he'd acquire them.
00:07:30.368 - 00:08:01.464, Speaker A: And I don't know, I mean, it's a coin toss, but I don't, I don't really see a reason why CZ would need to require FTX at this point. I don't see what he gets out of them. Their exchange infrastructure is worse than Binance, so he doesn't need that. Um, why would he? He doesn't need their employees, right? Doesn't need any of their staff. And even if he did, he'll just hire them himself. He doesn't need to acquire FTX to get these people because these people are probably want to work in crypto anyway, and they'll probably go and apply to something like Binance, right. Their custom, the customers are going to go to Binance or probably already have an account with Binance.
00:08:01.464 - 00:08:27.668, Speaker A: It's probably a lot of overlap between FTX and binance customers, to be honest. So yeah, I'm not seeing what the, the play is here unless unless there is one angle that I can see. Unless CZ believes that by not bailing out FTX, it's much worse for the ecosystem long term than. Than it would be for him just taking a hit. Because even if he was to plug that hole, say he. He spent $10 billion to acquire FTX, to plug that hole, that's. Trump changed to him.
00:08:27.668 - 00:09:10.196, Speaker A: I mean, he has a shit ton of money, and we don't. We don't even know how much money he has, because, like, he's made so much, he's. He's got it in a bunch of different assets. But it's safe to say that he's probably still got, you know, I mean, it's hard to estimate because obviously, prices move, and a lot of his net worth is tied up in crypto, but he probably has $50 to $100 billion worth of personal wealth, not including binance. And obviously, there's BNB as well, which has a rather large market cap, which he owns a substantial part of. So, yeah, I say chump change, it's obviously not chump change, but, you know, when you're talking about someone who has that much money and has an extremely successful business, who is extremely dominant and just killed one of its competitors, I mean, yeah, you can see that. That.
00:09:10.196 - 00:09:48.278, Speaker A: That play, but other than that, there's not many angles that I can see where this ends up being a net positive for CZ to do. And I think that's why he entered this non binding thing, because he's probably going to look at FTX, do, like, extreme due diligence on them, and then, I don't know, I think you may come. Might come to the conclusion that it's better to just let it blow up. Right. It's just too toxic, because Brian Armstrong was actually on a bankless live stream today and said that he looked at them, did a quick due diligence on them. I don't think, like, under the hood, but his team did a quick due diligence on them and figured it wasn't worth the hassle to acquire them. Now, that may be because Coinbase doesn't have the capital to do that, or they have the capital to do that, and it just doesn't make any financial sense at all.
00:09:48.278 - 00:10:00.118, Speaker A: And CZ's in the same position, I would believe. Like, if he has. If he has to pony up $10 billion, obviously it's not a huge amount for him, but it's still a hit. For what benefit? That's. That's where. That's the angle. I'm coming at it from.
00:10:00.118 - 00:10:29.760, Speaker A: So, so there's that. There's the CZ, kind of, I guess, arm of what's happened here. Now, as I mentioned, there is a thread from Lucas Nazi here of coin metrics that. And he starts off the thread by saying, I found evidence that FTX might have provided a massive bailout for Alameda in Q two, which now came to haunt them. 40 days ago, 173 million FTT tokens worth over $4 billion became active on chain a rabbit hole appeared. This is the thread that I referenced before where he basically found evidence of. Well, he's what he says.
00:10:29.760 - 00:10:50.508, Speaker A: Here's what I think happened. He goes, Alameda blew up in Q two, along with three arrows capital and others. Just a quick note here. Alameda is the kind of market making side of SBF Ventures. I believe it was one of his first companies that he founded. And as I said, they are legally separated, FTX and Alameda, but practically not. And they've been commingling assets.
00:10:50.508 - 00:11:25.790, Speaker A: Well, that's what Lucas found evidence of here. Said it only survived the blow up in Q two because it was able to secure funding from FTX use, using as collateral the 172 million FTT that was guaranteed to vest four months later. Once vested, all tokens were sent back as repayments. And then I think there was a note about them using customer deposits as well. But, yeah, I highly recommend giving this thread a rate, if you haven't seen it yet, for a more detailed breakdown here. But guys, like, I'm going to give my very, very honest opinion on this. Just generally, in terms of using customer deposits for things, it's fucking ridiculous.
00:11:25.790 - 00:12:05.994, Speaker A: I mean, I get that banks do this as a fractional reserve banking thing, right? But these banks are so heavily regulated. They have so many watchdogs, they have so many people making sure that there's all these protections in place. And you can argue about whether these protections help or the regulations help or not. You know, that's not the point I'm trying to make here. But the point I'm trying to make is that there is a substantial difference between an offshore, centralized crypto exchange, which is completely opaque, and a bank where it's extremely heavily regulated. Regulated, right. And, I mean, they do engage in shady behavior, don't get me wrong, but there is a difference between those two things there.
00:12:05.994 - 00:12:28.994, Speaker A: So it's a disgrace. It's embarrassing. It really does set this ecosystem back. And I know even on the refill, I said the other day that I thought the chances of FTX blowing up a relatively low and honestly, like, I don't know why I said that, because I've been calling out SPF as a cowboy for so long. Actually, you know what? I do know why I said that, now that I think about it. I said that because I honestly didn't think that SBF. I knew he was greedy.
00:12:28.994 - 00:12:48.282, Speaker A: I knew he was a cowboy. I knew he was basically a sociopath, but I didn't believe he was stupid enough or greedy enough to blow himself up. Like, I just didn't see that. And that's on me. Not much surprises me in this ecosystem anymore, but that did, right? But. And in such a spectacular way as well. Like, it's just a fucking disgrace.
00:12:48.282 - 00:13:09.068, Speaker A: I know. Like, I'm sorry for swearing, but, like, I'm actually, like, really upset about this. Like, after everything calmed down and I caught up with it, I'm like, this is ridiculous. Like, the amount of people that have blown up this year by not managing their risk at all. What the fuck were they doing? What. What did they think was going to happen? Like, did they think that prices were just going to go up forever? Right? I don't understand the frame of thinking here. Like, I am.
00:13:09.068 - 00:13:39.716, Speaker A: Like, as I said the other day, I took profits, right? I've said this many times. I took profits in the bull market. I did, at times get a little bit bought into and drink the kool aid a little bit around maybe some of the memes that were. Were being portrayed and thinking, wow, we're actually, like, in a proper mainstream adoption cycle now. I don't think the bear market's going to be as bad. I did kind of get stuck in that a little bit, but I kept myself grounded. I took profits, and I've protected my capital all throughout this year, even buying, as time has gone on through this year.
00:13:39.716 - 00:13:58.632, Speaker A: And I've done that just as myself. I have no financial advisors, nothing. Like, I've done it all on my own. I have some friends that have been in crypto, in ethereum with me for a while. We talk to each other, right? We keep each other relatively grounded, but at the end of the day, the decision is always up to you. So. So how the fuck have I managed my risk like.
00:13:58.632 - 00:14:22.828, Speaker A: Like this and these people haven't? Like, I don't understand. I don't even. Like, I have nowhere near the amount of money these people have as well. Let me be straight here. Like, they have so much more money than me, and their risk management is worse than mine. It's worse than probably yours is, right? Like, I just do not understand how someone can be this greedy. Like, I just, it doesn't compute for me, right? And I can understand from a, there are these people that exist, and greed is very poisonous.
00:14:22.828 - 00:14:52.986, Speaker A: And especially if you make all your money in a bull market, you're, it just goes to your head and you think you are literally a God, especially have, if you have all these people around you simping for you. But I just do not understand how you can manage your risk so badly that you end up billions, tens of billions of dollars in the hole. And on top of that, you wreck all your customers and you wreck your business that you spent years building up. Like, what the. Okay, I'm gonna stop swearing. I don't want to spare too much. But seriously, guys, like, I just, I can't fathom this, right? And this is why I say it's a disgrace and it's embarrassing.
00:14:52.986 - 00:15:12.162, Speaker A: I've seen some of the ogs on, on Twitter today say that this is the most embarrassed they've been about this ecosystem ever, and it's the first time that they've thought about leaving. And honestly, guys, like, if it wasn't for a theorem, I would have left ages ago. Like this. Like, look at this objectively. Look at what's happened this year, objectively. It's an utter embarrassment. It's utter insanity.
00:15:12.162 - 00:15:28.298, Speaker A: It is. It should not be happening. This is not what we're building towards. But the one thing that keeps me in this ecosystem is literally a theory. And some people can call me an ETH maxi for that. I don't give a shit, right? I've called out so many things in this ecosystem, and it's all played out. Like, I remember calling out all these alt l one s as just complete garbage.
00:15:28.298 - 00:15:52.030, Speaker A: Look at them today, right? Like they're all pretty much dead. Like no one cares about them. They were only popular during a bull market. I've called out all these centralized actors as being bad actors and being, as at people who are just cowboys and are ruining this ecosystem. And I'm not trying to toot my own horn here or inflate my own ego. I don't care about any of that. The reason why I say that I've spoken about it in the past is because maybe when myself and other smart people in this ecosystem are saying something.
00:15:52.030 - 00:16:38.824, Speaker A: Listen, I know the refueled listeners and watches. You guys, you guys do listen. I talk to a lot of you, and you, you do take what I say on board, but, you know, maybe tell your friends and show them evidence of this and say, hey, like, you know, anytime someone says this, like, maybe think about this, maybe, maybe, maybe think critically about it, maybe not get caught up in all this bullshit and get caught up in the mania and listen to this. Like, it actually makes me really angry and sad that more people didn't listen because you've probably seen on Twitter today on FTX, there are a lot of people who left their funds on there thinking and trusting that Sam wasn't going to blow himself up. And I was like, this is utter insanity. Like, how can you trust someone like this? Like, I don't understand that. I don't understand how someone, how people can trust someone, not only trust them generally, but trust them with their money.
00:16:38.824 - 00:16:52.928, Speaker A: Like, this isn't just a normal level of trust, guys. This is like literally giving your money to some, some person that says, hey, bro, like, trust me, I'll keep it for you. You can keep it on here. It's all, it's all well and good. Like, like, I mean, SPF. Yeah, okay. He's a big player.
00:16:52.928 - 00:17:28.492, Speaker A: He had a reputation. He ran a relatively successful exchange, right? But that, to me, doesn't mean anything. We've seen exchanges blow up before. We've seen these people blow up plenty of times before. So why would you trust them? Like, stop trusting people. We invented this absolutely amazing technology where allows you to financial technology that allows you to self custody and you keep funds on a centralized exchange with egomaniacs at the helm. Like, come on, guys, I know I sound like a broken record and I've gone on this rant before, but every time this happens, it's the first place my mind goes to is, holy shit, people just got wrecked again.
00:17:28.492 - 00:17:40.884, Speaker A: Imagine trying to invest in this ecosystem and being like, oh, I'll put my money in here. Imagine investing in, in terror. I'm gonna put my money in here. You know, I'm safe in the US t stable coin. I'll get 20% yield through anchor. It's all well, well and good. Bam, you're dead.
00:17:40.884 - 00:17:53.948, Speaker A: You're blown up, right? You're absolutely wrecked. Oh, I'm just gonna leave my funds on FTX. This is a reputable exchange. SPF seems, seems okay. Bam, you're fucking wrecked, right? Like, oh, I'm just going to put my money into, into this sort of stuff. The super cycle's happening. It's all going to be good.
00:17:53.948 - 00:18:04.940, Speaker A: I'm going to be rich. Bam. Wrecked. Oh, sale is buying BTC at all time high. You know, he's got my back wrecked. Oh, the El Salvador's are going to use BTC for payments. This is a new paradigm, wrecked.
00:18:04.940 - 00:18:27.144, Speaker A: Like, for fuck's sake, like, imagine you're that person. Imagine you're new to this ecosystem and you've been trying to invest in it. Uh, I just. Ah, it, yeah, yeah, I don't, I don't know what else to say. Like, I'm just, I'm just saying it as it comes to, to my mind here. But I think I'm going to pause there on the, on the ranting, because I don't want to go too much about it. But you can read this thread from, from Lucas.
00:18:27.144 - 00:18:55.942, Speaker A: There was also a tweet here from DB who said that SBF was canvassing deep pockets in Silicon Valley and Wall street. Think billionaires, not institutions, seeking more than $1 billion to plug the hole before. But by midday Tuesday, the hole looked to be significantly deeper. And that's when CZ kind of swooped in here. There's also a great tweet here from wisely, a lawyer, about this whole situation. I recommend reading this as well, which I'll link in the YouTube description. And this tweet is one, one that I wanted to focus on as well.
00:18:55.942 - 00:19:32.166, Speaker A: So this is a list of some of the most high profile investors in FTX to just show you how shitty this situation is, right? So I'm gonna read out some of them. Blackrock, largest, I guess, like manager of capital in the world, the Ontario pension Fund. A pension fund, right. Sequoia, one of the biggest tech VC's paradigm, the biggest crypto VC, I think, besides a 16 Z crypto. Tiger Global, they're a meme softBank, again, a meme circle. The issue is of USDC, right. Ribbit, a pretty big fund, I believe.
00:19:32.166 - 00:20:16.626, Speaker A: Alan Howard, pretty, I believe big investor, multi coin. I mean, they're multi clown capital for a reason. Van ECk, absolutely huge issuer of ETF's, and Temasek as well, I believe is a big fund here. But so, looking at this list, my main point is that even the, quote unquote smart money fell for this and trusted in SPF. So maybe you don't feel too bad if you, I guess, lost money on FTX. Or, I mean, like, it's easy for me to say that, but don't feel like you are a dumbass that didn't listen to anyone, didn't see it coming, and that you're all to blame. I think that when investors like this get involved, it lends a lot of credibility to these platforms and to these exchanges, which means that people end up trusting them much more than they should.
00:20:16.626 - 00:20:48.580, Speaker A: For example, right? If you see paradigm investing in something, which is, and I really respect paradigm as a fund, as a vc, but if you see them investing in something, multiple rounds, mind you, you think to yourself, well, you know, paradigm is really legit. If they're investing in FTX, that must have done their due diligence. They must have, you know, seen that, seen everything happening behind the scenes. They must think the SPF is a good operator. You know what? I'm gonna trust FTX with my, with my money, with. I'm gonna trust them to trade on them. I'm gonna leave my assets on there.
00:20:48.580 - 00:21:21.616, Speaker A: Okay, I get. That's fair enough. Right? But then it's not just paradigm, right? It's all these investors. And you start going down the list and you look, oh, Blackrock is in there, or the Ontario pension fund. Surely a pension fund wouldn't invest their money in something that would go to zero, right? And go down the list and you just see all these big names and you're like, oh, okay, well, I can trust this. No, no, you can't. If there's one lesson that you should take away from this year, is that doesn't matter who else is involved with something, doesn't matter how reputable they are, they're not infallible.
00:21:21.616 - 00:21:47.994, Speaker A: They make mistakes just like you and I do. They've just got more money than us. That's it. Like, people look at these institutions and think they must have some special insight or they must have suspect some special way of doing things. At the end of the day, they're just a company or an institution with more money than you or you and me. They're making the same kind of decisions. They're looking at the risk factors, they're doing due diligence, they're doing research, and they're making a bet or a guess on.
00:21:47.994 - 00:22:21.770, Speaker A: On something, right? On an investment bet, I guess, so to speak. Right? So from that point of view, you shouldn't really trust things just because other people trust them. I know that there are certain things that lend legitimacy to others that maybe you can, right? If there's a lot of smart people looking into something, then you can. But I don't think that you should just, on face value, trust in something just because there's a bunch of well known, big name investors behind it. Like, I've never, personally, I never looked at something with big name investors behind it. And being like, I'm gonna trust this with all my money. Like, that's just not the way I go.
00:22:21.770 - 00:22:45.298, Speaker A: About things. So that's that. They're just absolutely insane that they were able to get so many big name investors, which obviously added a lot of credibility and legitimacy to FTX. But that's that one. There other tweet was from this Twitter account called Bera news Network, who said, still can't fathom how Alameda can own the house. FTX employ bunch of. Employ a bunch of smart people, scam retail left and right for years and still get wrecked.
00:22:45.298 - 00:23:19.050, Speaker A: Every unfair advantage anyone could ever have still wrecked. You can't make it up. Lowell. Yo. So when I think about it like this, and this is what I was explaining before, the endless greed that SPF had was his downfall in the end, right? Like, how can you start basically, with such a massive head start on this ecosystem, make so much money, have everyone, you know, simping for you, have politicians in your pocket, and then blow it all because you got too greedy like that? Just, to me, is absolutely insane that someone could do that. I just. I can't compute it right.
00:23:19.050 - 00:23:39.114, Speaker A: I just kind of. The more I think about it, the more I try to rationalize it, the more I try to come. Try to come to terms with it. Just insane. Like, I feel very similar to how I felt when terror exploded. I, you know, I didn't think it would explode that quickly, and it just caught me off guard. And the fact that they just let it explode and everything got wiped out and it went to zero in, like, less than three days.
00:23:39.114 - 00:24:35.388, Speaker A: Yeah, the insanity never stops in crypto, right, guys? But there's that. I think there's a couple of things left before I move on from the FTX stuff. But basically the block posted an article today saying SPF's priority crypto bill is effectively dead after FTX sells to binance. So that's a bit of good news that has come out of this, is that that bill that I've been talking about that SPF was backing to, I guess, regulate Defi is dead. And it's just hilarious how he was backing that bill while doing all these shady stuff with his own centralized empire. But anyway, that's another discussion there. And Victor Bunin actually put out a great little tweet here on the back of this news, the back of the FTX News, saying, I literally can't believe people use any exchange that he's not Coinbase, because Coinbase is a public company with audited financials, doesn't degen with user funds, best in class custody and security, fights crypto and decentralization, and sits at zero zero on the fuck around and find out chart.
00:24:35.388 - 00:25:05.670, Speaker A: As I said before, guys like, it's not that I trust Coinbase, it's that I trust them more than every other exchange out there, right? And I still wouldn't leave my funds on there or anything like that personally. I mean, it's up to you what kind of risk you want to take. But as I said, they've been around since 2012, right? They've survived many blow ups within crypto before, over the. Over the years. And they're fully regulated in the US. Extremely heavily regulated in the US. And Brian Armstrong really cares about the decentralized mission and values.
00:25:05.670 - 00:25:30.676, Speaker A: And you know what, as I. As I said before, I've given SPF a lot of flack in the past, but, you know, he survived a lot since 2017, since Binance was founded, I still wouldn't put my funds on binance. But if you're looking for exchanges to use and on and off ramps, I mean, there's only a handful that I would actively use. I can't really. I mean, I traditionally haven't been able to use Coinbase because I haven't been able to sell. So I've used a local australian exchange called Coinjar. I've been using them since 2013.
00:25:30.676 - 00:25:55.182, Speaker A: They've been excellent. But, you know, in terms of the other exchanges that I would personally put my. My weight behind. But do remember, as I said before, just because someone that you trust puts their weight behind something doesn't mean that it's foolproof and perfect, right? This is just my own personal opinion, but it would be from. From my experience, Coinbase and Kraken. In the US, I've used Kraken pretty extensively. Coinja, as I mentioned in Australia, I've never had any issues with them.
00:25:55.182 - 00:26:25.176, Speaker A: They've been really great for a long time. And even binance, I mean, like, if. I mean, binance has a lot of coins that maybe other exchanges don't, they have a lot of liquidity. They are the biggest exchange. But above all of them, I would just use Defi. But obviously, I can't often on ramp through fiat with DeFi, so I still have to use centralized exchanges, which is what I do. And, you know, depending on the size that you're trading, Defi might be complicated for you, but you'd have to be trading some insane size for DeFi to start being complicated for you.
00:26:25.176 - 00:26:52.956, Speaker A: Depending on the asset for ETH, you would have to be trading probably in the hundreds of millions for you to care about liquidity concerns within Defi for ETH. But, yeah, those are still concerns as well. So that that's where I would put them. But if you're in the US Coinbase and Kraken should be the first two stops for you in the centralized exchange space. Moving on. All right, that's enough on the FTX stuff. Actually, before I move on from the FTX stuff, I just wanted to say one final thing about the whole ordeal.
00:26:52.956 - 00:27:19.656, Speaker A: People have lost money yet again. Right. I know I've been shit posting a lot on Twitter today, but underneath all of the shitposting is genuine sorrow and sadness for all the people that have lost money. If you have been affected by this, like, just. I genuinely do feel sad for you. Let it be a lesson for you. If you want to still stick around in crypto, still want to be around, let it be a lesson of the importance of self custody, the importance of just not, you know, trusting any of these centralized institutions at all, really.
00:27:19.656 - 00:27:38.696, Speaker A: I mean, you shouldn't be trusting them at all. You should be, as I said, trusting. Having like, a ranking of them and just trusting some others less than others. Right. And on top of all of that, the number one rule of crypto is, as it's always been, don't blow yourself up and just survive. Like, that's how you win at this game. And I think that's how you win at investing in general.
00:27:38.696 - 00:28:12.616, Speaker A: It's probably going to be a pretty shitty time for a while. Guys, if I'm being honest, we've already, you know, how long into this bear market? I mean, if you count like, the whole year as the bear market, we're almost at the end of the year, so it's almost been a year worth of. Of a bear market, and we just had one of the biggest exchanges completely blow up, basically, and another hole with some possible contagion going to be spreading around the ecosystem. So, yeah, I don't know how long we're going to be in this hole for. Obviously, the macro backdrop is still not very favorable. It could take a while for us to, to recover from this. But at the end of the day, I will say what I always say.
00:28:12.616 - 00:28:31.768, Speaker A: I've never been more bullish on Ethereum. The ecosystem, the technology, everything that we're building, it's still being built, right? Still got chugging along fine. Doesn't matter that the price is very volatile. And honestly, if it wasn't for Ethereum, I would have left this ecosystem a long time ago. The rest of the ecosystem just frankly disgusts me. Like, pretty much every single part of it disgusts me. Except Ethereum.
00:28:31.768 - 00:29:04.330, Speaker A: And as I said before, you can call me an ETH maxi for saying that, but like, just look at the evidence. I mean, how many things have just gone the way of blowing up and hurting so many users? Yes, Ethereum, obviously the ETH price has gone down. Yes, tokens in the Ethereum ecosystem has gone down. Yes, there's been Ponzi's and scams on Ethereum. But if you talk, if I'm talk, I'm talking about the core Ethereum network protocol, work, people building actual things on Ethereum, like actual defi, like all that stuff still there and working and improving all the time. So, as I said, if it wasn't for Ethereum, I'd be out, guys. And so.
00:29:04.330 - 00:29:43.714, Speaker A: So I guess I'm very glad that Ethereum is, is where it is and the theorem is thriving and going to continue to thrive into the future. All right, shifting gears here to a bit of news that came out today that got completely overshadowed by the FTX News, but is just as important, I believe. So. Peter van Valkenberg from coincent r put out a tweet saying OFAC today repealed the Tornado cash designation that coincenter is challenging in court and then replaced it with a new one. Nothing they've announced trades, nothing they've announced changes. Our strategy in this lawsuit. You remember that coin center is suing OFAC with David Hoffman and a couple other people, I believe, over these, these sanctions.
00:29:43.714 - 00:30:45.380, Speaker A: And where's the tweet here? Gabriel Shapiro had a tweet about this as well, where he said OFAC revokes tornado cash designation and redesignates with clarity on what person, quote, tornado cash is, ie, the unincorporated association of Tornado Cash Founders and developers, plus the tornado Cash Dao, a tacit surrender to coincenter's lawsuit, but also a more legally credible pivot. To be clear, this raises, leaves various questions. How can we determine what prosperity property this alleged, this alleged entity owns has interest in when it's some kind of novel joint venture with no contracts? Who exactly is included in the tornado cash Dao at any given moment? And more. And then Collins Belton, another lawyer here, replied, saying, this would be more credible to me if the Dow actually had any say on the developers activities here. Governance structure, financial incentives, et cetera, aren't really things that the tornado cash Dao had a material say on, other than relayers on the home page. So, yeah, I mean, it's just a lot of legal stuff going on here, a lot of legal maneuvering going on here from OFAC. It doesn't change anything about the sanctions.
00:30:45.380 - 00:31:31.052, Speaker A: And I think it actually, like they actually added an address to the sanctions. There was a tweet here from Michael from open Zeppelin who said new addresses added to the tornado cash OFAC list. Some of them include testnet contracts. So who does the US treasury think it is laundering DPRK or the People's Republic of North Korea money and using test ether? Did they just copy paste the tornado cash docs list and not check any of them? So, yeah, more stuff from OFAC that doesn't really make sense from a technology point of view. But Michael calls out North Korea here. So I think. I think Ofak actually came out on top of this and said that the money that was being funneled to North Korea via tornado cash was being used to fund their nuclear weapons program.
00:31:31.052 - 00:32:12.984, Speaker A: I've said in the past that I believe that if you read between the lines, that the main reason tornado cash was targeted or the only reason pretty much was because of that link to North Korea and them using it to funnel funds that they hacked via the Lazarus group. APT, or. APT stands for advanced persistent threats, basically a cyber security term. But, yeah, this is just more confirmation on that. And they're saying directly, you know, to fund their nuclear weapons program. So you can see why Ofak is being so strict here, because from their point of view, the North, North Korea, right, repressive regime has been able to raise a lot of money, or I guess, like steal a lot of money and then hide their. Their tracks to get that money.
00:32:12.984 - 00:32:46.238, Speaker A: Sorry to get that money, but probably out of crypto into something where they could fund into something like fiat or us dollars, for example, where they could fund their nuclear weapons program. I guess that speaks for itself. Right? So that's the update on the oFAC stuff. Now, a bit of positive news around the censorship, resistance stuff or censorship stuff on Ethereum. This had been creeping up the other. Over the last few weeks, the post merge OFAC compliant blocks on Mevwatch dot in fo, I think it went to, like 76% enforced OFAC compliance. But it's been trending down over the past couple of days.
00:32:46.238 - 00:33:14.340, Speaker A: It's now at 70% of total blocks, obviously still a lot higher than it was just a few weeks ago, and much higher than we would want to see it. Obviously, we want to see it at 0%. Right. But if I untick include all blocks, we can actually see where this is coming from. So flashbots dominance has actually dropped very dropped by a lot here. That's at only 73%, whereas blocks route max profit, which is an uncensoring relay, is now at 18.5%. I believe they were at only three or 4% a few weeks ago.
00:33:14.340 - 00:33:46.300, Speaker A: So they've been able to, to gain a lot of market share here. And then if we scroll down to this chart, from this chart on MeV Watch dot in fo, we can see the green area here. The not OFAC compliant blocks is in increasing. And this is not including all blocks, is it only including relayed blocks, which, which paints a much better picture because the relay blocks was at 92%, I think, at peak or something like that. And now over the last day, it's only 79% of relay blocks enforcing OFAC compliance. So very, very awesome to see that. The trend seems to be shifting here.
00:33:46.300 - 00:34:29.476, Speaker A: Whether that continues or not is up for debate, right? I don't know. Obviously, I can't tell the future, but it seems that the relayer market is getting more distributed, it's becoming more competitive, and flashbots dominance is going down, which is exactly what we want to see here. You know, and as I've said before, even if flashbots wasn't censoring, I would still want to see their dominance going down. I don't think there should be any dominant relay because of the fact that the whole point of mev boost is to create a marketplace and a democratized marketplace for, I guess, relays for mev extraction. So in order for that to actually materialize, we need these relays to gain market share. We don't need them to just be online, we need them to gain market share. So very cool to see blocks throughout max profit gaining market share here as a percentage of blocks.
00:34:29.476 - 00:35:08.550, Speaker A: And, you know, if you look at the last hour, they're even higher that 19%, but last hours, a bit noisy. I'm looking at the last day, last seven days as well. But yeah, there are different timeframes here of the block. So very, very cool to see that things, things seem to be looking up here. And on a related note, Barnaby here from the robust Incentives group at the Ethereum foundation has published a long blog post on proposal builder separation, a collection of the various topics related to mostly protocol side PBS and how they all tie in together. If you want the definitive, I guess, blog post on PBS, this is probably it. I would probably suggest this over anything else at this point.
00:35:08.550 - 00:35:41.856, Speaker A: I know there was one that pseudo theos and I believe Domothy co wrote together, which is really good as a. Probably an introductory piece, but this one from Barnaby goes much deeper. So if you're interested in learning more about PBS and how it affects mev boost and how it affects mev and censorship in general, then this blog post is definitely for you. Highly recommend giving it a read. It's going to give you a great overview of everything PBS, so definitely go check that one out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, another big piece of news that came out, I believe two days ago now was that the library token.
00:35:41.856 - 00:36:24.744, Speaker A: So lbry token has been classified as a security. So the SEC had brought a lawsuit against the creators of the library token, the library project, I guess like whatever the company is behind them. And you can see here Gabrielle had another tweet, had a tweet saying uh, it's dicta. But here the library judge reasons that even if the team was completely silent about efforts, no promises, no contracts, but pre mines tokens, that alone creates a sufficient expectation of profits from their efforts in common enterprise to pass the Howie test. Now, this is a very bad results. And then Gabrielle goes on to say, I think the judges reasoning in this dicta is challengable. It essentially counts the same facts, library team earning tokens as satisfying two different elements of Howie.
00:36:24.744 - 00:36:53.396, Speaker A: If that was how the test was meant to be applied. Well, there's even be two elements rather than one. So Gabriel is basically saying that this doesn't really make sense from a legal point of view and the judge got it wrong here. And there was also a reply that was, that made an analogy here, I think. Yeah, Troy said Beanie babies are a security because ty held an inventory of Beanie babies. Yeah. In the transcript of the oral argument, the judge literally says he would view Beanie babies as an investment contract she scheme, which is Gabriel replying here.
00:36:53.396 - 00:37:07.964, Speaker A: So obviously the judge, I mean, I think he's get, the judge has gotten it wrong here. Gabrielle seems to think the judge has got it wrong here. I don't know much about the library project. I know, I know of his existence. I've heard of it a bunch of times. But yeah, this is a bad result. It does set a bad precedent.
00:37:07.964 - 00:37:45.964, Speaker A: Hopefully there can be an appeal and library gets this overturned. But, you know, the differences between something like this case and the Ripple case is that I doubt the library team has anywhere near the amount of money that ripple has to spend on lawyers. Like, that's just the sad reality of it. The more money you have to spend on lawyers, the better your chances are of fighting these sorts of things. So I'm still rooting for Ripple to win their case. Against the SEC, because that would set a, an even greater precedent than the library thing. I think the library thing ends up being a footnote, whereas the, the ripple thing, if they win, ends up being kind of like the headline, right, and kind of ends up being the thing that people reference in future cases.
00:37:45.964 - 00:38:34.028, Speaker A: And then some people ask me, you know, what does this mean for ETH? Like his ETH going to be labeled a security? Because everyone always talks about this and he had a pre mine this and that guy's like, I mean, look, you could, it's, it's hard, you know, I'm trying to go through my thoughts here and trying to give as much clarity as possible here. You, I think I'll start with, you can always argue for any one side of anything. Like, that's the whole point of a court. You go to court, you have a defense, you have a prosecution, you argue both points, and then depending on who's arbiter doing the arbitration, whether it's a jury or a judge or both or whatever, you come to a conclusion in the end and it really doesn't matter who's right or wrong. I mean, that's a sad reality. It matters who presents the best argument. So what do you think is going to happen if, I don't know.
00:38:34.028 - 00:39:02.076, Speaker A: I don't think this is going to happen. But what do you think is going to happen if the SEC goes after the Ethereum foundation and says, hey, we are suing you because we believe ETH is a security? Well, the Ethereum foundation has a shit ton of money. They're going to be lawyering up instantly. They're going to have the best representation, probably just as good as ripple, if not better, in the courts. And, and that'd be that. I don't think that ETH would be labeled as security, and that's just on the legal side of things. Then you, then you consider, oh, sorry, the service level.
00:39:02.076 - 00:39:44.908, Speaker A: Then you consider all the arguments as well. The lawyers would simply argue that, like, if you're considering a pre mine to, to meet the criteria of the Howie test and to meet that investment scheme criteria, well, then you could literally expand that out to anything that anyone ever produces. Like, as I said, there was that Beanie baby example, but you could say that Apple pre mines the iPhone because they create it. Like that's, that's the, that's the kind of logic you can follow here. And that's exactly what the lawyers would do. They would say, you know, this doesn't make sense because it would apply to everything here. This is the part, you know, and they would argue this is what we think makes more sense based on such and such and such law, regulations, precedent, and different cases and all that.
00:39:44.908 - 00:40:00.682, Speaker A: Different case law and all that sorts of stuff. So it is a very complex machine. Do I think either is going to get labeled a security? No. Right. The SEC probably already would have gone after Ethereum or at least made some noise. I haven't seen that yet. Maybe I'm jinxing it by saying they won't do it.
00:40:00.682 - 00:40:21.902, Speaker A: I'm not saying they won't do it. I'm saying that I believe there's a low chance of it. Things can always happen. Like, they're always black swans, as we've seen this year. There's plenty of. Of these things that can happen. But I don't think the library case sets a kind of precedent here, because there has been other things being labeled as security by the SEC, and then it, you know, things just continued on.
00:40:21.902 - 00:40:59.530, Speaker A: And like, for example, there was another. Another case with eos, another big profile case, where they admitted that it wasn't SEC at time of issuance, they paid a fine, and now, sorry, they made it. It was a security at time of issuance and they paid the fine, and now eos isn't a security, like, as it currently exists. So worst case scenario, ETH would probably be treated the same where the Ethereum foundation would admit no guilt. They just. They may sign something that says, hey, like, yeah, okay, it was a security at time of the pre mine or time of the sale, but it's no longer a security, so literally nothing would change. Uh, the.
00:40:59.530 - 00:41:22.106, Speaker A: Maybe the Ethereum foundation pays a fine, which is probably a rounding error for them. The kid is seeing how much money they have, and that's it. So I believe that would be the worst case scenario, which is still, like, not a bad scenario in my. In my eye, in my mind, but I'll keep tabs on this. I'll see what, what happens. I'll see if I hear anything down the grapevine. But, yeah, from what I've seen, it doesn't seem like this case, um, with library is going to set any, any kind of big precedent here.
00:41:22.106 - 00:42:07.644, Speaker A: I believe the ripple case would set much more pre set and be much more impactful than. Than this one, but still shitty to see that this judge is just being very unreasonable here and not applying the Howie test as it's supposed to be applied. And hopefully, as I said, the library team can win on an appeal here. All right, so some very positive news, and I'm sure some of you caught the live stream today of this, but ETH is now net deflationary since the merge. So you can see on ultrasound money that the merge happened 55 days ago. And supply chains, supply chains, supply change since then is negative 489 ETH. So I put out this tweet, what is it? Twelve hour, 11 hours ago, and we are still net deflationary 11 hours later, which is very, very cool.
00:42:07.644 - 00:42:44.790, Speaker A: Now, I think this is because gas is high due to everyone getting wrecked because the prices are going down of everything. But, I mean, I'll take what I can get at this point, but this is just incredible, guys. And the reason why it's incredible is not so much the deflation, the net deflation since the merge. It's more when you. When you toggle this button that says simulate proof of work, and you see that even with the burn, if we were still on proof of work, we would have issued 653,000 ETH over the last 55 days, which is almost a billion dollars worth of ETH. Two miners who we know are forced sellers. So that would have added more sell pressures to Ethan that than currently exists.
00:42:44.790 - 00:43:13.254, Speaker A: And for sure, ETH would already be back in the triple digits. Now, 8th is at 1183. I don't know where it's going to go from here, but I don't think you can deny how much sell pressure has been alleviated just from this. And as I've always said, over the longer term, over the year, over the years, this is going to play out in a really, really, really big way in my mind. But, yeah, I mean, the main milestone here is the fact that we're net deflationary since the merge, which is absolutely awesome. I hope it continues. Obviously can go back to inflationary since the merge.
00:43:13.254 - 00:43:39.786, Speaker A: And I've said plenty of times that I don't think measuring it over, even like, a two month, three month period is totally accurate. I prefer to measure things over, over yearly periods, but this is still, like a very cool milestone. But if we click like, you know, since ERP 1559 was implemented 460 days ago, we are still net deflationary by -1.27% per year. So we're still deflationary. Right. And we've still come down from the peak eat supply.
00:43:39.786 - 00:44:02.658, Speaker A: That happened kind of pre merge here, which is just. Yeah, I mean, it's just amazing, guys. Like, I honestly, I'm very, very excited about this stuff happening in bear markets because of. The fact of the matter is that we. We basically are living up to our deflationary meme. They are living up to our ultrasound money meme. I'm just very happy about that in particular.
00:44:02.658 - 00:44:38.352, Speaker A: So yeah, I guess congrats to the Ethereum network for, for and the asset becoming net deflationary. I think everyone loved seeing that today. All right, so just a few other updates to get through as this refuel is coming up on the hour, I think, or it's going to be an hour long by the time I'm finished. But a theorem pools dot in Fo has a great blog post out today measuring the performance of Ethereum staking pools. So they titled this performance analysis of Ethereum staking pools. They also looked at solo staking as well, I think around the time of the merge. So 12 hours before and 12 hours after it happened, this was the analysis done.
00:44:38.352 - 00:45:23.400, Speaker A: So go read this blog post. It's quite a lengthy analysis. You can see everything in the post itself. There is a thread that accompanies this as well that you can go check out, and there's a bunch of nice little pretty charts here showing this. But basically solo stakers performed very, very well around time of the merge, which is, I guess, to be expected because solo stakers are definitely more the individual staker. They don't want their, they care more about the network on Netflix, and they obviously don't want to be losing money either from going offline or from not attesting to blocks and things like that, or from not, so I should say, proposing blocks, considering the rewards that became juicier because of the execution layer rewards. But just great to see a nice little analysis done here from ethereumpools dot in fo, which, as I said, you can check out the blog post for, and I'll link that in the YouTube description below.
00:45:23.400 - 00:46:20.844, Speaker A: But I want to see more of this analysis happening, especially as time goes on, because I think rating the effectiveness of different staking providers will give people a more informed view of who to go with. Like, if it's not possible for you to solo stake and you want to see the performance of different staking operators from, I guess like an, um, well, I wouldn't say unbiased third party, but at least from a third party, well, this would be something to watch, that's for sure. All right, so David Mihal has launched a new website called Crypto Flows Dot in Fo, which is them his most ambitious website yet. So he says here, crypto flows aims to be the first complete map of the crypto ecosystem, charting the relationships between all major chains, chains and the bridges that connect them together I think I mentioned on the refill that I would love for someone to build this a little while ago and basically, basically shows the relationship between all the chains. Well, here we have it. We have a nice little visualization here. As you can see on my screen, you have Ethereum in the center with these purple arrows going everywhere and showing funds bridging from.
00:46:20.844 - 00:46:39.532, Speaker A: From chain to chain. And you've got a list on the right hand side of top exporters and top importers. So Ethereum has exported $15.7 billion worth of value and imported $4.4 billion worth of value. So people definitely are on Ethereum and then migrate their funds to other. Other chains, such as polygon, the pos chain.
00:46:39.532 - 00:46:58.342, Speaker A: You know, optimism, arbitrum, and other. Other evm ecosystems, like the. Like BSc and things like that. And then you can see top importers. You know, which chain is actually the biggest beneficiary here? Well, BNB chain is actually first with $9.7 billion going to BNB chain here. And then aetherium has at 4.4
00:46:58.342 - 00:47:24.682, Speaker A: billion, as I mentioned before, polygon, pos, arbitra, minor optimism coming in in 3rd, fourth, and fifth place, which is awesome to see, but it's just crazy how much value BnB chain was able to import there. I mean, as I said before, like, about CZ, he's a. He's a very ruthless operator, but, I mean, he's a very good businessman. Like, I have to give him credit where it's due there. He's done a. I mean, he's done a bunch of shady stuff in the past, as well, I think, especially as in the earlier days of binance. But he operates ruthlessly.
00:47:24.682 - 00:47:52.464, Speaker A: He hasn't blown himself up yet. And he's managed to create an on chain ecosystem with BNB chain that I believe Bnb chain would be the second most active on chain ecosystem behind only ethereum. So, yeah, you've got to give credit there. But this site is awesome. I love it. I think it's really great way to visualize what's happening across all these ecosystems and to actually put numbers to the narratives, because there'll be a lot of people who say, oh, you know, all this money's going from a theorem to this chain, and a theorem is getting. Losing users to this chain.
00:47:52.464 - 00:48:14.484, Speaker A: It's like, okay, well, let's look at the actual facts here. For all the talk of some of these chains, right, they don't even register some of them in terms of. In terms of liquidity that they've imported. So. So, yeah, I think it's always good to get actual data behind the narratives and have it visualized, like what? Like what David has done here. But, but yeah, you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:48:14.484 - 00:49:05.848, Speaker A: All right, last up here, we have something that launched a couple of days ago, which is called Helios. So this is a fast, portable and secure ethereum lite client written in rust from the A 16 Z crypto team. So Helios syncs in 2 seconds, uses no storage, and provides trustless access to Ethereum. So this is a true light client, guys, which is absolutely awesome. I mean, there's a blog post here that you can go read, but basically what this does is it allows you to connect to a centralized RPC provider with your lite client, sync to them, but then have cryptographic guarantees that that centralized RPC provider is telling the truth, so to speak. So you don't have to sync your own full node to use your own RPC or to, I guess, like have a trustless way to access an RPC. You can do it with running a light client and then, and then talking to a centralized RPC provider, but having guarantees that they're not doing any funky business.
00:49:05.848 - 00:49:44.714, Speaker A: You know, they're not forging anything, forging any transactions or sending wrong, sending back the wrong data, which is very, very cool. And what's even cooler is this came from a 16 z, right. Didn't come from Ethereum foundation, it didn't come from Ethereum foundation backed teams, didn't come from really anyone in that's in the Ethereum ecosystem directly. It came from a 16 z, which as you guys know, is one of the biggest funds in the world. So just awesome to see this. Like, as I said, you can read the blog post to get more details here, but just a really big announcement and release that you can run starting today that I think got swept under the rug a little bit because of all the other news that's been happening over the last 48 hours. So yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description.
00:49:44.714 - 00:50:29.428, Speaker A: You can go check it out below. But just to end this extra long episode for today, wanted to give some very, maybe not very final, but like final thoughts for today on the last 48 hours. I think generally when you think things can't get worse than what they've been like, I don't think thinking in those absolutes helps you as an investor and helps you as someone in the crypto ecosystem, because as we've seen time and time again, like things can always get worse than what they seem. And that's because a lot of these, a lot of these things are opaque. So, for example, pretty much all the centralized stuff going on is opaque. You don't know what's going on under the hood. You, you have to trust that these operators are telling the truth.
00:50:29.428 - 00:51:15.632, Speaker A: You can't order anything. You can't have really any guarantees over the audits done by third parties. And it's just like a whole mess of that, right? So, but then you come into defi where you can order everything. Everything's transparent, everything's backed, everything works. You know, everything has worked through multiple crisis, multiple massive kind of events, massive volatility events. And you could contrast the two worlds and you can kind of see that while things can get worse, there are always pockets that are getting better. And I think every one of these events that happens, Defi gets stronger, Ethereum gets stronger, and it emboldens builders to basically say, why am I building centralized things when I can be building decentralized things? And the clearest example of this, I believe, is Coinbase.
00:51:15.632 - 00:52:03.262, Speaker A: They've been contributing a lot to Ethereum over the past twelve months, especially a lot to DeFi, a lot to L2s on Ethereum. They've been contributing directly to Ethereum core protocol work with 4844. And I actually believe the end game for Coinbase is to become a decentralized exchange. I really do think that eventually Coinbase, they'll probably keep their fiat on off ramp gateway as the fully regulated thing, but eventually they'll probably pivot to just being a fully decentralized exchange using a ZK roll up or something like that. Maybe something similar to a Dy DX, except actually decentralized and scalable and. And run by Coinbase, but in a way that you can order that, it's transparent, that you can kind of see what's happening. You don't have to trust anyone.
00:52:03.262 - 00:52:26.524, Speaker A: I think that really is the end game for Coinbase. And it seems like they are barreling down towards that and they're actually committed to that. So massive kudos to them for that. But I don't think they're their only example. I think, as I said, the more of this stuff that happens, that the more time goes on, we get more and more builders coming in that are like, screwed CFI. I'm going to build Defi because at the end of the day, that's what we're here to do. We're not here to recreate Tradfi with crypto.
00:52:26.524 - 00:52:57.082, Speaker A: Like, that is just the most boring and dystopian outcome I can even think of. Like Tradfi has all of the same issues that, that centralized finance within crypto has. Opaque. There's only select people who actually have access to the data. You have to trust people in sit in tradfire, you have to trust governments, because the people who are regulating the tradfi are governments. And if the government isn't actually regulating them properly, if the government isn't making sure that they're doing what they're saying they're doing at least the things like the 2008 blob, right. For example.
00:52:57.082 - 00:53:29.594, Speaker A: Because if you've only got one entity able to audit things, well, that's not good. Within Defi, we have thousands of people, tens of thousands of people able to audit things. And we have plenty of people who have called most of the collapses that have happened well in advance just by looking at the chain, even the c five collapses, because you can even see things and you can connect dots on chain from these c five operators, but that's still not good enough because those dots that you connect sometimes don't pan out. Right. And it's very, it's very hard to get a full picture. So you don't know the extent of it. We still have absolutely no idea the extent of the FTX block.
00:53:29.594 - 00:53:53.958, Speaker A: We don't know what the contagion is like. We don't know how much they've lost. Estimates put it at five to $10 billion in the hole. Right. We have absolutely no idea where the, what, what money they've got left, where the, where, where they've stored it, what assets they have it in. You know, we have no idea what, what SPF is doing behind the scenes. Like, none of that, right, which just again shows the value of Defi, shows the value of Ethereum, shows the value of what we're building.
00:53:53.958 - 00:54:33.838, Speaker A: So short medium term pain for long term gain, really. And that's, I think always what happens with these crashes that we have that, I mean, it is quite painful to see ETH go down yet again and just meander around and the whole crypto ecosystem go down again. And one of these, you know, one of the biggest exchanges collapse and users get hurt again. But I do truly believe that in the long term, it makes Ethereum and Defi stronger. It makes Defi a stronger value proposition for builders, for users, for the world. And we just need to make DeFi as it just as easy to use as CFI. And I do believe that we can onboard the next 10 million, 100 million people into DeFI instead of CFI.
00:54:33.838 - 00:54:46.384, Speaker A: On that note, going to end this episode at that. Thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
