00:00:00.400 - 00:01:33.851, Speaker A: I think Multicoin is very, very opinionated about the fact that we are thesis driven investors. We spend most of our time internally thinking about markets and market structure and trying to identify what the specific components are about a specific product in a market, you know, both at the service area of the product and within distribution in order to sort of carve out a wedge and sort of become like a massive large business within it. Helium is sort of like the grandfather of what has now become this class of infrastructure combined with applications that everyone knows as deepins. You can scale the deployment of infrastructure and redistribute the capex of building out networks, assuming you have hardware of a specific profile and it makes sense to build out a network that, that can, you know, that can be used in a variety of different ways. Yeah, I mean, you want to talk about capex heavy businesses, right? Like you can see how much like the Mag 7 are spending on computer infrastructure. And you know, everyone is talking about the advent of AGI in the next three years, whether or not you believe sort of where we are on that timeline. I think it's fairly table stakes to say that AI is going to be sort of a defining, you know, sort of like paradigm in terms of like the way technology gets built over the course of the next decade.
00:01:34.003 - 00:02:06.415, Speaker B: Although our guest this week is a managing partner of a registered investment advisor, nothing in this podcast should be considered an offer of multi coins investment strategy, advisory service or otherwise be confused for investment tax, legal or otherwise financial advice. I hope you enjoyed the podcast. Shayon, thank you so much for coming on the podcast. Honestly, been really looking forward to this for a really long time. So excited to make this happen during the Stanford Blockchain Conference here in New York.
00:02:06.575 - 00:02:09.989, Speaker A: Amazing. Thank you so much for having me. Big fan, excited to get into it.
00:02:10.087 - 00:02:37.565, Speaker B: Likewise. So as someone that started their career out in product, I started out in the bay in the product field and ultimately ended up at Tesla. I'm always curious of other people that kind of made a similar jump. And you started your career out in product too. Can you kind of talk a little bit about your product journey, getting into product and then kind of leveraging that to get into investing?
00:02:38.045 - 00:03:26.275, Speaker A: Yeah, totally. Maybe stepping one step back. Like getting into product and getting into investing were both sort of happy accidents and they were never sort of initially thought out as my overarching plan. But I initially wanted to become an academic. I studied math at university and kind of hit a wall towards the end of my time in college trying to figure out what to do next. And had always been pretty excited about building new things and figuring out opportunistic ways to deliver value instead of going into kind of the traditional banking consulting sort of route. And so I ended up working, got involved with some people who were trying to build an open door competitor.
00:03:26.275 - 00:04:38.895, Speaker A: That's a complicated, weird business, which we can talk about another time. But I think product is not a monolith. There's like 50 things that you could be doing within product, whether it's sort of UX or distribution or growth. And it's sort of a genderless function within an organization at different stages, which I think translates very directly to one investing more broadly because you have 50 different problems in 50 different spaces and 50 different individual situations that you need to be handling at any given time. And more specifically at the earliest stages where we have teams that are either initially launching products or coming to market and trying to figure out initial stages, that is truly the bread and butter, the meat and potatoes of whatever any business is doing. And so being really opinionated about specific cohorts, specific distribution strategies, specific points in the ux, the size of a button, these are all things that compound in various ways. And having some sort of lens on that I think translates well to the specific kind of work that I do in my investing.
00:04:38.895 - 00:04:44.259, Speaker A: It's like a Swiss army knife, right? It's like a general toolkit for all of these things.
00:04:44.347 - 00:05:36.085, Speaker B: It is weird how product, I don't know, it's kind of like a love hate position in tech because some people describe product as the CEO of the product and then you get into it and you realize you have no influence over everybody else. But you got to, to really get people excited about the general product direction. To your point, like minute details such as button sizes, removing things to make the flow better or just like getting people to agree to meetings and building kind of trust with different community members or stakeholders to drive the product forward. It is hard, but it does translate, I feel like pretty well to investing. So how did I mean, ultimately starting your career out in the product world, skip the academia route? How did you end up at multicoin?
00:05:36.245 - 00:06:35.963, Speaker A: Yeah, so I've been at Multicoin. I think this September it'll be four years and sort of winding down work at the previous company that I was at and trying to figure out what to do next and kind of seriously considered building something because that's sort of my DNA. And still to this day, and I'm sure we'll get into it, a really big part of my style of investing is Being operationally involved and trying my best to be opinionated about the way products get built, but thinking about building things. And this was sort of like early 2020. Compound farming had just become a thing and I'd been sort of adjacent to crypto. I'd had roommates kind of like make a ton of money and lose a ton of money in the 2017 era. And I've been following along, but really fully sort of getting into the rabbit hole towards the end of 2019, early 2020, and was just generally excited.
00:06:35.963 - 00:07:46.957, Speaker A: I think the meta at that time was how do we put derivatives on chain? And I was kind of thinking about what that design space looked like and then sort of did some work on what, like what the specific trade offs are of building a product there. Kyle was hiring for a role at Multicoin and I wrote about and if you've seen our application process, the starting what you need to do is put together a thesis which is offer quality that matches our blog. So I wrote about what was then called strike protocol, which is now called perpetual protocol. And it was mostly an exercise at the time, I think before in terms of understanding like what are the kinds of decisions people are making in this space. And it turned out that Multigoen had led an investment in perp Protocol at the time and so went through that entire process and kind of, you know, ultimately was fortunate enough to kind of work with Kyle and Tushar and the rest of the team. And yeah, four years have have gone by pretty quickly.
00:07:47.141 - 00:08:40.941, Speaker B: Four years is a long time. I mean, I think why I've always admired what you have done and your investing style is because the clarity of thought. And you write beautiful blog posts both on Multicoin's website. You put out great pieces on Twitter as well. And I think to me the hard part about investing is being able to dissect problems, understand certain areas of risk, how things ultimately do compound for the long term. And I think you're remarkable at that. And I want to kind of dive into some of your blog posts that you've ultimately articulated, but also get into some of your high level, maybe overarching thoughts on the space.
00:08:40.941 - 00:08:58.085, Speaker B: And one thing that we're kind of talking about was your overarching view around block space and kind of attention. Can you kind of like dive deeper into that? Because I think it's so directionally cracked. I think the listeners will find it very fascinating.
00:08:58.205 - 00:10:38.005, Speaker A: Yeah, totally. And thank you for the kind words. I think my thinking is very strongly framed by the culture we have at Multicoin in terms of thinking about how we use our time and what we want to invest in. I think multicoin is very opinionated by the fact that we are thesis driven investors. We spend most of our time internally thinking about markets and market structure and trying to identify what the specific components are about a specific product in a market, you know, both at the service area of the product and within distribution in order to sort of carve out a wedge and sort of become like a massive large business within it. And so, you know, I think maybe just stepping back to the beginning, right, like that first few years of multicoin Defi was sort of the only thing that was that sort of worked, right? And then you've seen kind of the product surface area within crypto evolve over the course of the last few years with NFTs and consumer applications and marketplaces and deep ins and things that bring other real world assets on and whatever different configurations of that are. And one thing that I've sort of tried to reason through as a kind of through line across all of the things that I've invested in or worked on at the firm, I found myself kind of realizing that if you sort of from a first principles perspective, look at what are the things that are objectively scarce in this space, I believe them to be block space and attention.
00:10:38.005 - 00:12:05.103, Speaker A: And so that means that the kinds of things that I've been drawn to have been things that are either very close to the L1 themselves. So L1s or block based auctions, MEV markets, liquid staking protocols, Oracles, Interop solutions, things in that broader design space because you are sort of really close to the metal and things that are right at the opposite end of that. So things that are explicitly consumer applications, things that own customer attention, that want to own the relationship with the end user. And if you look at sort of the largest market cap companies in the world in technology or anywhere, you'll find that things are either consumer applications or they look like TSMC or asml, right? Like they're either as close to the metal or they're as close to the end user. I think the closer you get to sort of quote unquote middleware. And there are obviously exceptions around this, right? There's brand value and things that compound there, but it's easier to get commoditized because your suppliers and your and your customers are more sophisticated. And so as a result, the things that I've worked on at the firm, things like jito and pith or render and helium IO, they all sort of take that specific shape because they control what I believe to be a scarce resource.
00:12:05.103 - 00:12:19.205, Speaker A: And that's where compounding gains in both brand and structural market positioning start to kind of take hold. And that sort of guided a lot of my investing. And I think it continues to do that.
00:12:20.185 - 00:13:11.497, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it's beautiful. And I think the underlining approach is that thesis that identify large markets, the markets that crypto is kind of a new asset class. But really what it's allowing is kind of like these decentralized ledgers for everybody to keep track of who owns what. But we're not necessarily recreating everything from scratch. We can learn a lot from history. We can learn a lot from the current largest markets where value is accruing. What do people focus on? That customer application, owning that customer stack, so to speak? I think it's being a student of history is just very important.
00:13:11.497 - 00:13:19.445, Speaker B: And I think you've done a really interesting job of just going really deep in markets and trying to understand where that value ultimately does accrue.
00:13:20.025 - 00:13:54.865, Speaker A: Yeah. And you know, like, fundamentally, I think we sort of have to kind of revisit these questions every six months, every 12 months as we see more founders taking more shots on goal at building lasting, enduring enterprises. I think the thing that's become very clear to me is that crypto is about money. The two core functions of it are trading and payments. And you can think of trading as like two payments functionally. And that's not to minimize the service area of what can be done. Right.
00:13:54.865 - 00:14:37.135, Speaker A: There's a whole host of. A lot of people don't look at deep ins and think of them as consumer applications. I think they are explicitly like they are first ordered consumer application within crypto. I think that's what crypto native consumer apps are going to look like. And there's just a lot of interesting business model innovations, distribution innovations, product level innovations that that affords you. This like global permissionless kind of state machine that's keeping track of who has what. And I think we're still in really early innings of figuring out what you can do with that.
00:14:37.135 - 00:14:51.895, Speaker A: But that's the experimentation that I'm excited about, which is building networks and building products with that substrate of being able to move money and value around with zero cost and zero friction and zero problems.
00:14:52.435 - 00:14:54.075, Speaker B: We do like things to be frictionless.
00:14:54.155 - 00:14:54.775, Speaker A: Yes.
00:14:55.875 - 00:15:41.861, Speaker B: But speaking to being early, I think one of the earlier blog posts that you did write was on proof of work. Can you kind of outline. And I think multicoin again has been, I think the first kind of crypto fund to articulate, hey, there's something interesting when you combine kind of these traditional either telecom companies, these large capex type projects with crypto as kind of the coordination backend rails. You can do interesting things. And when I was kind of scrolling the blogs, I think this was one of your earliest posts that I think you and Tushar kind of co authored. Can you talk high level about kind of that proof of work within Deepin?
00:15:42.053 - 00:16:56.045, Speaker A: Yeah. So Dushar Helium is sort of like the grandfather of what has now become this class of infrastructure combined with applications that everyone knows as deepins. Tushar was really important and involved in making that sort of transition happen. Like Helium was this example of this centralized kind of deployment of IoT infrastructure in the world. And I think the unlock that Amir kind of created and discovered and sort of popularized and you know, has, has turned into this model was that you can scale the deployment of infrastructure and redistribute the capex of building out networks, assuming you have hardware of a specific profile and it makes sense to build out a network that, that can, you know, that that can be used in a variety of different ways. Right. And so the, the original helium IoT vision, and I think it's on the order of like a million hotspots in the world right now.
00:16:56.045 - 00:18:46.327, Speaker A: The fact that you could give out tokens to people to change their behavior or to opt into a system or to buy or like create both sort of cultural buy in. But like this network footprint that could be, you know, used across the hundreds of use cases that you'll have seen Nova Labs talk about, I think it represented like a real business model innovation that was uniquely enabled by crypto Rails and I think you've seen different versions of that now. It's really sort of exploded in the last 12 months. But you could look at sort of Render and filecoin and lifebeard and sort of similar, similar networks taking on that kind of core, that sort of core insight, which is you can get people all over the world to spin up hardware, place it, coordinate around sort of the standards and sort of general behaviors that are needed to build out meaningful infrastructure that can be used in a bunch of different ways. And I think that fundamental shift in that business model, which is shifting away from what would traditionally have been you as an enterprise, go out and raise a ton of equity capital or a ton of debt capital in order to continue building out this network in this managed centralized fashion. You can scale that up by orders of magnitude and you can Create a lasting enterprise much faster than you would be able to otherwise. And I think that's being applied now to compute energy data, sensor networks.
00:18:46.327 - 00:19:34.553, Speaker A: Every potential vertical that is constrained by the fact that you may have to put up expensive hardware in different parts of the world that's going to be split out. And so that original blog post was Tushar and I really sort of looking back at what Helium figured out that you could do and trying to open up that design space and sort of like make it clear to the world. And obviously, you know, since then that mission I think has been accomplished. No, I mean thanks to, we've been a part of that. But there have been also a lot of other people who've done a lot of really great work to tell that story and make that like a ossified business model.
00:19:34.729 - 00:20:25.719, Speaker B: Yeah, I think what's fascinating is just how early kind of multi coin in you were to this general idea because it is starting to become more popular within I'd say the last 12 months. And I think to your point, that new business model that ultimately emerge is of what makes it interesting. It was like I was, when I talked with Tushar a while back ago, he was like we've kind of had these different bubbles with 2017. 2020. Well, 2017 was ICOs. 2020 was like compound and liquidity mining. Then you kind of had NFTs is but really the new way or new business model, new capital formation is what makes things fairly interesting.
00:20:25.719 - 00:21:01.075, Speaker B: And I am just, I think it's interesting just how early you guys ultimately were to that fact. When you, when you kind of take a step back and kind of look at the market, how do you kind of identify new areas or things of like oh, this is intellectually interesting, you kind of do it from the market market approach or you just kind of talk with different entrepreneurs. How do you kind of wander so to speak? Because I feel like that wandering time is very important as well.
00:21:01.735 - 00:21:57.157, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean I think you know like Helium and Deepin would not have existed. And look, maybe there's different ways and you can't really prove the counterfactual, but it was a founder led discovery, right. It was Amir taking the plunge and saying that this is what we want to do with this business. We wanted to run it asset light, we want to create this, we want to see if this new capital formation mechanism works. And he unleashed it on the world and it had the impact that it's had. And so I think a really important part of it is just being close to founders at the earliest stages and trying to talk to the most interesting kind of driven people who are trying to push the surface area of products and, you know, in interesting ways. You know, like I can give you an example.
00:21:57.157 - 00:23:42.295, Speaker A: Like we invested in this live streaming company called Unlonely. I don't know if you're familiar with the idea there was that streamers are a really interesting kind of cohort to onboard to crypto Rails, primarily because of the amount of time that they spend online, the kind of affinity they have with those creators, and how financialized that interaction already is with kind of tipping and things of that nature. And I first came across kind of Brian, the founder, like on Farcaster, and he was streaming every single day, right? He was the only streamer for a very long time. And he would just be there four hours with like 10 people listening to him. And we sort of got to know him and got more involved over the course of several months. But it's, you know, it's more sort of looking at what founders are trying to do to push the service area of product and sort of just like, you know, that's probably one leg of it and the other is, you know, similar to the discussion we were having around where do we think value accrues? What do we believe are some of the larger markets? What is untapped? Where do we think that there are openings? One of the things that I try to spend a lot of time on is trying to think about where net new consumer applications or net new deep ins can be built and then trying to talk to people who are already working in those spaces, whether they're in crypto or not, and trying to figure out whether they'd be interested in moving in that direction and being more involved at the earliest stages. So I think everyone in multicoin has kind of different ways of thinking about, you know, what's interesting to them and where we can deliver alpha.
00:23:42.295 - 00:24:10.515, Speaker A: But I think for me personally, it is. It's a combination of just being around people who are running experiments in the most, you know, in the most targeted way and kind of to the other end of that spectrum, just stepping back and thinking what's obvious and what's obvious and hasn't been tried yet and asking why hasn't it been tried yet.
00:24:12.255 - 00:25:44.361, Speaker B: Stay close to the metal on the founder side, be curious, be opinionated, and then study the markets. I do think it's rather beautiful and I hope Unlonely does well because it does make a lot of sense just how, how streamers have ultimately evolved and Even with some of the things that have kind of happened with Twitch and even the new streaming platforms being a little bit more, I don't know, restrictive, so to speak. But I think one thing that you mentioned that I've also started to see is the intersection within Deepin more broadly has kind of been founders originally I would say, well, maybe Helium was the first and they started as kind of this traditional IoT or telecom business that ultimately started exploring deep end or crypto economics. And then I think you kind of had maybe perhaps a wave of entrepreneurs say, hey, we saw what Helium did with like bootstrapping networks and this was really interesting. We want to experiment with the business model too. But those were more crypto natives. And I think now what I've started to see, and I'd be curious your opinion as well, is now it's kind of going back to talking with those individuals that maybe are not as crypto curious, but they've run these large traditional either Web2 businesses or just like telecom energy businesses.
00:25:44.361 - 00:26:16.337, Speaker B: And they're maybe crypto curious but or even unaware. And I've started to see the intersection of these founders wanting to learn more about crypto, either seeing a Helium, a hivemapper and saying, hey, this is intellectually interesting, I could potentially do that with my company. What have you kind of found there? Have you started to see in your expirations more of the non crypto or crypto native founders starting to explore deepening?
00:26:16.431 - 00:27:30.505, Speaker A: I think that's like, that's a huge chunk of value to be unlocked there. And the more the existing, the more net adoption and utilization you see of existing deeper networks, the more the theory gets validated and the more appealing it becomes to people who are, you know, have domain expertise in these other markets, have built out either like a sales motion or a demand side funnel or a working version of a product. The more those people become, you know, the closer they get to kind of actually coming into this arena and trying to build and scale their offerings in that way. And I can tell you a story about one of the deals we did most recently. I think the best way to describe it is there's a, and I won't mention the name just yet, but like there's a. There's a Chinese company called Shunlei which essentially does traffic offload. It's a cloud flare Akamai style product and they are publicly traded in the US they do on the order of half a billion dollars in revenue at extremely high gross margins.
00:27:30.505 - 00:29:16.351, Speaker A: They don't have their footprint of infrastructure is Entirely kind of customer like consumer nodes, it's desktops, it's mobile devices and they pay out those nodes using WeChat and AliPay. They have a state mandated payment rails to give out like a dollar a day to these people. That's a deep end that's operating without a net new capital asset right now. You can sort of imagine why that sort of falls short in the rest of the world. Because you don't have a standard way to kind of deliver value to someone who's sitting in Vietnam versus someone who's sitting in New York City versus someone who's sitting in Dubai. But you do with, with crypto Rails like that, that is the unlock, right? And so without going too much into the details in front running any announcements, there are people who are taking those technologies, those things that we know to work to, you know, build out new infrastructure in places where there aren't enough points of presence, targeting specific markets, knowing exactly what the orchestration is, what the technical configuration of that product is, and also understanding how to make that exact sales motion to those same customers. I think that is one of potentially 150 other examples where founders are finding opportunities in, in businesses that have a higher cost of capital or a higher amount, like a higher threshold to selling a product, trying to create either standards or consumer grade infrastructure or prosumer grade infrastructure to start competing with those and running those businesses.
00:29:16.351 - 00:30:08.805, Speaker A: Asset light. And I think that is outside of sort of the virtual kind of, whether it's compute bandwidth or storage, there's a really huge design space for physical assets. Whether it's utilities like energy or water or sensor data power lines. There's different configurations of all of these truly trillion dollar markets that are just waiting to become depends. And the hard part in all of this stuff is people within crypto are amazing. Right? There's a very specific sensibility there. But if you're trying to build a product that you know, touches the real world and you want real customers, you can't sort of build up domain expertise in a new market overnight.
00:30:08.805 - 00:31:29.215, Speaker A: And I think the big fundamental, I think one of the biggest opportunities in crypto right now is matching those two things, which is founders who have real domain expertise in some vertical and have some success in building out kind of some centralized operation, matching them with someone who is incredible, understands crypto capital markets, understands the dynamics that go around everything from managing a community to, you know, everything that comes with kind of being in crypto and sort of accelerating that transition and kind of telling the story and spreading the gospel. I think that's one of the larger opportunities in the world right now off crypto, which is, I mean, if you want to call it like deep nfi ing existing businesses. But I think, you know, I think it'll come in waves, it'll come in stages. And if that is, I think you need talent for that and you need a very concise articulation of why that existing centralized business can become asset light. And then we just need to run those experiments. And I think it's going to be an exciting space to watch over the next 12, 18 months.
00:31:29.295 - 00:32:00.409, Speaker B: I mean, I've already started to see it in some of the founders that we've been talking to, but I do think it continues to accelerate because that domain knowledge in whatever field that you are currently in does not. It can't happen overnight. You have to learn the ins and outs, bump against regulatory banking issues, making wire transfers globally, like those are hard issues that you kind of just have to beat your head against painfully and then learn where the edges are.
00:32:00.537 - 00:32:40.593, Speaker A: Yeah, it's just like a massive coordination problem. Right. It's like if you, if your business is in like selling solar panels, right. You understand the dynamics of selling solar panels better than anyone else in the world. You don't really know what the experience of building a network looks like or how to launch a token or what that means from a regulatory perspective or a liquidity perspective or a market perspective. Right. And so that feels like the coordination problem that, you know, there's a grand prize at the end of that.
00:32:40.593 - 00:32:41.209, Speaker A: I think.
00:32:41.337 - 00:32:45.777, Speaker B: I think that's what ultimately blockchains are really well suited for is the coordination coordinate.
00:32:45.801 - 00:32:46.385, Speaker A: Coordination problem.
00:32:46.425 - 00:33:37.875, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah, maybe shifting a little bit. You're also extremely deep on kind of compute markets and you have done a lot of interesting things there. You've given some talks on kind of computer crypto AI. Can you broadly speak to that market? Because I think especially now with Nvidia being one of the highest market cap companies, a lot of interesting things have started to spur from that. People are trying to find the intersections of crypto AI. But I think you're probably one of the foremost experts in this field and you have thought about it quite a bit. Can you share any ideas of where these all kind of intersect?
00:33:38.215 - 00:34:56.909, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, you want to talk about Capex heavy businesses, right? Like you can see how much like the Mag 7 are spending on computer infrastructure. And you know, everyone is talking about the advent of AGI in the next three years, whether or not you believe sort of where we are on that timeline, I think. So it's fairly table stakes to say that AI is going to be sort of a defining sort of paradigm in terms of the way technology gets built over the course of the next decade. And the scarcest resource around that. I think there's a handful of things that are inputs into that equation if you want to just be super, if you want to be structural about it, that is compute and data and energy within compute itself. When we first started looking into these markets with Render and with Ionet, which are kind of some of our larger investments in those spaces, I remember looking at the end of 2022 and early 23 and thinking there's not going to be enough silicon or fabrication facility in the world in order to keep up with the demand here. Right.
00:34:56.909 - 00:37:02.085, Speaker A: And I think what you've seen is these models are progressing at a rate that both training and inference are just so intensive and they're going to come in such high volumes over the data that exists in the world and the demand for all of that, that if there is any way to create repurposed kind of latent supply on the compute side, there is a massive arbitrage, a structural arbitrage in terms of cost and delivery of those services that can be gained over the centralized providers, the AWS and the Crusoas and the Lambdas of the world. And what we found was from a pure hardware perspective, lower grade GPUs are just as performant as some of the higher grade ones like the A100 versus the 3090 on a teraflops basis is the 3090 is in some cases more performant. There is obviously a ton of nuance around what that means in production because you have bandwidth considerations, you have storage considerations, you have memory considerations. And so the real problem here is how do you organize those latent resources in a way that you can create a parallel offering that you can sell to customers. And what we've started to see, early experiments from a handful of people trying different slices of this, whether it's training or inference, is once you've created, the only way you can produce an arbitrage is to create new supply. You're only able to deliver lower costs on a sustainable basis, is if you have new sources of compute that were not previously online. If you're taking the same sort of data centers and you're essentially just doing matching around all these things, you can't reliably compete in the long term.
00:37:02.085 - 00:37:54.381, Speaker A: Sure there are things you can do to cut those costs in the short term. What you really need to do is to bring on new supply. And what we've seen and what I've sort of learned kind of fast forward today is that any customer of either training or inference is going to have very high requirements around uptime. Because computer is not a, this is not a service that customers go into and say if it doesn't work, it doesn't work. Right. Like there are real quality assurance guarantees that you need to provide. And so the approach that we're seeing kind of a lot of people take is you can create this network of like institutional grade data centers at first and then you slowly start transitioning them off by taking a portion of that workload and transferring it out into, call it a latent supply.
00:37:54.381 - 00:39:10.483, Speaker A: Whether it's like a file coin storage provider that was previously not doing any compute tasks or a rendering farm somewhere in the world that hasn't been ever used in order to run an inference workload, it's slowly creating that transition and thinking of clustering and orchestration and distributing those workloads. Whether it's model parallelism or data parallelism or however it is that it's done. This is truly just an orchestration problem. And presupposing that it is, how do you collect the right supply side infrastructure? How do you get the right GPUs? And so this was a super long winded answer. And please feel free to we can go into any more details about this, but tokens are helpful in aggregating that supply. And we're at that stage right now where a handful of teams and a handful of people who are trying to think about that orchestration layer correctly have aggregated a bunch of resources and we're just now starting to see them kind of serve customers with those additional resources. And I expect that in the next 12, 18, 24 months you'll start to see that shift away from workload going to centralized data center to going to all these disparate units of compute.
00:39:10.483 - 00:39:17.615, Speaker A: And it'll take a while because things take time, accounting for things taking time, but I think it's going to be a pretty large unlock.
00:39:18.315 - 00:40:30.245, Speaker B: It is fascinating. I mean the amount of gamers that have 3880s, 4880s, I think I have a 3080 at home. And if you say like hey maybe you earn like a dollar a day or plus or minus potentially making those idle compute workloads run more actively, it does unlock some interesting attributes. And then figuring out what was previously centralized in terms of having co location and data centers, making that decentralized some New problems arise, but some of them actually work fairly well in distributed settings. I think right now one of the popular debates within the crypto AI community is everybody feels generally fairly confident that inference will work because in distributed fashions you can have edge computing, which works fairly well in distributed blockchain settings. But training the model may be a little bit more cumbersome at scale because the bandwidth costs. I know you've looked into this quite, quite a bit.
00:40:30.245 - 00:40:34.445, Speaker B: What are your thoughts on the trading side of kind of decentralized compute?
00:40:34.525 - 00:41:48.479, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean on inference, right. It's like it's, it's a simpler problem. You preload the model and you call it when you need to. And you know, as long as you have a strong enough, as long as you have enough bandwidth in order to kind of serve the response and the customer is not materially impacted by like an 8 second latency versus a 4 second latency that you might get from a data center, you're good, right? You can run that all day. Training is sort of, we've seen in existing configurations over the last kind of, you know, at least two years that we've been hearing about training. Like these massive training runs that cost hundreds of millions of dollars to get done, they almost all happen in dedicated data centers like mostly owned by the firms that are training these models. Because just like the number of times you have to construct like forward backward passes, it's not even just like there's like the networking infrastructure, the memory infrastructure, like all of the constraints around that are so specific that it's historically just been like too slow.
00:41:48.479 - 00:42:59.265, Speaker A: Even if it's cheaper. And the way the arms race is happening right now, you care much more about are you able to do it faster and are you able to do it better other than are you able to do it cheaper? There's no shortage of capital, at least from the folks who are taking it seriously now. That said, the science on this stuff is getting, is constantly changing, right? Like there are, you know, there are a handful of papers that have come out this year that suggest that there are better ways to do federated learning and better ways to do distributed training and people kind of releasing open source implementations of kind of what the orchestration layer looks like for doing that. And I think a lot of people are running those experiments. I think it's entirely possible that it could be right. I'm unfortunately not big brained enough to assess the technical merits of that. I think the only way we find out is people train like a large production grade model on I Think the day that we have a model that's trained on a bunch of consumer devices or 3090s will be a really interesting day and I think it's awesome if people can get it done.
00:42:59.265 - 00:43:41.559, Speaker A: Is that model going to be able to compete in any enterprise setting with what OpenAI is building? Probably not. Right. But it's worth. It's good to have the call option for people who want to potentially maybe not train, but fine tune. I know fine tuning works on distributed hardware, I know inference works. I don't know for sure if training works, but it could. And that's what makes compute markets interesting is a ton of trade offs both in the configuration of the supply and in the orchestration of and like how you pass the data around that truly the only way to figure out is people running those experiments and people are.
00:43:41.727 - 00:43:45.367, Speaker B: Going back to earlier, stay close to founders and see what they're doing.
00:43:45.431 - 00:43:46.735, Speaker A: Exactly, exactly.
00:43:46.855 - 00:44:30.921, Speaker B: No, I think it's super interesting and if anything, I think Nvidia's market cap has highlighted that we are computer constrained. People want compute and continue to iterate experiment. It's just been in short supply. It's definitely going to be an interesting arms race the next couple decades on the compute side. But I do want to shift again. And one thing that you also thought fairly deeply about is just order flows, how things work in these decentralized financial settings. Can you talk about your thoughts on kind of DEFI or decentralized finance in terms of order flows?
00:44:31.113 - 00:45:36.739, Speaker A: Yeah, I think maybe like sort of just taking one step back. I think about like in the broader, like there's always a new MEV debate that's happening every few months. I think one of the core insights that we had a couple of years ago was if you look at the value chain of a kind of transaction and then think about all of the dynamics around how that transaction gets included in a block. Really all of the, most of the value comes from the staker, right? Like the staker, it has the power and has the leverage right at the top of that value chain. And you can essentially vote with your stake around how things happen. And there's a reason people select certain validators and there's a reason people kind of configure their staking arrangements in a certain way. But really in that sort of food chain, right.
00:45:36.739 - 00:47:12.987, Speaker A: Like you have stakers sitting at one element of it. And so when we look at things like JITO or dflow which are running sort of block space auctions or order flow auctions in different capacities, it's clear that the way it feeds back into the staker is the staker defines, the staker places a vote on, I want the blocks to look like this. And then there's some configuration of how do we ultimately end up batching all of the transactions that are either coming from a trader or whether it's a trader interacting with the DEX and there's some MEV around kind of backgrounding it, or whether it's a liquidation. The validator then sort of selects the transactions in a way that maximize the MEV around it and then the staker should ultimately end up receiving a huge portion of that. That's sort of roughly in like a super roundabout way, like how we believe the MEV dynamic nets out and SEKA should be the net beneficiaries of it. Now, where value accrues in terms of, you know, infrastructure at that layer, our view is that order flow auctions are sort of the end solution to MEV in terms of what matters is giving best execution to traders and minimizing impact on markets. And the way to do that is whoever owns order flow is king.
00:47:12.987 - 00:47:37.379, Speaker A: Because then you're able to sort of match it with people who are more sophisticated and able to give you the best bids. If you are looking at traditional financial markets, whether it's sort of Robinhood partnering with Citadel, people think of that arrangement as sort of like not great. But the reality is it gives better execution to the end trader.
00:47:37.467 - 00:48:03.669, Speaker B: I mean, at the end of the day, venture is also order flow. Like you're going out, you're talking to people to get information. Order flow, I think oftentimes is viewed in kind of this negative connotation just because what happened with kind of the robinhood debacle with GameStop, but order flows is very prevalent, I would say in just like everybody's life is just receiving information.
00:48:03.837 - 00:48:54.831, Speaker A: Right? Right. And so it's like what do you do with that information when you have it and who controls the flow of that information? And the reality is that in that value chain there are stakers, there are validators, there are people who are able to sort of, there are the people who have some way of enforcing that A transaction lands in a certain spot and there's a ton of infrastructure around that where value can accrue. And we believe order flow auctions are an important part of that. Right. And so we invested in pith, which is doing some really interesting work on specifically minimizing the impact of liquidations as a result of order flow auctions. So the idea would be that when A liquidation is happening. You run that auction around kind of who repurposes the collateral in a way that creates the least impact to those markets.
00:48:54.831 - 00:49:41.475, Speaker A: And like there are different trade offs here and different configurations around who ends up like, how do you end up processing all of that stuff? Whether it's neutrality or traders that you're serving, our general view is that anything that gives best execution to the participants in the market is the end state. It's not sort of normative or prescriptive about how blocks get built or whatever, but the thing that matters is are you able to deliver best execution and order flow. Auctions are the best way of doing that, which is take the order flow from the user and match it with someone who is a sophisticated counterparty at the other end and deliver them the best possible prices. And at scale you will see that you get better execution through that way. And so different ways of doing that at the right configuration.
00:49:42.135 - 00:50:40.557, Speaker B: I think sometimes what crypto natives can ultimately get confused by is like, there's a lot of interesting things that you can do in crypto. You can kind of slap a token on or do all these interesting experiments, which are fine. But at the end of the day, for I think the industry to really mature, what we need is products that actually are delivering value at scale. And I think going back to what you said about kind of closing the gap on better execution, the goal with order flow is not like trying to just like receive more information to receive more information. It's to provide a better product at the end of the day. And it is what is super interesting about blockchain's primary goal is these asset ledgers and trading. Part of that is just how can you get better and better execution over time would ultimately results and order flow.
00:50:40.701 - 00:51:20.381, Speaker A: Yeah. And so we don't have to live in sort of the world of the XYK amm, where every transaction is creating this amount of slippage. Right. Like there are market structure matures over time and as it matures you have more sophisticated actors that come in to kind of restore the balance when things are going out of hand. Obviously there are on the road to getting to a point where that is happening reliably and sustainably for the end user. You will have weird bad actors, you will have sandwich attacks, you will have a bunch of malicious kind of Oracle updates to create liquidation. So all of that stuff is going to happen.
00:51:20.381 - 00:52:19.015, Speaker A: It's the end state from a market structure perspective. The thing that matters is how do you deliver the best product to each person in that value chain. And the reality is that order flow auctions are a really important portion of that infrastructure because there are returns to scale to order flow. And they have to work really nicely with block space auctions as well, because the block space auction has to ultimately create the transaction execution guarantee around that. And that is kind of almost a closed loop here where stakers vote with their stake around what they believe the future should be in terms of how transactions get executed and how transactions get fulfilled. And I think the market converges on the best outcome in all of these things.
00:52:19.355 - 00:52:29.471, Speaker B: We've been kind of joking, saying the Yang and D flow, the yen and Yang, Jito and D flow as kind of complementary tree each other.
00:52:29.543 - 00:52:41.631, Speaker A: Exactly, exactly. JIRO and D flow are foundational piece of infrastructure and they both sort of just like have to coexist in some way. Yeah.
00:52:41.823 - 00:53:26.713, Speaker B: And so maybe bringing the podcast back. As we're wrapping up to the beginning of the conversation, we've talked a lot about different block base, the applications, but part of the applications as well is kind of the theory around attention. And you had a really good blog post that kind of blew up in the crypto universe in a good way. And kind of articulating your, again, the thesis on attention. Can you kind of dive the listener through a little bit more of that blog post and kind of put a, like, bow on maybe the entire podcast, so to speak, and just your general thoughts as kind of an investor?
00:53:26.849 - 00:54:55.217, Speaker A: Yeah. So, I mean, I think that piece mostly came out of just trying to understand why there weren't more large consumer outcomes in crypto. Like why you haven't seen, you know, massive hits in quote unquote, crypto gaming or crypto social media, or all of the different experiments that have been tried over the last few years, and then sort of realizing that you sort of have some meta version of a consumer, like a consumer use case here, which is just the game that people play when they look at token prices. Like, that's the big crypto game, you know, that is the consumer application, which is people take an interest in these fun tokens that exist on the Internet and they build, you know, cults around them and they build community around them and they have a real impact on. I'm always fascinated when I look back in like the 2019 era between like, Chainlink and Synthetix. The. That was a real example, I think, of enough people getting excited about something to will it into, not will it into existence.
00:54:55.217 - 00:55:46.801, Speaker A: I'm sure there were a lot of people building a lot of important things in those spaces. But they really willed it into existence. And the attention around those assets in and of themselves, not the technology, those assets kind of allowed them the leash to, like, experiment and try things and continue to compound. And I think that reinforcement is really interesting because it's kind of the attention that creates the capital formation which allows you to do things with the capital. It was interesting. Like, Solana had a Deepin x memecoin hackathon here in New York, like about a month ago, which unfortunately I was not able to attend, but it felt like. It's reductive to say that those are the same things.
00:55:46.801 - 00:57:09.863, Speaker A: But the fact is that the attention creates movements in price and that has a very real impact on what the network is capable of doing. One thing Kyle likes to say is tokens are the ultimate superpower and also the ultimate liability. Which means, you know, specifically in crypto markets, which are super reflexive, when the attention cycles are moving in the right direction, they're going for you, you suddenly find yourself with a world of options and you can do interesting things, but if the attention, if the quote unquote meta changes or the narrative changes, that you find yourself in a harder spot. And just that entire flow, you know, between, like, watching this idea of caring about something turn into dollars is fascinating because you can see it happen in real time and again, exclusively in permissionless crypto markets. But so the implication I had from that thesis was like, again, like, to wrap it up, crypto is about money. Crypto is about moving value around. And if you think about consumer applications on the Internet today, they are in the business of exchanging attention.
00:57:09.863 - 00:58:20.355, Speaker A: They traffic in eyeballs and impressions. And crypto, everything that works is an exchange of value. And so when I think about consumer applications that work in crypto, they end up looking like, like exchanging value in new surfaces, meaning exchanging value inside. Not a uniswap front end or a radium front end, but inside a streaming platform like on lonely or it's exchanging new forms of value that don't exist in the world, meaning you buy, render or buy IO to go long compute as an asset class. Right? There's innovation that's possible in both the venue, which is where you trade these assets, and what you trade. And I think fundamentally that's what consumer crypto means to me, which is why I think deep ins are like a really, really kind of core part of that. But yeah, it's just, again, it's a product of having permissionless capital markets and it's a product of having this global distributed state machine that like you know, anyone can participate in at any given time.
00:58:20.355 - 00:58:24.535, Speaker A: That's what's uniquely enabled by crypto. Yeah.
00:58:25.635 - 00:59:10.969, Speaker B: Well, I think it's very beautiful. And I continue to think you're probably one of the most low key best investors within the crypto markets. And just how you articulate your thesis, how you think about things and be able to think both kind of in the short term and long term, and make calculated bets on that. And I think that's very rare. And so I'm really excited to continue to kind of follow your career as an investor and as a friend, because I think you're going to do really cool things. So really appreciate you coming on to the podcast, Sean. I think people are really going to probably watch this multiple times.
00:59:10.969 - 00:59:11.433, Speaker B: So thank you.
00:59:11.449 - 00:59:13.185, Speaker A: I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you so much. Logan.
