00:00:00.200 - 00:00:31.036, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deluge Refuel, where you cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Sosano, and today's the 20 December 2023. All right everyone, let's get into it. So actually, before we jump into it today, I just wanted to mention that I think there will be a rug fuel tomorrow. So I think I will miss tomorrow's episode tomorrow being Thursday, because I am going to a meetup in Melbourne that will probably go a bit late, so I probably won't have time to record a refuel tomorrow. I should be fine to record one on Friday. So no rug fuel on that front there.
00:00:31.036 - 00:01:05.014, Speaker A: But I'm giving you guys fair warning here. Most likely tomorrow there will not be a refuel, but I should be back on Friday there. But anyway, let's jump into the news from the last 24 hours. So we have a tweet here from Terrence who works at who works on the prism Ethereum clients saying Girly shadow fork for Deneb and Cancun. So yeah, I mean, girly was shadow forked for essentially den kun, which is obviously the Deneb and Cancun names there. And you can see on the door of the Explorer, which is the block explorer here for the shadow fork. Everything seems to be running quite nicely.
00:01:05.014 - 00:01:36.598, Speaker A: We have participation rate up near 100%, basically. And I think all the. I don't know, I don't know how many, I don't know if all the clients are currently on the shadow fork right now, but you can see the different combinations here, you know, Lighthouse, Geth, nimbus, Reth, and I mean, even refs there, which is really cool to see. Lighthouse, Nethermind, et cetera and et cetera. So yeah, it seems like the shadow fork has gone quite nicely there. Obviously this isn't the fork of the actual test net, it's just a shadow fork. We do these for Mainnet as well, but essentially the fact that it seems to be going nice and smoothly is a good sign.
00:01:36.598 - 00:02:19.012, Speaker A: It means that we should still get that fork of girly, of the girly testnet in early January, and then obviously onto the other testnets, and then shadow forks in between, of course, of Mainnet and then on to actual main net deployment, probably still in March April, as I've mentioned before there. But if you want to go check out this explorer for yourself, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But just good progress being made on getting Den kun to Mainnet, of course. And as I said to you guys, Denkun isn't the only thing that's happening on the core dev front right now. They're hard at work on Petra, which is the next Ethereum upgrade. I'm hoping that can go live next year as well, like, let's just say towards the end of next year. But obviously we have to see, see what eips end up going into it, you know, what lift is there, what the load is there.
00:02:19.012 - 00:02:51.046, Speaker A: But generally things seem to be moving smoothly. But yeah, you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so superfizz has been getting together a bunch of people to run an oval distributed validator client your or distributed validator stack here as part of a squad staking initiative. So he was doing this with nine other people. So he got nine other people to join him to do a ten person distributed validator cluster here using Opal's technology. Now, I covered this think a couple of weeks ago when Obel went live saying that you could get have up to ten people.
00:02:51.046 - 00:03:23.356, Speaker A: Obviously each of you would put in 3.2 ETH and you'd all run the full nodes and the validator clients on your own machine and be part of this cluster. So this is really awesome to see. It was a really great initiative from super fears. I didn't put my hat in the ring because I didn't want to kind of, I guess like spoil the bunch, so to speak. I wanted superfizz to be able to recruit people that haven't done a cluster before and maybe haven't even run a validator or a full node before on their own kind of hardware here. Because this kind of squad staking here is how we get more people to be validators, right? Get more people to be node operators.
00:03:23.356 - 00:03:43.860, Speaker A: And I'm already a node operator. Like I already, I'm a huge note operator. Like I'm a power user. So I didn't throw my hat in the ring for this. You know, a couple ask me, it's like, are you going to join super fears? I'm like, no, I don't think so. Because of the fact that I wanted him to recruit, in particular new people that hadn't done this before. Now, I don't know if it's named here basically, who joined him.
00:03:43.860 - 00:04:08.544, Speaker A: I think maybe Superfizz has a tweet of some of the people that have joined him here or some tweets about it, but I'm not sure exactly where it is. I mean, you can go to his profile and probably, probably find it there. But it was just a great initiative here and shows that, yeah, if you have, you don't even have to, you don't even have to have nine other people to do this with. As I show, you can do this with a minimum of like I think two or three people or something like that. I can't remember exactly what the minimum is. And you can obviously. Obviously the biggest barrier to entry is still that capital cost.
00:04:08.544 - 00:04:45.983, Speaker A: If you do it with two people, for example. I don't know if you know if that's possible. I think it should be possible, but if you do it with two people, it'd be like 16 ETH each, right? And then you keep going down from there, the more people that you add. But by doing it that way, you all get to run the instance of the validator and you all get to run a full node. You all basically get to be a node operator, which is the whole point here is to allow for the node operator set to become more distributed and more decentralized, because even if you're sharing a validator instance, you're still running a full node. So let's say there's ten people as part of this cluster. All ten of those people will be running a full node, and they're all contributing to decentralization of the Ethereum network.
00:04:45.983 - 00:05:20.644, Speaker A: They're all basically doing this, hopefully not in the cloud. I mean, I'm sure some of them will probably do it in the cloud. Hopefully a lot of them are doing it at home as well. But regardless of that, that's the whole point of keeping the validator and full node requirements really low. Right? That's, that's the entire point here, because it essentially means that you can offer the ability for anyone to run these things on consumer hardware, right, on hardware that doesn't require you to put it in a data center, it doesn't require you to spend thousands of thousands of dollars on it, or even more. And then the running cost as well, on top of that. Now of course, the trade off in the way that Ethereum is designed is that it doesn't have much capacity on l one.
00:05:20.644 - 00:05:56.860, Speaker A: So fees are really high all the time, basically. And this is, I think what a lot of people miss about blockchains generally, is that you have really two ways of doing it as a, as a layer one, you can either limit yourself, like what bitcoin and Ethereum has done, in order to maximize the amount of people that can run full nodes, that can run validators. Um, in Ethereum's case, obviously in bitcoin it's, it's miners. But let's just, let's just say full nodes here. Um, or you can do it like some other chains have done it, which they just crank up the, the, you know, the requirements for hardware and that way they're offering cheaper fees. But it's, it's much more difficult for someone to run a full node or a validator because of that. Right? So it's just a trade off at the end of the day.
00:05:56.860 - 00:06:43.570, Speaker A: And obviously Ethereum went with this trade off because Ethereum is scaling via a L2 or roll up centric roadmap, where essentially ethereum as a layer one becomes basically a b two b layer where, where the businesses are the L2s. They buy a block space from Ethereum, layer one because they can afford it, and then they on sell that block space in a much cheaper fashion to regular users. So the L2s are the user facing layer. And obviously you guys know this already, but I figured it was worth reiterating, obviously, because there was a lot of discussions lately around this and around which model is sustainable or better. I still have 100% confidence that the modular roadmap, the roll up centric roadmap, is the most sustainable model for the long term. And when I say long term, I'm talking like five plus years out guys. I'm talking when we see lots and lots and lots of adoption, whether that be humans or bots, it doesn't matter.
00:06:43.570 - 00:07:24.554, Speaker A: I'm just talking lots and lots of activity on these things. I do think the modular map is much more scalable because it can offer cheap, not only cheap fees, but free fees as well. And it can do it in a much more sustainable way where it doesn't have to subsidize things. Because also on these other chains that offer a lot of space, what ends up happening is that you need a lot of activity on there to make up for the issuance that you're paying out for the inflationary rewards that you're paying out to people that are running the powerful hardware to run the network. Right? So again, it's just a trade off space here. And you know, I don't like when people make this binary where they say one thing's better than the other and state it as fact. Like I state my beliefs, right? I believe the modular roadmap is much more sustainable over the long term.
00:07:24.554 - 00:07:44.034, Speaker A: I believe it is the better approach, but I'm not going to state that as a fact. You know, I could be completely wrong on this, right? I mean, obviously, I don't think I am, but I could be completely wrong on this. And then you have people in the other camp who think that the modular roadmap is. Is broken, that it's, you know, fragments, liquidity, and it's not interoperable, blah, blah, blah. Right. It's not sustainable, where. Which, you know, I believe is not the right way to think about these things.
00:07:44.034 - 00:08:33.564, Speaker A: Because at the end of the day, I do believe it's just an engineering problem to be solved. The interoperability issue and also the fragmentation issue, I do think that that is a very short term issue in the grand scheme of things that will get solved. And I do think some of these other chains that are trying to scale all at layer one will end up pivoting to a more modular roadmap just because it makes much more sense, not just from a scalability and sustainability perspective, but also from a social perspective, you know, and also from an experimentation perspective. Because I think what a lot of people forget is that the L2 roadmap allows Ethereum to be a much more experimental ecosystem than it otherwise would like. Imagine if we were just scaling layer one. Well, then everyone would be at the behest of the layer one roadmap, right? It would be at the behest of how slow layer one moves to upgrade. People would only be able to use the EVM, whereas with the L2 roadmap, these L2s can move as fast or slow as they want.
00:08:33.564 - 00:09:09.414, Speaker A: They can use any technology that they want. They don't have to use just the EVM. Yes, a lot of them are EVM right now, but there are plenty of other ones that aren't EVM, that are online and coming online soon. Obviously, Stockinette has been online for quite a while now. And then you have others I mentioned, fluent, which is doing wasm stuff, obviously eclipse, which is bringing Solana's virtual machine over to Ethereum. So you wouldn't get that if we didn't have the roll up centric or l two roadmap, right? You wouldn't be able, you wouldn't get that experimentation there. And that to me, is Ethereum strength, is that it's always been a really great experimentation playground, a really great place where the, you know, all these new and innovative ideas are born out of.
00:09:09.414 - 00:09:34.922, Speaker A: And that's been ethereum strength. And it continues to be ethereum strength with the L2 roadmap. But yeah, I went on a bit of a rant there about L2s. I think it is very topical lately. To talk about this sorts of stuff, because I think a lot of people are having doubts about Ethereum's modular roadmap and whether it's actually going to be as good as we think it is. And I'm not one of those people, definitely not one of those people who are having doubts about that. I do think that is going to be, and it is amazing as it exists today, but I do think it's going to get exponentially better from here.
00:09:34.922 - 00:10:39.472, Speaker A: And I do think that there is room for definitely, you know, other attempts and other kind of, I guess, like approaches here. But at the end of the day, like, I feel like sometimes I have to explain to people that I'm not playing the, you know, short term, two, three year game here. I'm playing like the ten plus year game, talk about these things and I say the term long term, I'm talking far, at least minimum five years and all the way out to ten plus years because I am only interested in supporting something that I can be a supporter of for decades to come. I don't like changing things just because the thesis didn't work out in the short term or the thesis is taking longer to play out. And with Ethereum, it's also become a kind of habit for me too, because with Ethereum it's taken long to do everything. I mean, proof of stake was promised in 2017 and then it took until 2020 for it to happen, right? So I'm used to waiting for things in Ethereum, but up until now, Ethereum has been able to deliver on all of its promises, and obviously there's a lot more promises that get made and we still have to deliver on those. But I've never been more confident in the ability for the ethereum ecosystem to deliver on that.
00:10:39.472 - 00:11:06.084, Speaker A: And that is the heart of why I'm bullish on Ethereum, and people are bullish on other ecosystems because they think they can deliver as well. And that's totally fine, there's nothing wrong with that. But I think that gets lost in the, I guess, like playground or nuthouse that is crypto, Twitter and other kind of social media platforms. But anyway, enough on that. I'm going to move on from that one there. So the latest EF ecosystem allocation update is out. So this is for quarter three, and I cover these whenever they come out, each quarter.
00:11:06.084 - 00:11:39.284, Speaker A: And it's basically the Ethereum foundation giving away a bunch of money to a bunch of projects. You can go check out all the projects that have been supported, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But the total amount that was given out for q three was $9 million. It is usually around like the nine to the $12 million mark here. And there are so many different projects supported here. You can see all from different categories such as community and education, consensus layer, you know, ZK proof, stuff like that. But if you want to go check out all those projects for yourself, you can all link this in the YouTube description below for you to do so there.
00:11:39.284 - 00:12:22.412, Speaker A: All right, so speaking before about running, I guess like full nodes and validators on lower powered hardware, the ethereum on Arm Twitter account is one of my favorites because it's always showcasing just how low power you can go with this stuff. So you can see here they've tweeted, this is a $189 arm 64 board running two ethereum l one plus l two synced nodes at the same time. Yes, both l one and l two nodes. So they're running geth and nimbus on l one and optimism or op mainnet and bases clients on l two. So you can run full archive staking l two nodes on consumer hardware. This was Ethereum's goal since day zero, and that really, I mean, that really encapsulates it, right? This has been Ethereum's goal since day zero. It's been something that we've been steadfast in not compromising on.
00:12:22.412 - 00:12:57.356, Speaker A: And it really is at the heart of what makes a blockchain special and at the heart of what actually gives blockchain its value, in my opinion. I know other people have different opinions on this, but really, at the end of the day, like when you're building a blockchain and when you're building something that's trying to be, you know, truly decentralized, you want it to be as easy for someone to verify the rules of the system as possible. Because if they don't, if they don't have that ability, you know, they don't have to verify. It's not like I'm saying that every user needs to run a full node. And obviously with like clients down the line, this is going to be a lot better overall. But lite clients still rely on full nodes. Obviously we need people running full nodes at home to keep the network decentralized.
00:12:57.356 - 00:13:50.292, Speaker A: But really, if you're not able to run your own full node, that means that you're not able to verify the rules of the system for yourself, which means you're de facto trusting someone else to verify those rules for you, which in the most extreme case means that essentially you're just reverting back to what we have today. Because today in the centralized ecosystems, especially within the centralized financial system, you're literally trusting that system, including everything that goes into it, like the governments and the regulatory bodies, you're trusting all of them to essentially tell you the truth about what's going on, not hide from you what's going on. And we've seen this fail time and time and time again. That's the whole reason crypto is a thing thing. It's the whole reason bitcoin was, was invented to basically make an open source transparent, you know, verifiable by the every everyday person financial system here. And yes, it comes with trade offs. Like, as I said, like the fees on layer one are going to be high because of this, right? This is the trade off that exists here.
00:13:50.292 - 00:14:20.992, Speaker A: But I think that trade off is worth it as long as we can scale via other, you know, via other means, which we are doing via L2s. But yeah, I mean, this has always been the kind of at the heart of it for me. If you can't verify the rules of the system for yourself, then you are de facto trusting someone else to verify those rules. And as I said, I don't expect everyone to run their own full node or anything like that, but the ability for someone to do that is the most important thing. And as you can see here, you can do it on very, very cheap hardware still. And as I've said before, this is running full nodes. This is not running validators.
00:14:20.992 - 00:14:46.824, Speaker A: Obviously, to run a validator, it takes an ETH, you know, to run a solo validator, you have to put up ETH. But to run a full node is free. All you need is hardware and an Internet connection and obviously electricity. Right? But in terms of a capital requirement, you don't need any ETH to do. You don't need to put up anything as collateral. You just need to run it on your, basically your existing hardware, on your home pc, on your home laptop, whatever it is. And yeah, I mean, the other kicker is it needs to be online 24/7 if you want to stay in sync with the network.
00:14:46.824 - 00:15:23.724, Speaker A: But in this day and age when we have like, you know, high speed Internet everywhere, well not everywhere, but in a lot of places around the world, of course. And also this day and age where hardware is really, really, really cheap, it's very easy. And you can get like these little boxes that just sit on your desk. It's really easy to run these things and just keep them running. And the cool thing about running your own full node is that you can actually use it. Not only can you verify the rules of the chain, you can actually use it as your own RPC, which means you don't have to trust a third party RPC now, and you can just use your own and relay your own transactions to the network. So that really is at the heart of what makes Ethereum really special and what makes blockchains special in general here.
00:15:23.724 - 00:16:00.770, Speaker A: All right, speaking of L2, he's got a bunch of things to talk about with regards to them today. So optimism published a blog post all about their super chain ecosystem. So they said here in the title of the post, is preparing optimism for the super chain future. Now, for those of you who need a refresher on what the super chain is, it's basically the concept of many, many, many different chains built on the op stack, many different roll ups, basically being able to interconnect with each other as part of one big super chain. So essentially a chain of chains of chains, because Ethereum is a chain of chains, which are the lay twos and then the super chains. Chain of chains, right. So it chains all the way down, really.
00:16:00.770 - 00:16:41.284, Speaker A: But obviously the benefits of this are interoperability, you know, removing removal of the fragmentation, keeping people in one ecosystem as well, without fragmenting the attention, too. And there's a few of these kind of super chain things happening right now. Obviously, op stack, then you have Polygon, CDK, Zksync has their own thing going on. And I do think that these things are going to be the ecosystems that get the most usage in the l two space, but there's going to be ones that aren't part of any of the super chains, like, for example, Starknet and Scroll and stuff like that. But they're going to still be able to interoperate with these other ecosystems through other means as well. But anyway, you can go check out this blog post from optimism. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so.
00:16:41.284 - 00:17:07.744, Speaker A: All right, so we have an update here from Rachel, who works at off chain labs on arbitram stylus. So he says here, new start. The next stylus testnet cuts fees by another 2.5. X. Cryptography is two to four times cheaper, VM acceleration is three times cheaper, and 428 adds for every one EVM add. And when not done yet. And she says here, as a test, I ran an unoptimized library against our stars VM.
00:17:07.744 - 00:17:38.521, Speaker A: It's over 5.3 times cheaper end to end than its solidity equivalent, and even better, if used as a library, and it's trivial to deploy styles is still in alpha. Just wait until we reach Mainnet. So that's the refresher stylus is basically arbitrary answer for people to build using basically any language they want other than solidity, and compile that down to the EVM. So the cool thing about that is, as Rachel said here, they can lower the fees a lot more than what they currently have. And this is true for l two s across the board. They're going to be able to lower the fees so much lower than what they are right now.
00:17:38.521 - 00:18:18.602, Speaker A: You know, not obviously, 48 44 is coming as well, and like full dank sharding eventually. But the l two s themselves can keep lowering their own fees through various different means here, and they're going to keep doing it, guys. Like, I mean, at the end of the day, fees are a race to the bottom, really. When you're building something to scale a blockchain, right, whether it's as a monolithic blockchain or as a modular one, when you're building something to scale, the fees are always going to be erased to the bottom. And as I've mentioned before, the end game is really that users don't even see fees at all because the fees are so cheap that the apps and the chains are subsidizing it, right. They're still paying the fees down to a theorem l one right after an l two. But they're just so cheap on a per user basis that the chains are happy to subsidize it.
00:18:18.602 - 00:18:58.240, Speaker A: You know, the funny thing is people, people don't. Don't think about it in these terms very often, but when you think about it on like a per user basis, let's say a per user fee is extremely cheap on these l two s, to the point that it's free. But then you have a lot of these kind of transactions paying these fees being done. You know, let's just say you have millions of transactions, tens of millions, hundred millions of these transactions done each day. Well, then you basically have the volume of fees be really high, but the per user fee is really low. Now, of course, this is not an allow to exclusive thing. This is how the monolithic blockchains plan to plan to kind of like scale out their ecosystem, right? They want to keep fees, you know, as cheap as possible, but also an aggregate.
00:18:58.240 - 00:19:25.444, Speaker A: And fees is going to be really high, which allows the network to become sustainable. But I feel like L2s have a much better. Why not? I believe. I don't just feel it, I believe that L2s have a much easier path to doing this and a much more sustainable path to doing this than the monolithic l one s. But remains to be seen how that all plays out over the next few years. We'll just have to wait and see. But great to see that the cost reductions are continuing to come here for stylus, and I can't wait for stylists to reach mainnet.
00:19:25.444 - 00:20:15.632, Speaker A: All right, so liquidity fragmentation on l two s has been a big narrative over the past few months, whether people are saying it because they're just trying to fight ethereum, or whether people are actually trying to, you know, work on the issues themselves. Uh, generally, it's accepted that it is a short to medium term issue that will be solved. And one of the ways it's going to be solved is detailed here by Ericsson in his tweet thread today, where he says, in this thread we will explore based booster roll ups, bbrs, and how they solve fragmentation. And this is something that Tyco has come up with. And Eric son is actually community advocate at Tyco, and they posted about this all the way back in April, I believe, but on the ETH research forum. And there's also some Tycho stuff that I linked in a previous refill, but you can go to Tycho's page and check that out there. But this thread does a great job of summarizing how BBRs will actually solve fragmentation here.
00:20:15.632 - 00:20:47.222, Speaker A: So you can go check out the thread for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But the TLDR is basically that the roll ups get to use the l one itself. So basically you can say here, Ericsson defines a boosted roll up is that you can think of them as an extension of the l one itself. The booster roll up can interface with apps on the l one, and any roll up added can add a booster functionality. But it makes the most sense to add it to based roll ups like Taiko. And then he continues on in his thread about what the kind of benefits are of all of this and how things can interoperate.
00:20:47.222 - 00:21:01.334, Speaker A: And the TLDRs, you can interact with all your favorite dapps regardless of the roll up you're using. And this is what it looks like visualized as well. You have roll up a and roll up b. They're using the same based sequencer here, which. And. And obviously that go. That guys goes to l one, and then everything is interoperable there.
00:21:01.334 - 00:21:29.072, Speaker A: So this is just one way that we can kind of like re. I guess, like, I mean, unfragment I should say things and kind of like bring liquidity unification for l two s. But there are multiple different ways I've highlighted polygons way of doing things. There's shared sequences. There's, there's kind of a few other ways out there as well that I think I've highlighted on the review before. So, as I said, guys, this is a short to medium term issue. This is not a long term issue, and it's going to get solved because it is obviously an issue.
00:21:29.072 - 00:21:50.886, Speaker A: The teams want to solve it. And it doesn't require from my knowledge, any changes to l one to solve this issue. So it can happen a lot faster than, than it otherwise would. Because if you're trying to get a change into l one, that obviously takes a while. I mean, by the time Denkun goes live, it'll be almost a year since Schappeller went live when we were supposed to, you know, deliver it in like six months after Chappella. But that obviously didn't happen. But that's what I mean by like, l one.
00:21:50.886 - 00:22:07.910, Speaker A: Just moving a lot slower than, than Altoo's here. But yeah, you can go check out Ericsson's thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right. Obviously there's been a lot of noise on, I guess, social media lately about it. Just like crap, really. I mean, no, it really is noise.
00:22:07.910 - 00:22:57.488, Speaker A: It's not signal at all. But Jesse Pollack put out a great, like, counter, I guess, narrative to this today where he said, for what it's worth, all the people. So Jesse Pollack is the lead on base, by the way, for those of you who don't know. But he said, for what it's worth, all the people I work with are talking about making smart wallets usable, driving average l two fees to less than a cent, bringing l two s to stage two decentralization, enabling l two interoperability for seamless ux, and making it dead simple to build on an l two. And then, of course, he says, ignore the noise, just build. I think what ends up happening a lot in this ecosystem is that people pigeonhole themselves into certain communities, right? So you'll pigeonhole yourself into, like, crypto Twitter, or you'll pigeonhole yourself into crypto subreddits, or you'll pigeonhole yourself into what people are saying on YouTube, and you don't kind of get that cross sectional view of the entire ecosystem. And I'm guilty of this myself as well.
00:22:57.488 - 00:23:34.528, Speaker A: I spent a lot of time on Twitter even though I, you know, it's kind of funny how much time I spend on Twitter, even though I hate, like, a lot of the time I spend on there because it's just so much noise. Um, but at the same time, like, I can sometimes pigeonhole myself into things as well. Or maybe you just sit on discord all the time and you're in one community, and it becomes a kind of, like, echo chamber of sorts, too. And I don't necessarily think echo chambers are the worst thing in the world, but there is that kind of, like, uh, those negative externalities of them, right, where essentially, if you're only paying attention to, for example, crypto Twitter, or most of the stuff on there has nothing to do with what's being built. It's just, like, a lot of speculative stuff, a lot of dj and behavior. And, of course, there's nothing wrong with that. I'm not saying that at all.
00:23:34.528 - 00:24:04.902, Speaker A: But if you're interested in following along with, like, the develop the builder developments, if you're interested in following along what's happening on the fundamental level and from the long term thinkers, then you're not necessarily going to get that from crypto Twitter. I mean, I know that, obviously, I cover a lot of things on the refuel. I mean, most of the stuff I cover on the refuel is tweets, and it's got nothing to do with speculation. But that's because I curate this. Like, I spend so much time on Twitter because I have to go through and curate this. Like, the tabs that you see is the result of hours and hours and hours worth of curation here, guys. Like, I don't just, like, find these things.
00:24:04.902 - 00:24:36.502, Speaker A: I mean, maybe there's a more efficient way to do it, but I didn't just find these things within five minutes. I have to go through it all, and then I have to decide which ones I want to cover, you know, so on and so forth. Right. But. But, like, all this is to say is that, like, if you actually talk to the actual builders and you actually talk to people in real life, the tune is just so different. Something like crypto Twitter or even, like, a subreddit. I know people who spend all of their time exclusively on the cryptocurrency subreddit, which I would actually argue is worse than Twitter for the, you know, signal to noise ratio, because it's just, again, shilling of random things.
00:24:36.502 - 00:25:12.600, Speaker A: I mean, I don't even know what their favorite coin is right now, but they always have a new favorite coin, like, flavor of the month sort of thing. And so does crypto Twitter, mind you. Right? But really, if you want to have the most intellectual discourse in this space, you talk to the actual builders, right? You talk to people with a long term mindset. You don't go talking to the speculators. Most of the speculators do not care about this stuff. They only care about making money, which, again, there's nothing wrong with that. But if you don't, if you care more about more than making money, then why are you going to go talk to the DJ and speculators about that, right? It's like me going to talk to them about the tech, saying, hey, guys, you know, l two s are really cool, and I'm really looking forward to 48 44 going live.
00:25:12.600 - 00:25:42.120, Speaker A: And then there's going to look at me with these puzzled eyes, being like, dude, what the hell are you talking about? I'm going and degenerating on this new dog coin. Like, I don't care about that, right? And sometimes they'll care about it in, if it's part of their trade, right? They'll obviously shill it because it's part of the narrative. But a lot of the time, they don't even know what they're talking about. They're like, oh, yeah, you know, 4844 is coming. That means, you know, it's going to be bullish for ETH and l two tokens. And they don't even know what 4844 is. It just becomes a narrative, right? So when I guess, like, the point of what I'm trying to say here is when, like, looking at these sorts of things, don't pigeonhole yourself.
00:25:42.120 - 00:26:19.416, Speaker A: Try to expand your horizons here. Try to not kind of just focus on one, one thing and try to spend time on different kind of platforms as well. And if something's becoming too noisy for you, probably a good idea to ignore that platform or at least reduce your time on it. Not obviously, I need to follow my own advice when it comes to this, because I've been someone who complains about crypto Twitter all the time, but spends a lot of time on it. But I think if it wasn't for the refuel, I probably would have quit crypto Twitter by now. I think I've said that a few times, but maybe, you know, at some point in the future, I'm going to just, like, hire someone to collect all the tweets for me and all the content for me, and I'll still do the refuel, but I just won't expose myself to Twitter anymore anyway. Gonna leave that one at that.
00:26:19.416 - 00:26:53.576, Speaker A: Got a couple more things to get through. So this Twitter account, which I thought was quite funny, it's called 13 year old VC in NYC works with with Eigenlay here. Just put together a really great, great, really great tweet summary of Eigen layer. So if you've been wondering what Eigen layer exactly is, what people are excited about it, how it actually works from a TLDR fashion, and a lot of the projects building on it as well, you should definitely go check out this tweet. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. It just does a really, really great job of summarizing it all and basically summarizes my bull case for Eigen lair as well. So you can go check that out.
00:26:53.576 - 00:27:37.320, Speaker A: We'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do. So I just wanted to give a shout out here to this blog post from Jonathan Meyer talking about the ether. And this is, I guess like a discussion around the language that and usage and style for Ethereum, and a case to refer to the broader ecosystem, more commonly as the ether in mainstream contexts. So I'll link this in the YouTube description below, but it is an interesting kind of exploration of language within the Ethereum ecosystem and how we can evolve it to be more in line with what, you know, the Ethereum ecosystem believes and principles and things like that. So definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, I've saved the best for last for today's episode, and I'm going to leave you guys with a bullish rant before I rug you on tomorrow's episode.
00:27:37.320 - 00:28:07.520, Speaker A: But I put out this tweet that I spoke about on yesterday's refuel. Basically, I titled it a modest bull case for Ethereum in 2024. Now, this tweet basically just goes through all of the things that are not all of them, but like some of the things that I'm most excited about in 2024 and some of the narratives that I think people are going to latch onto when it comes to Ethereum and ETH in 2024. And I want to go through each of them, each dot point here and just speak to a little bit of them. But you can go check out the tweet for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But basically the first point is the most obvious one.
00:28:07.520 - 00:28:52.924, Speaker A: Here we have a possible spot ETH ETF being approved in May because May is the final deadline for a couple of the applications that have been put forward there. Obviously, like, as I've said, the narrative of the ETF is stronger than the reality. And I think right now the market is actually, when it comes to, like, trading bitcoin, the market right now is going sideways because there's a lot of uncertainty around whether the ETF approvals is going to be a sell the news event or not, even though it's bullish. Still, there's just concern around that in terms of the short term. But leading up to it, you know, BTC went from twenty five k to forty five k, right. So people will be speculating on that. And if we're looking at on that for ETH, so if we're looking at it from a pure speculative perspective, that should be, you know, should, I mean, it's not a guarantee, but it should be good for ETH.
00:28:52.924 - 00:29:34.660, Speaker A: And, you know, I think that its chances of it getting approved are quite high. I don't agree with people who say that the chance that it's a 0% chance, I do believe it's quite high here, but we're just going to have to see, wait and see what happens there. Now, the second thing is Eigen layer, going live or restaking? Going live and unlocking a major new primitive for Ethereum. Now, I spoke about this yesterday, so I'm not going to rehash all of my points from yesterday, but I do think that's going to bring a ton of new interest and demand into the ethereum ecosystem and into ETH as an asset. And then of course, we have the continued ETH supply decrease from the free burn, which is already at its lowest level since the merge. And I mean, I'm sure you guys have noticed gas fees on l one have just been up only lately. I mean, both from l two s obviously getting more usage and paying more in fees to l one, but also just l one getting its own usage.
00:29:34.660 - 00:30:01.924, Speaker A: Like people are still doing things on l one. A lot of inscription stuff happening, you know, those sorts of things. But yeah, we're at the lowest level in terms of ETH supply since the merge. And that's, I mean, if we are heading into a bull market, right, that's just going to get lower and lower. And that, I think, is a really, really great narrative, especially for ETH value accrual and something that plays out definitely over the longer term here. And then, of course, we have the den kun upgrade going live in March and April with erp 48, 44. That's going to lower l two gas costs.
00:30:01.924 - 00:30:33.222, Speaker A: I've spoken about that endless amount of time, so I'm not going to rehash it there. Increased l two adoption across the boards activity is already at all time highs. As I showed the other day, non evms, non evm l two s like Eclipse and fluent going live, which brings in new types of apps and developers on top of that. I would actually say arbitram stylus going live as well, hopefully next year. And it just brings in more, more, you know, developers and new types of apps into the ecosystem. The l two ecosystem led by immutable, will become the home of crypto gaming. There is really no second best right now to immutable when it comes to games.
00:30:33.222 - 00:31:07.902, Speaker A: They just have like this powerhouse of games building on their platform. Now, this is to say nothing about how successful each of the individual games is going to be. But if you're actually going to bet on a gaming ecosystem, you would bet on immutable. And that's not me saying to go buy the IMX token. You guys know I'm an investor in immutable, and I'm not telling you to go buy the token or anything like that. But if you wanted to like, say, or look at which, which gaming ecosystem within crypto is going to be the most successful, I think immutable is by far the leader right now because they've just been relentlessly building on this for years now and have a lot of integrations, a lot of games on there. So I think that's going to be a huge thing next year.
00:31:07.902 - 00:31:38.662, Speaker A: Major Ethereum projects will do their airdrops and attract a lot of fresh capital because of it. I've dropped these kind of names before, so I'm not going to rehash them here. The wallet ux will continue to improve at a rapid pace and onboard millions of new users to the Ethereum ecosystem. Guys, if you haven't used any other wallet besides metamask, please go use one of the other wallets. I can suggest to you Tahoe, Rainbow, Rabi, and even Coinbase wallet. I think my small it's fine, but I out of the other ones, I think Rabbi is probably my favorite right now. For, for desktop especially.
00:31:38.662 - 00:32:03.592, Speaker A: Rainbow is probably my favorite mobile wallet and metamask. I mean, I'm still using it as. I mean, I use all of these as pass throughs, but I'm still using it because I'm just used to it. Right? But yeah, if you haven't tried anything but metamask, please go try the other ones. They're so much better. I'm not trying to shit on metamask here, but these other ones are just so much better from so many different perspectives. And then the last point here was that real world assets, real world assets will continue to grow and bring more of the old world financial products on chain.
00:32:03.592 - 00:32:39.504, Speaker A: And I believe that's a trend that will continue on Ethereum, l one more than l two. Because really, when you're talking about costs here, if you're bringing on, on chain a lot of these assets, like a huge volume of these assets, the gas costs are negligible to you. So, yeah, anyway, that's, that's a tweet. I'll link that in the YouTube description below for you to check out. But that's just some of the things that I think are going to be main bullish catalysts for Ethereum and ETH heading into 2024. But then I also said in the tweet, just to, just to round this out, I said, funny enough, even though Ethereum has all of these catalysts and more, the most bullish thing for ETH is still just for ETH to go up. Any experienced crypto participant knows that narrative follows price.
00:32:39.504 - 00:33:08.326, Speaker A: And when it starts outperforming, suddenly all of these issues that people have with Ethereum will disappear. So really it becomes a self reinforcing thing, right? These narratives lead to ETH going up. ETH going up leads to these narratives getting stronger, right? And then it just kind of feedback loops on itself until eventually we blow off top and go into another bear market, right? This is the way things work in crypto. But anyway, you can go read the full tweet for yourself. We'll link it in YouTube description below, but I think that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:33:08.326 - 00:33:13.854, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all on Friday. Thanks everyone.
