00:00:11.610 - 00:00:16.960, Speaker A: Well, there is like, what, like 45 questions, and we have to get through them in 56 minutes. So this will be fun.
00:00:18.530 - 00:00:27.254, Speaker B: Thank you very much for being here. First of all, I'll kick it off with, is this your first time in Turkey, and what actually brings you here to Istanbul this week?
00:00:27.452 - 00:01:19.782, Speaker A: This is indeed my first time in Turkey, so I've actually been here for about three weeks now. I came on the 29th. There was a two week Zozalo gathering here called zuconnect down in the south near that area close to the Galada tower. So that was really interesting. And that went into a bunch of areas like both Ethereum and ZK and things that go a bit beyond it and brain computer interfaces and other fun things in that area. Then for this week, I've been at all of the various events that call themselves Devconnect, I suppose, and gave a whole bunch of presentations, three yesterday, fortunately, just one today. But it's been fun so far.
00:01:19.916 - 00:01:26.790, Speaker B: Perfect. And how do you feel about the significance of gathering the global crypto community in Turkey?
00:01:27.550 - 00:02:21.180, Speaker A: Yeah, and I think Turkey is just obviously one of the places where there's been a huge amount of grassroots interest in adoption of crypto for a long. I mean, it's obvious from the statistics. It's obvious from just whenever I would make tweets, I would always see a huge number of responses in Turkish, and I'd always just click the translate button and be really curious about what kinds of things they have to say. The use case is obvious, right. I remember the first time I passed through the Istanbul airport back in 2013, and the rate was 3.5, and now it's 28. And when you're living through that, the value of just having some alternative thing to save money and just becomes incredibly obvious.
00:02:21.180 - 00:03:33.838, Speaker A: And also not, say, a place where a lot of crypto projects that have become internationally known and valuable either are turkish or have a lot of turkish people that are part of the teams. Right? In this case, there is like the chainway team, there's the people, the quave wallet, there's a bunch of others that was just kind of the examples from account abstraction and privacy that I've been focused on a lot recently. So, yeah, there's a lot of activity here, and I think in general, like in the ethereum community, we try to intentionally go around the world and go to where all of the different people are. This is a place I've definitely looked forward to coming to for a long time, and it's definitely fun for me to finally be here. And I hope all of the members of our community also benefit from the experience a lot.
00:03:33.924 - 00:03:44.820, Speaker B: Absolutely. I know the turkish community have been looking forward to this for a long, long time and that they appreciate it. And what are your sort of key takeaways and your highlights of having spent a prolonged period of time here?
00:03:49.130 - 00:04:55.450, Speaker A: I've definitely noticed that the interest in crypto is real. Right. I walked down through the market in that peninsula down south and just passed by at least five different shops that are advertising ETH, BTC sometimes, like ShEb and whatever else people are interested in buying. And there's just clearly a lot of nostalgual attention and a lot of interest. And just seeing the interest from builders, I think, is also one of those other things that has been really confirmed for me. So I think for a lot of us, it's just been good for building relationships, good for just getting our feet on the ground and just understanding the situation in some more detail. And I look forward to coming back and I look forward to working together more with all of the various teams that we've gotten to know better.
00:04:55.600 - 00:05:12.270, Speaker B: Perfect. And given that Turkey now reportedly has the highest levels of crypto adoption, that the estimates range from, I think, 25% to 52% of people owning crypto, how critical do you think Turkey is as a hub for crypto adoption?
00:05:13.330 - 00:06:47.200, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it's absolutely critical. I think what's interesting about Turkey, it kind of mirrors some things that I saw in Argentina, which is that there is this combination of what is a dysfunctional environment in some ways, but with people who are very talented and who are both just very sophisticated in figuring out ways to do the things that they need to do to economically survive for themselves, for themselves and their families, and to actually build things that go further from there. So it's an environment where I think there is a potential for a really strong developer community to appear like something that's even much stronger than what we've seen so far. I think a huge amount of potential for development, obviously already a very large amount of usage, still a way to go in terms of getting inroads for actually decentralized things and not people just interacting with crypto through centralized exchange wallets. But that's a challenge everywhere, and that's fair because the blockchains have definitely not been scalable enough or usable enough, and that's something that the space just needs to improve on.
00:06:48.210 - 00:06:59.890, Speaker B: Absolutely. And you mentioned some of the projects that you've interacted with since you arrived here in Turkey. But what type of new projects? I'm curious, have you come across since arriving here that sort of excite.
00:07:04.550 - 00:07:05.540, Speaker A: Mean? Yeah.
00:07:06.150 - 00:07:10.360, Speaker B: Or is it perhaps just the projects that you've seen and heard of in the past?
00:07:10.810 - 00:07:15.670, Speaker A: Actually, I think quave is one of the new, the ones that I've heard about for the first time here.
00:07:15.820 - 00:07:22.570, Speaker B: Perfect. We have a question as well here from the community. It's what is your favorite turkish dish?
00:07:24.190 - 00:08:03.280, Speaker A: That's a good question, actually. I think the tea is up there. Normally I always just do a green tea everywhere, but here I have the local, the turkish tea about half the time and it's quite good. It's quite unique. Definitely appreciate not getting sugar poured into it. It's one of those. I try to try to minimize sugar and I always appreciate when people are helpful there without asking.
00:08:03.280 - 00:08:09.520, Speaker A: Hmm. Yeah.
00:08:10.770 - 00:08:15.774, Speaker B: It is indeed a big tea consuming nation. I think they even grow their own tea, surprisingly.
00:08:15.822 - 00:08:16.420, Speaker A: Yeah.
00:08:17.110 - 00:08:35.320, Speaker B: And I know the turkish community appreciates when people come and appreciate their goods and services as well. So we're going to move on very quickly to some Ethereum related questions. The Ethereum roadmap was last updated in November last year. Can you give me an update on the Ethereum roadmap considering its past, present and future?
00:08:36.970 - 00:09:49.630, Speaker A: Yeah, and I feel like in general, the Ethereum roadmap has been stabilizing quite a bit over the last few years. Right. Because historically there have been a lot of things that have changed because of just changes in circumstances, changes in ideas, realizing that something doesn't work, realizing that something does work, new problems popping up. I think the big changes between last year and this year would be one is just the realization that there's something to be done about staking centralization, like the status quo of the different pools and solo staking being hard and all of those things is not really healthy. And there's, I think, a big opportunity to do some redesign to the staking system that really alleviates some of those issues and both improve centralization and even try to make the algorithm more efficient. And for example, just have single SWAT finality, but only have 10,000 signatures in each SWAT, instead of not having single SWAT finality and having 30,000 signatures in each SWAT, which is what we do today. Right.
00:09:49.630 - 00:11:22.478, Speaker A: There's a lot of room to try to, once you make some trade offs that I think realistically will have to be made anyway to really improve on efficiency and improve on decentralization at the same time. So that's one of the threads that I expect will continue to be worked on then data availability and that side of things was like basically probably a bit slower than we expected, but it's still moving forward on the same path as we expected. In general, on scaling, I feel like the pendulum has swung back slightly toward more off chain data stuff, both because the amount of near term and midterm demand is so high that even the data availability that we can do is not going to be able to cover it, and because the level of security that you can get with off chain stuff, I think is higher than anticipated. A lot of the plasma ideas that I talked about a couple of days ago are probably a good example of that. Right. But otherwise, still moving forward on data availability, I'm still moving forward on vertical trees, synarking the EVM, all of the EVM improvement efforts, just all of those different things. So definitely a lot going on the same path, I think.
00:11:22.478 - 00:11:58.578, Speaker A: Nothing new on the functionality side, maybe, unless you want to include the whole off chain data thing, but that's kind of, by definition, off chain outside the layer one, so it doesn't touch the core. Dows. Yay. But it's just sort of responding to threats and making sure things like security and decentralization get preserved. And just like some fairly small tweaks compared to years in the past. So, yeah, in general, the roadmap is stabilizing, which I think is a really good sign.
00:11:58.684 - 00:12:16.510, Speaker B: Perfect. And you mentioned that at the beginning of that response, some ideas had changed. Is it important for the community to view the roadmap as something that can be dynamic if new information is introduced into the equation and things can change? Or should they really think of it as guidelines that are more concrete?
00:12:17.570 - 00:13:36.742, Speaker A: Um hmm. And I think there is different tiers of ideas in Ethereum in terms of how much people are attached to them. Right. So, like at the top, there is what people call immutability, right. That the hard forks should not just arbitrarily go in and take away some people's money and give other people money? And as we've seen in the Dow situation, that's something that people highly value and trying to interfere with that is just extremely politically costly, and that's something that's going to be true no matter what the changes to technology are. Then there's a bit at a lower tier, things like proof of stake, and switching over from proof of stake back to proof of work, for example, would just be totally politically unviable at this point. But switching from proof of stake to a better proof of stake, then there's, I think, a lot of room for discussion there, probably more than last year especially now that the whole pool centralization discussion has come into the foreground more, then you have things like the EVM.
00:13:36.742 - 00:14:18.338, Speaker A: And I don't think community members are really emotionally attached to the EVM. I think there's a desire to make sure that existing applications can keep running, and there's a desire to minimize complexity. And those two things together basically already add up to roughly keeping the EVM. And if you add functionality, do it sparingly. But beyond that, there isn't as strong an attachment. And then you have specific algorithms that can totally be changed if people want to. And then once you get into the weeds, it's just all technical features that a lot of people don't really care about, and they're happy to defer to the experts.
00:14:18.338 - 00:14:23.080, Speaker A: So, yeah, I think it's a spectrum between all of those things.
00:14:23.450 - 00:14:32.540, Speaker B: Perfect. Thank you. And the Denkoon upgrade is expected to be live early 2024. What should we know ahead of time, and what can we expect on that?
00:14:33.150 - 00:15:29.990, Speaker A: So AP 4844 is obviously the big one. And what's interesting, I think, about EIP 4844 is that if you look at the roadmap to full dank sharding, right? Full dank sharding is the one that gives us a data space that could go all the way up to 16 megabytes a lot, or even more once you have EIP 4844 out the door. The only hard forks that you need to get to full dank sharding are just a parameter change, right? Just like changing the maximum number of blobs. And maybe at some point we just make that a voting system, and then you don't need any more hard forks to go up. And so the rest of the rollout to full dank sharding is not a change to Ethereum consensus or execution. It's a change to this extremely isolated thing that just says, tell me that this block can be downloaded if he wants to. And at the beginning, that is just done with full downloading.
00:15:29.990 - 00:16:30.110, Speaker A: But over time, that can be done with data availability sampling and data availability sampling itself can be upgraded over time. And that's like a piece that individual clients can upgrade, even separately, even out of sync with each other as the network improves. The sort of thing that once you do the first step, doing the steps after that is relatively easy in the sense that it's just like a group of people working in the corner and they don't really have to interact much with the rest of the ecosystem. And yeah, once the first hard forks out the door, then it's like a smoother ride from there, which I think is really valuable and good. Yeah, there's things after that, like taking small steps toward getting rid of RLP is something that I'm excited about, just kind of cleaning up all the different Ethereum consensus pieces.
00:16:30.850 - 00:16:46.470, Speaker B: Yeah, quite a few exciting things to look forward to there. And I have a question for you. On roll ups, they appear to be too expensive and they rely on centralized sequences, which introduces a degree of risk. So the question is, how will Ethereum address these risks?
00:16:47.770 - 00:17:40.262, Speaker A: Yeah, so the roll up teams that I've talked to and that I've asked them on stage here in Istanbul, they're all very actively moving toward decentralized sequencing. And a lot of the time that just means instead of one node doing the sequencing, have a consensus algorithm. Just take something like tendermint off the shelf and just have it run a chain, and then commit from that chain into the Ethereum chain. And then you have a decentralized sequencer right there. For roll up data costs, there's basically two solutions, right? One is to become a plasma, or at least a validium, and do off chain data and try to be as secure as you can with that. And then the other is to wait for four, eight four, and then to wait for other things after that. And what I notice is that most of the roll up teams that I follow are taking both approaches at the same time.
00:17:40.262 - 00:18:23.798, Speaker A: Right? I think that this issue of optimism and arbitrum and polygon, they all have a roll up offering and they have a validium offering, right? And if you want the higher security, you go do the roll up. If you want the higher scalability, you go do the validium. So I think that's something really interesting. It is definitely the right choice. I think just because different applications have different needs in the short term, and then in the longer term, either it just becomes clear what the split between the two is, or one of them improves to the point where the other becomes completely unnecessary. And so we'll see how that goes.
00:18:23.964 - 00:18:31.640, Speaker B: Perfect. Thank you. And also a related question. When it comes to scaling roll ups themselves, what do you think the main bottleneck is there?
00:18:34.650 - 00:19:23.000, Speaker A: In the short term, it's definitely data, just having more data space that is guaranteed to be available. There are other bottlenecks as well. So one of them is just optimizing zk provers so that they can make proofs as quickly as possible. Sometimes it's like how much they can process in a single thread. I know two or three years ago that was actually the biggest deal for optimism, like, they could not handle more than like 20 or 30 tps within their own chain. And I think as activity in these roll ups improves, those kinds of issues are going to come back. And so they might need to do parallelization internally, they might need to do other things, which is going to be interesting to see.
00:19:23.000 - 00:19:28.140, Speaker A: Yeah, I think those are the three.
00:19:28.510 - 00:19:44.320, Speaker B: Okay. And moving on to user experience for a brief moment. It's another one of those barriers to entry, rather, for newcomers who find the UI complicated or unfamiliar, or sometimes difficult to navigate. So how are you working on addressing this?
00:19:47.250 - 00:20:42.206, Speaker A: Yeah, I think there's different ways to think about the user experience problem. The one that I think about the most is what I call the user experience of security. It's not user experience versus security. It's improving the user experience of being secure enough that you know that your APR next year is not going to be negative 100%. This is a big part of why I've been focusing so much on account abstraction. And there are wallet companies that are doing really fascinating stuff now with AA. There are wallet companies that are using trusted hardware modules that already exist in people's phones to store keys, and basically having relying on that more limited and more secure core so your coins still have a layer of security even if the rest of your phone's operating system gets hacked.
00:20:42.206 - 00:22:05.194, Speaker A: There are things like zk email that try to use even email addresses or other sort of more conventional things that people outside of crypto already have as guardians for their wallets to recover if they lose their keys. There are just ongoing efforts to try to make the UI for things like choosing guardians easier. And then on the application level side, and this is another whole big security rabbit hole, is like if someone sends you a link, like, hey, here's an airdrop, and you go to the link and then it tells you to sign something in Metamask. And then if you're about to click it, how do you even know? Is that a real airdrop? Or are you about to click something that's going to steal all your money? Right. And for most users, this is super hard. And I think there's a big frontier of possibilities for wallets there to try to really improve and do a much better job of helping users better understand what it is that they're about to sign. And that does require wallets to really become much more opinionated and not just kind of show the hex and be a static thing just by giving people a bunch of zero to nines and a to f.
00:22:05.194 - 00:22:24.290, Speaker A: So they think that they're finished doing their duty. It's something that will require the wallet to have a dedicated team and probably push out updates every month. But yeah, really trying to improve on that side of security I think is something that just is super important and wallets are going to have to do more of.
00:22:24.440 - 00:22:35.400, Speaker B: And while we're on the topic of security, ethereum.org states that security upgrades on the roadmap are in the advanced stages of research. So what improvements can we expect?
00:22:38.010 - 00:23:26.180, Speaker A: If we're talking about the Ethereum L1, then the main security upgrade is just the proof of stake and hardening the proof of stake, like improving its decentralization. If we're talking about L two s, then the biggest security upgrade is going to be just making sure the ZKe VMs are hardened enough that there aren't serious bugs in the code. If we're talking on the user side, then I think there's like two ends. There's the keeping your coins safe within the wallet and then there is keeping your coins safe while you're interacting with applications. And those aren't really protocol changes, those are just going to have to be wallets that just actively responds to all kinds of threats. Okay.
00:23:26.630 - 00:23:40.300, Speaker B: And a majority of Ethereum nodes currently run through centralized providers like Amazon Web Services, which leaves the system exposed to a centralized failure. So how do you see this being addressed going forward?
00:23:42.110 - 00:25:33.802, Speaker A: Yeah, I think there's two parts to this, right? One part is that we need to improve the software so that running through centralized providers just becomes less necessary in general. So ideally something like the portal network would just be active and would be running and really effective. And so we would have a decentralized peer to peer network that if you wanted to go ask for specific pieces of the state or history, you would go there into the portal network and it would give you back a reply with proofs and you'd be able to verify the proofs and you would not have to rely on centralized nodes at all. The best that we have now is Helios, which is a light client done by the a 16 Z team that basically uses ZKs and Arc over the sync committee. And that just allows people to have a really basic guarantee that they're following the correct chain. At least assuming the majority of the validators are honest, that is pretty limited in its functionality, right? Because that just tells you you have the right block headers and users need a lot more than block headers. But it is a start, right? And if we just at least have better hardening, like if we have better ability for users to verify Merkel branches locally and have like clients that run locally, then what you can have is you can have more but lower quality servers and then you can do a one of n between them, right? Like you don't need to just talk to infuria, you can talk to five different servers and they could even be based in five different countries that don't like each other if you care about minimizing even your political risk.
00:25:33.802 - 00:26:15.660, Speaker A: And then you just get your data from all of them and then locally you verify the branches and if any one of them tries to trick you, then they're going to give you a bad branch and you're not going to be able and the verification on your side is going to fail. Right. So going to one of n I think is also something that can be done. And then maybe we can eventually have a sort of utopian perfect peer to peer network where we don't need to have kind of servers where you explicitly have to type in their IP addresses at all. And that would be super amazing. But I think it's going to take a bit longer to get to that. But I think realistically we can, we just have to work towards it.
00:26:15.660 - 00:26:50.390, Speaker A: Yeah. And there's obviously the equivalent of that for just being able to push transactions. There's more sophisticated stuff too. I know a lot of DApps recently have been using things like the graph because they just need specific claims about history that are too difficult for a regular node to get. And then that also has its own decentralization challenges inside of it as well. So, yeah, I think the answer just is continuing to improve on technology and getting to the point where you actually have that kind of verification.
00:26:50.970 - 00:27:05.850, Speaker B: Thank you. And on client diversity, it's important for a more resilient network. So can you explain why client centralization poses a risk and how ethereum will address these challenges, particularly based on the execution client?
00:27:07.230 - 00:27:38.662, Speaker A: Yeah, so there's two kinds of risks in client centralization. So there is the software bug risk. Basically if you have one client and there's something wrong with that one client, then you're going to have a wrong chain and that wrong chain is going to keep going and it's going to finalize. And that's bad actually. What a lot of people don't realize is when you think you have one client, sometimes you actually have two clients. And two clients is definitely worse than five. Right? Two clients is worse than five.
00:27:38.662 - 00:28:38.578, Speaker A: Because if you have two clients, then any bug, even a bug where the results are inconsequential Mike crit is going to be a 50 50 split and it's going to cause a really big problem on chain. If you have five clients, if one of them fails, then that's only 20% and it doesn't matter. But one client in theory is two clients in practice because of versioning, right? So this is something that happened in bitcoin back in 2013. There was a bug in the database of the bitcoin core client where one version would basically rely on the database to update blocks in a way where the database had a default setting that did not allow it to make more than about 5000 changes at the same time. And a newer version had a different database that did not have that problem. And so there was at some point a block that made more than 5000 changes and it basically triggered this split. And some clients rejected and the block and other clients accepted it, right.
00:28:38.578 - 00:30:00.974, Speaker A: And that created a really big split on the network and it caused over a dozen blocks, I think 4 hours of history to revert. So it got pretty bad. But if you have a diversity of clients, then one of those having that kind of internal problem is going to be much less of an issue, right? So that's a technical issue. The political issue is basically like preventing one single client dev team from having too much power to set the agenda and from entering into this situation where that one client team is like the only team that is competent enough to really continue moving things forward and propose ideas. And so if the community wants to move away from them, they don't realistically have any other alternative to switch to. Just because no one else has been kind of actively exercising the muscles of maintaining a client and is in a position where they can just step in and get the network to start relying on them. And so if you only have one team that's in that position, then they might be able to have a lot of leverage to push a lot of changes, right? And in the future that might even involve things like saying, oh, ethereum ecosystem is running out of money and we are the development team and we need 2 million ETH.
00:30:00.974 - 00:31:00.534, Speaker A: And here is a hard fork. And guess what, that hard fork also has a bunch of BLS pre compiles that everyone wants. So are you going to take it? That's the kind of risk that could happen. And there's milder versions, right? Even just whether or not to add different BLS pre compiles, there's a lot of trade offs just in terms of values there. Yeah. Then on the pure technical level, I think the best example of this, within Ethereum is the Shanghai Dos attacks back in 2016, when there were a bunch of attacks on the Ethereum network that were basically involving an attacker that discovered how to construct transactions that were extremely slow to process, but still consumed a normal amount of gas, basically exploiting all of the different bugs in the ethereum clients that the attacker could find. And the network became really slow for about a month.
00:31:00.534 - 00:31:53.842, Speaker A: It was basically a constant war where the attacker would find a bug and then clients would release a new version, then two days later, the attacker would find another bug, and then a new version, and then another bug. During that period of time, the chain was very slow for a month, but it never stopped. Always. There was one client that was able to run at least a little bit, right? Sometimes there was a client that could not process blocks at all, but there was always one client that could run at least a little bit. And I thought that was a great example of the power and resilience that having multiple clients could get you. So that's why multiple clients are important in terms of how the ethereum ecosystem is going to get there. I think one of the answers, realistically is just social pressure, right? This is how we've successfully gotten from having one client with 80% of the market share on the consensus side down to something that's much more balanced.
00:31:53.842 - 00:33:06.266, Speaker A: And it's also how the percent of sensoring relays got pushed down from 80% to about 33% over the last year or so. So there are precedents for just like plain old social pressure actually working, which I think is interesting, and that's probably the simplest answer. Another aspect of this, I think, is also that switching clients is hard because an individual client has a big database, you have to sync syncing from scratch, and there's like technical difficulty. And once we have vertical trees, which allow for something that's called a stateless client, where you can verify blocks without already having any data, because basically the individual accounts that get touched by the block are just added onto the block, and you have proofs that the values are the correct values. That's the thing that vertical trees will let you do really efficiently. Then that basically means that syncing a new client can become almost instant. And that procedure, I think, is going to make, at least running a new client from a technical perspective, much easier.
00:33:06.266 - 00:33:17.970, Speaker A: It'll make switching much easier. It'll even make it easier for people to run multiple clients at the same time, checking the same blocks on the same computer. So that's also, I think, going to open up a lot of possibilities.
00:33:18.310 - 00:33:40.170, Speaker B: Perfect. And at the beginning of the interview, you mentioned plasma and validium. So I'd like to go back there very quickly, just for a second, because earlier this week, you published a blog. And essentially, I'd like you to elaborate why it's important that we rethink the fundamental limitations of plasma based scaling solutions.
00:33:41.550 - 00:34:42.126, Speaker A: So, plasma is this interesting category of scaling solutions that got invented in 2017, a paper from Joseph Poon and myself in. Realistically, Joseph Poon did like, over 80% of the work in that initial paper. He deserves a lot of credit there. And basically, it's a scaling design where you only need to publish a little bit of information on chain every time you have a block. And then you have this mechanism called an exit game, where if you have a coin inside of plasma and you want to take it out and turn it into a coin on Ethereum, you have to provide pieces of the plasma tree that prove that you have that coin. And then if it turns out you don't actually have that coin, then whoever the real owner is can challenge and provide other pieces of the tree and put them on chain. And if you are in the right, in the sense that you are the one who actually has the coins, then you will be able to provide the pieces of the tree to the chain that are the evidence that you currently have that coin today.
00:34:42.126 - 00:36:07.030, Speaker A: And if you're not, then you would not be able to do that, right? And there's a lot of cleverness in constructing these rules correctly, but once you do that, then you basically create a system where you have a huge amount of activity happening off chain data, off chain computation, off chain. But what you are trading claims that the two assets that can then later be withdrawn on the underlying layer, one, whenever you want to, right? And so you can really get a lot of scalability benefits that way. So, plasma paper in 2017, in 2018, there was a lot of effort going into trying to put plasma into practice, and there were efforts like minimum viable plasma, plasma cache plasma, cash flow, plasma prime, a whole bunch of these really fascinating plasma distributions. And basically they were trying to take that core idea and turn it into something that's viable for specific use cases. One of the challenges of plasma is how it is inherently more application specific than something like the EVM. Because in the EVM, it's like a state machine. It's just like there is a function that tells you what the current numbers in the database are, and you just run the function.
00:36:07.030 - 00:37:34.386, Speaker A: And if someone else ran the function wrong, then you can tell them where they ran it, you can tell the chain where they ran it wrong, and that's called a fraud proof, and then you can go and run it correctly again. Right? Or if it's a ZK snark, you just go and prove that you ran the computations correctly, and you don't have to think about what those computations are. Right? In a plasma system, that's not how it works. In a plasma system, the security of the plasma system depends on the idea that you have objects that have owners, and the owner of an object has the responsibility of taking that object out if they notice that something is wrong. So that's a different security model, and it requires the applications to be designed in such a way that they're aware of who the owner of particular things is at any time. And so it does require more work, and it's also, actually, at the beginning, not really even possible to generalize to something like the EVM, just because the EVM just breaks a lot of assumptions that simple payment systems have, right? Like in a Utxo payment system, where basically a Utxo unspent transaction output, it's like a virtual coin, where if you pay me money, then I get a new coin, and then if I pay you money, I have to break up one of my coins into two coins that are smaller, and then I get back one of the coins, and then you get a totally new coin that contains just the money you need. The nice thing about that Utxo approach is when you receive a payment, you get a totally new thing.
00:37:34.386 - 00:39:09.940, Speaker A: None of your existing things can be changed without your consent. A balance based system where you just track how much money everyone has, does not have that property. Because in a balance based system, you can change my balance without my consent by increasing it, right? And so it feels like a really sort of obvious detail, right? Like, yes, of course you could send me money without my consent, but we don't care, because sending me money is good for me. For a plasma system, that creates problems, because suddenly it means that the thing that I have to exit when, if I want to move my coins over to layer one, is something that might be changed without even my knowledge, and I might not have access to it. And what happens if I don't? And you have to really look through those complicated cases, right? What zk snarks do is they massively simplify how these plasma exit games can work, because they completely remove the possibility of invalid blocks. The only case that you have to worry about once you have everything BZK snarked is like, I try to withdraw a thing, but then at some point in the future, someone else has the same thing, because actually, I already sent it to someone else after I exit. Right? And this is interesting because first of all, it means that if you withdraw based on the latest information, then your exit can be instant, right? You don't have to wait for other people to challenge, because if you withdraw from the latest thing, then obviously there isn't any newer thing that can come in and say, oh, actually, no, he sent the money somewhere else by now.
00:39:09.940 - 00:39:46.110, Speaker A: Then all of these complexities around how to apply it to the EVM, they don't entirely go away, but a lot of them become much simpler. And so something approaching an EVM plasma actually becomes viable, which I think is super interesting. I think just like that fact, right? The fact that zk starks make everything so much easier to prove, and they allow you to make things be so much simpler, really reopens the design space and really creates a lot of this new ground for experimentation to be possible.
00:39:46.260 - 00:39:59.330, Speaker B: Okay, thank you very much for that explanation. Certainly a lot clearer for me. Now, I have a very short question on L2s for you. What are your thoughts? And again, briefly, on the growing fragmentation across L2s.
00:40:01.110 - 00:41:27.130, Speaker A: I think this is one of those challenging questions, because part of the vision of L2s has always been to try to enable independent experimentation. And for example, if you really like the Salana VM and you wants to be an ethereum lens, well, great, make a salana roll up, right? If you really, really need parallelization and you don't care about having an EVM, then great, use fuel. And fuel has been fully trustless for years now. You want to try do things with WASM, like, great, we have arbitram stylus, and you can go write a contract with WASM and interact with other people who have contracts written in the EVM, and there's a lot of value from that. But at the same time, there is a need for standardization and a need for basic interoperability, for wallets to be possible, for account abstraction, wallets to be possible, for just, like, address standards to work for it to be clear which tokens are the real ones, for which USDC is the real USDC. If you send me USDC on a L2 I've never even heard of before, how do I even know that is USDC and you're not trying to fake. Yeah, actually, solving those problems is really challenging, but I think there is also a need for some kind of standardization.
00:41:27.130 - 00:42:01.340, Speaker A: And the thing that we have to standardize, I think is going to have to be more expansive and stricter than just saying everyone has to support private and public keys, but it should be also something that is looser than, hey, everyone has to have an EVM, right? And there is some middle ground that captures the things that we want to standardize and leaves open room for innovation on everything else on top. And I hope that we can have lawyer twos come together and really decide what that set of standards is going to be.
00:42:01.950 - 00:42:09.790, Speaker B: And for a nontechnical audience, how would you explain the reasoning behind the pivot from sharding on the roadmap to tank sharding?
00:42:10.930 - 00:43:08.394, Speaker A: Yeah. So sharding in the original vision basically said that you would have the layer one protocol would handle scalability of data and scalability of execution, right? It would handle scalability of everything. The roll up plus dank sharding approach basically says the L1 still handles scalability of data, and scalability of data is just a much, much easier piece to handle than scalability of execution. And then L2s can handle scalability of execution. And by doing so, we take a lot of load off of core developers. So core developers would no longer have to worry about doing all of this execution scaling stuff at the same time as they're already insanely busy working on the merge and improving the efficiency of guests and doing all of those things. And those two different strands could happen in parallel.
00:43:08.394 - 00:44:03.282, Speaker A: Right? So I think it was just a pragmatic choice to get something out to users in time. If that did not happen, then chances are even right now there would be no scaling options at all, and we'd still have to wait one or two years for some kind of basic EVM sharding to appear. And that kind of basic EVM sharding would probably have a lower level of security. Avoiding that is something that we, I think, really cared about doing. And it's obviously also brought a lot more innovation to the space, like a lot of independent teams that would have totally not formed if it had just been an ethereum foundation hiring spree. And it has created this really amazing ecosystem. I think from a technical perspective, in terms of what properties it gives users, whether something is done by layer one or by L2 for execution, it actually doesn't matter much, right.
00:44:03.282 - 00:44:35.514, Speaker A: It's actually pretty much the same security properties in a lot of ways. The difference is basically standardization versus customization. Right? And L2s are definitely more on the customization side than the strong layer one approach. That's a balance where I think the ecosystem can constantly keep adjusting, and I think there is desire to move a little bit back on the standardization side. And I think there is a lot of willingness between the L2 teams to really try to do that. But that's an ongoing discussion, and it'll keep happening over the next few years.
00:44:35.552 - 00:44:47.470, Speaker B: And decades, and we'll be following it for the coming weeks and months and years as well. So for a second, looking forward into the not so distant future, what excites you the most about the future of Ethereum?
00:44:50.530 - 00:45:50.446, Speaker A: I'm just excited by the fact that there finally is a light at the end of the tunnel on all of the hard things that I've really worried about for a long time. The merge happened, we're out of proof of work, the scalability solutions are happening. We have Zke VMs that work and that are running and that are not quite yet stage two, but arbitrum is at stage one. Then Alex from ZK Sync announced that he's hoping to get the stage two within, I think, optimistically, a few months or something like that. So light at the end of the tunnel on that, and then light at the end of the tunnel on Dank sharding. And I think the fact that we have both dank sharding and the plasma route are, I think, a big load off my shoulders as well, because only one of those need to succeed for Ethereum to be scalable enough for its users. Privacy.
00:45:50.446 - 00:46:38.260, Speaker A: A big, I think, turn of the corner on that. We have at least five different privacy solutions with privacy pools. A lot of interesting kind of ideas to have enough regulatory appliance that the outputs of those privacy systems are going to be actually accepted and not blacklisted by everyone. But at the same time, not having government backdoors that can see everything. So yeah, that was a difficult balance. But I think it's interesting that with Ziki Starks, he can actually achieve mean on the wallet security and account abstraction side. Account abstraction finally is a thing, and it has enough momentum that it's moving forward on its own by now.
00:46:38.260 - 00:47:11.086, Speaker A: Then on the application side, the fact that decentralized social is finally taking off is amazing. The fact that we have like farcaster and lens also things like Zoopass to try to do Xik identity, the sign in with Ethereum is expanding. Yeah, it really is turning into something that's a much stronger ecosystem that was available even one or two years ago. So I think that's really amazing too.
00:47:11.268 - 00:47:35.240, Speaker B: Thank you. And two weeks ago we had a chat with Natalie and he said and this is a quote, the difference between a Solana conference and an Ethereum conference is that at a Solana conference, there's way less talk about scaling. So when do you think we'll see a shift from the current sort of infrastructure focus to use case specific applications being maybe the dominant talking point?
00:47:37.770 - 00:48:35.494, Speaker A: Yeah. What do I think about this? I think the challenging thing about use cases is that talking more about use cases doesn't mean that necessarily mean that you get working use cases. Right. I remember how back in 2000 and 22,021 we had all of this excitement about the games and axel Infinity and all of these NFT projects, and a lot of that stuff ended up not really panning out at all. Right. And we saw basically that people were trying to basically use the casino as a substitute for making a game that's fun and that's something where you can convince yourself into believing that it works in a bull market. But then once the bear market starts, the casino stops automatically giving everyone money.
00:48:35.494 - 00:49:19.158, Speaker A: It starts losing everyone money. And then if the fun isn't there, then pretty much everyone is going to get bored and leave. Right. And so it's the sort of thing where on the application side, it's really important to both take things slowly and to recognize that sometimes a lot of the valuable applications are going to be kind of the boring ones. And even that there's a lot of fundamentals and research questions that we have to think about when you think about applications. Right. So, for example, there's a lot of discussion around what is the right kind of Dow governance, and that is an application level question, but it's also a deeply technical question.
00:49:19.158 - 00:50:15.480, Speaker A: And if you get it wrong, that you're going to make dows that break. A lot of the discussion around ZK. Actually, zk voting is a really powerful Dow governance tool. A lot of the discussion around advanced cryptography, that stuff is incredibly useful for applications. Zoopas, that's a very application level thing, decentralized, social, very application level thing. So I think it's happening, but I think it's the sort of thing that you also can't rush and you need to have the fundamentals be there in a really strong and really reliable way for the push on applications to really make a lot of sense. Yeah.
00:50:15.480 - 00:51:16.602, Speaker A: Those two things, I think can only really coevolve with each other. Right. I think it's really good that we're having all these deep discussions about not just how to scale in the sense of increasing TPS, but increasing TPS in the right way. And on the application side, actually a lot of the same stuff. Right. The thing that I hate the most is applications that pretends to be crypto applications, but then the only way to sign in is a Google account, and the whole thing depends on one centralized server, and there's no way to interact with it at all outside of the one server. And it basically is just a completely centralized stick that just happens to have a couple of tokens on arbitrum or whatever somewhere, or that just happens to stick a root on ethereum once in a while.
00:51:16.602 - 00:51:39.860, Speaker A: Right? Yeah, I think discussion about applications, it's also important for that to really be principled and to sort of remember what it is that we're actually all here for. So I'm a big fan of having much more high quality discourse on both of those things. And I think you can't have a healthy ecosystem without that.
00:51:40.390 - 00:52:10.190, Speaker B: Perfect. And I have a question about the messaging of Ethereum. So is it programmable money, is it ultrasound money? Is it a world computer general purpose blockchain, or all of the above? Because it seems from a newcomer's perspective, it can be a bit difficult to grasp and sometimes make sense of compared to bitcoin's sort of digital gold statement. So Ethereum's positioning can seem convoluted, essentially. How do you think the messaging of Ethereum overall can be improved?
00:52:13.090 - 00:52:55.670, Speaker A: I think one of the differences between bitcoin and Ethereum here is Ethereum does inherently embrace pluralism in a lot of ways. There is no dominant narrative to the same extent. Right? So like in bitcoin, for example, if you ask what is the narrative for how bitcoin scales, people are going to tell you it's the lightning network, right? And the lightning network doesn't really have significant competitors in that sense. You might have different flavors of lightning, but it's the lightning network. And then if you think about how Ethereum is going to scale, there is the optimistic roll up camp. There is the ZK roll up camp. There is off chain data and validiums and plasmas.
00:52:55.670 - 00:54:10.338, Speaker A: There's really crazy stuff like Intmax that almost no one knows about, which is like this weird thing that combines like four or five bytes of data on chain per transaction roll up style together with a plasma system, and you get something that has extremely strong privacy properties, which is really cool. So there are five different ways to do something for any single thing that needs to be done, and that's valuable. And I think there is a lot of actually good experimentation that comes out of that. And then there is lots of people that have different philosophies about what we're here for, right? I think bitcoin is because it's inherently application specific. To really be a bitcoiner, you have to really believe that either censorship, persistent sound money specifically is something that's incredibly important and good for the world. But if you're in Ethereum, you can believe that, or you can believe in stablecoins, or you can believe the whole money thing is stupid and we're just trying to make better dows. Or you can believe the whole money thing is stupid and dows don't work, but we're trying to do decentralized social media, or carbon credits or art NFTs or whatever else.
00:54:10.338 - 00:56:01.990, Speaker A: You can believe that we're trying to make better mechanisms for fundraising and think about quadratic funding and other kinds of public goods funding and things like that, right? There's a much larger space of things you can believe, and that is important to you in the world and still be an Ethereum person. And Ethereum as a platform accommodates that. And I think Ethereum as an ecosystem accommodates that too. And when you have that, then you're inevitably going to just have internal conflict about narrative to some extent, because each of those sides has its own different view on what even is the sort of overarching narrative that combines all of the threads together. And I think that's fine. I think it is something that is going to stabilize over time, especially as the technical role of Ethereum, the blockchain versus Ethereum, the ecosystem change over time, right? So, like, for example, if it becomes clearer that, let's say Ethereum is a data and settlement layer, and L2s are the thing that, where application level stuff happens, that's one direction versus if in five years, Ethereum ends up evolving to the point where it does 80% of the work and roll ups do 20% of the work, then Ethereum does become something closer to a sort of world computer monok operating kernel, and at some point it's probably going to migrate to being one or the other, which I think is totally fine. But yeah, I think in general, I do think that it's still too early to demand one narrative for those things.
00:56:01.990 - 00:56:09.298, Speaker A: I think the correct answer at this point just is that there's space for a lot of them at the same time. And that's part of what makes it interesting.
00:56:09.404 - 00:56:20.460, Speaker B: Final question, I'd like to get your thoughts on DeFi, as our audience would love your thoughts on that. What are your current thoughts on the DeFi space generally. And within DeFi, what sort of innovations would you like to.
00:56:21.390 - 00:57:29.646, Speaker A: I mean, I think my view on Defi in general is the same that it's been for a while, which is like, I don't care so much about whether or not whether people are getting 4% Apr or 6% APR. I want people to not get -100% APR. And so I want to see just simple and dumb and robust stuff that just serves some pretty basic needs and doesn't try to go too crazy. So what things do we need? Right? You need a stable coin. And I actually think there's an opening for stablecoins, especially in the current financial environments where interest rates are pretty high, because there's a lot of different centralized services that are just kind of constraints to only being able to offer zero. And it's possible for decentralized things to potentially go higher than that. There's value in trying to give people access to other kinds of, like real world assets or indices.
00:57:29.646 - 00:58:12.610, Speaker A: Right. So could be stock indices, could be real estate, it could also be precious metals, I suppose. But I mean, for me personally, I think like, stocks and real estate are the really interesting ones. And on the real estate side, including things like fractional ownership. Yeah, I think in general, the way that our modern society interacts with real estate is pretty pathological, right? Because it's like either you own a house and you're insanely over leveraged on one asset, or you do not own a house, and in that case you have to pay rent, and so you're implicitly shorting the community that you're living in. And both of those seem unhealthy. Right.
00:58:12.610 - 00:59:18.886, Speaker A: And so, yeah, if we can make fractional ownership, be it a middle ground that gets actually adopted, I think it could be super cool. But that's all pretty simple stuff and a limited number of things. And just making sure work on making the oracles as robust as possible and make the systems for doing liquidations and all of those things just kind of be as standard and as robust and as unlikely to break as possible. Just focusing on user and wallet security and all of those things, and just get to the point where you have some number of components that just do the thing that people expect of them and work and create at least just globally accessible access to basic functions that people really need. And that probably just is already a really good and honorable thing for DeFi to be doing.
00:59:19.068 - 00:59:25.670, Speaker B: Perfect. Thank you very much. We are a little bit over time, and that's all we have time for today. Really, really appreciate it. Thank you for your responses.
00:59:31.690 - 00:59:41.390, Speaker A: Thank you. Wait. If you're the Defi ant, why do you have frogs? Good point. I'll share that with our designer.
