00:00:00.250 - 00:00:47.980, Speaker A: Um, thanks for tuning in to this week's News recap. First headline the infrastructure bill saga ends at the beginning. On Tuesday, the Senate passed its infrastructure bill, voting 69 to 30 to invest $1.2 trillion into the country's public works to the crypto industry's chagrin. However, the bill moved out of the Senate without changing a certain provision regarding crypto taxation. Despite multiple amendments being offered as a refresher, the original and final language requires reporting for crypto brokers in order to bring in $28 billion in taxes over the next few years. The provision mandates crypto brokers report customer gains via 1099 and any transactions over $10,000 to the Internal Revenue Service.
00:00:47.980 - 00:01:56.546, Speaker A: While the community does not object to appropriate entities being taxed, the provision received vociferous backlash over its broad definition of a crypto broker. Kristen Smith, executive director of the Blockchain Association, interpreted the bill to encompass, quote, software wallet developers, hardware wallet manufacturers, multi SIG service providers, liquidity providers, Dao, token holders, and potentially even miners as brokers. Under the current iteration of the bill, such a requirement would force pseudonymous decentralized protocols to collect and enforce Know Your Customer or KYC information an impossible task. Senators proposed multiple amendments, though none gained the support necessary. Notably, on Monday morning, a last ditch compromise between Senators Cynthia Lemmis, Pat Toomey, Mark Warner, Rob Portman, and Kirsten Sinema to amend the contentious language fell just short of approval. Courtesy of a single objection from Senator Richard Shelby, the infrastructure package is now on its way to the House of Representatives with the crypto provision's original language intact. However, the crypto industry nor the House will be taken by surprise this time around.
00:01:56.546 - 00:02:46.974, Speaker A: Coin center's Jerry Brito is ready to make a brand new amendment tweeting the bad news is that the amendment did not receive consent, so it will not make the bill. The good news is we're not giving up. Next up is the House, where we can try to get a whole new amendment from scratch that can address all our concerns. Four members of the House's Blockchain Caucus are also prepared for another round of crypto policy debates, with Representatives Tom Emmer, Darren Soto, Bill Foster, and David Schweikert pending a letter to their colleagues noting, quote, we must prioritize amending this language to clearly exempt non custodial blockchain intermediaries and ensure that civil liberties are protected. On Thursday, Representative Anna Eshu also joined the fray, penning a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi encouraging an amendment to the problematic broker definition. Next headline on coinbase. ETH flipped.
00:02:46.974 - 00:03:07.910, Speaker A: BTC. Coinbase announced its second quarter results on Tuesday. Here are three things you need to know at $1.6 billion, q Two profit nearly doubled that of Q One. Total revenue also outperformed expectations coming in at $2.3 billion, compared to the $1.88 billion predicted by the analyst consensus compiled by Bloomberg.
00:03:07.910 - 00:03:52.840, Speaker A: Second, Coinbase users were very active this quarter, with monthly transacting users growing 44% from Q One to Q Two. Its total user base also jumped, climbing to 68 million verified customers .3 Coinbase also saw Ethereum flip bitcoin this quarter, at least in terms of trading volume. In Q two. Ethereum made up 26% of the exchange's volume, while bitcoin only held a 24% share. Additionally, in an earnings call, CEO Brian Armstrong said that 10% of the top 100 hedge funds by assets under management are Coinbase clients. The exchange also mentioned SpaceX, Tesla and PNC Bank specifically as institutional clients, marking the first public acknowledgment of a Tesla Coinbase relationship.
00:03:52.840 - 00:04:19.680, Speaker A: Next headline. Brian Brooks resigns as CEO of binance US. Last Friday, Brian Brooks dropped a bombshell via twitter announcing his resignation as CEO of binance us. After just a few months on the job. He wrote, quote Greetings crypto community, letting you all know that I have resigned as CEO of Binance US despite differences over strategic direction. I wish my former colleagues much success. Exciting new things to come.
00:04:19.680 - 00:05:22.866, Speaker A: Before his short tenure with Binance US, Brooks was the acting head of the Office of the Controller of the Currency, the regulator for national banks under President Trump. He also worked as Coinbase's top lawyer in 2018. It initially appeared that Brooks's impressive regulatory resume was a perfect match for finance, which has faced intense scrutiny from jurisdictions like the UK and Japan. In 2021, his hiring was even considered a steal. That ruffled feathers over at Circle, where Brooks had been on the cusp of accepting a position as president before abruptly moving over to Binance US. As described by Decrypt's Jeff Roberts in a July report in response to Brooks's departure, Binance CEO Cheng Peng Zhao wished him the best in the future and thanked him for his invaluable work, a divergence from the exchange's handling of Brooks's predecessor, Catherine Coley, who was not even mentioned after being ousted to make room for Brooks. Next Headline Tether Reveals Reserve Details On Monday, Tether released a new Attestation revealing the details of its $62.8
00:05:22.866 - 00:06:01.054, Speaker A: billion in reserves for the world to parse. This is Tether's second reserves report since launching in 2014, prompted by a settlement with the New York Attorney General's Office earlier this year. CNBC's Kate Rooney tweeted out a simple description, writing Tether out with new audit on what's backing the stablecoin. Mostly commercial paper. Includes other crypto money. $31 billion worth of commercial paper, $6 billion worth of cash $1 billion worth of reverse repo or reverse repurchases $15 billion in T bills or treasury bills $2.5 billion in secured loans $4.8
00:06:01.054 - 00:06:35.958, Speaker A: billion in corporate bonds, funds and precious metals and $2 billion in other investments, including digital tokens. In the new Attestation, dated June 30, Tether released both a composition of its reserves along with the ratings and maturity of its commercial paper and commercial deposits. Interestingly, $30.8 billion, or 48% of Tether's reserves, were held in commercial paper and certificates of deposit, of which 93% were rated a two and above. Only 1.3% was rated a three or below. Audit firm moore Cayman was responsible for assuring the Attestation.
00:06:35.958 - 00:07:31.998, Speaker A: Quote our most recent assurance opinion from Moore, Cayman again confirms Tether is fully backed, said Tether CEO Paolo Arduino. A healthy and conservative portfolio with an emphasis on liquidity continues to fuel our growth and confidence in our innovative offerings. In related Stablecoin News USDC issuer circle has ambitions to become a US. National bank, according to an S Four filing on Monday, the company, which plans to go public via a SPAC, told the bloc that it quote, intends to become a full reserve national commercial bank operating under the supervision and risk management requirements of the Federal Reserve, U, S, treasury and OCC and the FDIC. In its filing, Circle cited risk reduction regarding its current reliance on third party payment services as a motive for transitioning to a banking structure. Next headline. BitMEX settles with the CFTC and Finsen Crypto derivatives platform.
00:07:31.998 - 00:08:24.506, Speaker A: BitMEX is settling with the United States Commodities Future Trading Commission, or CFTC, and Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, or Finsen. The company has agreed to pay $100 million to resolve charges, with $50 million going to each of the regulators for violating the Bank Secrecy Act, commodities regulations and CFTC rules. According to a consent order filed Tuesday, the CFTC found that BitMEX had offered US. Customers leveraged and unlicensed crypto products between 2014 and 2020. Furthermore, the platform's Know Your Customer and antimoney laundering safeguards were described as inadequate. FinCEN's Deputy Director Anna Lu Tirol said quote BitMEX's rapid growth into one of the largest futures commissioned merchants, offering convertible virtual currency derivatives without a commensurate anti money laundering program put the US. Financial system at meaningful risk.
00:08:24.506 - 00:09:16.306, Speaker A: It is critical that platforms build in financial integrity from the start so that financial innovation and opportunity are protected from vulnerabilities and exploitation. For now, the $100 million will only settle civil charges against BitMEX. The CFTC's criminal case against BitMEX founders Arthur Hayes, Benjamin Dello and Samuel Reed will continue. In a blog post, Alexander Hopner, chief executive officer of BitMax, expressed relief, saying quote Today marks an important day in our company's history, and we are very glad to put this behind us. As crypto matures and enters a new era, we too have evolved into the largest crypto derivatives platform with a fully verified user base. Comprehensive user verification, robust compliance and anti money laundering capabilities are not only hallmarks of our business, they are drivers of our long term success. Next headline SEC vs.
00:09:16.306 - 00:10:28.440, Speaker A: Ripple Recap. The securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, is requesting slack messages from Ripple concerning its ongoing legal battle with the company. According to documents reviewed by Decrypt, the SEC contends that Ripple's original supply of slack messages sent over July 1 was incomplete, leading to a negative impact on the trial. With the SEC deposing over eleven Ripple witnesses based on incomplete message data, the SEC believes that over 1 million messages are missing, which the regulator says will help in its case against Ripple. Relatedly jeff Roberts, executive editor at Decrypt, published an article delving into SEC versus Ripple, describing how both sides have a lot to lose in the case. With Ripple's XRP status as a security hanging in the air and the SEC's crypto agenda needing a big win, it goes into how the SEC likely waited as long as it did to bring the lawsuit, because it was setting precedent with its kick and telegram cases, and because clear regulation for crypto is unlikely to come anytime soon from Congress. Roberts says that regulatory clarity for the industry is likely to come in the form of a decision in SEC Vipple, and that could come as soon as this fall.
00:10:28.440 - 00:11:30.514, Speaker A: Speaking of the SEC, its chairman, Gary Gensler, wrote a letter to Senator Elizabeth Warren advocating for, quote, additional plenary authority to expand consumer protection via new roles and guardrails for the crypto industry. Gensler believes that crypto investors, quote, are not adequately protected time for fun bits. Ethereum Pet Rock NFTs call it a fad, call it a bubble, NFTs are still here, and the headlines are not getting any less head scratching. One caught my attention this week, as especially, shall I say, interesting. Ether Rock, an early NFT project consisting of 100 NFT images of identical rocks of various shades, saw two rocks from the collection sell for over $100,000 worth of ether this week. The website, of course, specifically explains that the Pet Rock inspired project quote, serve. And this isn't all capital letters.
00:11:30.514 - 00:11:50.170, Speaker A: No purpose outside of being well colored rocks. What a time to be alive. All right, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Moodit and the polynetwork exploit, be sure to check out the links in the show notes. Unconfirmed is produced by me, Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch, and Daniel Ness. Thanks for listening.
