00:00:00.090 - 00:00:00.640, Speaker A: You.
00:00:03.410 - 00:01:04.110, Speaker B: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. SPF is Accused of Misusing Robinhood Shares sam Binkman Fried, the founder of bankrupt Crypto Exchange FTX, is facing allegations of criminal misuse of customer property and concealing his actions by the Department of justice. According to federal prosecutors, Binkman Fried used 56 million Robinhood shares and as a means to misuse customer money, which they outlined in a letter to US bankruptcy Judge Lewis Kaplan. The shares were acquired with the FTX cofounder Gary Wang through a foreign special purpose vehicle with no connection to FTX or Alameda. The prosecutors have taken control of the Robinhood shares and other assets worth over $700 million. Despite these accusations, Bankman Fried's legal team is arguing that he should still have access to his crypto assets, claiming that the government has found no evidence that he was behind unauthorized transfers made by Alameda wallets. SPF is not only being restricted financially, but also in communication.
00:01:04.110 - 00:01:50.506, Speaker B: A recent court ruling by Judge Kaplan has banned SPF from having any communication with current or former employees from FTX and Alameda, aside from immediate family members. The ruling came after the crypto mogul was accused of attempting to contact a potential witness in his case through the encrypted messaging platform Signal. That person is believed to be FTX us. General Counsel Ryan Miller. Judge Kaplan deemed the restrictions necessary until a further determination can be made, which will be discussed by both legal teams on February 7. The restrictions were originally put forth as a modification of Binkwin Fried's bail. According to the court filing, the judge believes the evidence supporting the restrictions was clearly and convincingly sufficient.
00:01:50.506 - 00:02:33.440, Speaker B: Judge Kaplan has also ordered that the names of the two people who cosigned the $250,000,000 bail bond for Sam Binkman Fried should be revealed to the public. Previously, only the fact that Binkman Fried's parents were among the cosigners was known, but the identities of the others were kept confidential. The judge has now ruled in favor of various news organizations that submitted petitions to make the names public. However, the ruling is temporarily suspended pending a possible appeal until at least February 7. And for those who are house hunting, it may be your lucky day, as a house in Washington DC. With ties to SPF is now available for purchase, listed at a price of $3.3 million.
00:02:33.440 - 00:03:26.154, Speaker B: Alameda Research, the trading shop related to FTX, is taking legal action against Voyager Digital seeking to recover $445.8 million. According to the lawsuit, Alameda claims that it repaid Voyager that amount in September and October, just prior to its own bankruptcy, and is now looking to retrieve those funds to repay creditors through a process known as a clawback. In its claim, Alameda alleges that Voyager played a role in its own alleged misconduct by acting as a lender, either knowingly or recklessly. However, Voyager and its creditor committee denied this motion. The creditors are expecting Alameda's clawback request to be either reclassified as equity or made secondary to all other claims. The creditors argue that Alameda's false statements about its financial strength were the main reason for Voyager's purchase of loans from its insolvent balance sheet.
00:03:26.154 - 00:04:07.450, Speaker B: BlockFi is granted approval to sell crypto mining assets. A-U-S. Bankruptcy court for the District of New Jersey has given the green light for crypto lender BlockFi to sell off its cryptocurrency mining equipment. In a recent filing, the court deemed the sale of these assets to be fair and reasonable in the current circumstances. Blockfly has set a deadline of February 20 for interested parties to submit their bids, and all bids must be filed with the court by March 2. Creditors have until March 16 to raise any objections to the sales to qualified bidders. Additionally, Blockfly was allowed to offer bonuses to its top employees by Judge Kaplan, who cited the need to retain and maximize the company's estate.
00:04:07.450 - 00:05:20.130, Speaker B: Gemini is under investigation. The New York State Department of Financial Services is looking into allegations against crypto exchange Gemini regarding claims about its connections to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, in reference to its earn accounts. According to a report by Axios, some customers were under the impression that their funds in the earn accounts were insured by the FDIC based on Gemini's references to the agency and its communications. However, it seems that Gemini was referring to its deposits at external banks rather than its own products, leading to confusion and claims of misleading behavior. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act prohibits entities from implying that an uninsured product is FDIC insured through the use of FDIC in its name or advertisements. Grayscale Faces a Lawsuit over GBTC's Advertising on a similar note, Osprey Funds, a digital asset management company, has filed a lawsuit against Grayscale Investments for unfair and deceptive acts and unfair competition. The complaint alleges that Grayscale misled investors to believe that their Grayscale Bitcoin Trust, or GBTC, would be converted to an exchange traded fund.
00:05:20.130 - 00:06:22.610, Speaker B: Osprey claims that the alleged false advertising allowed Grayscale to maintain a 99.5% market share while charging four times Osprey's fees. Grayscale is currently contesting the SEC's rejection of the ETF conversion in a separate lawsuit against the regulator, with oral arguments scheduled for March 7. Last week, Grayscale CEO Michael Sonnenshein was on unchained to discuss everything about the ongoing lawsuit against the SEC, and he said he was certain Grayscale had the best arguments to win the case. Abraham eisenberg waives bail. Abraham Eisenberg, the self proclaimed $114,000,000 exploiter of Mango markets, a salana DFI protocol, has given up his right to bail. At a recent hearing in New York, he faces legal action from Mango Labs, who are seeking to recover the $47 million Eisenberg kept as a bounty and has been charged by federal prosecutors with three crimes, including commodities fraud, commodities manipulation and wire fraud.
00:06:22.610 - 00:07:13.846, Speaker B: Eisenberg was arrested in Puerto Rico in December and was later transferred to New York, where he will remain in jail until February 14 at the earliest. Silvergate halts dividend to preserve liquidity Silvergate, the publicly traded cryptocurrency bank that's come on everyone's radar due to its ties with FTX, has temporarily stopped distributing dividends. The decision was made to maintain a highly liquid balance sheet and help the bank manage the recent market instability. However, on Tuesday, after BlackRock revealed that it holds a 7.2% stake in Silvergate Capital as of December 31, the stock price of the bank experienced a significant increase. Furthermore three us. Senators sent a letter to Silvergate CEO Alan Lane alleging that the bank's dealings with FTX further introduced risk into the traditional banking system.
00:07:13.846 - 00:08:20.490, Speaker B: They demanded more information about a large cash loan Silvergate took out from the Federal Home Loan Bank, or FHLB, to shore up its accounts after mass user withdrawals. The senators raised concerns that if Silvergate were to fail, the FHLB could have priority over other creditors, including the FDIC insurance Fund, which could leave the FDIC and therefore the American taxpayer holding the bag, they wrote. Ethereum developers hit another milestone for the network's next upgrade. Barnabas Busa, an Ethereum developer, revealed on Twitter that Zhejiang, Ethereum's first public testnet for withdrawals, is now operational. Participants can access funds from designated sources, generate private keys with the Wagyu tools by Stakehouse, which makes staking easier, make deposits through launchpad, and monitor it through the beacon chain. Six days after the launch of Zhajang I E on February 7, Shanghai and Kapla testnets will be triggered at EPEC 1350. Following this upgrade, individuals will be able to experiment with partial and complete withdrawals, among other features.
00:08:20.490 - 00:09:28.322, Speaker B: Speaking of Ethereum, the total number of Ether tokens in circulation fell to a new postmerge low, with approximately $120.5 million. This is possibly due to Ethereum's burn mechanism, which is similar to with stock buyback in traditional companies, triggered by the spike in user activity. Coinbase temporarily halts new Mints Coinbase NFT, an endeavor that has seen low transaction volumes, recently announced a temporary halt on new NFT releases, following an artist's announcement on Twitter that their upcoming NFT drop would not be launching on the marketplace. In a related note, the Defiance Digital Revolution ETF, known as Nftz and marketed as the first ETF for NFTs, is shutting down and will be liquidated by February 20. Eigth Twitter may integrate crypto onto its platform The Financial Times reported that Twitter is pursuing regulatory clearance to incorporate payment options, including the possibility of crypto payments on its platform. The company is in the process of obtaining the necessary licenses and designing the software needed.
00:09:28.322 - 00:09:59.370, Speaker B: The move is part of Elon Musk's attempt to turn Twitter into a super app. A small team led by executive Esther Crawford is overseeing the project. Musk has previously stated that he wants to diversify the company's revenue streams by adding payment capabilities to Twitter. Time for fun bits Unchained's new social media manager is Ginny Hogan, who is also a stand up comedian. She's been doing funny takes on the crypto news on the Unchained social media channels. Here's one on another update from Celsius this week.
00:09:59.520 - 00:10:30.122, Speaker A: Bankrupt crypto lender Celsius, not to be confused with the energy drink Celsius, which, unlike the crypto lender, will at least temporarily boost your mood, filed a 1419 page court filing on Tuesday stating that eligible users will soon be allowed to withdraw about 94% of their assets. That's like the length of two Lord of the Rings books. Said way too many of Celsius's creditors. You guys know they make books for adults now. This should be good news. I mean, 94% also sounds like a lot. Unless, of course, it's your assets.
00:10:30.122 - 00:10:54.042, Speaker A: For what it's worth, I think it's possible that we share, like, 94% of our DNA with the toaster oven. There are just a couple of tiny catches. Transfers need to be less than $7,575 when they were first made. Also need enough money on the platform to cover your gas and transaction fees. You need to update your customer information, and you need to be at least five eight oh, wait, sorry. I'm thinking of my hinge. Just users will find out whether or not they're ready to start the withdrawal process on February 15.
00:10:54.042 - 00:10:59.470, Speaker A: That's right, some single Celsius users are about to have two very dark days in a row.
00:11:00.290 - 00:11:28.530, Speaker B: I urge you to subscribe to our Instagram and TikTok or the Unchained Twitter feed to find more hilarious clips from Ginny. Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about CATAM and the developments around Celsius'bankruptcy, check out the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin with up from Anthony Yoon, mark Murdoch, matt Peltard, zach Seward, juan Aranovich sam Sriram, ginny Hogan, ben Munster, Pama Jimdar Shashank and CLK Transcription. Thanks for listening.
