00:00:00.240 - 00:00:24.430, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gray Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Dan Denisosano. Today, the 24 January 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So Marius from the Geth team put out a tweet just after I put out yesterday's refuel, actually saying withdrawal. Mainnet, Shadow Fork one is now finalizing. It started out with a few issues because the config wasn't correctly applied on Geth.
00:00:24.430 - 00:01:00.670, Speaker A: They disallowed overriding the mainnet config. The config is applied correctly and all nodes are in agreement. And they are going to start some evil nodes soon in order to test out this shadow fork. Now, you remember that shadow forks weren't really a thing until the merge happened, right? Or until I guess, like the testing for the merge started and they just weren't being used for, I believe, any upgrades before the merge. And now that the merge is obviously done, the shadow fork upgrade process hasn't been retired or anything like that. We're actually using it for all other network upgrades that come to Ethereum. So it's very cool to see that we have a withdrawal main net shadow fork finalizing now.
00:01:00.670 - 00:01:36.022, Speaker A: And the reason why shadow forks are really cool is because they actually will Mainnet shadow folks, I should say, is because they basically mirror exactly what Mainnet is in terms of the state of Mainnet. Obviously. Obviously it doesn't mirror things on Mainnet, such as the infrastructure, the activity, the validators, but it does mirror the state of Mainnet. So, and it gives, it gives us better insights because of that. Now, as I mentioned, Mario said here that they were going to spin up some evil nodes, which they did. And I just saw this update before here where they saw twelve bad blocks on the shadow fork here during the night that they caused on purpose. This wasn't done on accident.
00:01:36.022 - 00:02:13.634, Speaker A: They actually caused these bad blocks or sent these bad blocks into the network and none of them were accepted by any client, which is a huge success on the testing side of things because that was the expected outcome. Amario says here that he changed the weights a bit so it created more issues with regards to withdrawals. Let's see if the clients can handle it. So this is basically how they do what's called fuzzing. So testing for these, I guess, issues with the main net shadow fork or making sure that none of the clients, I guess, like change to this chain. By sending bad blocks, it basically means that the client's duty is to reject those blocks and continue on with the chain that with the correct chain, so to, so to speak. Right.
00:02:13.634 - 00:02:43.442, Speaker A: So great to see this is coming along as well. And the testing is going very well here. So I'm super excited, guys. I mean I keep getting more and more excited about the, I guess, Ethereum staking, what this means for withdrawals. And I explained a couple of weeks ago why I actually think Withdrawals is bullish for Ethereum staking and not bearish for it. And there was actually a tweet that I put out Today that David Hoffman replied to. I want to get to his reply, but it was related to staking where my tweet said Ethereum staking is a big industry, but it's going to get so much bigger than anyone can imagine.
00:02:43.442 - 00:03:42.074, Speaker A: Solar staking centralized slash decentralized LSD's institutional stakers restaking LSD's as Defi collateral and more will lead to Ethereum staking becoming a trillion dollar industry. And you guys know that about all about that because I've been talking about it for pretty much like years at this point that I'm just super bullish on ETH, Ethereum staking. And these are just some of the reasons, right? I mean we have so much competition coming online in the LSD space. So much of Defi is supporting LSD's right now. And as obviously LSD's keep growing, more and more of them are going to get used within Defi. And then you have things like restaking, like Eigen layer coming along, which is going to lead to, I believe, a lot more ETH staked. It's going to get crazy, right? And we're actually discussing Eigen layer a bit in the daily grade discord channel today because some people are bringing up the, I guess, concerns and their relevant concerns around how Eigen layer affects Ethereum security, since it's taking, I guess, like the staked ETH and using it for its own purposes.
00:03:42.074 - 00:04:37.468, Speaker A: I think the overall concern that I see is that some people may be misinformed or have the wrong idea about how Eigen layer actually works. So I want to correct that quickly before I move on to David's tweet here. So with Eigen layer, it's not actually making any changes to the core Ethereum protocol itself. It is, it is a middleware protocol built around Ethereum staking, so to speak, where it basically just uses your staked ETH as its security, right, as its collateral. Now does that mean your Ethereum validators are doing anything different? No, because Eigen layer is not part of the core protocol, that he's not changing anything part of the core protocol. All you're really doing is saying, hey, you know, I have this staked ETH on my validator and I want to participate in whatever Eigen layer is doing with that. So I'm going to use that while taking on the additional platform smart contract and slashing risk of Eigen layer and give them permission to take control of my staked ETH if I do something wrong on Eigen layer.
00:04:37.468 - 00:05:14.300, Speaker A: They eigenlayer itself cannot get you slashed on ethereum mainnet unless you give control to them of your validator, which is not how it works from my understanding. And they cannot cause your validator to do something different because the validator can only do what it's been, I guess, like told to do by the Ethereum protocol. And Eigen layer doesn't change anything there. But there's been a ton of explanations about this and a ton of podcasts about Eigen layer recently, and there are some linked in the daily discord channel that you can go check out if you want to learn more about that. But I think that's one, I guess, misconception that people have about it. It doesn't actually add anything to the core protocol itself. There's no changes being made there now.
00:05:14.300 - 00:05:50.880, Speaker A: They also, people also bring up, I guess, like issues with security. Like does restaking lower the economic security of ethereum under proof of stake? And I think that that's a debate worth having. I personally don't think it does. And if it does, I think it only does it as much as LSD's do it because you can think of it similar to LSD's where people are essentially taking their staked ETH, getting an LSD of that staked ETH, and then doing something with that LSD. Now the I guess like tangible example here is that people will put the LSD in defi. Maybe they use it as collateral on Aave or something. And let's say they get liquidated and that ETH is, or I guess like that are ETH or Ste.
00:05:50.880 - 00:06:31.426, Speaker A: The LSD is taken by the liquidator and the liquidator says, well, I don't want to hold ste th or reed. So they can either sell it into the secondary market or they can go redeem it from the beacon chain post withdrawals. So that's, that basically. That's basically what happens in that scenario. Whereas with Eigen layer it's a little bit different, but the same. It's the same concept where if you get slashed on the Eigen layer network, they'll initiate a withdrawal of your staked ETH on the beacon chain, unless there's a secondary market, because I expected to be secondary markets, but there's none right now, obviously. And, but you know, they could do the secondary market thing or they could go through the beacon chain, take your staked ETH, or the part of it that got slashed automatically via a smart contract track.
00:06:31.426 - 00:06:55.210, Speaker A: It's not, it's not going to be centralized. At least, at least that's the goal, right? Obviously, maybe initially it's probably going to be centralized, but that's the goal. And, and then that's all that happens there. So it's basically just a normal exit from the beacon chain, a normal withdrawal. It's not like they can get you slashed on the Ethereum beacon chain. You're basically getting slashed on the Eigen layer network only. And that, as I said, is up for debate whether that low is a theorems economic security or not.
00:06:55.210 - 00:07:31.884, Speaker A: But I'm going to, I think we're going to have to see how that plays out over time. I think it actually strengths and strengthen, strengthens, strengthens it. Well, that struggle to get that one out there, because I think that two services like Eigen layout, like restaking services, will actually lead to more ETH being staked. And more ETH being staked in a lot of scenarios leads to more security for a theory, not all scenarios, because if more ETH gets staked with a provider such as Lido right now, I don't know if that's adding any tangible security to the beacon chain because Lido already has such a massive market share. Uh, economic security maybe. But there's debates, right? There is debates to be had there. Uh, but anyway, that's the note on that.
00:07:31.884 - 00:07:56.662, Speaker A: Now back to what I was talking before, which was David's tweet reply. Uh, to my tweet, he said the bookcase for ETH staking is no longer that ethereum will be the settlement layer for the Internet. That is now the base case. The new bull case for ETH is that it's the security layer for the entire Internet. E staking goes from one dimensional to omnidom. Omni dimensional. Now this has got to do with restaking, of course, and basically using staked ETH as security for a multitude of different things.
00:07:56.662 - 00:08:43.430, Speaker A: With Eigen layer, they want to do things like Oracle networks and data availability networks and other such things, maybe decentralized sequences for L2s, but there are going to be other services out there that leverage staked ETH, leverage that security that you can get from staked ETH, LSD's or solar stakers or whatever it is for their own use cases. Now, what those use cases are and how successful they are is up to, I guess, the community to build out and up to the market to decide. But I really like this framing from David that eats taking is not just one dimensional. It's not just staked ETH on Ethereum securing the beacon chain or securing the ethereum network. It's now omnidimensional where it's doing that. But it's also going to be doing a lot of these other things. And as I mentioned, you know, before, the security implications of this are up for debate.
00:08:43.430 - 00:09:09.774, Speaker A: We don't know what it's going to look like as time goes on. We're only going to find out as time goes on, really. I mean, it's probably going to take a couple of years for us to see what the landscape looks like. There's. But I think this is the really cool way of framing it, that ETH isn't just a settlement layer for the Internet or for, I guess, this new financial system that we're building. That is really the base case, but it's also this security layer for the, this entire new Internet slash financial system that we're building, which I think is very, very cool. So.
00:09:09.774 - 00:09:40.980, Speaker A: So, yeah, just something interesting there from, from David. And I hope you guys, maybe I cleared up some misconceptions there around Eigen layer. I think the biggest thing to remember is that there's no changes being made. Talk to the core protocol to, I guess like make Eigen layer work or anything like that, or to accommodate Eigen layer. It's going to be working without any changes being made, from my understanding, at least. I mean, I've looked at the, at the roadmap, looked at upcoming changes for the beacon chain. Nothing is specifically being built to accommodate Eigen layer.
00:09:40.980 - 00:10:21.748, Speaker A: Right. Maybe Argon layer will get advantage over the upgrades that were already on the roadmap, such as single slot finality and their secret leader election stuff, and any other things that come to proof of stake the beacon chain. But those things are already things that have been on the roadmap for quite a while. So I don't think they're going to be favoring one thing over the other. All right, now a couple of tweets about decentralization. So one comes here from, I think I should start from this one with this one from Chase Chapman, who said, we often talk about centralization risk, but never about decentralization risk. If a system is so decentralized that it becomes inflexible to respond in a changing environment, that's also a very bad outcome.
00:10:21.748 - 00:10:57.314, Speaker A: And then he continues to use Spengra's framework of, or Spencer Graham's framework of anti capture. If you want to create capture resistance systems, we need to not only think about resistance from a centralized party, but also we can avoid capture that comes as a result of bureaucracy. So I think the obvious example here of what chase is talking about is bitcoin, where it ossified, in my opinion, way too early, and it is so decentralized that there can't actually be any changes made to the. To the base protocol. Now, there are. You can debate about this forever about whether this was a good or bad thing. In my mind, it was a bad thing.
00:10:57.314 - 00:11:25.164, Speaker A: But I think that the. The two worst outcomes for. For bitcoin, for the. From this, is that they allowed other chains to be spun up and take massive amounts of market share away from bitcoin because they were so dogmatic about not changing the base layer at all. They were so dogmatic that they literally had a war, basically a crypto war, over changing the block size limit. Right. Which was, at the time, it was quite insane to me that that was actually a thing.
00:11:25.164 - 00:11:57.464, Speaker A: And it's still kind of insane looking back on it. But, yeah, I mean, that's kind of how ossified it is. And that's how, I guess, decentralized it is that they're in this state of paralysis where they can't actually change anything. Now, where this becomes a real issue, which I think that people in the bitcoin community are burying their heads in the sand about, is that bitcoin has long term security issues that I've discussed before where the block subsidy or the block reward is dwindling, you know, every four years at halves. And the fear of a new on bitcoin is not make. Is not going to. Well, has traditionally not been making up for that dwindling block reward.
00:11:57.464 - 00:12:40.458, Speaker A: So eventually, when the block reward gets low enough and it's not going to take that long, probably 2123 more halvenings and the fear of a new doesn't go up. Well, bitcoin security is going to go down because the miners are going to be unprofitable. They're going to have to shut down. The hash rate is going to go down, and bitcoin's overall security will go down. Now, how to fix this? Well, in my opinion, there are only a few ways they can fix it, but they all require changes to the core protocol. Such as, I mean, some of these probably very low chance of happening anyway, even if there were changes being made to the core protocol. But the way to fix it, perpetual issuance, that's the obvious way to fix it, right? Like just remove the 21 million cap, have a flat perpetual issuance rate, or a curve like Ethereum proof of stake has, and go from there.
00:12:40.458 - 00:13:34.284, Speaker A: Now, you can do that alone, or you can do that coupled with proof of stake, which would solve this issue, right? And I think those are really the only two workable things that you could potentially do. But those two things are not only sacrilege in the bitcoin community, obviously, because they treat the 21 million cap as God, basically, and they tweet the ability, sorry, they treat the proof of work similarly. So for them to either remove the cap or embrace proof of stake, or do both, very slim chance of that happening, regardless of them not changing the core protocol at all. Right? Like, maybe they do, at some point in the future, change the core protocol via a hard fork to add a feature in. Maybe they, you know, get their heads out of the sand and they add some new opcodes in order to allow them to do things like settle ZK proofs, for example. Right, which would actually give them a little bit more of a layer to ecosystem than they have today with lightning network. Right.
00:13:34.284 - 00:14:21.466, Speaker A: Um, but in terms of them actually changing from proof of work to proof of stake, I just don't imagine that ever happening. And in terms of them removing in 21 million cap, I think that's even less of a chance of happening. So. Yeah, so it's not just about things being too decentralized to change, it's also about them being too decentralized to even talk about change, like changes that actually need to happen, because so many people are, I guess, like so stuck in this dogmatic view of these things, such as a 21 million cap or being on proof of work forever or anything like that. Now, that's up to the bitcoin community to deal with. Obviously, if bitcoin security was to fade away and it was to become insecure, that does not actually impact other chains, especially not Ethereum. Obviously, the market dynamics will be kind of crazy around there.
00:14:21.466 - 00:14:55.264, Speaker A: I'm not talking about the market dynamics and the prices of assets. I'm talking more about the technical level. Like, bitcoin becoming insecure is not going to have any security or technical security risk for Ethereum, but there will be risk in that. If the market's volatile, maybe ETH dumps in price because BTC is dumping in price, and that obviously lowers the theorem's economic security. But from a technical standpoint, it doesn't really matter. So we don't really have any incentive to, I guess, like advocate for bitcoin to be changed. We can just call it out and hope that they come to their senses if they actually want their chain to continue.
00:14:55.264 - 00:15:45.208, Speaker A: But that is exactly what I believe Chase is talking about here. Now, this has also been one of my worries for Ethereum for a little while. I'm not that worried about it, but it's definitely something that's sometimes at the back of my mind in that no, ethereum over time, especially from here on out, is going to become slower and slower to do major changes. And it's going to get to a point where it actually gets to not ossification, but that homeostasis that I talked about, that domothy put a tweet out about a couple of weeks ago where essentially we only make changes that are required, and we don't make changes that are just nice to have, right? Like things that are literally critical for Ethereum to work. Those are the only changes that we end up making. And I think that we're trending more and more in that direction. But that's probably not from the fact that Ethereum has ossified too early or it's too dogmatic or where, you know, too decentralized.
00:15:45.208 - 00:16:29.560, Speaker A: I think it just stems from the fact that Ethereum is growing more and more, and it becomes much harder to change things, much harder to coordinate things, and much less worth it to do it in terms of risk reward as time goes on, as Ethereum gets bigger here. So I think right now, and historically, over the last few years, especially, Ethereum has been in that nice Goldilocks zone where essentially it's not centralized, it's, you know, not suit. It's, it's not too decentralized in that it can't change, but it's, it's chugging along really well. It has very good decentralization, but we can still make changes to the protocol here. So I think that's, that's very important. Now, the other tweet that was related to this was one from Martin Koppelman, who put out a tweet that I actually disagree with. He said, simple test for whether a chain is decentralized or not.
00:16:29.560 - 00:17:04.170, Speaker A: There's two points here, he says. He asked the question, can you run a full node and can you become a block producer? I actually don't think that this is it for decentralization. These are two parts of it, of course, but decentralization is much bigger than this. Just because you can run a full node and become a plugin block producer doesn't mean your chain is decentralized. I mean, for example, you can run a full node on a chain that you create, right? And you can run a block producer on a chain that you create. But maybe there's only, you know, 50 other people that are running those things on your chain. Well, that's not very decentralized, is it? So I think that you have to put numbers to this.
00:17:04.170 - 00:17:39.807, Speaker A: I think you have to include every other facet of decentralization that plays into this, such as, you know, core developer, decentralization, client diversity, infrastructure provider, decentralization, exchange decentralization, all that sorts of stuff. It always to come together. You, I don't think you can have like a simple test like this on whether a chain is decentralized or not. And I, yeah, I just wanted to point that out because it's not, definitely not something that I agree with. And it really just waters down, I guess, the decentralization test. Now, I don't know if Martin meant this, as these are the only two things you have to ask. I don't think he does, because I consider Martin to be quite intelligent.
00:17:39.807 - 00:18:31.272, Speaker A: He's been around for quite a while, so he definitely understands how these things work. But they are definitely good points to bring up. I mean, if you can't run a full node or be a block producer, then I don't think you can even begin to talk about being decentralized, because if you can't run a full node, you can't actually verify the integrity of the chain for yourself, which means that you're basically relying on other actors to do that for you, which basically means it's not decentralized, at least in my view. And if you can't become a block producer at all, like if you can't become a validator and actually produce blocks on the network, well, then that means that block production is basically just reserved for, I guess, like a special part, a special set of people, or a special set of entities. And that, again, means that you fail the decentralization test. I think these two points, even though I said that they're not the only things that matter, they definitely very, very important, especially running a full node. Running a full node is so important.
00:18:31.272 - 00:19:15.198, Speaker A: I mean, this is one thing that bitcoin has got very very right is the ability to run a full node is absolutely critical. And I actually would actually would say that if you don't have the ability to run a full node, but you have all the other decentralization ticks that I would consider when, when measuring something, I still would consider your chain not decentralized because there's no way for a regular user, if they can't run a full node out, to basically get the view of the chain as if they weren't trusting anyone. Right. Doing it in a trustless way. Which means that you're relying on third parties and you can never actually have 100% certainty or near 100% certainty that the chain that you're talking to wasn't tampered with. And that. And you can't verify that for yourself either.
00:19:15.198 - 00:19:45.148, Speaker A: So yeah, anyway, to recap here, I think there's a couple of good questions to ask, but they're definitely not the be all, end all of decentralization. All right, so the Polygon ZK Twitter account here put together a weekly progress report and metrics for Polygon ZK EVM, which you can check out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. There's about 20 tweets here, seems at the polygon Zk EvM. Oh, it's actually less than 20 tweets. Oh, this is not one of 20 tweets. This is the 20th of the first.
00:19:45.148 - 00:20:10.830, Speaker A: Sorry. Being australian, I read day month, not month day. I never understood why people do the month day format. But anyway, you can kind of see all this for yourself with LinkedIn, the YouTube description below. But another reason why I bring up this, this thread is because sundip from Polygon here put together a little tweet where he said just came out of a high level ZKVM mainnet launch committee can't keep calm, folks. We have a date for Mainnet launch, and it's soon. Now, he hasn't given the date yet.
00:20:10.830 - 00:20:47.872, Speaker A: Obviously this is an internal date that they seem to have agreed on, and soon, I mean, soon is a term that it's always pretty funny because soon could mean in a month or in six months. It's relative, right? But I think that we can have relative certainty that it's hopefully going to happen in the next few months, which is kind of crazy. Now, what that actually looks like when the ZKVM goes live on Mainnet is anyone's guess. Like, is it? It's not going to be decentralized at all, I don't think. I think it's going to be very centralized to begin with, which is fine because pretty much all the L2s are like that. And I wonder what the, I guess scalability is going to be. I wonder what the developer experience is going to be like.
00:20:47.872 - 00:21:23.788, Speaker A: We're just going to have to see, right? We're just going to have to see how that shakes out when they launch this live on Mainnet. But as I've said about the ZKVM stuff before, the race is on, guys like it really, really is. And I think that this year there'll be a bunch of them launch, if not all of them launch this year. ZKVM's maybe not all of them. Maybe there are some of the players that have come in a bit later that may not be ready to launch. I would expect the ones like Polygon and Zksync and scroll to launch this year, whereas something like a taiko may be pushed into next year. But as I've said before, it doesn't actually matter that much.
00:21:23.788 - 00:22:09.474, Speaker A: I think that the race to become the dominant il two platform is going to last at least a decade. I don't think it's going to be decided in a year or two, right. It's going to last quite a while, and the race has already been kind of going on since optimism and Arbitrum launched in 2021. And they are the, they are the teams to beat right now, as I've discussed before. So. Yeah, but anyway, if you want to learn more about Polygon, ZKVM and all their stats around it, you can definitely check out this little twitter thread with this blog post here, I guess, like, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. Now, I also wanted to just talk about one more thing before I move on from this, just about L2s generally, there was a bit of, I guess, fud around optimisms, daily transactions kind of seemingly falling off a cliff recently.
00:22:09.474 - 00:22:59.664, Speaker A: And I think that was due to there was optimism quests was finishing, and people were just farming that, because obviously people love to farm air drops. And I've discussed about this before about how you really need to look at the activity on any chain over longer periods of time than even a few months. You need to look over years, because a lot of it, a lot of the time is influenced by these airdrop farmers, right? By the speculative activity that may not be lasting activity. And this goes back to what I was talking about last week when it came, although I think the week before when it came to ultrasound money on the Ethereum main net and getting above that ultrasound barrier in a sustainable way. Like it's all well and good to get above it for a few days because there's, I don't know, demand for some scam or some ponzi, but that's not sustainable. So that is just a flash in the pan thing. I mean, it's still positive for ETH because it's burning ETH, but it is not sustainable.
00:22:59.664 - 00:23:52.424, Speaker A: What we want to see is sustainable growth, not just for deflationary ETH, but just for sustainable growth for the Ethereum platform generally. And that's what we want to see on these L2s as well. And even though the optimism's daily transaction count fell off a cliff because of that, I guess the, the optimism quest finishing, it's still growing, right? It still has been growing and that still brought a lot of attention to projects and the ecosystem on optimism. So it's still in my mind and net positive it did what it was meant to do. You just can't look at, I guess, those short term metrics and get much signal from them because they are definitely influenced by potential airdrop farming or whether that be token farming or NFT farm or anything of the sort of. You definitely just need to take a longer term view here. I truly believe that to get an accurate picture, you probably need to take a year long view, and you also need to contextualize that, whether it's a bear market or a bull market.
00:23:52.424 - 00:24:54.226, Speaker A: Because if for some reason you've taken a year long view and it's been a bull market for that entire year, well, maybe you best be best off waiting to, I guess, like form any long term conclusions and wait for a bear market or wait for a more quiet market to see if the growth of that platform actually sustains itself or if it was just a bull market phenomenon. And we've seen that play out plenty of times before. So I don't think I need to explain what that would look like. But yeah, I think that's the better way of going about it. But anyway, moving on from that one on to the last thing I wanted to talk about. So finally here, speaking of L2s, I just wanted to give a shout out to this newsletter that Liam puts out every week called the L2 weekly roundup. Now, if you're struggling keeping up with everything happening in the L2 ecosystem, which you probably are, because there's so much happening all the time, Liam's newsletter is pretty much the one stop shop these days to find out what's going on, to keep up with everything besides the refuel, of course, but Liam goes in even more depth than I do on the refuel each week here, and links to everything that he talks about, links to tweets, links to research pieces, everything that you need to keep up with.
00:24:54.226 - 00:25:29.650, Speaker A: Pretty much everything happening in the L2 ecosystem. So definitely highly recommend subscribing to this, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to do so. And yeah, as I said, it is a weekly newsletter, so you'll get it freshly in your inbox each and every week. I love seeing newsletters like this spun up. I mean, I used to do the Ethub weekly newsletter, but I stopped doing that a little while ago. And there is other newsletters like Weekend Ethereum and obviously bankless stuff like that. They're definitely very good for keeping up with things, but from my experience, the best way to go about them so you don't become overwhelmed is sign up to maybe a couple of them and that's about it.
00:25:29.650 - 00:26:09.710, Speaker A: I actually think that you could sign up to weaken Ethereum bankless and delayed to weekly roundup and get most of what you need covered, if not all of what you need covered when it comes to the Ethereum ecosystem alone. I know bankless does some things outside of the Ethereum ecosystem, but they're pretty heavy Ethereum, so signing up to those, I think will get you a lot of that information. And then obviously add the refuel in there too for, for a nice mix, which will get you even more information. But yeah, it just depends on how you like consuming your content. There are a lot of people who don't like consuming content via text. They'd rather just listen to someone like me on the refuel or listening to podcast. I mean, obviously bankless does a podcast as well, which you can more, you know, you can do whatever works for you, really.
00:26:09.710 - 00:26:41.362, Speaker A: I mean, I'm personally not a big reader of things. I definitely listen to podcasts to learn more about stuff. I definitely spend a lot of my time skimming through things. I don't have time to read everything, obviously, but definitely that's just the way I learn, right? So don't feel bad if you can't, if you have like a million tabs opening chrome and you're like oh my God, I need to get to these tabs, so many blog posts I need to read. If you're finding yourself doing that, maybe reading, I guess long form stuff isn't for you, you're probably more suited to podcast. I, as I said, I definitely am. And I mean, I used to listen to podcasts more religiously than I do these days.
00:26:41.362 - 00:27:11.308, Speaker A: But when I'm going for walks or when I was at the gym or anything like that, podcasts were my thing. Obviously trying to listen to a podcast while you're on the computer doing other things is going to be difficult because you're going to be distracted. So for me, I've always found that it's best to, I guess, do something where you're not on a computer, such as going for a walk or a run or whatever it is, and listening to podcasts that way. But anyway, went off on a little bit of a tangent there. Definitely go subscribe to the L2 weekly roundup, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:27:11.308 - 00:27:17.644, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, get a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
