00:00:00.400 - 00:00:25.862, Speaker A: Ether has outperformed bitcoin by 100 x over eight years. ETH is going to continue outperforming and there's going to be the flipping, and it's going to happen in a matter of months. In a matter of months, not years, ETH will flip in bitcoin. It's up only exponentially. It's up to the right exponentially. Hi there, this is Laurent. I'm the co host of Verify, the brand new podcast by Bitcoin suite.
00:00:25.862 - 00:00:43.764, Speaker A: But this isn't just any podcast, it's your backstage pass into the crypto world. My co host Dominic and I are analysts in the crypto industry, where it is our job to stay on top of the latest market and crypto developments. None of the discuss is financial advice, of course. It's all for informational and entertainment purposes only.
00:00:44.224 - 00:02:04.850, Speaker B: Welcome back to Verified after two very bitcoin heavy episodes, there could literally be not a better timing to shift gears into ethereum and if the asset in particular, ETH, recently somewhat lacked traction in the shadow of the bitcoin ETF approvals that happened earlier this year, and obviously the ongoing meme coin frenzy on Solana and base, respectively. Today, however, we want to set the tone and focus on ETH, the asset, and also to uncork the mostly tech heavy conversations and frame it into a more accessible and engaging conversation. As such, we we are super thrilled today to have Justin Drake for anybody close to Ethereum. I think he needs no introduction, as Justin is highly recognized within the space for his extensive work being instrumental in driving Ethereum's evolution and also major advancements on the protocol level. Justin is also very vocal about ETH, the asset, which we focus on today that powers said protocol and its underlying monetary policy, both topics that we'll touch on in our conversation. And basically shifting gears into a more Ethereum focused episode is not the only change today, because Wolfgang is co hosting this episode with me, who is our protocol specialist and basically bitcoin wizard in charge at bitcoin Swiss.
00:02:04.962 - 00:02:19.518, Speaker C: Thank you for the introduction, Dominic. Justin, it's such a pleasure to have you with us today. I am very excited to hear your thoughts on the current state of Ethereum, one of my favorite topics. So I'm very happy. But before you start, would you mind sharing some words on your background?
00:02:19.606 - 00:02:52.404, Speaker A: Sure, absolutely. First of all, thank you for having me on the podcast. I'm very excited to talk about if the asset after quite a long hiatus, this is the very first podcast on the topic for many months. Maybe there's some sort of shift in the air that's happening now in terms of my background. I was this math nerd. I went to math camp three different times when I was a teenager, and then I studied pure mathematics at Cambridge University. And then when I graduated, I did all sorts of different types of programming for a consultancy called Argon Design.
00:02:52.404 - 00:03:44.932, Speaker A: And actually Dankrat, who was my colleague, Dankrad got me into bitcoin, and we were both programming FPGA's, doing super low latency networking. So Dancrat got me into bitcoin in 2013, and in December of 2013, I created the bitcoin Meetup group. I just wanted to learn more, and so I organized all sorts of events and talks. One of these events was actually Vitalik, who came to Cambridge, and then Dankrat and I started a bitcoin ATM. So it was a physical machine where you put british pound notes in, you scan your QR code with your bitcoin address, and it would send bitcoin to your wallet. Then I went full time and decided to become a bitcoin entrepreneur. And I was building on top of this protocol called Openbazaar, which is a peer to peer protocol for marketplaces.
00:03:44.932 - 00:04:23.008, Speaker A: You can think of the goal, trying to build the equivalent of eBay or Airbnb or Uber or Kickstarter using decentralized rails, specifically bitcoin, way too early. And even today, bitcoin is probably unsuitable for this kind of application. But that was a goal. And the people that I were interacting with through Openbazaar were, to a large extent, bitcoin maxis. And I was pretty much a bitcoin maxi as well, because that was the only thing, to a large extent. But then I discovered Ethereum, and I made suggestions. Yeah, hey, maybe we should look into Ethereum, because that's more programmable, that's much more of a fit for what we're trying to build.
00:04:23.008 - 00:04:50.378, Speaker A: And they were like, no, bitcoin only. Bitcoin only. And then eventually, Openbazaar just didn't do very well. My company didn't do very well at all. And so I was looking for a new opportunity, and I was passionate about the space. And so I thought, okay, I have this itch to learn more about Ethereum, because my startup didn't really give me time to focus on Ethereum. And so I watched a talk by Vitalik on the data availability problem, and I spent a couple weeks just thinking about this one problem.
00:04:50.378 - 00:05:04.044, Speaker A: And I had a few ideas, one of which seemed novel and interesting. And so I emailed Vitalik this idea and we had this conversation by email and then a few weeks later he hired me to join the Ethereum foundation.
00:05:04.824 - 00:06:06.354, Speaker B: Thank you for sharing the path towards Ethereum with us and also the story around our beloved bitcoin maxis. Yeah, fun fact side one of my close colleagues here always says that the Ethereum research has have such nice names like Justin Drake and Dankrat Weiss. So we kick off today's episode like for the core topics by basically removing some noise that surrounds Ethereum recently as it sits between very clear cut narratives, or for instance, bitcoin that is perceived as a digital gold store value asset. Also, Lana, to put it very simple, it's cheap, fast and composable. So the sentiment surrounding Eve saw better days in the past. Let's be real. Meanwhile, also concerns are growing that Ethereum loses a retail mind share, partly because others appear to be easier to understand, which is really paradox given that most metrics are crushingly good.
00:06:06.354 - 00:06:49.740, Speaker B: And I want to name a few because both Wolfgang and me are kind of, I would call us Ethereum fans. EtH's utility as a defi collateral remains unmatched. Then, while Solana and other layer ones are eating into ETH's market share, it still continues to dominate dex volume. It also dominates by huge margin in stablecoin issuance. And then there are many, many other metrics that basically outlined that Eve is still cooking. It's still, in many metrics, the best protocol, or the dominant protocol by far. But now, if we shed some light on the narrative side, we kind of lack some lucidity because Yves growth complicates defining its core value proposition.
00:06:49.740 - 00:07:19.084, Speaker B: Correct. Across the years, it was perceived as many things, among them ultrasound money for its supply burn, as an Internet bond due to its staking yields, as a settlement layer because of L2s, for instance, and as a pristine collateral asset for its utility. How would you define ethereum in very simple terms, and maybe even in one sentence, did we move away from the world computer vision? What narrative is it that we currently chase?
00:07:20.104 - 00:08:01.834, Speaker A: Right? I mean, my personal mental model is the Internet of value. And one of the things I'm trying to convey here is that there are extremely strong network effects at play. There's only one Internet. There's not like three Internets. And I think to a very large extent, layer ones are winner take most because of these network effects around composability, security, liquidity, monetary premium developers, and network effects around EVM, all sorts of network effects. And my personal intuition is that these are very strong network effects. And are only going to get stronger as we get more and more complex applications.
00:08:01.834 - 00:08:36.508, Speaker A: And the reason is that today we have simple transfers or simple swaps or simple loans. But what if you have a complex application, like a marketplace? Like what I was trying to do on bitcoin with open bazaar. Now you need ten different modules to operate a marketplace. And so the network effects will just keep on getting stronger and stronger. And I think it is winner take most. And so if you really zoom out, the question that I ask myself is like, if it's winner take most, who's going to win? And I personally believe, of course, that it's ethereum. You could plausibly ask, why not? Why not bitcoin? Bitcoin is number one.
00:08:36.508 - 00:09:13.320, Speaker A: It has the strongest network effects, especially from a monetary standpoint. And I think bitcoin in some sense, unfortunately, is ruled out to my discontent, right? I was a bitcoiner. I still am a bitcoiner. But bitcoin in some sense hasn't lived to the promise that it had ten years ago when I got involved. And I think one of the major points is around the lack of programmability. Even today, there's so many projects that are trying to add programmability to bitcoin, but it is for people who like chewing glass, it is extremely difficult. And even if you can achieve it, there's like a laundry list of five different caveats.
00:09:13.320 - 00:09:52.654, Speaker A: And there's also fundamental reasons why it will only be for a very small, select slice of use cases. For example, the fact that data availability is limited to four megabytes every ten minutes. But there's maybe another even more fundamental problem, which is bitcoin doesn't have sustainable security, in my opinion. This is something I thought about for a long time now, relatively deeply. And I believe that actually within the next ten years, bitcoin will get 51% attacked. And I'm more than happy to go down that rabbit hole if you're interested. Mentally, I strike off bitcoin as being even a candidate for this Internet of value.
00:09:52.654 - 00:11:01.594, Speaker A: And then you can look at competitors like Solana. Solana is interesting because it really is like trying new things, trying new approaches, and it has had lots of successes in terms of having a very high throughput and low fees. But the question is that enough to dethrone the king? Especially if the king has all sorts of high powered cards in its pocket? We just deployed blobs 4844, which is basically a resource, a data resource that the roll ups can consume, and that is going to allow them to have extremely low fees. So if you look on base, on optimism, on arbitrary, it's very much competitive fees to Solana, same kind of ballpark. And we're actually, in some sense, the competitive advantage of Solana was the ability to take shortcuts. There's many shortcuts that were taken with Solana. It doesn't have, for example, like client support, it doesn't merkelize its state, it doesn't have a mempool, and the launch relays just keeps on going.
00:11:01.594 - 00:11:29.504, Speaker A: And that's interesting as a user acquisition mechanism, but it's. It has a lot of technical debt. It has a single client, it doesn't have a well defined spec quality of the testing, and the code base is not that high. It has all sorts of outages and whatnot. It's the move fast and break things approach. But we also have that now all the l two s on Ethereum are like, they want to move as fast as possible. There's a first mover advantage.
00:11:29.504 - 00:11:59.820, Speaker A: And so they're all competing in some sense on quantity rather than quality. And so I don't see a meaningful differentiator. And now, going back to the network effects, Solana, in my opinion, the number one problem with it is that it's an l one. What does an l one mean? It means that it's not connected to the incidental value. It is its own little island somewhere out there, its own little oasis, and there's like, extraterrestrial activity there. That's really weird. This is crazy.
00:11:59.820 - 00:12:47.292, Speaker A: Meme coins and lots of degens and lots of interesting life. But as you said, it's just disconnected from mainland. And as you said, for example, USDT Solana has 0.8% of all the USDT supply network effects around exchanges, but also network effects around security, which I think are very meaningful in the context of monetary premium. Because as we're probably going to discuss, there's two aspects of blockchains, if you want to think of assets. One is this idea of flows, and this is very much anchored in utility, like how much utility does the chain provide? But then there's this other more memetic aspect, which is moneyness. And here we care deeply about security for moneyness.
00:12:47.292 - 00:13:37.854, Speaker A: And so even though almost likely not going to have Solana be attacked this year or next year or the year after, the fact, that ethereum is unquestionably not attackable just gives e for the asset this edge in terms of accruing monetary premium. And just like I think there's going to be one Internet of money one Internet of value. I also think there's going to be basically one asset or very small number of assets that can accrue monetary premium. And so you really need to zoom out and look at the shelling points that ultimately lead the market towards picking that asset. Now, bitcoin has a few amazing shining points. It's the first one that's great. It's also the immaculate conception that's great.
00:13:37.854 - 00:14:07.274, Speaker A: But unfortunately, going back to the security and the programmability aspect, I think it's ruled out. You look at the next best thing, and the next best thing is Ethereum, which has extremely good security. It has a decent amount of lendingness. If the asset has been around for eight years, it has a very good distribution and it has very good liquidity. And I think it's en route to becoming the money for the incentive value that complements the incentive value itself.
00:14:08.614 - 00:14:51.774, Speaker C: Absolutely. Maybe I will summarize the differentiator and the advantage of ethereum compared to alternatives is the programmability, the leanliness, the network effects they've built already. And you mentioned also very important, the high level of economic security. I've seen you updating the flipping of economic security compared to bitcoin. We reached around 100 billion USD, I think with the values of today, and that's already one order of magnitude higher. There are also some people debate on whether at some point there are diminishing returns on the economic security. Is there really a point in having more than 100 billion, 1 trillion? At what point you reach the machine returns? But anyway, I would like to ask.
00:14:51.854 - 00:15:37.846, Speaker A: A quick comment on this note that I think it's kind of the bell curve meme, where if we could have $10 trillion of economic security on the left side, it's like, wow, that's amazing, so much security on the right side. It's also appreciative of that and the midcovende. And I think from a fundamentals perspective, we don't need $10 trillion of economic security. But going back to this idea of moneyness, it's all about the memes, and in some sense it's all about being the number one. So it's less about absolute values, but it's also about relative to the competition. You want to be number one. And then the other aspect is that we like to be in a position where we are unquestionably unattackable.
00:15:37.846 - 00:16:05.314, Speaker A: So with $100 billion, how many entities in the world can go and attack Ethereum? Well, there's maybe a handful. There's the uS, there's China. And then you can think of other entities that can plausibly attack Ethereum today. But if it's $10 trillion, that is extremely difficult even for the number one entity, which might be the US. And so I think there is value to reaching these ludicrously high amounts of.
00:16:05.394 - 00:16:29.654, Speaker C: Economic security, going back to the concept of moneyness. And we will go deep on how ethereum works. How ether works, either the asset, why it's money. But I would like to ask you first, in a more abstract way, what are the properties that decentralized money should have? If you could pick the ideal features of ether as money, what should these features be?
00:16:30.714 - 00:17:08.074, Speaker A: So in order to be a money first you need to be a money candidate, which means that you need to have the very basic properties that even could potentially enable the money, like table stake. Things like it needs to be fungible, it needs to be durable, it needs to be transportable. All of these properties that we know and love about money candidates. Now, if you want an actual money, then you need to take a money candidate and somehow imbue it with monetary premium. And this is a social process. And the way that I think about it is that it works for selling points. So there needs to be some compelling reason.
00:17:08.074 - 00:18:04.844, Speaker A: It doesn't have to be prescribed ahead of time, but it needs to be some sort of compelling reason for if you have 1000 money candidates, which one are you going to pick as a society? As the one, and I've already mentioned a few, being the first is an amazing shining point. Having immaculate Conception, that's an amazing shining point. Having amazing security or amazing programmability. And so really we need to zoom out and look at the big picture and in some sense try and guess what society will consider to be the biggest selling .1 of the amazing selling points, obviously, is scarcity. People love the 21 million meme and in some sense, ethereum has beaten bitcoin on scarcity as well with a decreasing supply. And so really it's up to the next generation to try and show the incumbents that they are worthy of monetary premium.
00:18:04.844 - 00:18:29.844, Speaker A: In some sense, bitcoin is trying to steal the crown from the king, which is arguably gold. And they're coming in saying we're digital, were provably scarce, were easy to transfer. These are amazing differentiators. And I think ether is coming in and saying, we also have all these differentiators. And really bitcoin, 15 years in, is no longer worthy of its crown.
00:18:31.464 - 00:19:27.624, Speaker B: Amazing insights, especially on the topic on what makes good decentralized money. And I know, there are many nuances to decentralized money, but monetary policy is definitely one of the important aspects here. And, Yves, monetary policy is very unique in the space in a way that it is dynamic based on its issuance and activity related burn mechanism. It's also not ossified yet, compared to bitcoin, for instance, and periodically even, it's deflationary. So it's fundamentally different to policies that we are, let's say, more familiar with, for instance, with the Fed's almost arbitrary policy, with their infamous dot plot, which is, yeah, let's see how that will work in the upcoming years. Or basically, bitcoin's highly predictable, static and ossified policy. So how can eve be good, sustainable money with these less predictable attributes?
00:19:28.364 - 00:20:00.506, Speaker A: So, first of all, I want to distinguish two aspects of monetary policy. So in some sense, the monetary policy lives in two different places. It lives at layer zero, which is the social layer, and also lives at layer one. So the layer zero is all the humans, and they have some sort of desire. So, for example, bitcoiners have a desire to have a fixed supply. And then there's the actual monetary policy, which is enshrined in code. And bitcoin had this inflation bug, right? Which meant that there was more than 21 bitcoins that were being printed.
00:20:00.506 - 00:20:46.106, Speaker A: And guess what happened is that the layer zero, the true monetary policy, came in and stepped in and forked bitcoin and put back the true real policy. Now, in the case of Ethereum, we have, since Genesis, basically have a totally immutable and fixed monetary policy, which is called minimum viable issuance. It's this idea that we as a community want to have the smallest amount of issuance, which is sustainable to secure Ethereum. And this is very different to bitcoin, where bitcoin's monetary policy has no bearing whatsoever with security. We don't care about security whatsoever. The only thing we care about is scarcity. And in my opinion, this is not a sustainable approach.
00:20:46.106 - 00:21:27.764, Speaker A: Blockchains are meant to be structures that live for decades and centuries, and within 25 years, bitcoin is just going to blow up simply because it doesn't have a monetary policy which prioritizes security. We've made a shift. In some sense, we've learned from the mistake of Satoshi. And there is this word viable in our monetary policy, which is that we need to at least have enough issuance to cover security. Otherwise, what are we even doing here? And then there's this other word, which is minimum. Minimum, meaning that we want to minimize and not unnecessarily pay for security. And if you look at the history of the monetary policy that's been enshrined in code, in consensus, that has been down only.
00:21:27.764 - 00:22:05.400, Speaker A: So at Genesis, it was five eth per block, and then it was diminished to three for block. The community realized it was just unnecessary to be paying five eth if you could just be paying three. And then it went to two eth per block because a similar observation was made. And then we moved to proof of stake, where it's roughly one eth per block. And then we also added this notion of burn, where it's not really a reduction in issuance, but it's reducing from the supply for the burn. And so every single step forward is going towards this idea of minimization. Now, minimization, unfortunately, is not something that from day one we can figure out.
00:22:05.400 - 00:22:53.394, Speaker A: And part of the reason is that in order to figure out minimization, we need excellent research to make us understand the design space. And we didn't know about EIP 1559. At Genesis, this is something that, several years in, we discovered, and it's an amazingly powerful mechanism. And so really what Ethereum is saying is that we don't want to give up on future research breakthroughs. We want to keep an open mind to future research breakthroughs that could allow us to potentially minimize the amount of issuance. And it turns out that there's a couple of further research breakthroughs that have been found. And so my expectation is that we're going to have even more scarcity than what we have today, which is amazing.
00:22:53.394 - 00:23:37.268, Speaker A: One of these research breakthroughs is this idea of not only burning eth when there is congestion in the blocks, but also burning eth when there is contention. So what is contention is basically when multiple transactions are contending, for example, to be at the very top of the block. And another word for contention is mev. And it turns out we have three different mechanisms to burn mev, and they all work in a slightly different way. And the details maybe don't really matter, but the important thing is that soon Ethereum will be in a position to capture value that it currently does not capture. So at Genesis, Ethereum was not capturing any value. There was no burn whatsoever.
00:23:37.268 - 00:24:28.666, Speaker A: It was just providing its infrastructure as a total public good and not capturing any of the value it created. With EIP 1559, we started capturing a great deal of value through the congestion fee, what we call the base fee. And I think soon enough we will also be capturing mev. But it actually goes beyond that. And the reason is that recently, as you know, there was a big unlock called restaking. And the idea here is that Ethereum can provide value beyond congestion and contention, but just through the use of having a collateral asset which generates yield. And what we can do, basically, is have a mechanism whereby this yield is captured through negative issuance.
00:24:28.666 - 00:25:16.714, Speaker A: So let me just walk you through how it works. The idea is called state capping. So imagine that we want to have a cap to the total amount of stake at one fourth, let's say 25% of the whole eth supply. And as soon as the total amount of staked eth reaches that cap, so, for example, that 24%, we start dipping towards a negative issuance fairly quickly. And so what will happen is that if you're making 5% restaking, you are willing to bear, let's say, 4% of negative issuance. And what is negative issuance is just a burn mechanism. And so if there's large amounts of value that is created on top of ethereum through restaking, that can be captured through state capping.
00:25:16.714 - 00:26:13.144, Speaker A: And so even today, with just capturing the congestion, we're in a position where the supply decreases, but I think it will be decreasing significantly faster once we capture mev, but also have this notion of negative issuance. Even if we don't go to negative issuance, even if we go to a very, very low amount of issuance, let's say 0.1% or close to zero, that would already be a huge advantage, because today the burn is struggling a little bit to compensate the issuance, because we're issuing roughly 1% of the total supply per year, and we're also burning roughly 1% of the total supply. So it's this battle between the burn and issuance. But if we can reduce issuance ten x to 0.1% with stake capping, because there's more than 25% of the ETH that's being staked. And so with stake capping, you basically introduce this new competition and dramatically reduce issuance.
00:26:13.924 - 00:27:28.752, Speaker B: Thanks for the insights again, Justin, from a game theoretic perspective, also super interesting, in my opinion, and what you outlined before, what Wolfgang also touched base on what is enough or sufficient economic security. And there I always feel it's super interesting to look at bitcoin and Ethereum, respectively. It's kind of a chicken and egg problem with the dynamic issuance of ethereum. You want to look at what is my return per unit of risk that I take while staking? And also bitcoin miners, look at the pre configured issuance in the protocol to see if they really want to spin up their mining hardware correct. In Ethereum, we face materially different dynamics than in bitcoin, where miners are basically forced sellers due to their capital expenditures or their operational costs. And thus, in the case of Eve, inflation seems to be a less important component. And this inflationary aspect of the supply side is interesting if you combine it to other supply side effects of Eve, because Eve also comes with many liquidity sinks, as it's heavily used as collateral and staking asset.
00:27:28.752 - 00:28:27.114, Speaker B: For instance, 27% is staked, 28% resides in contracts, and then 3% is already burned, which is pretty impressive. On top of these liquidity sinks, we also see that the substantial supply resides with long term holders, and also supply continues to leave from exchanges. And I looked at these specific dynamics when we got the bitcoin ETF, because it's interesting from a supply demand equilibrium perspective. So the supply constraints appear to be even tighter for Ethereum than in the case of bitcoin. And in your opinion, what impact does that little supply, basically, that is available. What impact does that have on demand? And also, what impact does it have for Eve as decentralized money? Is it good if we do not really have a lot of supply circulating, but being trapped in all of these liquidity things?
00:28:28.374 - 00:29:04.072, Speaker A: Okay, fantastic context and question. Let me just touch on two points that you brought up. Number one, you mentioned that when ETH is issued, there's much less sell pressure than with bitcoin, because with bitcoin you have to buy electricity, you have to buy the hardware, and margins go to zero. So for every bitcoin that is issued, 0.95 or 0.98, some very high percentage of that is direct sell pressure. Now, it turns out that EFA also has something similar, even though it's not as extreme and it's known as income taxes.
00:29:04.072 - 00:29:42.364, Speaker A: So if I am a staker and I receive issuance, at least in many jurisdictions like the UK where I'm based, I have to pay income taxes, and it's about 50%. So you're right that there's like half of it, which is going to long term holders, where there's no for sale pressure. But I think it's important to acknowledge the tax aspect. Another thing you mentioned is that ETH is leaving exchanges. And I think that also needs to be tempered a little bit. And the reason is that it's leaving exchanges. For example, it's leaving Coinbase custody, but then it's going to coinbase cloud staking.
00:29:42.364 - 00:30:24.170, Speaker A: So it's still kind of being held by very similar entities. And so I think the ETH that is leaving exchanges does need to be counterbalanced with the fact that it's more of a. Sometimes, in some circumstances, it's more of an accounting detail than anything else. Now, in terms of your actual question, which is we have all these liquidity sinks, is that a good thing or a bad thing for ether and ethereum? So the way that I think about it is that money has two different states of matter. There's this mental model that I have, which I call the temperature of money. There's cold money and hot money. So hot money is money that circulates very quickly within the economy.
00:30:24.170 - 00:31:07.104, Speaker A: And another term for hot money is currency. The word currency comes from the word current, which means flows. So you can think of money that flows, and you can even think of the burn as being like this hyper hot state, like this gaseous kind of vapor, where it's so hot that it turns into gas and kind of goes into the atmosphere and disappears. And then you have the other extreme, which is money, which is used as collateral cold money, which doesn't move. You just put it in a black box and it just literally never moves. And in my opinion, in order to have a healthy economy, you need both hot and cold money. And the reason is that the hot money provides a lot of utility.
00:31:07.104 - 00:31:34.704, Speaker A: It's your currency. It generates income for you in the form of congestion fees and contention fees. And a lot of the time when you take a random person on the street and you ask him, what is money? They will think currency. They have this confusion between money and currency. I think it is very important, mimetically, that you can go to buy bread, and then, ta da, you can just use Ethereum, like either your stablecoin or something. It's money. But actually what they really mean is currency.
00:31:34.704 - 00:32:07.164, Speaker A: Then the other aspect of money is the cold money, or the collateral money, which doesn't move. And here it's extremely important for monetary premium. And this is something that bitcoin excels at. Bitcoin is just a culture of hoarding. It started with Satoshi, who has 5% of supply and just hoards it. And then you have Michael Saylor, who's buy only, and I'll just hoard it for the rest of my life and beyond. And so, yeah, bitcoin has fantastic cold money, but very low hot money.
00:32:07.164 - 00:32:51.704, Speaker A: And the way that I think of monetary premium, if I want to put a mathematical formula to it, it's one divided by the percentage of hot money. So if there's only, let's say 10% of the supply which is hot money, and 90% is being hoarded, then you have a one divided by 10% which is a ten x monetary premium. And if you like, why is this a good mental model? First of all, it works empirically. If you look at an asset like gold, roughly 90% of gold is just hoarded. It's gold. Gold coins and gold bars that are in bunkers underground that just don't move for decades and decades. That is called money.
00:32:51.704 - 00:33:48.234, Speaker A: And then you have the industrial use case of gold, which is in your phone, in electronics, and that's hot money. Now, if you take a normal industrial metal, which is not being hoarded, where almost all of it is circulating and hot, and you apply similar valuation modules to gold, you'd get a market cap of roughly $1 trillion. So if it wasn't for the holding aspect of gold, gold would only be worth a trillion dollars. But because 90% of it is holded, you actually have this ten x monetary premium or holding premium or illiquidity premium, however you want to call it, of ten x, which brings it to roughly $10 trillion. And like my rough mental model is that today, actually ethereum has very little monetary premium. And the reason is that maybe, let's say 30% of ether is actually used as money, as called money. And one divided by 70% is actually like a small amount is 50% or 1.5
00:33:48.234 - 00:34:26.700, Speaker A: or something. But as soon as we start inching closer and closer to, let's say 90% of all the eth that is being hoarded, then we start getting gigantic monetary premiums of ten x. What I think will happen is that with things like restaking, people will realize that ether is this amazing holding assets because the act of holding provides utility and provides yield. And so my prediction is that in ten years, let's say 90% of leaf will be holded and hold it in a good way. Sometimes holding has a negative connotation. I actually mean it's in a good way here. And that will lead to an amazing monetary premium.
00:34:26.700 - 00:34:56.984, Speaker A: And if you look at the hot pot of Ethereum, I think the hot pot in and of itself will be one of the best businesses that the world has ever seen. You take an amazing business like Apple, it's worth $3 trillion. Well, I think the hot part of Ethereum will be worth more than $3 trillion. It will be worth in the trillions. And then you take that and you multiply it by the monetary premium of ten x. And then you'll get a market cap on the tens of trillions of dollars. I truly believe that this is where we're going within the next ten years.
00:34:57.884 - 00:35:11.744, Speaker B: That sounds incredibly bullish. Basically, to sum up, you believe that the monetary premium will only go up and basically also, do you think it ends up higher than gold eventually or lower?
00:35:13.404 - 00:35:52.854, Speaker A: I think e for the asset can have a better base business model than gold in some sense. There is inflation in the sense that new gold is found all the time, and that's cell pressure, because you have to pay for the trucks and the fuel to get the gold out. But on the other hand, there's buy pressure for gold, which is that there's more and more electronics in the world. And not only that, it's really complicated to recycle gold. And so a lot of the gold in electronics just goes in dumpsters, and it's just lost, like gold dust, which is lost to humanity. And then you can look at flow dynamics, and it's a pretty good business. It's a $1 trillion business.
00:35:52.854 - 00:36:30.034, Speaker A: But being the Internet of money, think about it. That is like a much, much, much bigger business than specs of metal, of shiny metal in phones. It is one where we could potentially have, let's say, a billion dollars of profit every single day block space in terms of the congestion, the contention and the yield from restaking could be worth, let's say, a billion dollars per day. And then you do the p ratio math on that, and you get huge numbers in terms of the market cap of the hot pot, of ethereum, and then you apply the monetary premium and you get something gigantic.
00:36:31.134 - 00:36:57.924, Speaker B: Okay, you certainly convinced me, Justin. Also, on the gold side, I think it's pretty interesting. Like, in theory, there is an implied risk at some point we might be able to harvest gold in space, for instance, or we are able to produce it synthetically. Imagine we have abundant energy, and then we can just print gold, basically. So that's something interesting, I feel, about hoarding gold.
00:36:58.304 - 00:36:59.364, Speaker A: Absolutely.
00:36:59.904 - 00:38:02.004, Speaker C: All right, Justine, you already mentioned research developments on minimum via relations and still capping. Basically, they are related to the concept of we don't want to overpay for security, so we don't have to issue more ether than needed to reach the crypto economic security that we need. But my question at this point is more related to how difficult it is also to reach social consensus on changing monetary policy. If it affects the money ness of ether in any way, do you see these changes as something that should be minimized only when strictly necessary? Are we in such a situation of urgency that we need to change the issuance curve today. Of course it's unrealistic to believe that the issuance curve, designed at the beginning of proof of stake was supposed to be the final one forever. So I get it, but yeah, how do you feel about it? Should we minimize these changes? Or do you even expect that at some point we ossify the monetary policy and will not change much in the future? How do you see this?
00:38:02.424 - 00:38:27.040, Speaker A: So again, I want to go back to the two different types of monetary policy. There's l zero and l one. L zero monetary policy has been the same for eight years. It hasn't changed. And I think it would indeed be very bad if we were to change it. We break some sort of social contract. And again, to reiterate the social thing which is not well defined in code, it's more of this intuition which is that we want minimum viable issuance.
00:38:27.040 - 00:39:22.774, Speaker A: Or another way to phrase it is maximum viable scarcity. We want to have as much scarcity as possible while still preserving security. Now if we find amazing ways to improve the scarcity, basically to minimize the amount of issuance, and we don't act upon this research, we have an amazing opportunity, we don't act upon it, then in some sense we are changing the monetary policy, the l zero monetary policy, because we're leaving the minimum variable, issuance. We're saying, okay, it's just good enough. And in some sense, not changing the r1 monetary policy would be changing the l zero monetary policy. And so the only way to stay true to ourselves and not change the monetary policy is actually to incorporate these research innovations. Now it is important to not do it without large amounts of due diligence and care.
00:39:22.774 - 00:40:06.290, Speaker A: And part of the reason is that it would be really awkward, for example, if we do a change to minimize issuance and then we just go too far and we compromise on security again, we never want to compromise on security. Bitcoin is a happy compromising on security. We are never willing to compromise on security. That's one thing. The other thing is that there's more and more value that is being secured by Ethereum. And so the standards of due diligence just go up and up already. EIP 1559, from start to finish, from idea to mainnet took roughly four or five years, which is a very long amount of time.
00:40:06.290 - 00:40:51.584, Speaker A: And I think future changes will also take a similar amount of time. Now the good news is that we've been thinking about MeV burn and similar ideas for years already. And we've gotten comfortable, at least from the research standpoint, and now we need to convince other parts of the community to convince the devs, convince the stakers, convince the ETH holders, convince the ETH users. And it is a process that is very slow because we're dealing with complicated technologies. But I think that we have this strong social contract, the strong shelling point around minimum viable issuance. And so if we have free money on the floor with basically better designs, we're going to grab them. This is inevitable.
00:40:51.624 - 00:41:02.764, Speaker C: I think very helpful to think about layer zero and layer one from this point of view, and never compromise on the layer zero. And sometimes changing the layer one would be the right way.
00:41:03.104 - 00:41:04.044, Speaker A: Exactly.
00:41:04.584 - 00:41:26.314, Speaker B: But now, I don't know. Today it's kind of a weird dynamic. It's like good cop, bad cop. Wolfgang is the tech cop and I'm the Dreadfi cop. So we move over to ETH as an institutional asset. Now, there could not be a better timing to discuss the looming ETH spot ETF's. So we saw just yesterday a heel turn of the SEC.
00:41:26.314 - 00:42:20.222, Speaker B: And this kind of resulted in one of the largest daily candles in Eve's legacy, basically almost adding the entire market cap of Solana. Meanwhile, a lot of different metrics indicate that the odds of an ETF approval is now way higher. The odds at poly market rose to 61%. And also bloomy analysts also revised their projections. This is important because an approval could signal a major shift in the us crypto policy that so far has not been the best towards crypto. Let's be real here. And as such, we observed that the EV ETF's are not necessarily an isolated event, because also the SAB 121 bulletin was repealed, which mandated basically companies that hold customer cryptocurrency to treat them like liabilities, which induced major capital requirements.
00:42:20.222 - 00:43:06.814, Speaker B: Also, the anti crypto FDIC chair stepped down. So all positive developments, the regulatory overhang has been the large suppressor of performance. And this might change now with an ETF approval. Now, I would like to know from you, especially since Eve has only a third of bitcoin's market cap. So if we see more demand, it should move more on the same kind of marginal flow. How do you see this entire story unfold and what would it mean for EFT asset? And what happens in the case of now adding to all of the things you outlined before adding institutional demand, on top of this, let's say, already explosive cocktail.
00:43:07.634 - 00:43:37.102, Speaker A: So one of the things that you mentioned at the very beginning is this notion of momentum. And it's very interesting, because bitcoiners like to think of themselves as like big picture thinkers. And when they look at the EBTC ratio, they're like myopic. They look at very recent data. If you zoom out and you look at the big picture, you look at the eight years of existence of e for the asset, and you would chart it, look at the ratio on the graph. It's up only exponentially. It's up to the right exponentially.
00:43:37.102 - 00:44:05.374, Speaker A: So if you have a logarithmic y axis, it's basically a straight line. If you draw the moving average, when EFA came to the market, it was actually sold for bitcoin. It was sold on the bitcoin blockchain for BTC. That was the only way to buy e for the asset. And the way that you would buy it is that you deposit one bitcoin and you get 2000 ether. 2000 ether for one bitcoin. Okay, what is the ratio? Today, one bitcoin buys you a measly 20 ether.
00:44:05.374 - 00:45:12.214, Speaker A: Ether has outperformed bitcoin by 100 x over eight years. And it's not just like the very beginning. It's over an extended period of time, over almost a decade. Again, if you draw the line, it's basically unstoppable momentum, in my opinion. Now, if you are willing to be more short term, and look at short term momentum over the last few months, maybe the last few years, then, yes, I agree with everything that you said, that there was regulatory overhang, political overhang, there's the bitcoin that had the first mover advantage with ETF's, and there's also dynamics like Michael Saylor and El Salvador, and all sorts of first mover type advantages. But as we can see today, in the last 24 hours, the ratio went up in the favor of ether by 15 or 20%, like a massive jump up. Just because it seems that this overhang is potentially going to disappear, or at least largely to a very large extent, be mitigated relative to the past.
00:45:12.214 - 00:45:40.060, Speaker A: And so all these weird, like, short term dynamics, these myopic dynamics, they're just noise. There's no reason why BTC would have preferential treatment over ETh. That is like the binary, fundamental endgame here. Okay, sure. Bitcoin has twelve months lead over ETF, over ether. So what? It's noise. And so you ask, okay, how do I think that this trajectory is going to continue? It's pretty obvious it's going to continue.
00:45:40.060 - 00:46:12.710, Speaker A: EtH is going to continue outperforming, and there's going to be the flipping. And it's going to happen in a matter of months. In a matter of months, not years, EtH will flip in bitcoin. And one of the interesting things around, what makes a good money? That was one of your questions. It's this weird reflexive thing where what makes the good money is being the best money, the biggest money. And in some sense, bitcoin has this amazing selling point, which is that it's number one. If you go to coingecko, it's at the very top.
00:46:12.710 - 00:46:36.896, Speaker A: And that is the self reinforcing thing that actually makes monies sustainable over large periods of time. Because it's a very, very important sharing point. As soon as bitcoin loses the sharing point, it's now left with two sharing points. First mover and the immaculate conception. But it loses this. I'm number one selling point. And in my opinion, that is a massive selling point to lose.
00:46:36.896 - 00:46:50.324, Speaker A: And not only are we going to see a flippening, but we're going to see a two time flipping, three times flipping. Because as soon as this thing happens, then you lose a major selling point. And so that's a major discontinuity, if that makes sense.
00:46:50.784 - 00:46:59.448, Speaker B: Yeah, it makes sense. I'm bullish on ETH anyways, but now I'm even more bullish. Thanks for your takes on this context. Really interesting.
00:46:59.616 - 00:47:28.686, Speaker C: Never bullish enough. I think we have a very nice picture of either the asset today and the near future. As we touched on the properties of what makes good decentralized money, how to evaluate monetary premium. We have a nice picture. The thing is, we also have to remember that we can't really just evaluate ether in a vacuum. So I would like to talk about some important applications that might affect, directly or indirectly, ether, the asset. And the first would be liquid staking.
00:47:28.686 - 00:48:17.334, Speaker C: So we have been seeing that more and more ether holders decides to lock their tokens to get this receipt token. The liquid staking token that allows them to capture the staking yield while still keeping their position liquid. This made staking very convenient in a way that couldn't be predicted in the original design. And it is something that maybe triggered this work. Also on modifying the issuance curve or stake capping itself. So I wanted to ask you, do you see it as a risk of ether being replaced by lsts as money? Should you do something to limit the amount of ether that can be legally staked? Is it something that is worrying for you? Also? How do you see the staking ratio? Is it something that should be limited? Like we want to separate ether holders from ether stakers. What are your thoughts on these topics?
00:48:17.914 - 00:49:04.854, Speaker A: So I think it is important to separate ether stakers from ether holders. And part of it has to go back to this idea of monetary premium. What is the thing that we use as money? And again, one of the things I said was that a lot of people think of money as currency. And so if we start using, for example, Steve as our currency, people will start associating it with money. And unfortunately, Stef is not pristine. It has contract risk, it has governance risk, it has slashing risk, it has branding risk, it has all sorts of risks that kind of muddy the waters. And so you start losing one of these amazing shelling points that I think might even be necessary to achieve monetary premium, which is this notion of being pristine.
00:49:04.854 - 00:50:04.140, Speaker A: And so if we do stake capping at, let's say 25%, then in some sense we're both guaranteeing that 75% is not being staked. And so a very large portion of eth is raw. Now one of the things that you may point out is that we might have a similar dynamic with lrTs. So you take pristine, raw ETH and then you restake it as such, as raw ETh that will power whatever x, y, z, AV s. And then you also have a liquid equivalent to that. Now the very important thing here is that this is a process that can't be repeated, or at least can be repeated many times. And the reason is that avss that want to be credibly neutral, that want to live on for centuries and millennia, they want to make sure that they're not inheriting, for example, governance risk of another protocol.
00:50:04.140 - 00:50:55.522, Speaker A: And so if they were to pick a preferred collateral, they're probably not going to pick Steve. So yes, like you can take pristine EtH and turn it into something liquid, but this liquid thing is actually not suitable itself to be used as collateral. So it's not like you can take pristine eth, turn it liquid and then use that again and recycle it at infinitum. Like the only real thing in some sense that the liquidity provides is a way to liquidate, to sell your position very quickly. So if you're an ETH holder and you want to exit, there's what's called an exit queue, which is basically you have to wait in order to get your eth. And really what liquid staking is all about is jumping the queue. And it's putting a price to this queue jumping mechanism.
00:50:55.522 - 00:51:41.124, Speaker A: So if you're the only one who wants to jump the queue, it's free. You can just take your steth and get eth on a one to one basis. But if you have 5 million steth that all at the same time wants to sell for Ethereum, now you're going to have effectively a D peg, and then you're going to have arbitrageurs come in and try and eat into this gap and arbitrage the peg. But it's a process that takes time just because there is this queuing mechanism that could be weeks long or months long. And so yes, I think LRT's are very important as a queue jumping mechanism, one which is fairly priced by the market, but it's not a magical silver bullet that will just create infinite amounts of pristine collateral.
00:51:41.584 - 00:52:23.890, Speaker C: Since you mentioned LRt's, then we might talk also about restaking staying in the application layer. So yeah, maybe also for the audience. Restaking with Eigen layer and other protocols allows ETH stakers to extend the crypto economic security of staked ether to other services. The AVSs, as you mentioned, actively validated services. So you earn the right to validate the service, do the work, be rewarded for it, but also add additional slashing condition to your stake date. Now, yeah, this is obviously big for Ethereum and it must be done right. So I was pleased to hear that you joined the Eigen foundation as basically advisor on rest taking risks, which is very important.
00:52:23.890 - 00:52:39.154, Speaker C: So I wanted to ask you, what is your current view on the opportunities and risks of restaking? And if you already have a plan on what are the top priorities to focus on from research point of view on risk taking risks, what should be done right as high priority.
00:52:40.094 - 00:53:25.136, Speaker A: So my mental model for risk taking is actually AI. AI is this amazing tool which is going to lead humanity to this amazing golden age. We're going to have crazy exponential productivity in the next couple of decades. But then there is a risk that AI just becomes so powerful or so big or so uncontrollable that actually ends humanity. And I think we're in a similar position with restaking, where it's going to lead to this crazy golden age. It's going to increase monetary premium, it's going to increase the amount of cold ether, it's going to lead to all sorts of new services. We're going to have oracles and we're going to have bridges and we're going to have chains.
00:53:25.136 - 00:54:02.488, Speaker A: Instead of being deployed as l one s, they're going to be deployed as avSs. That's going to be the preferred model. Potentially we now can have connections to the real world. We can, for example, train AI's and do like safe inferences that is basically secured by eth economic security. So yes, it's going to be an amazing couple decades, but there is like this long term fear that restaking could destroy Ethereum. Now, there's kind of two ways in which it could potentially destroy theorem. And I think of it as the chronic versus acute.
00:54:02.488 - 00:54:47.420, Speaker A: Chronic is this, if you have a chronic illness, it's this thing that kind of day after day grows, and it's pernicious. And the way that restaking could chronically affect the theorem is by eroding the decentralization of the validator set. Unfortunately, with restaking, but also staking to an extent that you don't have perfect fairness. So if you have one unit of stake held by one entity, and another unit of stake which held by another entity, they won't actually get the exact same yield. And this could be due to all sorts of reasons. Like one, it could be that you have a slightly better setup. Another one could be that you have access to more etH, and so you can amortize your costs, your fixed costs.
00:54:47.420 - 00:55:49.606, Speaker A: Another reason in the context of restaking is that there could be some Avss that are basically BFT protocols where there's only 100 validators. Now, if there's, let's say, 30 million eth staking, and this can only be 100 validators, now, each staker needs to come in with, let's say, half a million eth, or some ridiculously large amount, because there's just a limited number of seats. And so if you don't have half a million eth, then you can't even like play the AV's game on that yield. And so the worrying thing is that if we end up in a place where only the large entities can survive, and then we have like ten operators running the Ethereum chain, that would be bad. Now, the optimistic kind of voice inside me is basically saying, hold on. If you zoom out and you think of operators who are the most valuable ones from the point of view of economic security, is the big ones, like the more like raw brute force. If you can come in, the more valuable you are.
00:55:49.606 - 00:56:35.524, Speaker A: But in terms of the actual decentralization, it is the little guys that are valuable. And so if we have a mechanism somehow to identify the little guys, we can put them to work and we can reward them for the value that they provide. And in some sense, this process has already started. So, for example, rated.net work is this website that kind of did an analysis of the operator set and has identified solar validators using their own techniques. I think they use, for example, they looked at is your connection at home, Internet connection, yes or no? Like, how many validators do you control? Blah, blah, blah. And what happened is that various projects, for example, starkware, but all sorts of others, have specifically airdropped funds to solar validators.
00:56:35.524 - 00:57:34.974, Speaker A: And so now if you're an institution, you've made a 4% yield. Excellent. If you're a solo validator, you've made 80% yield, because the airdrops just are worth so much more than the issuance, and you've made a crazy amount of money. Now the question is, how do we make this sustainable? And so, for example, there's this project called Witness chain, which cleverly uses Internet latencies to try and ping latencies around the world to try and basically detect where you are geographically. As a validator, there might be proof of humanity ideas, or maybe you could use secure enclaves to somehow, I don't know, there's a whole design space there. And I'm hoping that AVSs will not only pay for raw, like, crude economic security, but will also pay for the refined economic security that is provided by a decentralized set of operators. Okay, so that's problem number one, is like this slow erosion of the validator set.
00:57:34.974 - 00:58:28.018, Speaker A: The chronic disease that restaking could give to Ethereum. But then there's this other disease that restaking could give. Ethereum, which is acute, is like this catastrophic failure that leads to some sort of market meltdown or something very similar to the Tao, where there's such a large amount of eve that's been hacked, for example, that the social layer feels compelled to step in and is extremely chaotic and messy. And there's Ethereum classic and ethereum non classic. And really what we want to make sure is that there's all sorts of guardrails to make sure that these cataclysmic events all happen. Now, one of the ideas that we already talked about is this idea of separating the validator set from the ETH holder set. So what would be nice as a first step is if all the restaking was to happen away from the stakers.
00:58:28.018 - 00:59:14.124, Speaker A: And so in some sense, restaking is a bit of a misnomer, right? Because you, you don't have to use eth as your collateral, and you don't have to use staked eth or validate as a collateral, you can use raw eth. And so really, if we can have the restaking happen at the application layer away from the beacon chain. That would provide more resilience to the beacon chain. And this is where ideas like state capping actually help, but also the idea of making sure that the issuance is as close to zero as possible, if not negative. And the reason is that if you're not really making meaningful amounts of money staking, you might as well not stake. You might as well just do the other thing, which is way more profitable. So that's one idea stake capping.
00:59:14.124 - 01:00:18.224, Speaker A: The other interesting idea that Eigen layer itself came up with, which was like a very pleasant surprise to me, is that they said, why don't we introduce this notion of an inter subjective token? What is an interest objective token? It's one where if something really bad was to happen, ultimately the social layer always has precedence. Like we as humans outside of the blockchains, we can all come to agreement that something obviously bad happened, and we can fork, socially fork the token and fix it that way. And the interesting thing here is that there are some failure cases that are fundamentally inter subjective. So if you take an oracle, for example, an ETH USD price oracle, there's no way in which the chain can fundamentally know what is the correct price of ETH. It needs to rely on an external source. And the best way to do it, the only way effectively to do it in a decentralized way, is to have an honest majority assumption. So you have some amount of stake, and you hope that half of it is giving you the correct price.
01:00:18.224 - 01:01:07.058, Speaker A: And then you take the median, and then, ta da, that's your ETH USD oracle. But the problem is, what if there is a 51% attack? What if your assumption does not hold true? Then there's no way for the blockchain itself to correct the situation. And so you need external observers, you need the humans looking in to step in, and they can step in for them. It's obvious that, yes, there has been a 51% attack. One of the interesting things is that maybe these intersubjective tokens can be used not only for fundamentally intersubjective use cases, but also for objective cases. So let's say that you want to do AI off chain and you want to bring the results of inference on chain. This is a purely deterministic objective computation.
01:01:07.058 - 01:02:02.180, Speaker A: It's almost like a roll up, right? So you're running this validium, this virtual machine off chain, you're bringing the results on chain. And it's possible that even though it's a fully objective thing, that you, as an AV's, there is a possibility of bugs like bugs that are accidental or malicious. And in some sense, these bugs introduce intersubjectivity. Everyone can come to the agreement that, yes, indeed, this is obviously a bug. Just like for bitcoin, it was obvious that the overflow bug was not meant to be there. And so if you use eth as your collateral and there's a bug, that's really bad, right? Because the only way to fix it is to hard fork ethereum, which we did do for the DAO, but it's like really bad and expensive. And so instead of using ETH as collateral, at least in the first few years, you want to be using some intersubjective token, because that's much safer because you can fix situations.
01:02:02.180 - 01:02:49.634, Speaker A: And the interesting thing here is that during the first few years, you're only going to need small amounts of collateral. Why would you want to use ETH? You would want to use ETH because there's large amounts of economic bandwidth that come through ETH. So if you want to consume $100 billion of economic bandwidth, then sure use ETH. But in the early days, you might be fine with just having $1 billion of economic security. And so I think what should happen is that really there should be a social norm which says that if you want to consume large amounts of economic bandwidth, then you need to have very high standards of security. For example, you need to formally verify the correctness of your software so that you can prove mathematically that there are no bugs, and then you can go consume these large amounts of eTh.
01:02:50.294 - 01:03:52.734, Speaker B: Yeah, super exciting insights and a lot to digest. And I guess both Wolfgang and me fully agree that what you outlined with Eigenlayer, that the inter subjective work token was, at least to me, a super elegant way to solve plenty of issues and also a missing puzzle piece of eigen. And also from my personal perspective, it's really nice to see that you're not an AI doomer, because I also like to frame it from a more positive perspective. So, two questions to follow up from my side. The first one would be in your what are the odds of an acute or chronic risk from eigen layer? How high are the odds? Is it a thing? How high is it? I mean, you can only give us an assumption, but I would love to hear some numbers. And then the second one would be we check that you are looking for people interested to work with Ethereum on AI. Can you disclose some stuff that you are working on? We would love to get some insights on that front.
01:03:54.074 - 01:04:23.118, Speaker A: Right, absolutely. So in terms of quantifying the risks. I think on the acute side of things, it is inevitable. I'd say there's probability one that something really acute is going to happen. And part of the reason is because we've seen it in the past a lot with bridges, for example, bridges just get hacked on a routine basis. Hundreds of millions of dollars. Now, the good news is that $100 million is peanuts from today's standards.
01:04:23.118 - 01:05:10.980, Speaker A: Back then, the dow was only $50 million, and that was enough to warrant a hard fork. But today, $100 million, we just shrug it off. Now, the next kind of thing that I'm worried about is rollups. We have ten roll ups, each of which has billions of dollars of TVL. And these rollups are extremely complicated. They're so much more complicated than bridges because, for example, you take the EVM and then you write a circuit representation, have this crazy mathematical way of describing the EVM for your snark circuit, and then almost certainly there's going to be a bug in there. And the question is, is it a white hat or a black hat that discovers the bug? And if it's a black hat and there's no training wheels, then tell us you've just lost a few billion dollars.
01:05:10.980 - 01:05:50.398, Speaker A: So I think we are going to have these acute multibillion dollar hacks. I think the important thing is just to make sure that they don't get into the tens of billions or hundreds of billions. Basically, we just need to make sure that the acute events are not too acute, and so it is good to have some amount of distribution. I don't really have a good answer to how exactly it should be done, but that's maybe one vague idea here. In terms of the probability of some sort of erosion of the validator set, it's really hard to tell. Eileen. Very optimistic, and I think that there may be all sorts of research ideas that we haven't explored.
01:05:50.398 - 01:06:24.768, Speaker A: The other thing worth mentioning is that even if there is a corruption of the validity set, the social layer can step in. We can always do a social fork where we just manually take off the bad actors. And in some sense, just having said that, in hindsight, I'm maybe more worried about the acute stuff than I am about the chronic stuff. Now, you asked a question about AI. So a few months ago, a couple months ago, I made this tweet saying, if you love AI and ethereum, we're hiring. Send an email to aiethoreum.org dot.
01:06:24.768 - 01:07:08.060, Speaker A: And the context here goes back to this idea of formal verification. So what is blockchains all about blockchains is about removing trust that society places in human operators and instead placing it in code, placing it in cryptography and incentives in crypto economics. But unfortunately, we've reached a point where we can't trust the code anymore. The code is just too complicated. Or maybe there could be supply chain attacks where some teams could insert backdoors into the code. There could be all sorts of reasons why just the code isn't up to standard. How do we solve this problem? It turns out formal verification is the answer.
01:07:08.060 - 01:08:19.144, Speaker A: Formal verification is this idea that I'm going to use mathematics to prove as a theorem that this code is correct. Now, it turns out that this process of form verification has been done for decades, but it's extremely laborious. We're talking, you know, months and months and months of very, very clever engineers working on this. You need large teams, especially if you're dealing with extremely large code bases. The question that we asked ourselves is, can AI somehow help with this problem? And the reason is that formal verification is at the intersection of two things, at the intersection of extremely well defined mathematical statements, and two extremely laborious and almost machine grunt work. The intuition here that we have is that, okay, maybe indeed, we can reach this dreamland of having all our code before verified if we put AI's to work. But actually, the other realization is that the EF is this large organization with 300 people, and we're the bleeding edge of technology in our space.
01:08:19.144 - 01:09:13.246, Speaker A: But we're completely blindsided with what is potentially an even bigger technology than blockchains, which is AI. There's literally zero people within the EF that have strong AI expertise. And so the idea is to try and have at least one person who knows what they're talking about, so that we can ask them questions and get intelligent answers, but also for them to explore, like, potential low hanging fruit of the intersection of AI and blockchains. And what I'm hopeful will happen is that such a person will identify, use cases, and build a whole AI sub team within the firm foundation. And actually, I've been working to hire such a person, and I'm happy to say that we've made a hire. There's this person called Alex Hicks, an extremely clever person who is a mathematician with experience in formal verification and AI. So he has the trifecta of what we're looking for.
01:09:13.246 - 01:09:24.794, Speaker A: And his first day will be June 1. And so if you're interested in AI and blockchains, do talk to him, because eventually I do expect him to be building an AI sub team within the EF.
01:09:25.694 - 01:09:35.514, Speaker B: Nice. And I think just recently also a good amount of people stepped down from OpenAI. I think if you need more testing.
01:09:36.374 - 01:09:57.018, Speaker A: The other thing I mentioned is that the Ethereum foundation is organizing a $20 million formal verification competition. So we want to formally verify the correctness of ZKe VM circuits and Alex Hicks will be organizing this competition. So if you are into for modification, do really get in touch with us for sure, yeah.
01:09:57.106 - 01:11:33.374, Speaker B: Lastly, as we inch closer to the end of our discussion so far, I wanted to discuss the value capture and value proposition of EFT asset in the context of rollups. As we know, plenty of metrics currently suggest that the roll up centric roadmap is materializing metrics such as stablecoins daily active addresses. They don't stop with all time highs. Crowd PI is a super nice platform to check these metrics tbl close to all time high deployed apps. So l two s strengthen EFT asset also as a native unit of account, because many of these roll ups use it as gas and I feel Dankund allowed many of these metrics to even accelerate. However, on kind of the downside, what recently also happened is that it feels like there's a little reduced demand for Ethereum block space, as let's say the complex activity kind of migrates towards l two s, and with it we think that also mev kind of migrates towards these, let's say, sources of more opportunity, right? And that also resulted in a kind of inflationary period where even Solana flipped Ethereum in revenue. So in your view, how does the dynamics that I just described translate into Ethereum's future path of value capture and sustainability for an asset? And also, is this some kind of vampire attack from Altoo? Is it parasitic, or is there no concern at all from your side?
01:11:34.194 - 01:12:23.486, Speaker A: So from my side, there's no concern, but I do need to make my case, and it might take a few minutes. I guess what the l one has been doing so far is using congestion as a mechanism for income with base fees. And what we've done recently is that we've added a blob space and we've encouraged a lot of the activity to move to rollups and ultimately consume this blob space. So really what we should expect is that the vast majority of the burn to come from blobs, not from the execution. Because what will be happening within the vm is like a fixed amount of work. Like verify ten snocks per block. For example, if every single roll up and there's ten of them want to settle at every single block.
01:12:23.486 - 01:13:01.936, Speaker A: Then you verify these ten snocks and then you're done. It's a fixed amount of computation, and there should be enough gas for everyone. On the other hand, data is the scarce resource. Data is the thing that scales linearly with the number of transactions or the number of users. But now we're in this really awkward, weird period where we used to be capturing everything through gas and execution, and now there's just less demand of it because part of the activity has moved to blobs. But there's not enough activity for there to even be a market in the blobs. So the blobspace is an independent market with its own EIP 1559 mechanism.
01:13:01.936 - 01:13:45.214, Speaker A: And there's just so much, we've been just so effective at scaling Ethereum data that there's more supply than there is demand. Now, when you scale supply, what generally happens, and this is my base case, is that this notion of induced demand, which is that you've just increased the product, and so now you've increased the quality of the product, you've reduced prices, and so now there's going to be more activity. This is very similar to traffic on roads. You have a two lane motorway which is fully congested, and you have, oh, I have a great idea. I'm going to add a third lane. You build the third lane and then, like, for six months there's no traffic. But then six months later you're back to two square one.
01:13:45.214 - 01:14:16.614, Speaker A: It's full of traffic. And the reason is that by building this third lane, you now have a bunch of people saying, hey, now I can start driving on this road. Or businesses that will say, oh, I'll build a McDonald's on the side of the road. And so there's just more stuff happening just because you've increased capacity and now there's more demand. So now we're in this awkward phase where we dramatically increase the amount of data and there's just not enough demand. But this is going to affect itself. And eventually almost all the burn will come from the blob data, not from the EVM.
01:14:16.614 - 01:14:49.354, Speaker A: Now, so that's the congestion aspect at layer one. But you also asked about the economics of L2. S so L2s have two sources of income. They have their own congestion within the L2, and they also have their own mev within the L2. Now let's look at Mev first, because in some sense that's simpler. Today, none of the roll ups have mev, pretty much end of story. So you look at base, you look at arbitrary optimism.
01:14:49.354 - 01:15:32.126, Speaker A: They have no mev. And why is that? The reason is that they have a centralized sequencer, which is trusted through reputation to all the transactions, let's say, in a first come, first serve manner. And so they make a promise, we're not going to front run you, we're not going to sandwich you. And so they literally don't extract mev. And even if there is Mev, for example, in the form of arbitrage, it manifests itself as low latency races between arbitrages. And for example, on arbitrum, famously, the sequencer kind of got D dosed with bots, opening hundreds of thousands of websocket connections so that they can try and submit the transaction as quickly as possible. But the sequencer itself, like the roll up, doesn't extract this mev.
01:15:32.126 - 01:15:59.134, Speaker A: And so really, all the revenue that the roll ups are making today is congestion, L2, congestion. And you can see it, for example, on the context of base. Base has some sort of gas limit per block. I don't know exactly what it is, but there's more demand than there is supply. And so they have a mechanism similar to EAP 1559, actually, pretty much exactly eIP 1559. And they're making money through this congestion mechanism. And that is great.
01:15:59.134 - 01:16:57.244, Speaker A: I think what will happen is that the vast majority of the revenue for l two s will come from congestion, not from Mev, not from contention. And this is for several reasons. One is that, first of all, we need to acknowledge the fact that the decentralized sequencing, where there's no mev, that is a temporary thing. Really, soon enough we're going to have this notion of decentralized sequencing, where the sequencer at any given slot has been rotated to some random entity on the Internet. And that random entity on the Internet is not going to say, yes, I will politely, all the things first come, first serve, I will just order things, all the transactions that maximizes my profits. And so you end up as a natural market dynamic with PBS proposer builder separation. So you have these sophisticated builders that build the most valuable blocks, and then the proposer, in any given slot picks the block with the most mev.
01:16:57.244 - 01:17:37.206, Speaker A: And so the reason why I said that Mev is going to be a negligible part of l two s is for, even in the context of decentralized sequencing, is for two reasons. Reason number one is that even today, if you look at the l one, which does have decentralized sequencing, MEV is a small fraction of all the income, it's roughly 20%. If you go to Mevboost pix, you'll see the amount of mev per day. It's roughly 800 eth per day, and it's shockingly constant. 800 eth per day since the merge is the straight lineup. And if you look at the, the income from congestion, it's about four times that. So it's about 3200.
01:17:37.206 - 01:18:16.922, Speaker A: Actually, more than that, there's more than 80% of the income that's coming from congestion and only 20% from contention. But if you look at the 20% from contention, it's roughly split half and half. Half of it is sandwiching. It's basically where you exploit users slippage tolerances. And in my opinion, that sandwiching will go to zero. And the reason it'll go to zero is because we're going to have encrypted mempools. And the encrypted mempool is where I, as a user, I broadcast my transaction encrypted, and it goes on chain in such a way that whoever's building the block can't see the content of my transaction, and so they can't sandwich me.
01:18:16.922 - 01:19:12.042, Speaker A: And so that 10% of the 10% of income, which is like 50% of the 20%, that is going away completely, and then you're left with the other half, which is arbitrage. And I think that is also going to go away to a very large extent. And the reason is that we have this third generation, or second generation of Dexes, where the right to arbitrage is itself auctioned off, and the proceeds of the auction are given as a kickback to the LP's. So basically, instead of MeV leaking to the proposer, it's very cleverly given back to the users, which are, in this case, the LP's, the liquidity providers, by auctioning off the right to arbitrage. So let's say there's ten eth to arbitrage. In this current slot, you have some sort of an auction, so the arbitrageurs can compete. The top arbitrage is willing to pay, let's say, 9.9
01:19:12.042 - 01:19:50.368, Speaker A: eth. The 9.9 ETH is given back to the LP's so it doesn't leak to the proposal. And so what is today, 80 20 in terms of breakdown, I think will become 99 1%. And so what I think should happen is that the roll up should really focus on the congestion, which we're seeing is already working with chains like, like base, where there's more, there's more supply than there is demand. But no, I don't think there is an aspect of. Of being parasitic, because the l two s need to pay for l one congestion as well through the data.
01:19:50.368 - 01:20:28.768, Speaker A: There's a limited amount of data. Now, in terms of the economics, people often think in this binary term, if we have high fees and that's bad for users, and if we have low fees, then it's bad for the chain because it's very low income. It turns out we can have the best of both worlds, and the way that we have the best of both world is lots and lots of transactions, each of which has tiny fees. And so in aggregate, it's amazing for the chain. And I mentioned a billion dollars per day of income. I really do think we can get to that point, but each transaction could be like one cent. And so if you're doing a hundred billion transactions per day, each of which is $0.01,
01:20:28.768 - 01:20:31.484, Speaker A: then that's your billion dollars per day of income.
01:20:31.984 - 01:21:03.176, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that's the end state or the end game for many of these different chains. They're trying to implement the Internet of value, going back to what was the original narrative, to minimize fees and have high demand and have a lot of value in aggregate. And I see Ethereum going that road and having the best chances to actually implement it. Justin, this was awesome. It's always great talking to you. Thank you for all the insights. We learned a lot about Ether and Ethereum in general.
01:21:03.176 - 01:21:18.454, Speaker C: I think we could go and talk forever. But as we are wrapping up, I still want to give you a chance, if there is anything else you want to share with us, like any other spicy takes or predictions for 2024, now, it would be the time to share, sure.
01:21:18.494 - 01:22:22.072, Speaker A: I mean, happy to share a couple of takes. One is that I believe that we're entering this golden age of zero knowledge proofs or validity proofs or snarks, however you want to call them. And in particular, we're going to have this notion of real time proofing, where if you're running a cpu, you can have the proof corresponding to the validity of the computation on that cpu, arrive with very little latency, let's say 100 milliseconds. And that will mean for rollups that we have real time proving. And once you have real time proving, and this thing called shared sequencing, you get synchronous composability. Now, there was a lot of fancy words to basically say, we're going to fix ethereum fragmentation with snarks. So snarks are going to become so powerful that the individual roll ups that today are kind of mutually distrustful and siloed, like different islands in an archipelago, not talking to each other, are all going to come together and form one United state, if you will.
01:22:22.072 - 01:23:05.610, Speaker A: And they're going to be able to trust each other and communicate with each other with ultra low latency, actually with real time communication, with shared sequencing, thanks to these amazing snarks. So that's take number one. A lot of people even roll up experts think I'm a little crazy for saying this, but I have extremely high conviction that this is where we're heading and the timelines are shorter than what people think they are. The other kind of take that I have, and I've already mentioned it, is that I think bitcoin is doomed from a security standpoint. And I've already said that I think bitcoin will be 51% attacked within ten years. And part of the reason has to do with just the economics of it. In order to 51% attack bitcoin, you need to have a bunch of mining hardware.
01:23:05.610 - 01:23:43.936, Speaker A: You need to have about a few billion dollars, something like three, four, $5 billion of mining hardware. And in addition to that, you need to have all the data center and electrical infrastructure to connect these miners to the grid. But all in all, we're talking a few billion dollars. Now, what's going to happen is that the ratio between the amount required to attack and the overall market cap of bitcoin is going to become smaller and smaller and smaller and smaller. So right now, let's say the ratio is roughly 100 to one. So the market cap of bitcoin, roughly speaking, is a trillion dollars. In order to attack bitcoin, you need $10 billion, let's say.
01:23:43.936 - 01:24:35.216, Speaker A: And so that's 101 ratio. But with a few halvings down the road, the ratio is going to be closer to 1000 to one. And why is that a problem? One of the problems is because of derivative markets. So if you look at perp exchanges, for example, if you look at Athena, Athena has a very nice dashboard that shows you all the open interest. There's $30 billion of open interest, and it costs, my guess, with all the optimizations, it costs less than $5 billion to attack bitcoin. So just open a few billion dollars of shorts and then go do your attack on bitcoin, and you'll very quickly be profitable. And what will happen is that the ratio of open interest to the cost of attacking bitcoin will just grow larger and larger and larger, because general liquidity in bitcoin will keep on an increase as institutions come in.
01:24:35.216 - 01:25:15.352, Speaker A: But also the bitcoin issuance is decaying, literally, exponentially. It halves every four years. And so that ratio is just bound to go up and up. Not only can you open, like, a massive short and make a huge amount of profit, but there's other ways to attack bitcoin as well. Some people say, for example, what if you attack bitcoin and no one cares? Like, the price of bitcoin doesn't go down, which is a possibility. In that case, there's another business model, which is very profitable, which is to just charge fees. You know how on bitcoin today, you're basically paying per v byte, per virtual byte, you're paying some number of sats per v byte.
01:25:15.352 - 01:25:57.564, Speaker A: If you control the chain, you can change the business model. You could say, I want a percentage of the bitcoin value that is being transferred. So if I want to charge, let's say, 1%, and you're transferring 100 bitcoin, I want you to pay one bitcoin, even though if you were to pay in terms of SaaS per v byte, you'd be paying way less. But if you have done this controlled takeover of the bitcoin blockchain, you can charge whatever fee you want, and you can inspire yourself from some of the great entrepreneurs and companies in the world, like Apple. What fee does Apple charge? They charge 30%. So you just start charging 30% on bitcoin transfers. Or you could inspire yourself from PayPal and charge 5%.
01:25:57.564 - 01:26:35.608, Speaker A: In any case, what I think will happen is that either the price of bitcoin stays the same and you make a ton of money through fees, but also not only that, you can bring the difficulty to zero. So if you control the chain, you can do a controlled takedown of the difficulty. So the difficulty goes back to zero. It's still secure because you're still in control of the chain, because if someone else tries to take back control, you turn on all your miners again. And so you now have the longest chain, and so there's no point to try and defend bitcoin. And so you get all the issuance and all the fees, and you have zero electricity bills. That's a great business model.
01:26:35.608 - 01:26:50.124, Speaker A: But what will happen, more likely than not, if bitcoin were to be attacked, is that it would lose its monetary premium. It would just, from one day to another, just completely collapse. And this is where the tens of billions of dollars of open interests can come really handy.
01:26:51.924 - 01:26:54.212, Speaker C: I asked for a spicy take that was spicy.
01:26:54.268 - 01:27:30.776, Speaker B: Yes, you definitely got that, Wolfgang. That was almost more than spicy. And maybe, maybe worth having a dedicated episode on discussing these potential risks for bitcoin on its own. Maybe. Let's see. And I think many takes from you will make noise. And if Ethereum is really that potent, as you outlined, maybe we will need to rebrand into ethereums with some months down the road, but so long that did not happen yet.
01:27:30.776 - 01:27:58.302, Speaker B: So therefore, on behalf of bitcoin, Swiss and our audience, thank you so much for allocating your precious time into educating us. And for our listeners who want to learn more about Justin's work and Ethereum research itself, check out the links below in the show notes. If you enjoyed this episode, please subscribe, rate and leave a review. And until next time. And again, Justin, it was really a super pleasant conversation with you. Thank you.
01:27:58.438 - 01:27:58.774, Speaker A: Thank you.
