00:00:02.730 - 00:01:07.586, Speaker A: You. To demonstrate the usage of layer one to layer two interactions we went ahead and deployed this contract to the Starknet planet's alpha. We selected some user number two and increased their balance by 1000. Then we invoked our new function, withdraw as highlighted here, to withdraw 600 tokens from this user and as we can see their balance has decreased accordingly. Note that before we can move on to Etherscan to withdraw these funds from our layer one contract, we must make sure that this transaction, the withdrawal transaction highlighted above here, has been accepted on chain. We can use Starknet gettransaction and provide it with our transaction hash as highlighted here to get information about our transaction, in this case the withdrawal transaction highlighted below. When we checked it here we can see the status is pending, which is not good for our purposes yet.
00:01:07.586 - 00:02:14.310, Speaker A: But since then time has passed. So if I call get transaction again, we can see that the transaction has now been accepted on chain and we can therefore move to etherscan and demonstrate how we will withdraw these funds. Here we have our example layer one to layer two interaction solidity contract deployed on the girly testnet navigating below to the contract write functions. We connect to our metamask wallet and we'll move into the withdraw function here. We need to provide it with our contract address which we can copy over from here the user we want to withdraw from, which was number two, and the amount we want to withdraw, which was 600. Then we'll confirm the process of this transaction here. We'll wait a few seconds and then we'll see if we have the balance accordingly.
00:02:14.310 - 00:03:08.760, Speaker A: Now that a transaction has been accepted on chain, we move to read contract to see if our layer one balance has changed accordingly. We go to user balances here and provide our user number two and we can see that our layer one balance is 600 as expected. Now we can demonstrate the interaction in the other way. We go back to write contract. We'll copy our contract address and use the deposit transaction in order to redeposit our funds back to layer two. We give the contract address, the user id and we'll just deposit back the 600 tokens we have previously withdrawn. Once again we confirm the transaction and we'll be back after a quick edit to see if it was received on layer two.
00:03:08.760 - 00:03:39.370, Speaker A: Now we move back to the terminal as we can see below, before the deposit was processed the user balance was still 400, but if we check it some time later, as expected, the balance has increased to 1000 here. Thank you for watching this segment of Starknet bitesized. For more information, follow us on Twitter and join our discord dev community. See you in the next one. Bye.
