00:00:00.090 - 00:00:35.894, Speaker A: Decentralized finance is having a moment with trade volume and the number of users up big since FTX's collapse, but the purists in the crypto industry might want to wait before they bring out the champagne. As with billion dollar blowups earlier this year, FTX's swift demise was a reminder. Not your keys, not your crypto. It's the insidery phrase that basically means don't trust anyone to hold your crypto for you. Not FTX, not Coinbase, not binance. Thanks to ave Grant's DaO for sponsoring this video. More on them later.
00:00:35.894 - 00:01:15.230, Speaker A: Remember, this is the Wild west. There's no government insurance on your deposits. If a company goes belly up. You would better hope you can escape with your money before they shut the door and bring the bankruptcy lawyers in to distribute whatever cash is left, like food on a soviet breadline. It happened with crypto lender Celsius, which went bankrupt earlier this year. It just happened with FTX billions in user deposits all trapped on the platform, with users expected to get pennies on the dollar eventually. And just this morning, Genesis Global Capital, the lending arm of leading digital asset brokerage Genesis trading, announced it halted withdrawals and new loans due to unprecedented market turmoil created by FTX's collapse.
00:01:15.230 - 00:02:10.566, Speaker A: Predictably, money has been flying out of custodial crypto companies, the ones that hold crypto on users behalf. According to a report published Monday by Glass node, bitcoin balances across all centralized exchanges dropped by more than 70,000 bitcoins since November 6, and outflow topped only three times in the cryptocurrency's history. As for ether, more than a million has been withdrawn from exchanges since November 6, per glass node. This makes for the largest 30 day balance decline since September 2020, during the peak of DFI summer, where demand for ether was sky high for use as collateral and smart contracts. So where have people been going? Well, several key metrics are up at blue chip DFI protocols, but before we get into that, a quick word from Ave. Ave's latest deployment, V three, was launched on six networks and introduces new features like isolation mode, efficiency mode, and portals. Explore the protocol@ave.com
00:02:10.566 - 00:03:02.070, Speaker A: and if you're building in the ecosystem, apply for a grant through avegrants.org. Back to our story Makerdao DFI's largest protocol, with 6.5 billion in total value locked, has increased addresses by a third in the last week. And other top ten protocols have also attracted huge jumps in users with Ave, a lending protocol notching a 70% increase and curve a decentralized exchange, a 63% spike lender compound and yield booster. Convex also drew 30% rises in users, according to data Nanson shared with the defiant. Ledger, the hardware company that makes cold wallets widely considered the most secure method of self custody, has seen a jump in business over the past week and a half. Cold wallets are essentially USB sticks on which users store their crypto, keeping it away from the Internet and the reach of hackers.
00:03:02.070 - 00:04:01.100, Speaker A: Ian Rogers, the chief experience officer at Ledger, said November 15 was a record day in sales for the company, but crypto natives shouldn't celebrate just yet. While users in DFI are up, it's hard to say that funds being taken out of CFI are actually going into DFI. While there was a big drop in crypto held on centralized exchanges, that was just a 4% drop for bitcoin since November 2, when the coindesk story at FTX's balance sheet broke and a 10% drop for ether, according to Glassnode. That compares with a 21% drop in TVL and DFI, according to DFI llama while CFI platforms go bankrupt, halt withdrawals, and attempt to put out fires, DFI has been working just fine. Still, it's far from ready to take on the million users that have been burned by FTX. First, we need a centralized on and off ramp for users to get their fiat onto defi in the first place. Second, once users actually get their money in DeFi, there's still a lot of work to be done in terms of user experience.
00:04:01.100 - 00:04:33.374, Speaker A: Storing seed phrases, paying for gas, approving transactions, all that stuff is a tough ask for many mainstream users. Next, there's still the privacy issue to solve. Many users, especially institutions, aren't comfortable with their entire financial history being totally visible and stored on chain forever. Then there are smart contract risks. We see exploits and hacks happening every other day, with little recourse for victims. And of course, the scaling issue. There's often a tradeoff between how cheap and fast a blockchain is versus how secure it is at the defiant.
00:04:33.374 - 00:05:06.686, Speaker A: We believe DeFi will solve these problems and that blockchains will become the underlying rails for finance. But we're not there yet. And of course, every catastrophe is an opportunity for lawmakers to assess what went wrong and what laws might prevent something similar from happening again. Lawmakers aren't exactly crypto savvy. So c five versus Defi? No to most people in Washington, hell to most people, period. It's all crypto. The industry will have to work overtime to ensure that decentralized protocols don't get swept up in whatever regulatory fix lawmakers will cook up.
00:05:06.686 - 00:06:15.130, Speaker A: Sam Bankman Fried was pushing a bill, the Digital Commodities Consumer Protection act, that critics alleged would kill DeFi. He insisted that that was not the point of the bill and that he did not believe that DeFi killing language in question would end up in the bill's final draft. Whatever the case may be, people have wondered what might happen to the bill now that its chief proponent is Persona Nongrada. Well, its chief sponsor, Senator John Boozman, a Republican from Arkansas, has an answer, and I quote, the events that have transpired this week reinforce the clear need for greater federal oversight of the digital asset industry, he said. Continuing, in light of these developments, we're taking a top down look to ensure it establishes the necessary safeguards the digital commodities market desperately needs. Chairwoman Debbie Stabenow and I remain committed to advancing a final version of the DCCPA that creates a regulatory framework that allows for international cooperation and gives consumers greater confidence that their investments are safe. Meanwhile, a research associate at crypto venture capital firm Paradigm argued that it was premature to say FTX's collapse itself makes the case for DeFi.
00:06:15.130 - 00:06:55.020, Speaker A: And I quote, centralized exchanges are this weird, worst of all worlds compromise between DeFi and traditional finance. They said the real competition for DeFi is not centralized exchanges but actual regulated finance. And in my opinion, we're still losing big time. An event like this should be a motivator to work harder to make these systems actually accessible and secure. Bottom line, decentralized finance blow that have happened this year highlight why DeFi is many times better. But builders in this space will have to work extra hard to make sure that it's ready and able to take on the millions of users who are still trusting CFI because right now, tanking prices and TVL show that it's not.
