00:02:40.480 - 00:03:14.556, Speaker A: Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening, everybody. My name is Kartik. I'm one of the co founders of ETHGlobal, and I am super excited to welcome all of you to our Governance and Dao Summit for ETH Online. So all of you are watching this on ETHGlobal TV. Be sure to log in and say hi. If you also have any questions for our speakers today, you can ask those questions on the chat and we'll be able to relay them to our speakers. Also, everybody who signs in and chats with everybody here, we'll be giving out a POAP NFT token for all the participants, so be sure to log in and play with your profile photo too.
00:03:14.556 - 00:04:10.316, Speaker A: So this event is organized by ETHGlobal, and for those of you who are joining us, for the first time ever, ETH Global is an organization with a very simple mission. Our goal is to bring on thousands of developers into the Web Three ecosystem, and we do this primarily by hosting hackathons and Summits, and ETH Online is our biggest event ever. So ETH Online is a hackathon and a collection of six different Summits. The hackathon is over 1150 people participating from 77 different countries for the next two weeks, working on hundreds of incredible projects in everything from D Five to NFTs to Dows, and they're working across 19 different time zones. So we're super excited to see what everybody does, and we'll be showcasing everything that comes out of it over the next couple of weeks. On top of that, we're hosting some incredible Summits. So last Friday, we kicked off with our very first Summit for this event, which was our NFT and Creator Summit.
00:04:10.316 - 00:04:51.580, Speaker A: Yesterday was our Ave Grants Dao Ecosystem Summit, where we showcase everything that's happening in the Ave ecosystem. Today, of course, is our Governance Endow Summit, which I'm excited to kick off in the next minute. Next Thursday, we'll be doing our Compound grants. Ecosystem summit. We'll be showcasing everything that's happening with the compound ecosystem. And I'm super excited about the next Friday Summit, which is on everything that's happening in the DevTools world of Ethereum. And October 15, the Friday will be our finale, where we'll be showcasing all of our projects from the hackathon, and we'll also be talking about the future of ETH Two and everything that's happening in the world of Ethereum scalability.
00:04:51.580 - 00:05:36.670, Speaker A: So let's get into today's Summit. We have an amazing lineup of speakers today, so we're going to jump right into our panel with Maki and Scoopy Trooples and Rogitachi. Then we're going to have Connor going to talk about how do you scale Dows with collective R D from a legal perspective. Then we're going to have a panel with Cooper, Gabby and Alex. We're going to cover and just talk about what does it mean to work for a Dao full time. Then we have an amazing panel with Monsie Kinjal and Meta on comarobi fund. Then we have the gearbox team talking about how do you actually think about launching your dow and Tokens as a new DeFi protocol in 2021.
00:05:36.670 - 00:06:27.576, Speaker A: Then we'll have Oren from Gnosis talk about Zodiac and how they've structured everything around making working with dows more efficient. And then we're going to have another final discussion around what does it mean to manage dows at scale, especially as they interact with the real world. And they'll feature Julia from orca Larry from Compound grants. Corbin and Eva from the Graph ecosystem. And we'll have an amazing discussion on how do you manage dows when you have a lot of people and capital to engage with. So, without further ado, let's kick us off with our very first talk and panel of the day. I want to welcome Chef Maki Scooby Trooples and Rogitachi on stage, they'll be talking about everything that means to be Han on in this world right now and everything that they're doing in the world of DeFi.
00:06:27.576 - 00:06:58.300, Speaker A: So I'll save the intro for our moderator, who will be rogue, and I'll ask them to turn on their video and unmute themselves and get us started. So welcome, everybody. Great to be here. Thank you. There we go. Now my video is looking good. What's up, my fellow Anans Apes, Big Brains, and all the normal people out there listening.
00:06:58.300 - 00:07:40.488, Speaker A: For those that don't know me, I'm Rogatachi. I'm a founding member of Young Capital, an Anan Dao, and just a general Djen here in the Crypto and DeFi space. I want to say I'm super honored to be here to moderate this event. Thank you again to ETH Global for letting me hop on the mic here at ETH Online, which is such an awesome event. So with me today, I have two awesome non panelists that will surely be shaping the future of France before our very eyes. First, I'd like to introduce one of my oldest friends in the space, a man who I admire not only for his talent, but his awesome personality and principles. That, of course, is Scoopy Truples.
00:07:40.488 - 00:08:38.610, Speaker A: Scoopy is one of the founding members and core developers of the Protocol Alchemyx, an ingenious protocol that leverages DeFi to allow users to take out self repaying loans that can never be liquidated. One might think it to be magic, but in fact, it's the work of a brilliant team with incredible execution. The second panelist with me today is someone who has done just about as much for DeFi as anyone, in my opinion, a developer who has helped build a protocol that is innovative, ever growing, and fearless in its vision. This is someone who the day they followed me on Twitter was the day I knew I had made it and would also need to get my act together and start tweeting things of value because smart people were reading them. I am, of course, talking about the Chef Ox Maki, co founder and advisor of Sushi Swap. I'm super excited to have the chance to chat with both of you Anans today. Welcome, guys.
00:08:38.610 - 00:09:26.830, Speaker A: It's great to be here. Thank you for the intro. Yeah, thank you. Of course. So, like you both, I am a non as well, though I'm an anon degen, so not quite as glamorous as you builders, but I found that being a non has a lot of benefits, especially in terms of privacy and safety. That said, there is one problem that haunts me over and over, which is having to answer the question to the people in my life, what do you do for a living? What exactly is your job? I usually answer with some version of, like, oh, I'm in finance, or I'm a financial consultant. But the other day, a girl I was talking to was like, yeah, me too, and then started grilling me on exactly what I did.
00:09:26.830 - 00:10:49.684, Speaker A: Obviously, I did the only rational thing I could at the moment, which was to turn around and sprint away. But I'm curious, what do you tell your friends, family, and strangers about what you do for a living? Like, how secretive are you? Do you have a cover story? We can start with you. Yeah, so with me on this one, very few people in my life know that I'm scoopy triples in what I'm doing. It's just my immediate family, like my wife and a couple of my close friends who I know, like IRL before I got into crypto, also know who I am. But other than that, I just have a pretty good cover story, which is that I work as a software developer, and they asked me what company, and I actually was working for a DeFi protocol as a front end developer before I got into Alchemics. And so I just tell people I work for them so if they really want to know, but everyone else who doesn't know or think I work for that company thinks I work just in it. Okay, so you do kind of say that you work in crypto.
00:10:49.684 - 00:11:23.650, Speaker A: You're like, oh, well, I at least work for a front end developer for this crypto. I just haven't told them that I left that place and started Alchemics. That's all just a minor detail. I just don't want people to know. I think for me, it's more like I just don't want people to treat me any differently. And that's why I'd like to keep it a secret. Right, that makes sense.
00:11:23.650 - 00:12:31.844, Speaker A: One of the reasons why I chose financial consultant, too, is because it seems really boring, and so I feel like people don't usually ask follow up questions. I feel like software developer, while it's not boring, it's more of like it's so general that people don't really ask follow up questions. So that makes sense. Yeah. What about you, maki? Usually I just say I'm in finance, and if some people start to quiz me or ask, I just say that I do HFT. I mean, I read a book like Flashboys a while ago, michael Lewis was pretty good and I was just like, oh yeah, there you go, HFT trading and it is what it is and I think everyone, no one knows about it what is HFT? So they just give up straight up otherwise for friends and family, kind of very close friends and kind of family members, they kind of know. The problem is, and that's the thing with Scoopy that is not saying here yet is that the moment you're going to go to events or be kind of surrounded by people in crypto, your voice is docked.
00:12:31.844 - 00:13:18.968, Speaker A: So it's going to be way harder to kind of camouflage or to just stay hidden. So I had to deal with this not that long ago and basically someone just told me, hey, I know you. There is not many people with the same voice that went on Laura Shin podcast. And I was like, oh fuck. The person was also what I found the most curious about is the same anon was saying for a living was doing absolutely nothing and that kind of I don't know, that just stuck with me. I was like, oh, some people are just not even trying anymore. So that was great.
00:13:18.968 - 00:14:22.460, Speaker A: But anyways, at conferences it's another topic I guess, right? I get that. I'm not sure when I'm going to actually go to a conference. It's been whole corona thing and I think there was like a recent event where a lot of people ended up getting corona and it just sort of seems like be this repeating theme and I don't want to make it this far and then get it before I'm double vaxxed and all that stuff at the very end. So I'm just playing it cautious until then, along with the voice docs thing, I host the Goodwill Hunting podcast, goodwill Yunting Sorry podcast. And me and other youngs hop on and talk to people and we actually had on our second episode, one of our fellow youngs got voiced docs by someone who worked with him. He just got an email that said like, hey, you sound really like this guy on this podcast. Is that you? He was like, oh crap, crap, crap.
00:14:22.460 - 00:15:47.944, Speaker A: No, yeah, there's not much you could do at that point. Kind of along the same vein, I often find myself like, wanting to tell friends, family and even strangers what I do because I find crypto and DeFi so exciting and fascinating and I think there's so much value that other people can get in their lives from it. Yet I don't want to spend 6 hours explaining the basics of it to a boomer who will just call it a scam or a stranger who will follow me home and hit me over the head with a render or something. So do you have IRL people that you talk about crypto with who aren't really in the scene? How do you kind of balance the excitement of what you guys are building, which is so cool, and also wanting to be safe or not lose brain cells. Talking to Normies about crypto. When I was really first getting into crypto back in 2016 and 17, I was trying to evangelicize everyone poor summer child I was at the time, and I almost had a few people get into it back in December 2017. And then the crash happened after that and the bear market and people were just like, oh, how's your crypto doing? And kind of like, laughing at me.
00:15:47.944 - 00:16:49.230, Speaker A: Like in 2018, I've kind of learned not to really talk about it with many people from that because, God forbid, they actually fumbled into the top and then got wrecked. That would have been something I would have to live with. So I try not to talk about it with people in my everyday life too much, but a couple of my friends approach me because they know I'm into it and they want to learn more. And when people are like that, I'll talk to them and educate them, tell them, stay away from EOS and cardano. But and I have one of my friends, he's really into it and we talk about it pretty regularly. But other than that, I don't really try to mix crypto with a lot of my friends in real life because it's not like something people want to talk about all the time. Not everyone's as obsessed with it as we are.
00:16:49.230 - 00:18:06.320, Speaker A: I don't want to be the crypto guy. What about you, maki? I think it's kind of funny because a bunch of my friends and people I know that were asking me about crypto, I gave them a small list of things to do, like try out, like just take $500, buy, eat and just try all of these DAPs. And among these DAPs there was like dYdX and basically everyone got a fat AirDrop. Not that. And basically for some of them, literally for them, one of them paid all of his student loans with it and kind of basically was able to make it for them, it's massive AirDrop. And they've been since then ringing the phone and pretty much getting seriously into it because they just feel like this is madness. And I told them, yeah, that's just an AirDrop.
00:18:06.320 - 00:18:40.944, Speaker A: No biggie. It happens quite frequently. Yeah, this size. Yes, it's a big one. But anyway, so that kind of motivated them to kind of study or dig deeper. Of course, they can always find someone that will help them in me. But I'm not too much evangelizing anymore because people just literally I got banned from a few not crypto, but friend circles because of it, because I was talking too much about it.
00:18:40.944 - 00:19:22.028, Speaker A: So I'm quite intense regarding crypto, DeFi and so on, even with my friends, not just with community and strangers online anyways, but for the ERL part in real life, people, you talk about crypto. It's always like, oh, I've heard about bitcoin. And then it's just like they don't push the discussion further. And to be honest, I'm not too interested. The only thing is at some point I was in a shop. I went in a shop and I strolled with, I think, my sushi cap, because I have a sushi cap. And for me, I'm kind of hiding in plain sight sometimes.
00:19:22.028 - 00:19:46.564, Speaker A: And anyway, the sales associate there was just like, hey, I know this logo. This is sushi. I was like, indeed, I love sushi. And they were just like, they didn't know. Little do they know. Yeah, exactly. What do I say? What do I do? And then where do you hear about it? Oh, it got added to robinhood or the equivalent locally, something like that.
00:19:46.564 - 00:20:20.428, Speaker A: And I was just like, okay, cool. And I asked, is everyone in the store into crypto? And she said, oh, the whole staff is trading. I was like, no fucking way. I was like, this is crazy. You just walk in a random clothing store? And she told me, like, yeah, there's five, six people here that are all trading crypto. I'm like, wow, I was shocked. And I asked, what was their biggest holdings? And they told me about I think it was extremely, like, shitcoin heavy, like elrond something.
00:20:20.428 - 00:21:01.324, Speaker A: Oh, beautiful. And I just told her, I said, I think you should consider looking into and I asked her, do you know about MetaMask? And she said, no. I said, oh, okay. So we have people, investors or people dabbling into this space that are not even aware of this yet. They only stay in their own little gardens. And it's just eye opener because for me, MetaMask is kind of a no brainer. But apparently for some people, they don't even want to consider dabbling more into this, like, desktop wise and so on.
00:21:01.324 - 00:22:16.900, Speaker A: So very interesting to talk with people that are exposed, but in another way than us, usually. Yeah, no, absolutely. That's a hilarious story. So kind of going into the dows and governance, one thing I feel like normies in the future might be afraid of or the idea scares them is like, trust in anonymous dows and in terms of governance. And I think it's funny because I don't know anyone in young capital dao in real life, and yet I trust them as much as anyone and literally with my money. So I'm curious, do you guys see anonymity as a hurdle beneficiary or non factor when it comes to trust in dows governance and generally between people in crypto kind of now and moving forward? I think somebody like maki and someone like myself, we have online reputations built up already. And because of that, if we do something bad, that reputation that we have is going to go down with it.
00:22:16.900 - 00:23:24.490, Speaker A: And that takes a long time to build up. And it's not like any of us could just switch to a different alt and then have it be the same as it would be as who we are now. In fact, a lot of people would probably be like oh yeah, this alt is that scammer scoopy, blah blah blah blah blah, or something like that. So there's a lot at stake for us to be good actors especially. I'm obsessed with crypto and DeFi and I can speak for Maki, I know he is as well and why would we want to banish ourselves from the space just to earn a quick buck or something like that? It's given so much to us. I feel like it'd be foolish to do something some heinous act abusing our power, whereas in our case I don't think it's really hurt us. In fact, sometimes being anonymous is pretty nice in a lot of ways because you do get to keep your privacy, at least from most people.
00:23:24.490 - 00:24:23.950, Speaker A: But if you're a new person starting out and you don't have any following online or credit online, you don't have relationships with other people in the space and you launch something and you're anonymous, then I think people are going to be a lot more skeptical of someone like that. Right, interesting. What are your thoughts, maki? Yeah, I mean the fact that you shouldn't be trusting analysts, that's for sure. I do think like Scoopy said very quickly, short term results for short term gains and short sighted people are going to be kind of outed very quickly. I mean we kind of see it with everything that happened, the rocks on DSC and so on. So in my opinion the true builders and so on are going to be staying for the long term game. It's going to be easy to identify in the long run, usually like interacting with this anonyos and so on.
00:24:23.950 - 00:25:43.880, Speaker A: I do think whenever there's a new entrant participants or someone that wants to create something new, et cetera, it's always like there's more scrutiny and there shouldn't be any, how can I say no checkpoint or no verification of what is happening at the code level and then from there you can move on. There should be checkpoints like time locks or making sure admin keys and multisig, et cetera, just to make their life more complicated. And overall securing kind of the dows because we don't want to have any problems. And then that is to me the only kind of barrier. Aside from that, I'm pretty comfortable with people like using Sotos and kind of personas online character, whatever. Yeah, I think it's like the culture of crypto to be pseudo anomaly and a lot of people do choose to be public and reveal their identity. But from the beginning the creator of cryptocurrency in of itself was a pseudo anonymous person or persons.
00:25:43.880 - 00:26:36.730, Speaker A: As long as people like pseudo anonymous developers and actors act with morals and ethics then I think it's fine. And I think the more people do that, the better it will be for the space because they'll be I don't trust them less. We've seen some very cool example of this by the way, with Olympus Dow that kind of prong up from nowhere and built every dedicated community. So Alchemyx is another one sushi, honestly, it's kind of a never ending list at this point. Yeah. No, I totally agree. So I think we've talked at length kind of what it means to be anon right now.
00:26:36.730 - 00:27:41.768, Speaker A: So let's find out what you guys are doing as anon devs in the space. Let's start with Maki. So we all know Sushi started as an AMM, but it's grown to be so much more since then. Sushi is now deployed on multiple chains, has awesome new products like Bento and Kashi, and you've created partnerships with some of the best protocols in DeFi for either other developers out there or investors looking for the next Sushi. What do you think is the kind of secret sauce to a protocol having so much value, growth and development in such a short amount of time? Really in the case of me, when I was involved on the day to day at Sushi, it was kind of a multi, one man army kind of type of situation for me initially. It was the one that I was recruiting team, I was the one that was also building a partnership. I was the one aiding, marketing, investor relationship, even manning the discord community manager, quote unquote.
00:27:41.768 - 00:28:49.120, Speaker A: So it was kind of a multipronged approach where it was also doing strategy. And basically over time this kind of grew into a team of 24 people, even 25 I think now, and basically just trying to delegate as much as I can on areas that people were better at and so on until I felt comfortable kind of stepping down because I felt the whole team was tight knit together and basically able to run the day to day. And myself. It's kind of exhausting also being in DFI like 24/7. So that was another consideration. And regardless, there's also many other new challenges that I want to explore while contributing to Sushi with them anyway. So I think for finding the next Sushi or Alchemy, you need to have passionate builders that are going to be I think being a crypto native also helped tremendously people that know exactly how to what is going to be beneficial for these new protocols.
00:28:49.120 - 00:30:39.268, Speaker A: Of course, the technical aspect is always very important, but the truth is it's better to have something that is accessible, that is easy, that is friendly on the UI, UX and the onboarding than something that is revolutionary on the tech side. Sushi itself and AMM is nothing crazy. It's only like a but we've still been able to onboard many people that were not kind of used to being LP via incentives or just the way we're kind of supporting everyone that just joined our discourse and so on. So there was this aspect that is very important, I think, in growing a product and then for the next ones. From what I've seen, what is really working well for bootstrapping these community nowadays is a mix of AirDrop incentives and then a kind of, I don't know, like communities that are almost cult like or there is like some, I don't know, but there is this genesequa factor where people are drawn into it. Whether this is with an emoji, whether this is with a meme like tree tree or I've seen lately, what I've seen is toky Mag doing this kind of gamified governance thing with voting and so on that just appealed to various appeal to various communities. So I think there was like 42 tokens that were selected that could basically vote for having a reactor and that created a lot of attention from these third parties into this project.
00:30:39.268 - 00:31:04.376, Speaker A: For liquidity, I was just like, this is pretty cool. Way to bootstrap communities. It's just like novel use case to just grow overall, right? No, absolutely. Yeah. Bet on memes and cults. But no, I totally understand. Just being in DFI is exhausting.
00:31:04.376 - 00:32:09.730, Speaker A: I can't imagine building 24/7, especially like you were talking about with being kind of wearing every hat in Sushi early on. That must have been crazy. But move to you now, scoopy, you and the Alchemy team changed the game with the protocol that provides self repaying loans that can never be liquidated. For me, Alchemyx is a paradigm shift because this idea kind of along with your ideas for the Dao can be foundational blocks for really infinite possibilities. In what ways is Alchemyx aiming to develop its utility for its users and DFI as a whole in the future? Yeah, so I'll take this moment or this opportunity to talk about V Two, which is the next thing that's coming out from Alchemyx. So basically right now in Alchemyx you can have one collateral in one strategy it uses to borrow an Al asset. So for both Al USD and Al ETH, we are using urine to do that.
00:32:09.730 - 00:33:15.800, Speaker A: Notably missing for LUSD is we only have Dai as a stable coin that can be used as collateral to borrow Al USD. So in V Two, that's going to open up to a number of other stablecoins that will be accepted as collateral. And you can think of any of the major stablecoins and a lot of the up and coming decentralized stablecoins, they will be accepted as collaterals. And we're also working with trying to accept LP tokens, stuff like curve LP tokens, like things that are stable swap and maybe Trident if you guys are ready soonish, I'm not sure. So essentially if we expand the amount of collaterals that we accept except for Alusd, and then we also allow LP tokens to be accepted as well, it's going to allow us to offer people lots of different options. And not only will they have different stablecoins. They can put in different ways.
00:33:15.800 - 00:34:15.728, Speaker A: They will be able to choose from multiple strategies. So they can sort of build their own meta yield aggregator inside of alchemics by mixing and matching their collaterals across their deposits, across different collateral types and strategies so they can optimize it for themselves, whether that's for maximum yield or for risk tolerance. People can sort of it's like sort of like a factory to build your own yield strategy which you can have diversified across lots of different things. And then all those positions can be added together to be your aggregate sort of balance in alchemics in order to mint al USD. And that kind of thinking will extend to Al ETH. And we're also going to be bringing albtc out as well. So there'll be different types of BTC collateral, different types of ETH collateral think like stake ETH from Lido, rocket ETH.
00:34:15.728 - 00:35:08.200, Speaker A: Things like that would also be accepted. And then kind of later on we're going to be doing what I like to call Alt Chemics, which is expanding our offering of al assets. Instead of right now we're aiming for the big three stablecoins ether and bitcoin. But after that we'll be trying to find other coins in the DeFi ecosystem in order to bring alchemics to Maki. There might be an al Sushi one be there should be by the way. And just like a small intervention here about this and that is I think, overlooked a little bit. Like Treasuries could also use all Sushi as a mechanism to basically diversify their treasury in my opinion.
00:35:08.200 - 00:35:54.360, Speaker A: This way they kind of earn yield on it without being liquidable and they can just do a huge bet on all Sushi, get the all USD and basically buy whatever they need or just take all USD. So to me that is super cool. Yeah. Alt Chemics is going to be definitely a part of version 200 going into the future. We're also going to be trying to do multi chain targeting L, two S like Arbitrum and side chains like Polygon. So those are definitely the ones that we would probably be targeting early on but wouldn't limit ourselves to just those. So that's going to be part of our plans to expand.
00:35:54.360 - 00:36:39.080, Speaker A: And then we're going to be revamping the governance procedure by having an on chain dow. That's going to be a custom contract that we have. It's going to have some pretty unique mechanisms in it that I think hopefully will be getting copied in the yeah, yeah, that sounds man. A lot of a lot of great alpha dropped Maki. Now you have to show him up. Can you drop some alpha about Trident and maybe some of the cool stuff you're working on in the future, just in general? Right now I'm looking at two things for Sushi. I can say that Trident is around the corner.
00:36:39.080 - 00:37:09.392, Speaker A: Show you like the contract have been deployed to Mainnet, I believe. Yesterday or so, like Levix posted them on social media. So in theory everything is good. There's only the UI that needs to be basically started, I guess. So that should be as soon as possible. This is going to be our next kind of release on this front. Besides that, for me personally, I'm just taking this off for a few more weeks.
00:37:09.392 - 00:38:00.050, Speaker A: I'm exploring kind of tax efficient sub protocols like how to make all of this highly tax efficient for users of DeFi and then Omnibridge. So these are kind of the two things I think there's a very bad UI on all these multi chain bridges right now and there's not like one to rule them all. So I'm just kind of trying to study and kind of see what is happening with various of like there is multiple model right now. Some are keeping custody of assets which is not really DeFi friendly in my opinion, and that caused security risk. Some others are doing mere LP pools. There's a pool on Polygon, there's a pool on BSc and that's the way to kind of transit between them. I think that is not as capital efficient per se.
00:38:00.050 - 00:39:05.140, Speaker A: So I'm kind of just exploring, looking for the next thing I guess in DeFi, keeping up with a bunch of Tokyo Mac and Olympus, the bond mechanism, I've been very surprised with it. And then tokymac for I think use case with single side liquidity providing that can be enabled with this is in my opinion super exciting and then overall just trying to see whatever the Djens are up to these days. There's a bunch of things on Avalanche, on Solana, on Terra, on the multi chain level that I haven't kind of paid attention to, that I'm kind of diving slowly into and who knows, we'll see what happens. I guess at this point it's just like recovering or not recovering, but starting to rediscover again. Some of the stuff I might have missed basically. Right, I think that makes a lot of sense and sounds super exciting. I'll be keeping my eyes out for all of that and any of the other stuff you're building.
00:39:05.140 - 00:39:57.130, Speaker A: And of course Scoopy V Two is high on my radar and I can't wait for all the exciting developments you and the team are working on. I think we are at time here, unfortunately. Do you guys want to show yourselves, drop your Twitter, talk about anything you want people to look at, projects, whatever. Yeah. Alchemics is currently number two in the Tokamac core event. So I mean if anybody who hasn't voted yet, we'd appreciate your support to get us a reactor, that'd be pretty awesome. You guys can find me on social media at Scoopy truples and it's Spelt, Scupy and triples but if you search Scoopy with AOO, I think you can find me anyway.
00:39:57.130 - 00:40:28.048, Speaker A: Awesome maki, anything to drop, anything to show. Yeah, for everything Sushi related, sushi swap on Twitter or zero Xmaki where you can follow my insight or things like this. There's going to be some alpha dropping very soon, so stay tuned. Awesome. And just for me, if anyone wanted to give me a follow, for some reason, I'm at the Rogue underscore Uchiha. Yes. Follow this man.
00:40:28.048 - 00:40:54.410, Speaker A: He has Alpha. Exactly. Well, Scoopy Maki, thanks for that amazing conversation. And Rogue, thank you so much for facilitating. Of course, all three of you deserve an equal recognition for everything that you're doing in this ecosystem, and I can't wait to see what everybody does next. So please follow all of these people on Twitter and we'll be sure to bring you on for a future event and go deeper into everything that you're excited about next. So thanks so much.
00:40:54.410 - 00:41:18.556, Speaker A: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. With that, we are ready to move on to our next talk and I'm super excited to welcome Connor for our next presentation. And Connor is going to be talking about how to scale Dows faster with collective R D. So, Connor, welcome on stage and I'll let you present. Thanks, Kardec.
00:41:18.556 - 00:41:39.960, Speaker A: Much appreciated. All right, I will get this screen share going. OK, great. So I assume everyone's looking at the right thing here and that I'll be pinged if not. Okay, awesome. Well, hello everyone. Thanks cardik for that nice introduction and thanks to all the panelists who were right before me.
00:41:39.960 - 00:42:23.920, Speaker A: That was fantastic. So if you're here today, I assume either you're participating in a Dao or you want to start a Dao or you want to start working for a Dao, which is really great because there is a ton of stuff to be doing. So I'm glad you're all here. I'm going to discuss today how we can come together as a community to help accelerate the pace at which DAOs can scale. So what I'm going to discuss first is the opportunities and logistics around open, sourcing, relevant Dow research. And then I'm going to dive into the biggest challenges for DAOs, and these are going to be non technical challenges. I'm sure there are also a ton of technical challenges and discuss some of the research that we're doing and other folks are doing to try and overcome some of those challenges.
00:42:23.920 - 00:43:17.268, Speaker A: So hopefully in the next 25 minutes, I can help you understand, one, how to better accelerate the pace of development of your Dow, and two, help the whole community. Three, if you're not already working for a Dow, maybe I can help you plug in by giving some tips about things you should start looking into because there's a lot that DAOs are going to need. So diving into it, what is the problem with Dao scaling? So, as I'm sure many of you experience, there's a lack of operational clarity when it comes to the development of Dows, and that really slows down the industry as a whole. And DAOs specifically, as you of course know, dows are cutting edge organizational structures. So there's not a lot of precedent that operators and founders can look to when they're spinning up a Dow. They have to shoot from the hip a lot. There is some precedent which I'll dive into, but obviously these are pretty novel structures.
00:43:17.268 - 00:44:04.788, Speaker A: These organizations. DAOs of course, are now starting to research more things like legal like governance, diversity, treasury management, taxation, a lot of very key issues to the future of the DAOs. But much of that foundational learning and research is currently being siloed within those communities. We believe the best way to accelerate the development of DAOs and their functionality is for DAOs and those who are working for them to share that foundational knowledge at a really early stage and help the whole industry reach greater heights more quickly. So let's jump into a bit of an easy example. So say for example, uniswap compound Maker Curve. Any number of DAOs want to come together because or maybe you start with they all have the same problem.
00:44:04.788 - 00:45:05.956, Speaker A: The problem is that they want to know how to hire contractors legally. And I don't know how these entities are organized, but a lot of Dows don't have structures or former entities tied to them. So it's very difficult for them to figure out, okay, how do we actually pay a worker or sign a contract? For many of these Dows, the initial problems they're dealing with are going to be the same. They're very novel issues, but they're also issues that other Dows are having. So at an early stage, it makes much more sense for that research to come from a single source, vetted potentially by several professionals, researchers, et cetera, but a single source. Rather than having those Dows go to, say, five different law firms and paying those five law firms to draft a memo on different entity structures or different ways in which contractors could be hired by an unassociated organization, this would decrease obviously, the cost of that research substantially. And there's obviously the cost in dollar value, but there's also the cost in time because time is very precious to Dow founders or operators.
00:45:05.956 - 00:46:04.252, Speaker A: As I'm sure you know, there seem to be very few folks in the world really who can help run these organizations. And so the core team often ends up being responsible for a lot of work and they, I'm sure, would much rather not have to deal with these lawyers. So diving more deeply the problems broadly, think about the research, the things that you should be researching right now. I'm going to go into those issues. I think that would be really valuable for Dows to know more about and potentially for you to dive into and start establishing your brand if you're not already in the Dao world. In order to figure out those problems, the most pressing for DAOs, we gathered together a lot of the leaders, like from leading operators to founders to investors at an event called the Dow Summit in June, which we hosted with Bankless and EF and Stanford as well. And we also separately interviewed more than 20 other brilliant Dow stakeholders, asking all of them what it was that they needed most.
00:46:04.252 - 00:47:11.468, Speaker A: And we came up with a list of the five most pressing issues as described by them for Dows. Now at the Dow Research Collaborative sorry, at the Dow Research Collective. We're taking it a step further in that we are not just getting in touch with the Dows and bringing them together on a one off basis, but we're raising capital as an organization specifically for purposes of identifying the biggest challenges and then funding and open sourcing, rather R D that responds to those most pressing issues. We're supported right now by the grants programs of Aave, Compound and Uniswap, as well as the Ethereum Foundation. Now, for anyone listening here today who is themselves representing a large Dao, we would really encourage you to think about sharing as much knowledge and best practices as you can with the crypto community, so we can all just keep growing and improving together. For those of you who are free agents, who are working potentially with a number of different Dows, or who are simply looking to figure out how to best start with Dows, we really encourage you to think about how much of a greater impact you could have if you open sourced your work. And in so doing, in a way, we're working for many Dows.
00:47:11.468 - 00:47:57.644, Speaker A: And so you could ask yourself, how can I open source my work and still get paid? Which is an important question. The obvious answer is that if you're already doing work for DAOs, it could be, depending on your agreement with that Dow available for you to open source to the community more broadly upon completion. But there are also groups like ours, the Dao Research Collective. This is where we come in. We're built specifically to fund and open source crypto research related to DAOs. And if we're not the right fit for you, there are a ton of other great organizations that are doing the same thing. Maybe not all Dao specific or with our specific focus, but you can think of organizations like Gitcoin, the Smart Contract Research Forum, of course, the Ethereum Foundation grants programs through Compound, Uniswap, Aave, et cetera.
00:47:57.644 - 00:49:18.972, Speaker A: A lot of different places you can go to start your research. So diving into the biggest issues for DAOs, the first one, the top most pressing issue, which we heard over and over again, is how do DAOs obtain legal clarity for themselves? So this was almost unanimously described to us as the most important issue. And it may not be too surprising because of how much flood is in the space, especially recently, particularly given what we're hearing from the SEC and others. There are many specific legal questions which lawyers might address, but then there are really broader outstanding legal queries related to things like operations, treasury management, taxation and other areas that do require new policy or new regulation. And so in thinking about that as a founder, right, when you go to a lawyer, what the lawyer does is look to existing policy or existing regulation or existing case law. Like when a case is decided, the lawyer can look to that case, say, okay, this is how the regulator is going to treat this particular circumstance. If there isn't any policy or regulation or case law, then there's not very much that lawyers can do for you other than speculate pretty wildly and sometimes they'll take your money to do that, but it's not always the best course of action or use of your money.
00:49:18.972 - 00:50:40.020, Speaker A: The other piece, right, is advocating for better policy so that policymakers, politicians and regulators make it more clear as to what it is that you can and can't do and help to relieve some of the FUD that currently exists in the crypto industry. Now given this is the most significant issue for DAOs, among all the issues that we found, I'm going to spend a little bit more time here and I'm going to give everyone a kind of PSA about the importance of advocacy because it's something that a lot of folks aren't familiar with. You may have heard a little bit about it from Coincenter or from Ryan Selkis or from the guys at Bankless, but the stakes are truly very high and this is only going to be something that we can really tackle effectively if we work together as a community. So when looking at the problem, smart contracts may be unstoppable, but the crypto industry is not. Government blessing has been crucial to every 20th century information empire to date. So just letting those two ideas sink in, right? While governments have no master keys that can shut crypto down, they can make it so expensive and so high risk for users to interact with crypto that the vast majority of their populations and all of their institutions will simply abandon use of crypto. This is particularly true in countries like the US.
00:50:40.020 - 00:51:26.656, Speaker A: Where the government has a very robust enforcement arm. The implications of anti crypto policy would be much, much worse than your portfolio going through the floor. It could really threaten the existence of the industry that we've been creating over several years now. Really important here not to let the fact that there's been very limited government intervention to date lull you into a false sense of security. Rather good actors in general in the crypto industry have had a great run with negligible antagonistic regulation from western governments. But that appears to really be changing very quickly under the new US administration, which is very hostile to crypto. Western governments generally are accelerating the pace of regulating crypto.
00:51:26.656 - 00:52:05.376, Speaker A: Recent examples include, as I'm sure you were made aware of recently, the expansion of the definition of broker and the infrastructure bill which I believe is being voted on today in congress or potentially already has been the ratcheting up of enforcement efforts by u. S. Regulatory agencies targeting crypto industry. We all heard recently about how someone was subpoenaed at missari's mainnet event. So that's the kind of tactics we're seeing employed at the moment. And the development of things like the markets in crypto assets, which is the mica proposal in the European Union around regulating crypto assets. Regulation is not in and of itself a problem.
00:52:05.376 - 00:52:41.576, Speaker A: Governments do play a really important role in supporting and overseeing industry. But antagonistic regulations will slow the development of this industry or much worse, it could just absolutely cripple it. On the other side, clear and reasonable regulations will significantly reduce FUD and allow for much more innovation. The industry truly is at an inflection point right now. Can go really one of two extreme ways. These developments are very important in light of the new regulation we're seeing in influential jurisdictions as mentioned, like the US. And the EU.
00:52:41.576 - 00:53:25.560, Speaker A: Because when something like this comes down from the US. Or the EU. It ends up being very influential to other jurisdictions that are just sort of around those two jurisdictions. So if you think you're safe because you're in a jurisdiction that currently isn't actively pursuing crypto companies or because you could simply move to the Cayman islands or some other tax haven, think again. The substantial regulation and enforcement in the west will most certainly impact your business and your legal expenses in trying to figure out how you stay out of the United States. But it's also really going to impact the size and the trajectory of the entire crypto industry. There is hope for the industry but in order for us to see that hope realized, we need to take collective action.
00:53:25.560 - 00:54:27.116, Speaker A: So by way of example, what are we doing about this? At the Dow Research Collective, we have written a guide for crypto companies on why they should help with advocacy and how they can help with advocacy so they can look at it and they can easily plug in to what makes the most sense for them, for them to contribute to really an initiative that's going to support the entire industry. Because knowing how to navigate Washington for instance, is not something that the average dev knows or is interested in knowing and that's totally fine. But we should know as an industry what we have to do to make sure that we're successful and that we can work with government to improve the current state of our regulatory environment. So we're going to be releasing this guide as a three part series with the defiant. So we hope you all check it out and know, start contributing, start fighting for crypto's future in the United States and really the western world. The second issue is much more practical. So what are the best practices for DAOs to maintain legally compliant relationships with the individuals and the organizations that work for them.
00:54:27.116 - 00:55:45.688, Speaker A: So Dow operators, and I'm sure many of you know this, face this issue daily as the organizations that try to enter into novel relationships with talent that don't necessarily have any legal precedent. Once again, if you have no entity then it's very difficult to do things like enter into a contractual relationship with employees or contractors. And all this is made much more difficult because typically you know where the organization is domiciled which informs in some respect what laws you have to be compliant with. But in the case of Dows, that's not totally clear, particularly where they have no entity and it's also not totally clear what they do given that many of their employees or workers or talent or whatever you want to call them live in many other jurisdictions. So that adds like a big new complicating factor to the situation. Another more niche, or more narrow I should say, legal topic is what are best practices for limiting the liability of Dow stakeholders, including founders, workers and token holders? And just to clarify with one, the issue is really broadly how do we make this space more allow for more regulatory clarity in the space? Number two and three are more narrow questions related to that. But these are these questions where I think that we can get some insight from lawyers on.
00:55:45.688 - 00:56:40.600, Speaker A: So with respect to the best practices for limiting liability, potential liability of Dao stakeholders was really unsurprisingly top of mind for many of the people that we interviewed. And based on what we saw at the Dow research or the Dao Virtual Summit, crypto teams generally do have a high risk tolerance, as I'm sure many of you are aware. But given the breadth of legal uncertainty around DAOs, they seem particularly eager to figure out how they can limit their personal liability. One of the most obvious and direct paths to limiting liability is to incorporate legal entities. Which type of entity and the scope of that entity's work are very much open questions. But most teams that have actually started legal entities hope to dissolve them eventually anyways once it's more clear from a legal perspective that they can do that. With respect to this section, this is kind of something that a lot of teams are reticent to do with good reason.
00:56:40.600 - 00:57:31.640, Speaker A: Some people think that, you know, speak it kind of speaks against the transparency that so many of us value in crypto. But I can tell you that's not always the case. There are some particularly novel, unique and alternative entity structures that could be pretty effectively integrated into different Dow structures. They might not work for every Dow, but they might work for some. Another way of limiting liability for your Dao, and this is something I'm starting to see some Dows implement is to form a mutual or an indemnity fund that protects organizations and their talent from the cost of legal actions. So think about this practically if you have a Dao and you want to protect your workers, I mean, if you were a corporation you might be able to indemnify those workers directly and if they get sued for work done for you, you might be able to cover them. In this case, what you might be able to do is form a fund.
00:57:31.640 - 00:58:02.876, Speaker A: This could be a separate entity in your Dow or it could be a fund that's formed between multiple Dows to in a way insure those workers so that if they are sued for work done on your behalf, they can be covered at least to some extent. And one thing I should have noted at the top is none of this is legal advice. If you need legal advice, talk to a lawyer. None of it's investment advice, et cetera. I imagine they mentioned that at the very top. But just in case, always good to cover your bases on that front. We haven't seen that much on the front of how do you indemnify your insured Dow workers.
00:58:02.876 - 00:58:47.440, Speaker A: But I think this is a really important subject matter. And so if any of you want to start a new business in the space that's going to have a lot of customers, think about how we can do insurance for Dows. Now, in response to these two issues, to two and three, these specific legal issues related to workers and liability, what we've done at the Dow Research Collective is we've started to work with some of the leading law firms. In the space and have them draft memos, for instance, on how Dows can work effectively with contractors. How we should think about Dows using entities or not. How Dows can limit liability, how Dows can pay taxes. So there are some areas in which we hope to be able to provide some clarity though we appreciate too to get that ultimate clarity we do need to be working with policymakers and regulators.
00:58:47.440 - 01:00:19.568, Speaker A: Moving on to the next topic how do you develop an equitable, scalable and decentralized governance system for Dows? So in this case, interviewees really were wrestling with how to use mechanisms like proposals, elections, delegations or delegation rather, and voting thresholds to create ideal governance systems. Many Dows simply mimic the system of their higher signal predecessors rather without assessing whether that strategy is optimal for their specific project. And so you can think of easy examples here, right? Like uniswap and compound come out and they are incredibly successful and folks think okay, I'll just do what they did without thinking about the specifics that went to decisions made by uniswap or compound or whether that would really be appropriate at all for the project that Dao is running. But really big question is still how do you develop a system that's both scalable and decentralized? Many of our interviewees observed that a Dow could scale much more easily if it's centralized at least to some extent and wrapped itself in a legal entity or simply used a legal entity for some of its operations. Now this system might be flawed. Some legal entities were designed, however, at least in part to more efficiently coordinate decision making between different people with a shared financial interest. So they were designed in part to fulfill some of the needs of DAOs, though they certainly didn't contemplate the sort of technical innovation that allows for DAOs to be as amazing as they are.
01:00:19.568 - 01:01:21.244, Speaker A: Interviewees which we spoke with suggested that they wanted to extract those good parts from legacy systems while emitting the bad parts. By way of simple example of this, most larger Dows have done things like create work streams or committees and delegated decision making to some of the groups at lower levels. So like they'll have a treasury management committee or guild, they'll have a marketing committee, a grants program. If you want to see this in action, just jump into the discord of any Dao. Bankless I think does a really good job of this where you have guilds performing different functions and you can also see hierarchy where folks who've been contributing for a long time seem to be given different permissions on the discord channel. And I'm sure in the back end they're kind of receiving different compensation, et cetera, for their contributions. We're seeing these organizations form in a similar way to the way that we're seeing corporations and other more centralized types of organizations delegate authority, equitable.
01:01:21.244 - 01:02:29.716, Speaker A: Dow governance is another very important consideration here that needs to not be overlooked and it usually is at this stage. We're making decisions today about systems that could be precedents for how Dows look going forward. And if we bake in norms that are going to discriminate against certain types of people or that are going to effectively centralize power to a very small group of decision makers and whales, we may very well fall into some of the same traps as legacy corporate structures and Web 2.0. And I mean this like so many things it's very hard to keep in touch with this issue at times because everyone's scrambling, everyone's building the plane while they're flying it, et cetera, et cetera. But this is really core to the success of DAOs in the long term is not being burdened, right, by the same traps of those legacy corporations not establishing themselves to be inequitable institutions. A few interviewees we spoke with also made the point that DAOs could benefit substantially from looking to pass precedents when it came to things like governance systems, right? This isn't too surprising. This is an area with an extensive amount of scholarship that DAOs could apply when creating their systems.
01:02:29.716 - 01:03:16.692, Speaker A: And I can tell you at the Dow Research Collective we're working with a number of different folks. But easy example is an organizational psychologist and an organizational psychologist think about this very thing how do you structure organizations to be most efficient, to have most impact, et cetera. And this is a field of research that has existed for a long time. The human condition hasn't changed so much so substantially, that their research is irrelevant. We can certainly apply it and think about what we need to do to organize Dows and incentivize folks to work in the right way. The very final issue. So what are the best practices for hiring, onboarding and managing talent at a Dow? Now, previously we just talked about a legal question about how do you hire contractors, but this is really a different question entirely.
01:03:16.692 - 01:04:12.484, Speaker A: Beyond that legal question, there are also the practical questions regarding the best practices for onboarding, hiring, and managing a workforce. Given the novelty of Dows, it's difficult to find and really vet people to know whether they're going to be well suited for Dows. Not many of them have worked for DAOs before, and working for a Dao is a very self directed and nebulous thing at times, right? Everyone's sort of a builder and has to be responsible for themselves or it doesn't work too well, at least at this stage. Once hired, Dao teams find it really time consuming to transfer knowledge to new workers. So Dao core teams often end up being responsible for the majority of their operations because they simply don't want to take the time to bring in anyone else. Given the transparency of DAOs, this seems a bit counterintuitive. But given the pace at which DAOs have evolved, these organizations do have a really good or sorry, a really hard time documenting internal operations, making it even harder to onboard new workers.
01:04:12.484 - 01:05:07.608, Speaker A: And this is not an issue, of course, that's exclusive to DAOs. This is an issue that traditional corporations face forever. How many resources do you allocate to bringing on new people versus just doing the job yourself? But it's a bit of a novel circumstance, of course, with DAOs, once folks are onboarded, Dow core teams have to decide how they're going to manage that talent, which can be quite tricky given how flat Dow structures typically are. But as I'm mentioning, we're seeing that evolve and different people take on different, maybe levels of authority in the hierarchy of Dows and take on different responsibilities and authorizations. That brings us to the very end of our challenges. So I hope that was informative and helpful. If you have any questions about those challenges or what we're looking to do to solve them, or about the Dao Research collective generally, or DAOs generally, very happy to respond to those questions.
01:05:07.608 - 01:05:32.316, Speaker A: My Twitter handle is here at C underscore Spellacy. I don't know, I'm not really sure if we have a minute now, but if not, or if you don't remember a question, just feel free to ping me on Twitter. Amazing. Thank you so much, Connor. I think this is an incredible presentation. We're already seeing a pretty engaging chat on the live stream about people just kind of walking through other models that. They've explored there's.
01:05:32.316 - 01:06:55.612, Speaker A: One request request is if you can share these slides later on, you can send it to us over email or here. We'll post that link for everybody to look at. The other kind of question or the discussion that's happening is what are some of your thoughts on the downsides of the Wyoming Dow model and sort of how do you think about what's happening jurisdictionally in different places? So and you covered some of these things directly or indirectly in your talk, but how do you think about a decision making framework as people are choosing how to tie a legal entity to their operations? Yeah, I mean, the Wyoming bill is interesting and it seems like in my mind, it's a good start, it's a good approach to starting to think critically about what we need to change to make know useful or make legal structures useful for DAOs. But I just haven't kind of seen too much traction. I haven't seen too many folks who are actually excited about organizing their DAOs, using that structure. What we're seeing more of, I think Aaron Wright's done some great writing on this, on the idea of using different kinds of organizational structures like unincorporated nonprofits. There's some promise there as organizations that might be able to both exist within the philosophy of crypto from a decentralized and transparent perspective, but may also be able to do things that are going to be really important, like pay taxes, right.
01:06:55.612 - 01:07:19.716, Speaker A: Which is not necessarily enabled at the moment with DAOs. So we're going to see some writing on that. And we've actually supported some writing from the taxation perspective. We're also supporting writing from one of the leading firms in Colorado. And Colorado is colorado is the Delaware of Delaware is like the place to go, right, if you're going to incorporate. But if you're going to do a cooperative, you go to Colorado. They have the best present, best case law there.
01:07:19.716 - 01:08:11.108, Speaker A: And so we're working with a firm that spent a lot of their time looking into cooperatives. And this is something, if folks are interested in this, I wrote a paper with Jesse Walden a little while ago on applying really the principles from cooperatives when scaling your crypto company, and I think it applies to DAOs as well. But we want to go so much deeper into that and work with professionals whose career it's been so they can think critically about, okay, how can we use the cooperative structure, which has things like members and doesn't have shareholders, in the same way we would think about a traditional corporation and apply that knowledge pull from that precedent. So that's a really long answer, but in short, more stuff coming soon on this. I don't think that there's a perfect structure yet, but maybe as an interesting thought exercise, look at what Flamingo Dow is doing. They have very clear documentation on what they're up to. And I think that Aaron Wright's part of that as well.
01:08:11.108 - 01:08:30.830, Speaker A: And I think it's like kind of a cool way to start exploring structures in Dao. Awesome. Well, thanks for that. And if you have any other questions for Connor, you can ask them on the chat or ping him and follow him on Twitter. So thanks again, Connor, and we are ready to move on to our next discussion. Thanks, cardik. Thanks all.
01:08:30.830 - 01:09:16.250, Speaker A: So next up, I'm super excited to welcome three amazing people here we have Gabby Goldberg, Cooper Turli and Alex Singh. They're going to be talking about what does it mean to now work for a Dao. This kind of sparked off as a discussion from chatting with Cooper, where he has been part of so many DAOs that I feel like the timing is right to talk about what does it mean now for somebody to be employed by a Dao. What does it mean to work full time or to say that you're working with the Dao and the challenges and the tooling and everything else around that world? So it's going to be a pretty active discussion and I'll let all of them do most of the talking. So without further ado, let's welcome Cooper, Gabby, and Alex. Thank you so much, kartik, it's a pleasure to be here. Excited to have you.
01:09:16.250 - 01:09:20.510, Speaker A: Hey, Gabby. Alex. How are we feeling? Hey. Hey.
01:09:21.120 - 01:09:22.524, Speaker B: Great. Thanks so much.
01:09:22.562 - 01:09:42.416, Speaker A: Ready to kick off this beautiful Friday morning talking about working for huh? No better time. Cheers. That nice. So, guys, I know that we have a pretty extensive amount of area that we can cover here. I want to keep this more casual today. I want it to feel very natural and basically just help people understand what does our day to day look know. I think a lot of the time I get questions about Dows.
01:09:42.416 - 01:10:19.740, Speaker A: And conceptually, it makes sense. You're in a discord server, you're hanging out with people. But I think more of the mysterious part of working for Dows is what this actually looks like behind the scenes. I hope that after this conversation, people listening can walk away with what would this look like if I were to try and go work for a Dow full time? How would this compare to working for another crypto project? Maybe working for a Web two company in the past? Hopefully just try and give some more clarity to what this looks like. But before we do that, I want to kick it off with some intros. Maybe I'll start with Gabby and then send it over to Zhang. Would you guys mind just giving a quick background on first and foremost your first Dao experience and then maybe a little bit more what you're working on today and how this ties into working for DAOs tomorrow?
01:10:20.240 - 01:10:48.484, Speaker B: Yeah. Awesome. Trying to think of this counts as my first Dao experience. Cooper, maybe you can give me some thoughts here with the bright moments. Dao. I think that counts as my first experience, absolutely. The experience that brought me full time into crypto and getting me so excited about this space, which I'll talk about in a second, was with a community originally based in Los Angeles called Bright Moments, which started as a physical NFT art gallery in Venice.
01:10:48.484 - 01:11:35.744, Speaker B: And if you wanted to come mint an NFT at the gallery, you had to come in person and kind of go through this experience one on one of sitting down with the organizers of the Dao, learning about the project, understanding their goals for the community, and then you can mint one and join the community. And everyone has gone through the same process to get one of those NFTs. And so the community is incredibly strong because there's this shared sense of ownership and background and belonging in this community that spans these physical and digital walls, which I think is really special. So spending time in that community, I was going to that gallery so often, that's how I met Cooper. It's how I really got so excited about the space. And that's what prompted me to leave my job in Web Two and join full time, kind of pushing forward this new frontier of consumer software. So what I do now is I'm an investor at TCG.
01:11:35.744 - 01:12:07.568, Speaker B: We're a decade plus year old firm that invests in digital consumer. And we've done so successfully over the past decade and been very thematically driven. And so we invested early in OpenSea, in the Athletic, Twitter, Pandora, and now really incredible communities like Barstool, Sports Crunchyroll, exploding kittens. TCG started driving a lot of conviction in the crypto space, believing that this is the next big horizon for consumer. And obviously, I feel the same way. So I mentioned OpenSea. We also invested in Dapper labs, led the Series A and Z run.
01:12:07.568 - 01:12:21.670, Speaker B: So now I've just recently joined the team to focus on investing earlier in crypto at this intersection of consumer and blockchain, trying to really identify the on ramps or the companies trying to bring in the next ten or 100 million users in the space.
01:12:23.080 - 01:12:48.720, Speaker A: Amazing. Zhang what are you working on these days? Man hey, everyone. I'm Alexang. A lot of the homies call me Zang. My first Dow experience is still my main Dow experience. It stole my heart quite early on, and I'm still deep in the game there that's friends with benefits. I always say that I was recently sort of pilled or brought into the Web Three space only about six months ago.
01:12:48.720 - 01:14:16.584, Speaker A: I was previously working in different various community organizations, always at the intersection of culture and technology, whether it was running radio stations or running sort of startup accelerator programs. Always interested in how different people with different backgrounds could come together, what that sort of overlap space looked like and what were the innovations that were sort of come when people met with sort of different backgrounds and different perspectives. That led me to an organization called Summit Series, which was a global community company of about 25,000 members around the world where we hosted festivals, conferences, events. And our most notable project was coming together as a community and fundraising to purchase a crowdfunding, to purchase a ski resort in Utah that was going bankrupt, that we then turned into sort of a physical place where we all spent the last five years sort of living together, collaborating together, and in a site where we hosted most of our conferences. But that was all within this Web Two framework. And I saw a lot of the challenges that community organizations faced that were just limited by Web Two, right? Lack of transparency, lack of things not being on chain, the idea of value accrual to a corporate entity, as opposed to value accrual to a community, to the actual the users or the members. And so it was Web Three and sort of more specifically the Dow framework that really opened my eyes into all new frameworks in which to organize and bring people together and to create value for the entire equation or the entire pie.
01:14:16.584 - 01:15:44.816, Speaker A: That then led me to discover Friends With Benefits, where I got to meet Cooper and Trevor and a whole bunch of other members who sort of started Friends With Benefits, where I now spend almost all of my time leading strategy and operations. As sort of was the first sort of full time head of community to really distill sort of a vision and a product roadmap and really take what I think a lot of internet communities possess this day, which is sort of lightning in a bottle overnight. Right? Like a sort of fractionalized NFT purchase or an immediate Dow that spun up over a specific cause. But I see a lot of the work is in the tail end of actually taking that energy and creating organizational structure around it so that a team can come together and harmonize and build over a longer period of time, which is specifically what I spend my time at Friends With Benefits doing nice. And I want to stick on that for a second because you were the first full time hire from Friends With Benefits. I think now at this point, we have close to ten to 15 paid roles on a monthly basis. But I'm really curious to hear, when you were entering the space, having no prior Web Three experience, what was that conversation like to sort of flesh out like a formal paid role from a Dow relative to having not really been involved in crypto deeply before that, what did that conversation look like? How did you feel about that? Can you walk us through sort of your state of mind entering that conversation? Yeah, I think the crypto industry at large, I think had, at least from the perspective I came from, as being a relative outsider.
01:15:44.816 - 01:17:17.700, Speaker A: It has a lot of PR and branding work that needs to be done collectively, right, as all of us who now, let's say, work in crypto and everyone now who works in crypto, I think would agree that crypto isn't even necessarily an industry, right? It's an underlying infrastructure that can affect every single industry. But I think a lot of education needs to be done and yet the media isn't 100% on our side of how they tell these stories. But I think the first thing that I was sort of processing was what does it actually mean to sort of work or be affiliated in crypto? Right? So I think that takes finding incredible spaces, like bright moments, like friends with benefits, like all these different projects and beyond that that feel like they're working on that longer tail horizon and sort of stepping around a lot of, say, like the ICO narrative that dominated a couple of years ago or sort of these different branding mechanics that didn't really serve. I think the industry at large. So I think first was figuring out where I sat in relationship to the overall space and then there was just like the basic mechanics of like, okay, what does it look like to transition from web two? I think frameworks even, right? Like how do salaries, the concept of equity that vests over many years if you work in a startup. I think this narrative that a lot of people over the last 20 years who joined sort of the startup Silicon Valley grind of like, I'm going to join early employee at a startup, I'm going to try to grab as much equity as I can in this company. Those sort of, I think, parameters, the zero sum game, I think of startup world and Silicon Valley world.
01:17:17.700 - 01:18:30.044, Speaker A: It was just really interesting to traverse into web Three where so much of those paradigms and those frameworks exist in totally different contexts, which was really exciting. So even understanding how paying in token, how earning tokens as contributing to a dow was something that I had sort of never thought of before. I think even the notion of contributing and being locked in in one specific company full time where right, startups are very much like, oh, everything you create here is IP owned by this company, you need to give everything your attention. I think dows really favor and where the future of work is going is skilled laborers and contributors working for handfuls of different Dows based on their specific skill index. And so for mine it was organizational design and leadership and community building and being able to take that and bake that into FWB, which just required all my bandwidth, but eventually supporting with that function with other dows. So it's almost like fractionalizing your specific skill set and dows have made it so much easier to contribute to things versus the traditional company of going through HR multiple interviews. That whole narrative of web two recruiting, I think in web3 has just greased those wheels a lot better.
01:18:30.044 - 01:19:03.168, Speaker A: And so joining these organizations I think has also been simplified to an extent and also the ways to contribute have been amplified as well. Yeah, and I want to zoom in there because I think it's really interesting the way that you joined FWB. It wasn't like overnight you rocked up to the discord channel and then you're like, okay, I want a salary for a full time position and I want a bunch of tokens. Yes or no vote on snapshot. Know, I think it was a much more iterative process than know from my perspective. You had a close friend and Trevor who was very actively involved in the Dao at that point in time. We had a close working group that was running as staff, basically, but it was very loose and informal.
01:19:03.168 - 01:20:02.644, Speaker A: And at that point in time, I think we all recognized that we needed someone to be full time on this. And so rather than you just diving in and being full time on day one, there's a very much iterative process of starting with the small, you know, coming on time and really ingraining yourself in the community. And as you sort of found that to be comfortable, found out who was working on what, who are the key operators that I should be aware know what areas can I collaborate? People? Where can I slot in? I think at that point in time, correct me if I'm wrong, I want to say it was like one month to two months in when you were like, all right, I'm ready to actually do this full time. And at that point, I think it was working know people like myself. Trevor to really flesh out what that role looks like more definitively, and then start having those conversations about USDC salary versus tokenvest over here and kind of modeling more traditional compensation package that I think in the Dow world. Might seem weird on the surface that it resembles such a traditional employment structure in a lot of ways, but would love for you to just talk through. How did you feel about that? Leaving your web two job where you had a really amazing position locked in, you had amazing compensation.
01:20:02.644 - 01:20:40.948, Speaker A: I know that there was a lot of, hey, what are these tokens that I'm getting? What is up with this? I'm getting a lot of internet tokens. These things even have value. What's going on here? We'd love to just hear about that very quick transition from web two compensation package to web3. Really just YOLOing it and trusting that it was going to work out. Yeah. So I think the most relevant thing to this community, this audience, would even be, I guess let's say that one to two, three month period where you're really I always call it the first date before you get married. Which is sort of the figuring out if there's a cultural fit and a skill set fit for the dow that you're looking to contribute to.
01:20:40.948 - 01:21:50.964, Speaker A: And so, yeah, I think that early process is incredibly important. I believe that right now, across the dow landscape, that barrier needs to be significantly lowered, and it needs to be easier for people who express interest to dive in and be able to start contributing, picking up tasks and essentially proving to the community at large that they're the right cultural fit and that they have the sort of right alignment of skill set. That's what I did, right? I came in, I wasn't immediately like, hey everyone, I'm full time and I'm the leader in these network leadership models. Those types of leaders don't succeed. I think for me, in that two to three months, it was about coming in and listening was kind of what I explained first was like sitting there and Coop, I don't even think we've even talked about this, but that first two months I did probably like six to seven phone calls a day of Dow community members. Anyone I saw that was posting that I thought had merit or value or had an interesting take, specifically the people who were critiquing how we were running things. I would reach out quickly, introduce myself and ask to get on a quick discord chat and I was just banging out 1520 minutes calls a day, building sort of repertoire or rapport with this community and understanding and listening.
01:21:50.964 - 01:22:52.716, Speaker A: Hey, what were their biggest frustrations and what were those sort of needs that needed to be met? And so I think that's where any community manager who's looking to break into the Dow space, web3, the first thing is really joining a community, hopping over that hopefully lower barrier to entry and listening and spending time in a Dow and then figuring out where your skill sets can specifically plug in. In terms of the specific, let's say web two to web3 compensation package leap. Just like in web two, there's no clear cut formula to be able to replicate, but I would say a framework I use is now we're onboarding new part time to full time contributors every week. I always say it's not about the first negotiation, it's about the second. Just get your foot in the door and start contributing. Right? I always think of if anyone's ever hired people here, think of how hard it is to prescribe an immediate value set to that individual if you haven't worked with them over an extended period of time and you're kind of like shooting in the dark, which is what I think a lot of web two was. It was like competition of like, you were making X at this big tech company and so I'm going to match this plus 10%, plus X, more equity.
01:22:52.716 - 01:23:37.340, Speaker A: I think that sort of like the inflated, let's say, compensation rates of Silicon Valley is quite dangerous. And at least in web3, I always say, it's not the first negotiation, it's your second. Come in. Get something that makes you feel equal and valued, but then, as you prove value, you then will have, as a contributor significantly more leverage to be able to then ask for something that you feel like you're worth and your value. I'm all for having contributors advocate for their contribution value, but I think it's about it's getting your foot in the door, listening, and then working with the existing team and the community at large. Because everything is taken through proposals, once you've proven the value, it's a lot easier for a community to vote on, like, hey, we think you're worth this, whatever, salary, token, schedule, et cetera. It's amazing.
01:23:37.340 - 01:24:03.616, Speaker A: And thank you for diving deep on that. I think a lot of the times it's conceptually easy to say I work for a Dow, but really painting that color around what that looks like and that ramp up process is very helpful to people. So, Gabby, I want to go over to you here. I think that you're an interesting spot where obviously your Mo is you're an investor. But the one thing that I respect about your work is it's not like you're just coming in and like, hey, where can I put money into this? It's very much like an Iterative process being hands on with these communities. I see you writing a lot about these subjects. I see you kind of in the weeds on the discord.
01:24:03.616 - 01:24:10.490, Speaker A: How do you see your role sort of in the wider Dow landscape? And when you think about joining a Dow, what's the frame of mind that you take as you go into those?
01:24:11.100 - 01:24:44.136, Speaker B: Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. So I guess some background on myself is I've always been really deeply curious about how we interact with technology. So I studied philosophy in computer science in school, thought a lot about how do you grow and scale social computing systems, anything from Wikipedia to Facebook. And I've done a lot of thinking over the past couple of years of what the future might look like in tech, in digital culture, in media, and in community. And particularly over the past year realized I was just naturally gravitating towards crypto solutions. And so it wasn't this moment where I woke up and decided, okay, I want to work in crypto.
01:24:44.136 - 01:25:29.970, Speaker B: But I just ended up finding myself there because I wanted to join the most interesting communities online, and it ended up being a lot of these niche discord servers. I think Zhang is totally right that the path to contribution is a little bit blurry now. And luckily for us, there are already solutions being created to help that. Even how I met Zhang is I wrote a piece about something around social tokens that I thought was flawed. And exactly like you said, he reached out and we got on a call and we talked about it, and we talked about what a better onboarding might look like. I've joked before that there should be like a fraternity rush process for Dows where you kind of get sort of a bird's eye view of what the community stands for and what it's about. And you can see if it might be a fit as opposed to focusing on financial upside by buying your way in or other things like that.
01:25:29.970 - 01:26:22.756, Speaker B: So for me, I've focused on how I like spending my time and where I like to contribute. A good example is I'm a member of Forefront, a media and publishing Dow where you can help to write and edit and distribute pieces of content around crypto media. So that's been a way for me to get involved. And I think for me, kind of what I stand for in this ecosystem is speaking to two audiences, really. So the one audience I speak to is crypto natives, people who spend really like every waking moment of their lives in this world, like you guys, to remind them of how people outside the space operate because I kind of bridge this world, being a traditional investment firm. And then the other audience I speak to is people outside of crypto to show how and why this space is for them too. And so a lot of the work that I focus on is promoting these projects that I care about that have really strong communities and showing people how they can get involved as well.
01:26:22.756 - 01:26:28.420, Speaker B: And so I try to walk the walk and not just kind of pontificate from the sidelines.
01:26:29.880 - 01:26:43.156, Speaker A: Yeah. And how does your personal involvement in the space differ from your professional involvement as an investor? Do you think that there's a difference between how you're interacting with Dows on a day to day as Cabby versus as a professional investor? Or do you think that they're more or less one and the same these days?
01:26:43.338 - 01:26:58.184, Speaker B: It's a really interesting question that I haven't really personally reflected on. To me, it feels pretty similar where as an investor, I'm incentivized for the companies I fund to succeed and I want to get involved.
01:26:58.232 - 01:26:58.396, Speaker A: Right.
01:26:58.418 - 01:27:35.176, Speaker B: And so the best investors have a real significant value add and same with joining a Dow. It's like you're quite incentivized with the platform or community itself. And so Zang was saying, kind of like in Web Two, it's a little bit of a zero sum game. And that's why I think on that compensation note, I would caution against trying to compare a Web Two model of compensation to a Web Three. One, because they really are fundamentally different from the ground up in Web Two communities. As a user, not necessarily as an investor, but as a user, we've seen as communities or platforms grow in Web Two, they become increasingly misaligned with what users actually want. And that's just how it's structured from the ground up.
01:27:35.176 - 01:28:05.460, Speaker B: It's no fault of the users or of the people who run those platforms. But in crypto, when users are aligned with these platforms or communities from the ground up. As they grow, they become larger and more resilient, and the users actually become more incentivized over time to innovate and create new technology. And so it's really exciting. I think it actually blurs the lines between what an investor is and what a user is. I think everyone is an owner now, and that's how it always should have been. And so it's really a new era in how people engage and interact and transact online.
01:28:05.460 - 01:28:20.004, Speaker B: And so it's just exciting to see the blue ocean of opportunity in the space. And a lot of people who have never been accredited investors before and never been in a position like mine, who now get to know the same work that I get to do and add so much incredible value to the space, it's exactly right.
01:28:20.042 - 01:29:32.640, Speaker A: And Zang, the one thing I want to call out from our dinner last night is it's wild to me how fast you are now regarded as someone who's, like, leader in the Dow space. It's been six months. Obviously, you're working for a killer community. Could you just talk a little about sort of this from your mind? The fact of having been completely new six months ago to now people tagging you with Tweets being like, top mine in the Dow space. How do you think you came into that position and what's kind of the key takeaway there for other people that are looking to get involved? I think to my earlier point regarding crypto as not being an industry, but as being this underlying infrastructure, I think is an incredibly specific thing to, I think, pay attention to and listen to, right? By saying that, I mean crypto fundamentally, or blockchain or Dow, if we extract all those into the first principles of what all this means, right, like distribution, decentralization community ownership, these frameworks, I think, can be applied to literally every single industry. And so if you think of it in that Venn diagram, it's like, what are you bringing from? If this circle is blockchain technology, whatever the biggest bucket. And this circle is like the specific web two lens that you've been operating in and you have a specific skill set in.
01:29:32.640 - 01:30:23.192, Speaker A: If it's community building, if it's art, if it's music, if it's fashion whatever it is, your skill set will be sort of in that overlap area of the Ven diagram. That if you can just carve out and dedicate. Content thinking creation production into that overlap, I think you'll quickly find yourself owning that category and aligning with other people who also are focused in that category. And so for me, I guess speaking to my journey friends of Benefits was just the perfect entry point for me. Or the gateway point. Because even though I'm super new to crypto, I'm very well versed in understanding community building at scale and how humans come together and organize toward shared goals and the infrastructure and design that it. Takes to get there and to align those incentives.
01:30:23.192 - 01:31:14.720, Speaker A: Crypto just unveiled a whole new set of tools that I didn't even know existed. And so it was just like once that clicked for me, it was like, oh, I shouldn't be speaking to more crypto people about why I should be speaking more to people from that world on why crypto is relevant. And then that immediately sort of positions myself in a way of just having a unique I think, insider perspective. By no means is like an explicit leader just having a specific vantage point. So I think, yeah, to other people who are looking to break in or already in, but trying to figure out where do I play or what space I exist within, I think it's about what does that overlap look like in terms of a previous framework or context that you just have a unique skill set in, right. The more niche the better, in my opinion. If you are like an incredible coffee connoisseur, find a way to tell that story and how that overlaps with Blockchain and figure out something that actually meets the needs of a set of community members.
01:31:14.720 - 01:31:32.340, Speaker A: So I think that understanding that overlap and then going very specific on community building and design and then obviously just timing of it with the market now Dows are like everyone's talking about. Dows was sort of like, for me, like the little recipe or cocktail of finding my footing within this industry.
01:31:32.680 - 01:32:19.670, Speaker B: If I could ask a question to you guys from this vantage point of kind of one being thought leaders in this space, but also running this community that you hold really near and dear and the community is so important of the people who are a part of it. A second order effect of you guys bringing so many people into this ecosystem and getting them excited about the space is there are probably a good number of people who are being highly speculative and just viewing FWB as a financial asset that they want to be a part of. And so how do you kind of filter through growing the value of that community from a financial perspective but also making sure that you're attracting the right people and getting them in the door and then also not missing the people who might not have the financial buy in but want to be a part of it?
01:32:20.760 - 01:32:53.096, Speaker A: Take that one first and Zang, love some commentary. It might be a counterintuitive answer, but I think the way you grow the financial value of the community is by not focusing on the financial value of the community. When I'm onboarding someone into FWB, I never talk about the token price. I never talk about the valuation or the cost or whatever it might be. Really focus on the people. I think the more that you can really shift the frame of mind away from like, hey, this is a token that has a financial value to hey, this is a community of amazing people and you can work with them on a day to day basis. I think the easier that becomes more specifically, I think trying to point people into areas where they can contribute meaningfully is really effective.
01:32:53.096 - 01:33:46.530, Speaker A: So it's not really beneficial for me to kick someone tokens and then just drop them in a general chat and be like good luck, here's what you can do. If I'm on someone to the community, I really want to sit with them and say, hey, here are three or four different pockets of this community that you can start adding value to. That's not to say that you need to hop in and start doing it today, but have this on your radar, pay attention here. And my ambition is, if I'm helping someone get into this community, it's high conviction that they can actually add meaningful value in some way, shape or form. So I think it starts out like Zhang was saying, just familiarizing yourself with the community, putting GM in the discord chat, popping in, giving an intro something very basic, but beyond that, really showing them that if they put in the time and effort to work for this community, they can earn tokens which have that financial value. Once someone earns those tokens, I think that they're able to participate in the upside of this community, but they have a very different frame of mind. And as the community starts to do well, you notice that those are the biggest cheerleaders for its success, because they're the ones who actually helped create that value in the first.
01:33:46.530 - 01:34:44.944, Speaker A: Those are I think that's all really solid framing, Coop. And I think the only thing I would add would be for me, one of the most helpful framing around thinking about token price when building and operating a Dow was something that fully allocated. And Tina shared in a conversation, which was that token price is essentially dictated by the right people who are value aligned, holding your token over a long period of time. And once it was simplified, that clearly to me, I was like, oh, this is fascinating. It's just about really making sure that the right people hold your token through ideally earning, because then that signals that they're value aligned or they're down to put in the work and that they view it significantly more as an equity versus a currency, right? An equity being something you hold that crews value over a long period of time. And then to ensure that the vision, values and purpose of your organization is crystal clear, so that the holder can verify why they're holding checked against that vision. And if they're still in alignment with that, then they hold.
01:34:44.944 - 01:36:22.690, Speaker A: If they're not, if that trust is broken, then they sell, right? It's quite simple. And so, once I started viewing it like that, it was about ensuring that all of the contributors, you onboard, all the people you choose to work with, all the desired members that apply are as close to an overlap of the organization's vision and values and that individual's vision and values. And that was why at FWB we put in place a membership committee which was essentially our actual set of community members who elected into being the first filter review. So everyone who joins FWB has to apply in not explicitly based on their professional qualifications, but essentially what are your values and what are you looking to get out of the space, what are you looking to contribute to the space, how do you want to participate? And that community of community members self selects the future community members in a way that we designed as almost like a self reinforcing mechanism to ensure that everyone who joined put in a little bit of skin in the game, right? They filled out an application, they bought the tokens so that they're much less likely to drop in and be like oh, this isn't really my space, sell and leave, right? So I think that function first off, of ensuring that there's value alignment between the token holder and the community member and there will always be speculation that sits in and around that. But I think if you can focus on that core and build over a long term horizon, eventually I think the tokenomics will favor the people who held over a long period of time. And then I think to Cooper's second point and Gabby, you're framing around contribution and earning. That to me is like the biggest unsolved area and I think how you address the social token paradox that you've so succinctly and beautifully written about, which is this like the social token narrative still hasn't really figured out.
01:36:22.690 - 01:37:26.996, Speaker A: If everyone's working together, token price goes up and then that blocks out future contributors and then eventually that hurdle to join becomes higher and higher. And I think what needs to be solved is how do we create stronger, scalable and repeatable contribute to earn functions so that people can participate in these dows through earning, which is essentially the strongest form of skin in the game and the strongest signal of value and vision alignment. And I don't have an explicit answer for that yet, but I think that's something where right now it's done in a very non scalable way. It's very much like the right people who create the right content or products or design experiences like us reaching out and then bringing them in in a very manual basis. I think the evolution of like zero to one or one to ten specifically will be when we can create clear, explicit and repeatable functions. Sort of like playing to earn functions and things like YGG where it's a lot more easy for someone to quickly on ramp contribute sets of tasks to accrue tokens to then participate in that tokenized community. I love that.
01:37:26.996 - 01:38:00.476, Speaker A: I want to address a quick comment here in the chat that I think is really poignant here. Almost every Dow that I've seen uses some kind of token based governance and I think that's fundamental weakness that introduces aspects of a capital based economy when Dows are better built around a reputation style economy. Gabby, I think one thing that you and I are really heavily aligned on is this idea of know, I really love the post that you put out about the importance of curation its role in the ecosystem and specifically related to reputation. I think that there's a lot of takeaways here. Would you mind spending a minute or two talking about the thesis of that post, maybe how it ties into Dows and then more specifically this contribution and contribution to earn framework?
01:38:00.668 - 01:38:33.852, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I'll actually start by talking about the post I wrote about social tokens, which Zhang kind of touched on quickly, the social token paradox. And this was actually a solution that I thought about. And of course we're so early. I always say that 99% of Dows don't even exist yet and so a lot of these solutions we just haven't built yet. And so it's great to be talking about these things and starting the conversation so that we can encourage that kind of innovation. But generally the thesis of the piece is today decentralized communities are primarily valued proportionally to their token price.
01:38:33.852 - 01:39:29.036, Speaker B: So when the value of the token goes up, so does the value of the community. And when the token price is higher, the community naturally becomes more desirable to join. The problem here is with that mental model, these tokenized communities are incentivized to uphold, exclusivity and kind of as the comment suggests, I think that's a fundamental weakness. So if you work backwards from here, if you want your community to be valuable, you need your community's token to go up in price, which makes sense based on the original model that we laid out. But to make the token go up in price, you can either increase the price of the token or you can decrease the number of tokens available to prospective members. And either way, that restricts access to the community. When we think about crypto as an ecosystem generally, if we create a world of more exclusive groups and communities based on more exclusive assets, is that the solution that we really wanted to build for? And I don't think so.
01:39:29.036 - 01:40:07.000, Speaker B: And so I definitely agree with the comment in the chat that that is a weakness. And so for me, one of the suggestions that I brought up in that post was we really should be baking in on chain reputation and on chain data of what you do, particularly what you do in these communities. And so of course we're so early in it and so it'll be interesting to see how that actually gets baked in. But I absolutely agree that a reputation style economy makes a lot more sense from a curation standpoint. I'm curious what you mean by that. Cooper if you know curation within the community or on the outside of choosing which community to join?
01:40:08.220 - 01:40:36.864, Speaker A: I think it's both. I think that it's such a wide spectrum. I just love this idea of being able to signal towards value and earning from that signaling and then specifically related to reputation, as you're seen as more of a curator in this economy. I think that those earning opportunities become easier and easier. And so really, just pulling out that contributing to a community doesn't have to be technical. It doesn't have to be like deep work on doing something for writing every day or something like that. There is this sort of hazy middle ground that I think we're still figuring out where there's curation incentives baked into the space more broadly.
01:40:36.864 - 01:40:43.670, Speaker A: I'm really just curious to get your thoughts on how that manifests basically, or for DAOs specifically, how do you see people starting to curate dows moving?
01:40:44.040 - 01:41:14.160, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, it's fascinating to see that there is a dow for basically pretty much everything right now. We've got Flamingo Dow for NFTs FWB as a social community, forefront for media and publishing party. Dao builds software, Gitcoin funds the open web. We've got all of these different spectrums and it's really across all industries. We have these communities that are working to kind of push forward this next frontier. And so whatever your skills or interests are, you can curate what that experience yourself looks like.
01:41:14.160 - 01:41:57.416, Speaker B: And I totally agree with you. If you're not a developer, maybe focus on writing, or if you don't know how to write, then maybe build this software to push forward these projects and then being able to really authentically vouch for the communities that you are a part of. And curating kind of what communities you care about is the best way to bring other people into the fold from this really authentic perspective. There's a really cool analogy that my partner Jared at TCG is written about and so I wanted to make sure I got it in at some point because I think this is a really good point of curation and focusing on authentically what matters to you. Jared wrote this piece where he basically said, a lot of digital communities today are like the McMansions of the Internet with a lot of communities today. They're absolutely amazing. Communities have really worked together to create real substance.
01:41:57.416 - 01:42:56.796, Speaker B: And this comes through curation and being very discerning about the communities that you do want to be a part of and spend your time in because there is a fixed amount of time that we have in a day and communities that you can really contribute to. The analogy that he gives is, back in the 80s, developers would go out to, like, a random suburb in jersey or something like that and build a complex or build 50 homes, and they would look really nice, and they would be really attractive to new buyers. But those homes would lack a local newspaper or a bar or a downtown or any semblance of community or culture actually within that physical area. And so once the aura of that newness goes away, people kind of shrug and they're like, okay, what now? And in some cases, people stay because it's a home, like it has four walls and a roof, but in a lot of times those communities become abandoned. And so it's on the organizers of the communities to create really easy ways for people to contribute, but it's also on the user to figure out, what do you want out of this? Right. The same way, in NFTs it's? Like, don't buy things for the price going up. Buy what you actually love.
01:42:56.796 - 01:43:01.910, Speaker B: Same thing with dows, don't join for the price of the token going up, but you join the communities that you love.
01:43:02.760 - 01:43:36.204, Speaker A: I love that. And I think the reason why I'm excited about both you guys being on this panel is you're so uniquely suited at this intersection of culture and crypto. I think that specifically that tie in is super, super special to me. And so Zang, I know you had a comment there, so I want to let you get that in first. But the question I have for you is when you think about working for a Dao, I think a big piece of that is curating the culture of that community, making sure that the vibe is right, that people are satisfied and that they feel like they are aligned and how the community is growing. Would love just like any comments you have around curating the culture for a community like FWB. Yeah, I'll happy to share that.
01:43:36.204 - 01:44:46.720, Speaker A: I think just to jump into something Gabby was writing earlier, I think about the exclusivity in a lot of these different spaces and how, yes, there's obviously things that detract from it and ways that we need to create more open sort of permissionless access. But I think at least in this early stage, we actually have a problem where I think too many people are contributing to too many different dows without focusing on one specific thing, where they can drive a lot of value. I think the exclusivity reinforces that the focus, which I think is really important to innovate and push things forward. And the best analogy in which I think about a lot of these dows is really like Internet cities in that with the social token paradox and its relationship to token in price, you can take a parallel like New York City where there's a high cost of living affiliated with New York City, right. It's different than other cities because of the cultural capital or because of the culture that it attracts. Restaurants, museums, the different variables that lead to someone saying, I'm willing to spend more money to exist in this space. I think there needs to be stronger and more sophisticated diversification of access points is I think how we really solve this long term is not this FWB is you hold 75 tokens and then you get into the Discord.
01:44:46.720 - 01:45:31.170, Speaker A: That very linear framing will evolve. And we're pushing to evolve that where eventually there'll be dozens and dozens of different tiers where you can hold 0.1 FWB to access this specific part of the neighborhood. And if you want, you can spend more money if you want to live specifically in Manhattan, specifically in the Upper East Side, because maybe that's what aligns with your specific current financial or social situation. Right. So I think of a lot of these Dows needing to frame things with urban planning perspectives and sort of city critical theory around what are access points, how do we allow people to how do we allow tourists to navigate through the city versus the people who want to specifically live in them? So I think that was just one framing that the Dowsing sort of pushed you to to really incorporate into how they designed their tokenomics. That was helpful for me in thinking about friends with benefits.
01:45:31.170 - 01:46:42.184, Speaker A: Cooper I guess your next question around how do you create culture within Dows? Is it specifically what are maybe tools or insights that other community builders can use in setting their culture, or you want to refine that, maybe? Yeah, I think it's two sided. I think it's one like, what are the practical implementations of that in Discord and the tooling that supports that? And then more broadly, how do you listen to a community? What does that look like and what's the way in which that's actually enacted? Yeah, so I think if I were to break them in, like, step by steps, I think the strength of a community is the strength of the one on one connections that members within those communities create. So as you as a community builder, I think it's about doing the one on ones. Right? Like if people are writing interesting things, if people are critiquing interesting things, establish one on one human to human relationships to really create that network where, at least in the beginning, you're centralizing a lot of that different data. And input from different community members. Once you feel like you've got a strong enough of sort of a vision or an understanding of where the pulse of a specific community is shifting from one to one to sort of one to many or many to many. Right.
01:46:42.184 - 01:47:49.196, Speaker A: Starting to create and bring those one to one relationships into town hall formats, group conversations, audio, using the tooling of Discord, using the tools of clubhouse to get people together, start having those one on one people meeting each other right. And allowing people to hop on stage to sort of share their vision and their perspective, that's that really exciting Delta point when you start to see the community begin to take on a life of its own. And then I believe it's then harnessing and starting to document those natural feelings and perspectives that those communities are taking on. And so then once you feel like that pendulum starts to swing between founder leader with a vision into actually a community starting to have their own interpretation of what does FWB mean to them or what does insert Dow mean to you, then? It's about someone who's really good at sort of the vision, purpose work to start, to distill some of those thoughts into writing. So we use tools like Figjam Mural, where we allow community members, we start doing brainstorm sessions where community members can start to submit. Here's what FWB means to me from a vision perspective. We start to ask provocative questions.
01:47:49.196 - 01:48:47.004, Speaker A: If FWB were a city, what would it look like? What would it feel like, what would your friends look like in this space? Things that allow for community members to start to really input and break down what their relationship to that space is. And then it's sort of distilling that and codifying that into sort of an explicit vision values code of conduct that you then use to govern your community internet city with elected governance. And so I think for folks who are wherever stage are in in that process, it's about listening to specific members within those spaces and then shifting from one to one into group conversations with, ideally, people who've done this. Work before to start to get all this in writing so that language can be used to then scale and enforce those cultural norms that a community sets for themselves. I think the most interesting part of that answer is you didn't mention one on chain action that's being taken. And I think that's really important here because when we think of dows, we inherently think that this is a Web Three world. There's a lot of cool crypto stuff going on.
01:48:47.004 - 01:49:22.856, Speaker A: There's governance, there's all these token distributions and whatnot. But I've come to notice, and what I think you highlighted well there, is that a lot of the success of these dows is based on social skills and human coordination. And so when you think about the tools that are being used to do that, you don't need an on chain transaction to tell whether or not someone's happy in a community. You just need to spend time with them. I think that's why this whole maturity scale of what I'm noticing is that the dows that are doing the best today are really hiring on the human side. They're putting people into leadership positions of vibe, checking the community, doing things like curation, doing things like membership onboarding. I think that's a strong signal that maybe it's more specific to FWB because of its makeup.
01:49:22.856 - 01:49:52.260, Speaker A: But I think more broadly across the board, the successor community is going to be directly related to those who are helping people feel comfortable within it. And so looking to hire out for the human side of things is actually really effective. I want to answer a question that's in the chat here that Karthik Do really quick. Is there an argument that being part of DAOs is a zero sum choice? I'll take this first, and if anyone has comments, I'd love to hear them. I would say that right now we're in a very positive sum landscape of Dows. I think that people are very happy contributing to many Dows. They're very happy and open sharing information with one another.
01:49:52.260 - 01:50:20.476, Speaker A: I'm personally in a bunch of Dows. I know that both of you two are also in multiple Dows. I do think we're in a bit of a utopia state right now where this is going to be the case for, let's call it the next couple of years. But at some point, it'll start to get a little bit more competitive. And so while we're in this day, I think it's important to recognize that there is value in contributing to many Dows. But to Zhang's Point, you will earn and create the most value by doubling down on one specific Dow. And so what that looks like is getting token allocations in these communities, really finding a high social role in that community.
01:50:20.476 - 01:50:49.050, Speaker A: So beyond being a contributor, being seen as a leader and someone of influence, I think the compounding effects that come from being seen as leader in a specific Dow is greater than contributing to all of them. And so for people who are looking to get a jump in Dows, I think it makes sense to join a bunch of them at first, as we talked about earlier, get a cultural fit for it. But more specifically, once you find that one that's really important to you, really do everything in your power to have a meaningful role, stake and reputation in that community, because that's how you're going to learn the most and be able to do the most meaningful work.
01:50:49.740 - 01:51:16.908, Speaker B: Yeah, I absolutely agree. And there's problems with Dows today. They're not perfect. And I think the reason that it's still such a positive environment is because it's so early and so it's so exciting to be in the space. But something we touched on earlier is saying kind of use the word tourist in jumping among Dows. And I personally think that's going to change in the future. Once kind of this heyday settles down, I think there's going to be a more difficult entry point into different communities, but there's also going to be a more different exit point the same way.
01:51:16.908 - 01:51:49.880, Speaker B: If you live in a house, if you're going to move, it requires some amount of thinking and you can't just click from one to the next. And So I think it's going to be more kind of productized to really double down on these communities. And So, like you said, Cooper, it's a great time now to get involved and see what's in the space. And it's so early that it's so awesome to know what's happening and what people are working on and devoting their lives to. But as it settles down it's going to be so important to focus on what you truly care about because I think even it's going to be baked into the structure that people are focused on. A fixed number of Dows or communities.
01:51:51.260 - 01:52:51.000, Speaker A: Also think to add to the zero sum versus positive sum framing. The biggest innovation I see with Dows is actually in the corporate structure. And I use that loose term because it's obviously not corporate structure but the way that Dows can actually play together as parallel economies as opposed to in traditional startup landscape know different startups. Like what Gabby mentioned about the misalignment between user and corporate governance. In the Dao framing you have new sort of mechanics to be able to do token swaps between Dows, right? You have the ability to sort of merge Dows or have Dows play with each other on sort of seasonal basis. That with the right financial alignment which to me is like the biggest innovation of Dows from let's say web two corporate structures. Web three corporate structures is the idea that dows can actually begin to partner together, do token swaps and have community members where there does feel like a value alignment actually work together? Where both dows now want to see both organizations succeed and watch their treasury value go up into the right if the right sort of collaboration is institutionalized.
01:52:51.000 - 01:53:24.360, Speaker A: So that to me is what excites me most about how yes, we're in sort of a bit of a utopian landscape but I think at least the potential for stronger positive sum scenarios not between every single Dow obviously, but between specific Dows that are value aligned within the space to actually collaborate and work together. Guys, I want to be cautious that we're coming right up on time here. Sort of in closing thoughts here, I want to leave you with a request from the community. We're at a hackathon right now. We're talking to a bunch of amazing builder and operators. What are some things that you wish you could see from the Dow tooling side of things that would make your life easier?
01:53:27.180 - 01:53:55.830, Speaker B: I just touched on this so I can hop in but better onboarding. If there's a structured way of getting involved in a Dao and learning about it before you join and buy in as a user, that would be helpful for me. But I think it's really needed in the space. And then there's a company I'm talking to that I think is really interesting that's building kind of like a version of Google Docs but encrypted where you can sign in with your wallet and I think there's a really interesting application for DAOs there of being able to kind of collaborate privately within the community.
01:53:56.600 - 01:55:02.630, Speaker A: Yeah, similar to I think one better sort of let's say web Three Dow based project management software so that. Allowing for community members and leaders within Dows to coordinate better. Right now, the tool stack is very, I call, like, bubblegum and Scotch tape, where it's like, very piecemeal together but having different infrastructure for how essentially the distributed and agile nature of Web Three, allowing for them to collaborate in sort of quicker fashion. And then I think voting can be significantly improved. Right? I think what Gnosis Guild and Gnosis Safe spun up with Zodiac, their new form of voting software, I think, creating way more sophisticated forms to have communities decide and make decisions beyond just one token, one vote or one. Person, one vote or even quadratic voting, which is super complicated for a lot of users and making it easier to make decisions like integrating into discord for quicker auth voting mechanisms. But really encouraging community members to vote to get more involved is, I think, a huge area for innovation as well.
01:55:02.630 - 01:55:30.956, Speaker A: Yeah, double click on both those answers. I think for me, the answer is simple. Make it easier to join DAOs. I think across the board, once you're in a Dow and you're really comfy, it's very nice. But that first leap of getting into that Dow is still very difficult. So small things like onboarding to your discord channel, being able to sync up your wallet, being able to know that you actually hold assets that have the ability to join DAOs, seeing across dows like what's going on and setting up with things. I think right now we're in a very ad hoc nature where all of these DAOs are building custom products to be able to support communication across their communities.
01:55:30.956 - 01:55:41.110, Speaker A: And so anything that can be done to make it easier to join and stay up to date with what's happening, I think would be really positive. Guys, I want to be conscious. We're right at time here. Where can people stay up with you on the Internet? Gabby, you're first.
01:55:41.480 - 01:55:51.480, Speaker B: I love Twitter. I'm at Gabby Goldberg and I write about digital communities and digital culture at Gabby mirror XYZ.
01:55:53.260 - 01:56:06.636, Speaker A: Twitter as well. Alex Zhang with two X's and two Z's. Amazing. And I am Kupa Troopa. Come and find me on Twitter. Come hang out. Discord kupa Trooper number 9799 for the Instagram people of the world here in La.
01:56:06.636 - 01:56:17.744, Speaker A: We've been running it up. So Koopa troop on Instagram too. Let's keep it going. Kartik thank you so much for having us, man. Cooper gabby, Alex, thank you so much. And it was an amazing discussion. We'll post those links on the chat, too.
01:56:17.744 - 01:56:26.836, Speaker A: And yeah, this is great. It'll be great to have you again. Absolutely. You got to kill your panel up next. Thanks for organizing. See everybody. Yeah.
01:56:26.836 - 01:57:14.390, Speaker A: All right. With that, we are ready for our next talk. So next up, we have an amazing panel. We're going to talk about Coma Rebbe Fund and how everything that they're doing is set up from anywhere from logistics to the visions and the goals and just the overall history of starting the fund. So with us we have three amazing panelists. We have Monty, Kenjo and Meta who are going to be talking about how they got everything started and without further ado, we'll welcome them on stage and I think we're having a slight technical difficulty with one panelist so we'll be able to loop them in and put them live in about a few seconds. But in the meantime, I'll welcome all of you.
01:57:15.720 - 01:57:23.510, Speaker B: Thanks Cardha, thanks so much for having us. Monsu's just joining. Her laptop just died so she's joining from her phone.
01:57:24.920 - 01:58:22.330, Speaker A: Oh good. I think we can kind of preface this by just saying today is all about Dows and governance and we've kind of covered a handful of things around how Dows are set up from a legal standpoint to the aspirational standpoint of cool things that they can do to bring on people together. And I think you are in a pretty good intersection of doing interesting things that tie both the real world and the crypto world together. Primarily funding people, reaching out to an audience that either is underlooked or just doesn't get always like the right channels to kind of go in to be successful. And on top of that there's a whole set of world around tooling and logistics and how do you manage something at scale the way everything is set up. So there's like 50 different topics here and I think maybe the best thing to do would be just to start off by telling everybody what the fund is and how you got started and in the meantime we hope that Monty is able to join. That's how we get.
01:58:24.380 - 01:59:04.424, Speaker B: That sounds, that sounds great. I can kick things off. So thanks for having us today. We're really excited. My name is Kendall, I'm an investor in the broader blockchain ecosystem at Blockchain Capital. And earlier this year I kind of had this just revelation that I wasn't meeting as many female founders as I wanted to and wasn't investing as much into that cohort of founders and so I started hosting office hours and so every month I chat with anywhere between five and ten women. I actually just crossed 50 sessions this month and it's been honestly one of the most rewarding things that I did this year.
01:59:04.424 - 01:59:34.768, Speaker B: And so I was super excited to start connecting with more women, and then an opportunity came along where I got connected to meta and Monsie about actually going the next step and starting to invest in women. And so that's really how we got connected and started to think through the formation of comorbi, and we'll talk a little bit more about that. But that's my sort of beginning information. Cool. And Yay. I'm glad Monty could join. We're just going over introductions right now.
01:59:34.768 - 02:00:35.532, Speaker B: So I'm Meta, I spent most of my time in the blockchain space as a developer working on the cello ecosystem. But when I first joined the space around 2016, 2017, I think it was very apparent then that there just weren't enough women or underrepresented minorities in general in the space at the time. So very similarly to Kindle, I wanted to do something about it. So me and my friends back in college, alexis Galba and Sarah Reynolds, we decided to make she 256, which is a 501 nonprofit that's dedicated to increasing diversity in the blockchain space. So we do this through a variety of different ways, mostly around mentorship, community building and educational content. And so this did a lot of stuff around increasing the top of the funnel and increasing exposure to the crypto space and bringing in a lot more women and underrepresented minorities. But it didn't really necessarily tackle issues with women that were already in the space.
02:00:35.532 - 02:01:58.530, Speaker B: And so that's something I was really passionate about, especially as I spent more and more time in the space and I met really cool women who were doing cool things, but constantly cited things like finding it hard to get funding, finding it hard to hire and recruit other women, and things like that. And so it had been in the books for a really long time for she 256 to explore something like a venture fund to invest in female and non binary founders. But we kind of just always put it on the back burner and didn't think too much about it. But then I think in the past year, especially with DAOs and stuff exploding, I think we just realized that this could be a really cool method to just jumpstart this whole initiative. And we got connected to Kinjal and Monsie, who had really similar views by Ian who runs Syndicate, and we just realized that we all care about the same things and it just made sense. And so this kind of just started from one call a couple months ago, maybe at the beginning of last year, and spiraled into this whole thing. And we ended up raising money and creating this entire collective where we're able to pull in kind of like crowdsource, not just funding, but also the resources that all of our Dow members bring into the table and kind of created a venture Dow, which we can kind of go into the structure a little bit more later.
02:01:58.530 - 02:03:09.872, Speaker B: I think I missed the initial part, but we are doing intros, correct? Yeah, just introductions and kind of how you came to this. Yeah, I'm having terrible luck with laptops today, but I'm here and glad to be here. Thank you for having us at Ethanline. My background mostly in the traditional finance space, having worked on Wall Street large banks, and as I was transitioning into the crypto space very similar experiences like what Mehta mentioned, I realized quickly that we were repeating a lot. Of the mistakes and biases that the traditional finance space has in terms of just lack of diversity, lack of opinions from different people and realized there was a need for an organization where women can come together, learn about the space, just feel empowered to contribute to the crypto space. So I mission at Women in Blockchain, which I founded around 2016, is pretty similar to what Sheet of 56 is doing. And that's why we have a lot of alignment.
02:03:09.872 - 02:04:08.296, Speaker B: But we really want to empower more minorities to join the space and contribute in meaningful ways. And again, we do that through educational initiatives. One of the things that we've worked with Sheet of 56 in the past is a bigness guide to Blockchain, which you should check it out if you're new to the space. But today we'll be talking more about Coma Rabi. I won't repeat most of the things that I think really we wanted to make an impact not just in the founding landscape, in the crypto space by funding female founded companies, but also the funding landscape. How can we get together really smart, talented, passionate women and enable them and empower them to become investors in their own right? So that's where our mission is at Comrade, we will be talking a lot more about that. But mehta, I think it wasn't last year we, I think, started talking about it just like maybe a month or two before we launched it.
02:04:08.296 - 02:04:49.300, Speaker B: So that just talks how crazy and how quick the setup for a Dow can be compared to a traditional VC firm where the setup process, the costs are prohibitive. And we went about doing this, I think, in less than a couple of weeks. The fundraise was maybe less than a week. It's insane how much Dows are enabling these days. I'll pause there. Yeah, I think that's maybe a good segue just to talk about the differences between doing a venture fund versus a Dow. I think the cost is a big component, but I think bigger conversation is really around governance and user contribution.
02:04:49.300 - 02:05:57.084, Speaker B: Traditional funds are structured in a way where the folks giving capital, typically limited partners are kind of handing over the rights for investment. They're saying, here's some capital and I trust you, my GP, my general partner, to go and invest that capital into a given mandate. Whereas in a Dow it's much more structured. Like, not only are you giving your capital, but you're also given a sort of seat at the table when it comes to investment decisions, when it comes to the governance of the overall organization. It's just, I think, a slightly more involved path where it's much more oriented, I think, around collective investing rather than delegated investing. And so that's to me, that's the main difference, is that a lot of the not a lot of every single person who is a part of Comarabi feels really excited about our vision and about this mission and wants to contribute to that in more ways than just capital and also play an active role within the community. So that's kind of, I think, the clear differentiation from my perspective, in addition to cost as well and just being able to set this up super quickly.
02:05:57.084 - 02:06:57.036, Speaker B: What do you guys think? Yeah, definitely agree on all of those funds. I think one additional advantage of a dao structure is just being able to leverage the collective intelligence. We have some really talented folks on our dow. I don't think in a traditional VC setup we would be able to kind of dip into this pool of founders, investors, builders in the space. I think that's beneficial from an investment decision making perspective, but also from a portfolio support and just the kind of support that we can provide to portfolios. They're not getting a single partner at a VC firm on the cap table. They're getting these, in our case, 36 members that they can really leverage in terms of help from fundraising to tokenomics to building to deploying to user experience.
02:06:57.036 - 02:08:08.994, Speaker B: And I think that's really powerful with the dow. Another thing that I've been noodling on recently is this concept of principal agent problem where Kinsel tell me if I'm incorrect here, but in a traditional VC setting, there is a principal agent problem where you are managing someone else's money. And we've seen things go wrong in various ways where there isn't really as much alignment as we see in terms of skin in the game, in terms of a Dow where you are really managing your own money and there is a lot more transparency in terms of decision making which reduces kind of the areas where people can manipulate the system. And then final component, I would say, is accessibility is really key. Traditionally, VC returns have been enjoyed by a certain section of society and really hasn't been accessible to this broad swath of individuals. And I think that's really changing now with investment dows. Yeah, no, I think I agree with everything you guys said.
02:08:08.994 - 02:08:59.186, Speaker B: I think the community aspect of running a Dow is really fascinating. And that's something that we're still trying to understand how to completely tap into because it's just so powerful. We've invested in about two companies so far, and the things that we can offer our portfolio I think grows exponentially with how big our Dow is. And I think those individual connections are super exciting, especially because everyone in our dow, if you look through the list I just posted, is in very different fields. We have a really cool group of investors, of crypto, native operators, of founders, and they're all in different niches. And so they can really give advice to a lot of our founders that I think isn't as possible when you're just getting invested from a venture fund. So that part of it is really cool.
02:08:59.186 - 02:09:43.086, Speaker B: Also, before we move to the next topic, I just wanted to say feel free to ask questions in the chat. We'd love for this to be super engaging and a conversation. So if you have any burning questions about Comorbis or dows in general or about us, please ask them here. Yeah, absolutely. Maybe this is like a good point for us to talk a little bit more about how we set Komaribi up and certain challenges we might have on the dow side or areas that we think have been gone smoother. Yeah, maybe just thinking through some of the practical logistics and formation of it. Do you want to start? Go for it.
02:09:43.086 - 02:10:16.522, Speaker B: Yeah. I was going to say one of the things I found most interesting was that tech wasn't the biggest issue. So going into it, I thought in running a dow, the tech would be the biggest inhibitor. Like we need to set up a dow and then figure out how to do token disbursements and do we want a token for the dow and things like that. But I realized, which made me really happy as a developer, that the tech has at least gone to the point where we can abstract away a lot of the crypto. And that is not the hardest part at all. You can create a multi SIG safe really fast.
02:10:16.522 - 02:11:07.530, Speaker B: We use Gnosis, there's so many other options as well. And basically have everyone set up with a crypto wallet so that they can be a signer. And in the most bare bones sense, that is a dow. But I think what I didn't expect was the human coordination aspect of it to be so hard. So everything from rallying votes to communication. So just basic organizational and government makeup. So kind of how do we divide up the votes, how do we communicate decisions and make large decisions while still making sure that we've reached quorum? How do we get everyone to be super engaged? And also, how do we enable people to, I guess, enable their passions, but also in the construct of the bandwidth that they have.
02:11:07.530 - 02:11:54.486, Speaker B: So everyone joins a dow from their free time right now, right? Especially Kumarabi. It's completely volunteer run. And so we want to make sure that people feel empowered to be able to contribute as much as they want and as little as they want while still maintaining some form of a structure. So basically we kind of evolved to have this core and larger member structure. So there's five of us that are core members. So like, three of us on this call as well as Eva and Christy. And so the five of us basically just make sure that operationally we're running, we're talking to founders, the pipeline is set up so that everyone in the Dao has access to all the same information and things like that and do a lot of the communications.
02:11:54.486 - 02:13:02.480, Speaker B: And then the broader dow kind of has the most information possible to make an educated decision once a company comes to vote on whether we want to fund them or not. And that has worked out quite well the past couple of months but I can see this also being iterated on the next couple of months as well. Yeah, I would just say I think there's a question in here about our investment process and how much you invest. I think one of the best ways to leverage the Dow has been helping with deal sourcing. And just like having so many different experts around the table, we've got folks that are at other funds, we have folks that are in DeFi, that are in the NFT space, that are on other chains, ethereum, Solana, whatever it might be. And so it's been really interesting to just have a broader group bring in referrals for deals for companies that you might want to invest in. I think our pipelines since we've launched, we've probably chatted with a few dozen founders and we've probably had like 50 or 60 potential opportunities come in through the pipeline which has been really amazing to see.
02:13:02.480 - 02:14:30.694, Speaker B: And then sort of on the tail end making sure that we have all information available for the broader Dow to help vote and make a decision on and making sure that the core team is kind of liaising in the middle there to help out with Diligence and help out with founder conversations. So I think that broader at the top and at the bottom structure has been really useful. Yeah and just reflecting on what Mehta said in terms of challenges, definitely human coordination but I think that's a challenge across all DAOs. How do you ensure that members are contributing to the Dao? What are their incentives? How do you design for those incentives? And something that we've been talking about internally as well, how do we motivate our members to meaningfully contribute to the Dow? I think given this is a hackathon, that's something I would encourage people to think about is tooling. Since we launched, definitely the tooling in the space has grown in terms of just managing the operations, in terms of managing voting and governance systems and then also engaging the community members. But I think that there's still a lot of room to grow and a lot of opportunities to kind of build in that segment. Yeah in terms of we kind of spoke through our investment process, I think there is a range across Dows.
02:14:30.694 - 02:15:40.672, Speaker B: Our Dow is still relatively small. We are 36 members. There are Dows up there with hundreds and thousands of members and those challenges kind of grow as Dows scale. So that's I think one of the biggest things that we are thinking about in terms of just how do we get members actively contributing on an ongoing basis and I don't believe that everyone will contribute equally and I don't think that's a possibility. We just need to identify who are these core members, how do you incentivize them, how do you kind of motivate them to continue contributing in a meaningful manner? I think maybe we can talk a little bit about some of the investments that we've made so far, or kind of how we're thinking about investing into the future. So we've made two investments. One is Public Apricot Finance, which is founded by Cecilia, who's an amazing founder.
02:15:40.672 - 02:16:28.832, Speaker B: They're a lending protocol built on solana that I think is going to be doing some really innovative work in the lending space. We're really excited about that. And then the other protocol is actually in the Dow tooling space, but we haven't disclosed it yet, so we're not able to publicly sort of share that investment. But I think so far we've been thinking about our check sizes as being kind of like a larger angel size check. So we're writing anywhere from twenty five k to one hundred k check sizes. And then I think as the Dow scales over time, we'll think about how our potential investment amount might scale as well. But the process I think, has been really straightforward just in a sense that everybody has different strengths and different areas of expertise.
02:16:28.832 - 02:17:15.548, Speaker B: And so we're really leveraging everyone around the table to make sure that we can diligence opportunities appropriately and then kind of move forward with an investment. And we're investing both on the token side as well as on the equity side, so there's no real limitations on that front. And we're open internationally as well, so we're really flexible when it comes to geography as well. Anything else I'm missing, guys on the investment side? No, not at all. I was just going to add that I think this is another benefit of our kind of general fund approach. We're able to be super chain agnostic, but still give money in a very crypto native way and I think that's super cool. So all of our investments so far, we're actually in the final stages of our third investment.
02:17:15.548 - 02:18:00.352, Speaker B: They're actually all on different chains, which I think is so cool, and I haven't really seen a lot of venture funds do. And that just goes to show, like, I think there's so many cool women and non binary folks working all across the board on very different niches and we just haven't tapped that market yet. So it's cool seeing all this deal flow come in that spans so many different niches. Looks like we have a question about legal structure. Oh, sorry. Go ahead, Monty. I was just going to go back to the earlier question briefly before we jump into the legal question around how do you think about setting up a Dow? And I kind of think of it as a four step process and let me know if I'm missing something.
02:18:00.352 - 02:18:45.964, Speaker B: The first is just identifying what is the mission of your dow, what's kind of the objective for your Dow. And we've seen arranged dows that do collector dows which are just focused around NFTs investment dows have their own motivation grants focused dows. There's a whole range of dows social DAOs. So first and foremost is just identifying what's that objective and then recruiting a community that's equally passionate, recruiting group of people that really believe in a similar mission that you kind of start out with. The second component is fundraising. Everything needs money. So just being able to bring in these passionate folks, investors who are willing to kind of put money where their mouth is, that's I think the second component.
02:18:45.964 - 02:19:24.604, Speaker B: The third biggest component is governance. And I think that's where the Dow space, I think is still evolving a lot. How do you go about voting? How do you go about decision making, proposal process? And then I think the final component is once you've identified and set all of this up, it's just delivering and staying true to your mission. So I think that's how I think about setting up a Dow. But let me know if I missed anything. Yeah, no, I think that covered it. Yeah.
02:19:24.604 - 02:20:18.624, Speaker B: I was going to go to this legal question. It's funny you mentioned it because when we talked about struggles, I think Kendall Monsie and I all agree that the hardest struggle is probably the legal aspect, I think by far. Yeah, like definitely a lot. Especially because it's just there are such few lawyers in the space who not only understand crypto but understand Dows in particular and can help us with business questions. This whole space is an experiment, but Dows in particular are very new and also because they're organizations and kind of trying to rival things like companies and LLCs and things like that, it's getting harder and harder to kind of get the regulation to a point where it's caught up with the technology. So I think in the next couple of months and years we're going to see a lot of changes in this. So what we say now is probably not even going to make sense a year from now.
02:20:18.624 - 02:21:00.860, Speaker B: But for us at least, we want it to be as protected as possible. And I know a lot of DAOs have taken different approaches to this. Some have kind of incorporated in Europe or Latin America where the regulations are different. Some have not incorporated at all and kind of just function on chain and kind of hope for the best. But we wanted to be as protected as possible, especially because we were investing in companies. So we actually ended up incorporating. We have an LLC that basically encapsulates all of the Dao's work and then everyone who's in the Dao has signed an operating agreement to be someone who works in the LLC or works with the LLC.
02:21:00.860 - 02:22:03.340, Speaker B: And then beyond that, all of our agreements are very standard, like similar to just how a normal venture fund would get token grants or equities. So we've invested, I think, safe so far, but it kind of just depends on the standard that the company is using to raise. But I think what I would say is the hardest part was kind of like the accredited investor piece, making sure that we are not just one entity but every single Dow member falls under this category and things like that. I don't know if you guys have anything to add there. Yeah, and I just want to say that I get the irony of Dows being for everyone and then us having an investment Dow where only accredited investors are members. And I really hope that we get to a point where this is much more of an open standard where investment Dows are much more broadly applicable. But I think it's going to be baby steps in crypto.
02:22:03.340 - 02:23:24.210, Speaker B: There's definitely going to be shades of gray when it comes to the regulatory landscape and just kind of understanding protections. And so in this particular instance, this is definitely an experiment and so we're trying to ensure that everybody around the table has full protection and therefore that's kind of the path that we've chosen. Maybe I guess there's a couple more questions coming in. So there's one question that's asking about common observations as we've taken pitch meetings maybe is there a difference between talking to a pitch for the Dow versus for blockchain capital? I guess the only thing that I'll say, and this is a blanket statement for broader just the industry in general and across many different industries is that there's definitely a confidence gap and women are so qualified for the roles that they're going for and come in. And I think there's just, I think, a little bit of a difference in some of the confidence that I see where somebody who's incredibly qualified might still not be 100% sure if they should take the leap and start the company. And so I love being in that position where I'm like I've talked to hundreds of founders, you can do this. This is absolutely the right you're thinking about this the right way.
02:23:24.210 - 02:24:09.264, Speaker B: So I think that's something that I've noticed in conversations a little bit more on the Dow side, but in general, I would say the process is run very similar. I think the founder conversations are very similar. We're all kind of working towards the same goal of building the future of this space. So I think it's been pretty apples to apples except for that one thing, which I think is a broader observation. Yeah, and just adding to that, I think at least personally I've noticed female founders being a lot more comfortable in pitch meetings with us as they see female vases that they are talking to. And I think that's reflective in the numbers. Right.
02:24:09.264 - 02:25:03.308, Speaker B: I was speaking to not going to name names, but I was speaking to a large investment fund in the crypto space and just talking, sharing notes about deal flow. And like Kinsel mentioned, we've already seen 50 plus companies come through to Copa Ribi and they haven't seen that much deal flow in two years, which we've seen in, I think, less. Than three months. So there's something there where we've set our mission. We've been really intentional in terms of what we want to fund and that has attracted the right people. Yeah, and I really like what you said, monsieur around seeing female faces as the check writers. So when we were looking at the data for all of this, apparently 65% of all venture funds still don't have any female check writers.
02:25:03.308 - 02:25:42.908, Speaker B: So no like female VCs. So not only is there a problem with we need more female founders, but there also aren't enough female VCs. And that's for many different reasons. But I think these two stats are very tied because for example, female VCs are twice as likely to fund another female founder. So I think because all the core team is female, but also our Dow is more than 50% female like on the much higher end. And I think that just makes us way more well positioned to be investing in female and non binary folks. And I think people do feel a lot more comfortable with us.
02:25:42.908 - 02:26:43.440, Speaker B: And I think what's cool is that a lot of the times we're the first check going into a company or the first check in their bigger round. And so I think the onus is really on us to give these founders a good experience and to show them like crypto is for you, you can found in crypto and be successful. And I think that because we're such an early precede fund, we get that cool opportunity to meet these founders and continue to push them along so that they're able to raise a seed round, a Series A, Series B, all of that. Yeah, absolutely. And I guess in terms of finding VC funds that are compatible with your project and vision, I think the way I think about it is finding a venture investor is kind of like dating a little bit. You're probably going to have a lot of conversations and ultimately the partners that you choose are going to be with you for a long time. Right? This is like a long term relationship that you're building.
02:26:43.440 - 02:27:47.110, Speaker B: Oftentimes your investors are with you for five to ten years, if not longer. And so I think it's super important to make sure that you're having as many conversations as possible. I think aligning early on on what's important to you as a founder and what your vision is and how you want to see the company kind of evolve over time or the protocol evolve over time is important. I think a lot of venture funds, they have just so many different perspectives to offer right on the table. There's many different partners or just investors in general. And so I think understanding who your one or two or multiple people are within a fund that you really connect with and that you feel like you have a relationship that you can build over time I think is super important. I'm sure there's more to add here, but curious about what you guys think.
02:27:47.110 - 02:28:41.270, Speaker B: You know, I agree with what Kinjal said. I think one thing that we've actively done, again, is what I mentioned leveraging our current Dow network to identify. I mentioned we have founders, angel investors, VC funds within our Dow community. And so what we try and do is make those connections to founders that we've identified that we want to invest in. And that's how really finding those mission aligned VCs. But we would love to extend that. I think that's a conversation that we are having with Syndicate as to how can different Dows kind of come together, work with each other, leverage each other's networks Dows that have similar mission, especially investment Dows, how can they work together? I think that's what's exciting about the crypto space in general, is that the space evolves so quickly and there's just so much experimentation to be done.
02:28:41.270 - 02:29:32.176, Speaker B: But there was this one question I wanted to get. There was, what do we think about Dows disrupting VCs? I think that gets thrown around a lot. I can quickly chime in as to what I think. I personally don't think that Dows would completely disrupt VCs in the traditional form. I think there is space for how VCs function right now. But I do think that we are at, I think, $8 billion in Dows right now. The space is growing, and there's definitely attention that VCs need to pay towards the investment Dow ecosystem, because I think more and more the deals are going to get snagged, especially in the crypto space by investment DAOs, and there isn't going to be a lot of allocation left for traditional VCs.
02:29:32.176 - 02:30:40.136, Speaker B: So if they really want to get involved in the crypto space, I think that's going to be definitely a competition that they will see. Kinsel. Beta, what do you think about disrupting VCs? I think I'm more on the extreme end. I think VC is going through a fundamental shift right now, and I don't think venture capital, the way it exists now will exist in the next ten to 20 years. And my vision, honestly, is for the way VC works now, especially in crypto, to just not exist. I don't know if it's Dows that are the future or what, but I definitely think moving towards a more decentralized way of funding protocols just makes a lot more sense and there's just a lot more value. And I think you're seeing that already with things like Comaribi, where we have a cool pool of investors who have their own funds, have their own projects, maybe are founders, but are able to pool in their money and their experience to help kind of the next generation of founders.
02:30:40.136 - 02:31:33.630, Speaker B: And I think that honestly, is going to be the future. And similar to what Kendall said, I really hope we get to a point in regulation where the accredited investor stuff is less of an issue and kind of who is able to invest in companies. The barrier for that goes down a lot. So now anyone is able to invest, and I think we're already seeing this in the traditional world. With angel syndicates becoming more and more strong, you're also seeing even just in traditional cap tables, like the angel allocation is going up a lot more and you're seeing multiple lead investors in every round instead of just like one big name for clout. And I think people are realizing that it takes like a village to build a community and a company. And so having one venture fund is maybe not the way to do it, but yeah, those are just my thoughts, I think.
02:31:33.630 - 02:33:03.284, Speaker B: Yeah, I think I tend to fall on the same side of extremes as meta as you're saying. I think just one other point that I think is interesting about Dows in particular, and like the broader crypto ecosystem is that traditionally in tech you could join a company, you'll get equity in that company and your equity exposure is limited to one particular entity. And in crypto you might be able to contribute and be a part of multiple projects, whether that's via Dows or just from an engineering perspective, joining protocol teams, whatever it might be. I think we're starting to see this portfolio emerge where you're not necessarily limited to one company at a time, but you might be able to contribute to multiple projects at any given time. And it's like that's your portfolio of investments, right? It's like you're contributing with your time, your capital, your effort, everything altogether. And so I definitely agree with the idea that angel investing is becoming more and more common. I think the barriers to entry there are getting lower and I think individual angel investors are really proving out what value can be had from having a single entity on your table, on your cap table, like a single person versus the fund value prop.
02:33:03.284 - 02:33:44.724, Speaker B: And so I think we're going to see that perpetuate a little bit more into the crypto space where you're going to have Dows with a very specific offering come onto your cap table and provide that service. I don't know, we're like the design Dow and when we invest in you, we also provide you design services or we invest in XYZ and this is our core focus and this is how we contribute to you. So I'm expecting all sorts of shakeups. I'm really excited about it. I think it's going to be really fun to invest in the next 1015 years of the space and just be a part of this entire ecosystem. Yeah. No, I love that.
02:33:44.724 - 02:34:40.392, Speaker B: And I also think there's something to be said about the human aspect. I just feel like at least in my experience, dows seem to be more approachable, like as a venture fund and they're not as general. I think crypto funds are a little bit different because they're very specific and a lot of them have specific niches. But VC in general, I feel like they're so broad that it's almost hard for you to help even if you want to, in the way that a company needs versus a dow kind of to the original question askers point. They can really reflect your company's vision and your project's vision in a way that is very bespoke to what you're doing versus a kind of one size fits all venture fund just might not be able to they can provide you money, but that's kind of it. And so I think we're going to see more and more of that. Like Kendall, what you're talking about, where maybe you go to a larger investor for purely money, but you're going to these dows specifically for kind of like a give and take.
02:34:40.392 - 02:35:44.156, Speaker B: Like, yeah, you get money and investment, but in return you also get this entire suite of services. Hiring is another one that I've seen is super popular. There's also a marketing dow. There's so many other models that I think we just haven't explored yet. And then going back to the human aspect, I think it's so much cooler to be like, oh, we're talking to these individuals who happen to be a part of this dow but are also just like cool people in their own right and are able to help me run my company in this very specific way. Which I've just noticed those human interactions facilitated much more via dows than a traditional fund. Yeah, and I think there is the recent growth in just terms of diversity, diversity in terms of contributors to the crypto space that we've seen initially it started as this niche cyberpunk moment, really crypto nerds coming together and working on this technology because it was really technology first.
02:35:44.156 - 02:36:15.640, Speaker B: I think we've seen that shift from really technology focused to human focus with NFDS and dows. And I think a lot of the recent growth in terms of just new people, artists, creators coming to the space, we can attribute to just the idea of NFTs, the idea of dows, where right now we are focusing on the human aspect of this technology. So I'm super excited in terms of where we are in the whole crypto ecosystem.
02:36:19.980 - 02:36:50.050, Speaker A: Awesome. This was a really good note to end everything on. I feel like there are a couple other things that are some of these some quicker questions, but I'll actually not ask that. What I'll do is I'll ask this question, which I've been asking everybody here today is not even specific to comarebi, but what are some tooling that you think will be super helpful for you to make your lives easier to manage the fund or anything else that you're part of? As we kind of deal with DAOs, what are some things that come to mind? Or what are some obvious pain points.
02:36:52.360 - 02:37:53.296, Speaker B: I can start? One thing that I think about a lot is the value chain of getting into a Dow and then some of the action items that you need to do. So getting onboarded, talking to members, connecting with members. I think there's a lot of low hanging fruit. This is super simple, but I would love if there was an easy tool where I could see what Dows a person is a part of. You could filter by person and say, oh, they're part of these three Dows. I'm literally talking about a directory here that would be so cool or a really great way for me to share Dow's holdings and be able to look at, okay, what does the treasury look like? I know you can go look at a Gnosis, but I think if there was like a front end that you could track over time and there's different tools, but I think a lot of this is happening very ad hoc. I think there needs to be a little bit more cohesion.
02:37:53.296 - 02:39:00.190, Speaker B: Yeah. So I would just say think about the steps it takes to get involved in a Dow and then what are some of the quickest and easiest wins that I think we need in the space that I think will improve the overall UX? Yeah. And just expanding that directory idea. I think it'll also be cool to not just see which DAOs particular persons involved with, but what their contributions are. It essentially replaces the traditional resume to being able to see what they've done in the past as you are kind of onboarding them to your Dow. So that's one another thing that I mentioned briefly initially is just how do we incentivize Dao members and tooling around that? It'll be really cool if a Dao member is contributing and we can drop an NFT as an appreciation token or contribute through tokens within the Dao ecosystem. So anything that helps incentivize contributions and tooling around that would be exciting to see come out of ETH online.
02:39:00.190 - 02:39:54.760, Speaker B: Yeah, I agree with all of these. I think it would also be cool to this is so simple, but like an off chain voting mechanism, but that's specifically created for Dows because I realize most decisions actually happen way before you even hit the multi SIG people don't want to do on chain voting. It's like too high friction. So either a way to lower the friction there or just make it easier than a Telegram poll to make off chain decisions. Also, just like on the whole Captain Management thing, I know Syndicate is working on this, but basically a way for a venture Dow to see exactly how much of the fund you own, which assets you own, how much of the fund you own. Just like a basic dashboard, but it basically pulls in on chain data using your ETH address or your Gnosis Safe address and things like that would be really helpful.
02:39:56.060 - 02:40:24.728, Speaker A: That's a really obvious good one is I'm kind of drawing some parallels on the fact that we had a similar conversation about a year ago with DeFi where we just like, hey, all this stuff is on chain. Let's put a dashboard and just do basic reporting so we can see what's happening. Now it's at a different scale and a much bigger problem, but now it's a lot more specific. So there's a thousand people working on this hackathon. I'm hopeful that some of them will tackle a lot of these problems. But I want to thank all of you today for this amazing conversation. One last thing for everybody.
02:40:24.728 - 02:40:32.680, Speaker A: How can people get in touch with the fund and you? And what is the best way to ping everybody about the next steps?
02:40:35.100 - 02:40:56.944, Speaker B: Yeah, maybe we can go through each of our individual socials and then I'll figure out our link for Comorbi. But for me, I'm really active on Twitter and Telegram. They're both just my name at Mehta Kotari. No spaces or dots. Yeah, same here. Super active on Twitter. And my handle is underscore Kendall B.
02:40:56.944 - 02:41:08.900, Speaker B: Shaw. Same. We are all living and breathing on crypto. So my handle is Mansi. My first name el and Bora. So you can find me there. You can find me on Telegram.
02:41:08.900 - 02:41:37.660, Speaker B: If you want to get in touch with Comaraby, our handle is at posted. Yeah, I just posted a link to our web page. So there you can it's basically a web page hosted on syndicate because we are a syndicate dow, and you can actually pitch directly there, which will send you to a form where you can insert your slide deck, things about your company, things like that. And you can also figure out more about our thesis and strategy on this page.
02:41:37.810 - 02:41:42.992, Speaker A: Amazing. Yeah, we just shared that with everybody on the live stream. And thank you so much. This was awesome.
02:41:43.046 - 02:41:46.130, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you. Thank you for having us.
02:41:47.060 - 02:42:15.372, Speaker A: All right, with that, we are ready for our next talk. And for this talk, we have three more incredible people joining and they're going to be covering a dao first approach to launching a new protocol. So this is the Gearbox team. They'll be covering all this. I want to welcome Mikhail, Yvonne and Geese to talk about this. And they have a presentation prepared for this. So without further ado, I'll let them turn their cameras on and get started.
02:42:15.372 - 02:42:38.848, Speaker A: So welcome, everybody. Hello. Hi, Kartik. Nice to see you. You too. Thank you for having us. Can we jump in right to it or there is something else you'd like to say first? No, we're all good.
02:42:38.848 - 02:43:23.440, Speaker A: Okay, cool. Well, thanks for welcoming us. It's exciting to be here. And we didn't want to have just one panelist from the team because essentially we're building the primitive and the DeFi protocol. So we felt like everyone who has been mostly contributing to the protocol so far can be can be here to present their part of the vision, what they have been working on. Actually it's an interesting story because EuroBox started at Eat Global early this year at MarketMate hackathon in January, February when Mikhail as the founder kickstarted them and then we met again in February. So after three quarters of work, we're excited to present something we've been working on together with other founders, with auditors and everybody else who has contributed to contracts and UI.
02:43:23.440 - 02:44:03.378, Speaker A: Yeah. So shall we do some brief introductions or just jump right into it anyway? Okay, let's go into it. So before we get into the did you press the share thing? Let's pardon for this. Yes. So there are a lot of interesting things to discuss today. It comes of course to the topic of governance and dows. There are the concept of like friends and family owning all the tokens, the free riders having a big edge, which essentially also comes down to voting powers being unfair, the initial distribution being unfair too.
02:44:03.378 - 02:45:00.674, Speaker A: So what we see as a solution to that is the reverse voting escrow that we will get to later. Just before we get into the governance and dow questions, we just briefly wanted to give viewers an introduction of what yearbox does just to explain what it does as a DeFi protocol to then explain what exactly one can do with it from the governance perspective. So Mikhail, please, thanks so much. And at first I'm really so happy to be a speaker today because I participated in many S Global hackathons and it's a really good honor to talk the protocol which was created during this hackathon. And now we are really happy to talk what we have built for the last seven months. So here you can see the architecture of Gearbox protocol and as you can see, Gearbox is two side protocols, two side protocol. On the left side you can see liquidity or capital providers.
02:45:00.674 - 02:45:48.178, Speaker A: These people want to provide liquidity to get APY and this part looks similar like any other lending protocols. So this is pace of investments which generate good APY. But what really makes Gearbox unique is the right part. And here you can see the traders who want to increase capital efficiency. To do so, traders provide initial funds to Credit Account. This is new defy and we strongly believe a lot of new things could be built upon it. Credit Account is an isolated smart contract which allows you to execute different financial orders but do not provide direct access to the funds.
02:45:48.178 - 02:46:56.400, Speaker A: So to use it, the trader provide initial funds on it and Credit Account immediately takes margin loan to get leverage from the pool. So after opening an account, a trader could send different financial orders. We check them to cover the collateral of margin loan and if they are wallet, if they have a real smart contracts, they will be immediately executed on behalf of Credit Account. So briefly you can see that nothing depends on trader and DEXes and Gearbox could be used in more generic ways where you need leverage. So in the simplest way, we could really enable leverage for any DeFi protocol. And probably there is a good analogy in real life when you can open a credit account once and then you can use in different places. And at this space we can talk more than gearbox provide leverage as a service.
02:46:56.400 - 02:47:49.498, Speaker A: We do not provide for you experience of margin trading or yield farming with leverage and so on and so on. Instead of that, you can combine gearbox with your DeFi protocol and leverage user position. And these things create a really amazing opportunity to create permission and strategies. And it's really amazing. And in the next slide, I will show how it could be beneficial and profitable for you. And one more really great advantage of gearbox, that there is no funding rates, because we take money from money market like any other lending protocol. And here what I want to show example, what could not be done before gearbox? It's really unique.
02:47:49.498 - 02:48:33.130, Speaker A: You can open a short position. So at first you provide your USDC, you swap them into Ethereum open credit account in S and now you have depth in S and USDC on your credit account. And it looks similar for many other solution on the market. But then you can put this USDC into Vayern to get more APY. So you can create a lot of new ideas in the five market and our value is composability. I think it's the most significant part of gearbox. So we focus only on one thing to get leverage.
02:48:33.130 - 02:49:21.500, Speaker A: And we really take the advantage of connecting different DeFi protocols. It's why I believe so crucial to have a strong dow to manage so complex system, because there are a lot of internal parameters and ways how we can grow this protocol to connect probably the full DeFi market. And here you can see that from gearbox side, we provide only new DeFi primitive, which is called credit account and it should be grown followed by Dao. So, let's talk more about Dao and governance. And here I ask Ivan to continue. Yes, so everybody loves Dao and governance. After all, that's the topic of today's talk and the conference as well.
02:49:21.500 - 02:50:16.682, Speaker A: And there is no really doubt that the Dao and governance present a much more transparent and clear way to create, let's say, collaboration between people. But there are still a lot of issues that are untackled, that we think we have come to a way to solve, essentially. So, at first, what can the Dao do in the gearbox context? Well, it's very much similar to every other DeFi protocol like ava maker, compound and so on. You have collateral onboarding, meaning the assets you can put as collateral, you have liquidation thresholds, which that define the credit accounts. When a position is liquidated, you have allowed token protocol list and those are to see where the leverage can be deployed. So those are the only boundaries created by Gearbox in that sense as the protocol, then there is the protocol fee model, which could be there, could not be there. The protocol governance can decide not to have it for the first year, two, three, maybe never maybe they decide to have it right away.
02:50:16.682 - 02:51:29.874, Speaker A: And TBL Caps referring to the fact that from our perspective it makes sense to start protocols these days with TBL caps because it allows the bug bounties and other security issues to be found in open source way while not risking the user funds to an extreme level. So essentially Dao utility of gear token, which is what we're presenting here, is similar to anything you see in DeFi protocols. So the usual approach to launching a DeFi protocol that is very much straightforward. Like usually a team gets together, builds something for a few months, deploys it, tries to find BMF, test different strategies and once they have found something, team launches a token and they do a dow and progressively get the decentralization where the token is there, there is a multisix and snapshot or whatever it else it is. And this is totally okay. So this model everybody is familiar with and it's fine, but there are a few caveats in here relating to decentralization and how the imagination is capped because if the core way where people have to go and they publish it, it's difficult to find another path there. And that is what we think where the Loot approach is actually interesting.
02:51:29.874 - 02:52:18.930, Speaker A: So jumping away from DeFi for a second loot is the NFT project by Dhoff, who is the ex founder of Wine. I think many of in this space has been like last month or so. What it really created is that it made the distribution and the distribution really of ideas in such a way where the assets were spread out through communities of different stages and communities of different interests without telling them what has to be done with it. And that's very interesting because it doesn't cap the imagination of developers of the people involved. They can really think more broadly. And that of course also has another point. From the context of regulatory standpoint in DeFi protocols where team own admin signatures, it often becomes a problem that the team has control over it and therefore they can be forced to regain control of it.
02:52:18.930 - 02:53:01.138, Speaker A: Sorry to give away that control, which is another point that has to be fixed and we will address that in the next slides. So Luton spy launch of Gearboxes basically initial distribution of gear tokens to a very wide community base. At that point there is no protocol yet, it's just distribution of token, distribution of assets. Then governance decides to deploy the protocol. So of course the code has to be presented and governance decides to deploy it in the way fashion we see. So team doesn't have admin signature at all whatsoever, not even on day zero we remove every control before we even deploy because it's not asked for deploy. And then of course, governance decides protocol parameters, pools, assets, everything that comes with the protocol, because those are all modular kind of things that can be done.
02:53:01.138 - 02:54:02.398, Speaker A: And after that, as you can imagine, deployed parameters figured out by the Dao, they can of course be changed by the Dao at any point and then builders can do different things with it. So essentially the reverse model of trying to have protocol deployed by team and find PMF to first deploy it by the, let's say, community and then decide by the PMF and what the protocol will do. But sounds very nice, right? Sounds easy, but there are still some caveats with it. What was run today, and I think quite often people agree on these things, is the unfair token distribution where core team has too much or investors have too much or somebody has too much. Well, that is not an issue at hand per se because we don't have Udi yet and these economic things of Wales are hard to, let's say, argue upon, it still leads to volatility. When you as a small holder or a user see that there are two people who essentially are those who were involved before the distribution happened. They control the entire protocol.
02:54:02.398 - 02:54:39.394, Speaker A: You don't have the reason to engage with it and it's hard to argue with it. And that is the case for electoral systems around the world these days. So these are very known issues. And while we don't try to fix with how distribution is done per se, because there will always be whales, there will always be people with more resources, whether that's information, capital, something else, we believe that governance can be done in a more fair way. And that is how we get to this reverse CRV model that we can jump in later. So let's just recap initial distribution issues. Friends and familiar, basically your close friends who get their locations for no reason.
02:54:39.394 - 02:55:12.282, Speaker A: No, we don't want that. Essentially, as I mentioned, free riders who just get tokens for no reason. Also not cool. Everybody has to be a contributor. So anybody with correspondent DeFi knowledge, who contributes, who helps, who does something, gets to be a Gearbox Dow member. So essentially users, any one of you. So jumping back to this, how do you ensure a distribution in a cool way before the protocol isn't there? It's easy to do distribution once you have users, right? But here you don't even have users, you have nothing.
02:55:12.282 - 02:55:40.110, Speaker A: It's like blank sheet of paper. So what Mikhail mentioned previously, those credit accounts, which are the actual core primitive of Gearbox, they are isolated smart contracts that users essentially take from the protocol, borrow it and use them. And once they close them or repay or liquidate it, they come back to the protocol. That is cool in two ways. First of all, because you don't deploy. It every time. The gas costs are much lower because deployment of smart contracts, as you know, is not cheap.
02:55:40.110 - 02:56:17.154, Speaker A: Second, it's more interesting from the ethereum green point of view because we don't just deploy contracts every time and just leave them hanging somewhere. It's like an Uber model where people borrow an account and then give it back. That's really cool, right? So that's the question. How does the protocol get a factory of them? Let's say we envision 3000 users in the first X month, for instance. How does the protocol get that right? Here is the cool part. So we call it credit account mining. It's the initial distribution stage that really lets people be a part of the community and get tokens for work without first.
02:56:17.154 - 02:57:11.380, Speaker A: So active DeFi governance addresses are snapshotted as eligible for participation. Meaning that if you participated in, let's say, compound our wifey and a few other governance systems previously, your wallet should be eligible to mine one or two. That depends later of those credit accounts. And because you pay deployment costs for those isolated smart contracts being credit accounts, you get geared tokens. So that way, in a good case scenario, there should be a few hundred people who know DeFi, who have interacted with DeFi before and who engaged in a more profound way rather than just taking an AirDrop. Everybody loves airdrops, right? They never say no to them, but they don't entail one to really have any knowledge of the product or do any work. And at that point you're essentially the same as the free rider who is an investor, right? So if you remove free riders from investors, you should remove them at every stage to really try to balance the lemon playing field as much as possible.
02:57:11.380 - 02:58:04.580, Speaker A: So this still gets to an issue of, let's say distribution is done, right? But as mentioned before, we don't have that case where we can really have community own at the first week the same amount of tokens that team or core contributors simply not the case, right? You need stages for liquidity mining for that awesome engagement. So then you have the issues that I think Ilgis wants to present on this topic. Yeah. So the next open question is how to find good balance between community and team in terms of voting power. So, what kind of options we have in our industry? Next slide, please. First one, when only liquid tokens can vote and team, which has of course locked tokens, can any voting power. Is it good? We guess no.
02:58:04.580 - 02:59:03.142, Speaker A: Next one. Because any bad actor can make a proposal, vote for it and do something bad for protocol and actually kills it. So, what's next option? We have? Team can vote by its locked tokens. Is it good? Of course no, because team voting power is much much more than community have in the initial stages. What's next? Next option is when team can delegate their locked token voting power to someone else. But the question is to whom, how to choose this person and how to make it transparent and how to make this process transparent. It's not very easy way to do it.
02:59:03.142 - 03:00:10.682, Speaker A: And we see other protocols who did this before and it's very hard for them to make transparent process of how they choose person, how they vote, to whom delegated. So our idea is to create something else. So we invented reverse voting scroll model. First of all, what's voting scroll? It was invented by curve team when you can lock your liquid tokens and get more voting power in the Dao, it's very very good way to increase to boost your voting power. But in our case, we need opposites when you have much more less voting power if your tokens is locked. So we implemented it by creating some multipliers for the team tokens and for initial contributors tokens. So that yeah, they have a lot of tokens, they are locked, but their voting power is not so huge.
03:00:10.682 - 03:00:52.520, Speaker A: So now we get fair distribution of voting power. Next slide, please. Where community holds more than 50% of voting power. So actually community owns the protocol. Community can decide what's the best, but team also has a high percent of voting power, but of course not majority of it. So team can be some kind of leader type of organization when team can be responsible for making decisions more fairer. Next one.
03:00:52.520 - 03:01:51.446, Speaker A: Yeah, so, just to recap the things we just addressed, the issues that we think are addressed with this model where you have the reverse vote in escrow is that we expect a lower level of voting apathy. Voting apathy is still the case in every protocol and it actually diminishes not because of the mathematical question, just because community loses interest. And let's say the protocol is not as hyped anymore and there are no new things really happening. But those are the things that are more like dynamic that teams, contributors, everybody else can address to make them interesting again. But really the reverse weights make it such as a level playing field. And as you see in the previous slide, while team and initial contributors might own more in the first week, every protocol at this point has like 30% to 50% reserved in the Dow, right? It's really the question of how you get that to people. And if for the first year the entire Dow is literally three people, for the first year, people just don't have any interest to engage.
03:01:51.446 - 03:02:55.482, Speaker A: And this reverse model essentially, as we believe, fixes it because then people understand that from day one, despite not having 10% of the supply, they have as much voting power and as locked tokens, let's say previous contributors unlock, which is totally normal to see, right? You wouldn't expect a person working on this day and night for two years to not have anything, not to have the same as a person who joined discord yesterday. That just doesn't make sense, right? But then as those unlock or become liquid or become less diminished by this multiply that we're talking about in the vote in escrow, the community distribution of the Dow also releases more in stages over a few engagement programs, liquidity mining or whatever it is. So then it balances the Dow. So it's really about that first initial boost to let people really participate in balance. That's the first point. The another point that Tao has come across is the admin key distrust where a protocol is launched, DeFi protocol, having a few, let's say dozens of millions of TDL and then team still calls the signature. It's not safe from the user perspective, but it's also not safe from the team perspective because of the regulatory reasons.
03:02:55.482 - 03:03:34.058, Speaker A: As a team member these days, I doubt anybody actually wants to call an admin signature. And why would you? In this case, the models today present you an opportunity to not have it in the first place. So we won't have a team admin signature at all. We won't keep anything that comes to the code that will be also open source and the community multisig won't include only investors or only team. Those will be the minority in the multisig plus they will be a time lockers. Everybody is used these days in case the multisig misbehaves for some reason. And another point is the no early insider dumping or any non community unlocked tokens being thrown into the market.
03:03:34.058 - 03:04:11.126, Speaker A: So that is something that we believe many protocols already address these days. But that is something that we want to reiterate that there is no, let's say, downside in a potential way that somebody insider will dump on you or something like this. Because at first nobody has to be liquid anyway. So there is no like how protocols like to not protocols ICOs like to call them in 2018, I think many would know is some marketing and partners tokens, right? Or market making tokens which essentially get released into the market and nobody knows whatever happens to them. So we are glad that this standard has stopped working. So those are the things addressed. But we are not being naive here.
03:04:11.126 - 03:04:45.780, Speaker A: We are not saying Dows are the future, dream, unicorns, rainbows, everything. There are still issues that happen today and those are the ones that actually are still being a pain point for many protocols, even decentralized ones. First of all is the sensor UI. So UI is the access to the protocol. And while protocols are not influenced by teams directly with admin signature, anything UIs are the main gateway to them. So uniswap open source and the UI is actually a good way to do it and many protocols do it as well. For example, incentivize other UIs to be created like liquidity protocol did.
03:04:45.780 - 03:06:07.674, Speaker A: The reason why we are not doing it in the first week is simply to prevent malicious actors either forkers or phishers from making something with the UIs that's not supposed to happen while the community is still new, while the community still doesn't understand what's happening. So at first we believe that to protect from those, it's okay for UI to be censored, but that has to be stopped in a matter of weeks or months after that. Once the community is there, once TDL is there, if it is there at all, then the UI should be open source and should be given to community to run with it locally or anything like that. In that case, you really decentralize all the components of the protocol while you do that. Technically, if you take all of this into account, you still have the operational overhead, as in like people involved, let's say like us, right? We just know a bit more about Gearbox now and it's not really a hard issue to fix as long as the communication is transparent and every stage of the protocol dao life is communicated really well, which what Wyorn has been doing from day zero. Everybody knows enough about the protocol and its operations that they can actually step into a role if they wish to. And that's very important because if you don't start doing it early, you will always remain like a company who nobody trusts in a weird way, right? We're talking about trust and not trusting anyone, but that's really the way to change that perspective, to have everybody feel like they are part of it and then centralized voting concept.
03:06:07.674 - 03:07:10.690, Speaker A: So we all know that many protocols start early on with the snapshot plus multisig model, right? It's the most dynamic. If you launch something early enough and you still want the Dow to tweak things around here and there to have the emergency, let's say, signature something like this, it's not bad conceptually, but it's still not something that should remain there for long because multisig in concept and in tech doesn't actually have any liability towards a snapshot. Yes, we can talk about economic reasons, right? If they do something bad, they actually risk something else. So that's another point, but it's not car defined. So there are things like safe Snap Mikhail, right? Was it called SAP safe Snap diagnosis, which essentially introduced an extra signature, I believe, into making the snapshot vote be very important, the outcome to executing the multistake signature and that's something that could be added. We are not 100% sure that is the way to go because snapshot part is still essentially on the UI and being managed by admins. So it doesn't really fix that much.
03:07:10.690 - 03:07:46.086, Speaker A: So it's better to really migrate to governance like compiled or abbot at that point. So these are the things that we think are addressed the voting apathy no admin can distress and we are doing everything to ensure that from literally not day zero, but day minus one. Centralized UI will take a few weeks to be there. Operational overhead is just something we've been already doing slowly, educating users, giving people the opportunity to engage in different ways. So that is something for later. And then the voting snapshot is of course another thing that also takes a few months to get to. But that is essentially what we see every protocol realizing.
03:07:46.086 - 03:08:19.782, Speaker A: So those is not rocket science. People understand fan have seen this thing. So yeah, we just wanted to reiterate on that now to recap because we've said a lot. Hopefully it made sense. But basically community ownership of Gearbox becomes from day minus one. And if we are talking a bit in a more general way, it's really about shipping the code and making it available to the community to run with from day minus one to then figure out what they do with it. Again, core team members, core contributors will understand a bit more of what can happen with it.
03:08:19.782 - 03:08:49.054, Speaker A: But it's really about giving people the opportunity to figure out for themselves what they can do with it. And that's what we think is important and that's what Lud has inspired. Then it's the Fair Digital distribution and the Fair governance. Let's be honest, we are not as altruistic as Andre Cronier. We are not saying we're not going to have any tokens at all. Community will have everything. We don't think that's really realistic because people who work on it again day and night, they can't continue doing so if they own as much as the person who joined Discord a week ago.
03:08:49.054 - 03:09:23.546, Speaker A: That just doesn't make sense. And I think with Wire later on, Princeton, not in a bad way, in a good way, showed that incentives are important. So it's really about the governance being fair in the first few months, where this is where people are most excited about a protocol. This is where the hard boost happens, right? And that's where we think the fair governance must be in place not one year later. Because one year later, people buy, sell, people change hands, people forget their wallets, people become disinterested. It's totally fine that the governance will be in the hands of a few key people. Then you can introduce more delegation, you can introduce VCRV model, which we think is cool.
03:09:23.546 - 03:09:53.166, Speaker A: And we also plan that it's just that about the reverse VCRV for those that are vested. Essentially community owns the protocol, in fact, and technically so they essentially have all of that. And then team can act as one of the governance when finding the PMF instead of just dictating what it is. So let's jump into the opportunities. So what can you do with Deerbox today? The code is not yet open. We are going through audits, a few of them. And again, DeFi is all insecure, DeFi is all risky.
03:09:53.166 - 03:10:28.238, Speaker A: You can get wrecked, wrapped at any point. So again, don't treat it as some promise of safety. But we are doing the audits and those should be back in about two weeks from now, which then I guess that is essentially the announcement. That is when the governance is supposed to launch through the credit account idea. So the credit account, Mayan, if you have been active in Governance before, likely one of your wallets should be eligible for it pretty easy. You then read the article, understand how it works, and then engage in the program running liquidation bots. So if you have run liquidation bots before, liquidations are the core feature of Gearbox that nobody promises that will work well.
03:10:28.238 - 03:11:00.362, Speaker A: That is the case for maker Ave compound and so on. So if you have run liquidation bots, come join the building on discord, because that's where you can actually build a liquidation bot and there are economic incentives to do so. As you know, sea goes the protocol, a Sea goes the liquidation bot runner, as to say. And there will be an incentivized extra year tokens program to make sure that in the first month people really make those liquidation bots. Because let's be honest, if liquidation bots don't work, it's all right. That's the case for any protocol, really. So use the protocol, help test it.
03:11:00.362 - 03:11:39.622, Speaker A: Very simple. That should be live in about one week, unless Mikhail disappears somewhere in the dungeon and doesn't give us the new UX, the new UI, then get into Governance, build permissionless strategies as in Gearbox, doesn't define what you can do. The governance for the sake of safety of assets just defines what you cannot do. So it doesn't define you within the box, it gives you a big box to work within and then take part in Bug Bounties. And also we are hiring. So if you are a smart contract developer, especially, right, Michael? Yeah. And also if you are a good front end developer who know how to work with web3 standard, please contact us.
03:11:39.622 - 03:12:17.314, Speaker A: We are really excited to work together. So that wraps up our presentation, really. Hopefully it made sense, we hope. We also have shown that this is a more decentralized way of launching the protocol and the new way of doing it while both being more reactive for the teams when it comes to regulatory standpoint. Because in this case, there is no ownership of everything from the first second. And also it's one cruiser for the community and creating account mining to get some gear tokens is a fun way to do it, but it won't be the only stage where you will be able to engage in governance. So, yeah, looking forward.
03:12:17.314 - 03:13:17.826, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it's amazing. No, thank you so much for that incredible sort of presentation and sort of presenting that framework. I'm looking at all of our chats and people are super impressed by how forward thinking this is and how this is adjacent and actually addresses a handful of problems that we have already seen. And you pointed out we don't have time for too many questions. So I'll kind of pose the questions we have from the chat and feel free to address them at a high level or go back into and log in and answer them directly in writing. But one question is in the model you're proposing, what is considered what will be considered the quorum for a vote here, if there's sort of no initial sort of group? And the second one is, do you have any concerns about the privacy of participants in this model? So when it comes to the quorum, I assume, as any other protocol has, there are different quorums for different decisions. For example, something as risky as the really liquidation threshold requires a much higher quorum.
03:13:17.826 - 03:14:06.600, Speaker A: Mikhail, you can correct me there something like, let's say, operational decisions on the spec in multisigs, you have a thing where depending on the level, you have a different way of doing it. So, Mikhail, on the privacy level, I'm not sure what exactly is referred to privacy here because it's a snapshot of wallets that have participated in other governance, right? And they are on chain and we don't KYC look at them, ask them who they are. They just usually participate. So I'm not sure if I understand the privacy aspect here. I think probably the same things which happens in Compound Dao, probably the same risk and the same privacy, because we do not ask people much more information about them. But by the way, they could vote it. I think this model looks pretty interesting.
03:14:06.600 - 03:14:40.266, Speaker A: Speaking of privacy, actually, just to add there, that's why there are a few different distribution stages defined before the protocol even launches, because then there will be a few distinct different groups of people who participated before and so on. So that will be possible to engage through different user bases and then it's not defined, but a few of them. So then you have a mix up, essentially a mixer. Not sure if that's the right word, but you get what I mean. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Hopefully that's enough for you, Isaac.
03:14:40.266 - 03:15:06.634, Speaker A: If there's any more follow up questions on that, feel free to comment more. But in the meantime, I want to thank all of you for doing this presentation. And it's just super exciting for me to see the whole full circle of kind of starting at an hackathon, coming up with this, launching a project, and now proposing something that, from what I understood, fundamentally can change how we operate at scale. And this is, to me, super exciting. So thanks again and congrats on everything that you've accomplished so far. Thank you. Thanks so much.
03:15:06.634 - 03:16:20.454, Speaker A: It was really nice. Amazing. So with that, we are ready to move on to our next talk. And for this next talk, I want to welcome Oren, who is going to be talking about Zodiac. Zodiac is a project that just came out a couple weeks ago, and I'm super excited for him to share everything that's Zodiac. So, without further ado, let's welcome, Oren, and feel free to get started. Looks like we're not getting Audiot in the meantime for this, but all right, testing.
03:16:20.454 - 03:16:28.586, Speaker A: There we go. Nothing. Loud and clear. No, you're good. I should be coming through. It looks like it is on my end. You are.
03:16:28.586 - 03:16:54.594, Speaker A: You are. This is goodbye. Testing. Testing. Yeah, we can hear you. Testing. Okay, so it looks like this is a zoom issue because we both can hear each other, but there might be a lag, so oren, we can hear you.
03:16:54.594 - 03:17:08.530, Speaker A: The audio is coming in. If this message reaches you all right, I can hear you now. Sorry about the issues. We got it sorted in the green room. But evidently whatever happened in the green room didn't carry over. So anyway hey guys. I'm Warren.
03:17:08.530 - 03:18:06.070, Speaker A: I've been working and playing in the Ethereum kind of dao space since Ethereum's Genesis. I'm a solidity developer and product manager and currently lead our kind of Dow related efforts over at Gnosis. Gnosis has been a key contributor to the Ethereum space since 2017, providing a range of kind of critical infrastructure pieces to the ecosystem. And perhaps the most notable of these is their nosis safe, Secure Multisignature smart contract wallet. And it's accompanying suite of applications and integrations for, I guess the uninitiated, which is probably not many of you at this particular talk. A multisig wallet is essentially an account that requires confirmations from a threshold of keys, say, three or five before it'll execute a transaction. And the Nosisafe is the most trusted multi SIG solution in the Ethereum ecosystem, currently securing more than 90 billion in assets over the kind of Ethereum and DSPA ecosystem.
03:18:06.070 - 03:18:59.450, Speaker A: But under the hood, the Nosisafe is much more than just a multisig. It's a modular, extensible programmable account that can kind of grow and adapt with your organization. So, a little backstory. Late last year, we did kind of a wholesale review of the Dow tooling available kind of in the Ethereum ecosystem in the lead up to launching the Gnosis Dow, which will ultimately control a really sizable treasury around 150,000 Ether worth roughly $400 million, along with a whole bunch of other tokens. So, in choosing a Dow solution, we had a small handful of really key requirements. One is it must be audited, must be proven to secure kind of millions or billions of dollars. Two, participants must not be cost prohibitively excluded from participating.
03:18:59.450 - 03:20:02.126, Speaker A: Number three, it must be kind of permissionless and, ideally, kind of trust minimized. And then four, it must be flexible and not kind of unnecessarily restrict future decisions. And so, after reviewing each of the existing Dow tools, we found that none of them could reasonably check all of those boxes. Almost none were proven to secure that amount of value. Those that were were kind of cost prohibitive for most end users because voting was happening on Ethereum mainnet. And those that were not cost prohibitive introduced some unacceptable long term trust assumptions and almost all introduced significant switching costs if the Dow if you wanted to migrate or kind of change how it worked later on. So just another quick backstory in response to the kind of escalating gas prices on mainnet around August last year, a whole bunch of kind of aspiring Dows made a compromise on trust for the sake of usability and started adopting this combination of a Nosisafe and a Snapshot instance.
03:20:02.126 - 03:20:54.446, Speaker A: The previous speakers talked about this a little bit. And so Snapshot is a tool for gas free off chain voting. And basically in the combination of this setup, you would have a group of multi SIG signers that essentially agree to execute the will of the community, whatever the community kind of decides via Snapshot proposals. But you're obviously trusting this core group. And so recognizing this pattern, we realized that there's an opportunity to kind of improve on it, improve the trust assumptions on this and essentially try to give the community more autonomy. And so we created this module called Module to the Nosisafe that at the time we were calling the Dow module. We've now relabeled to the Reality module.
03:20:54.446 - 03:22:01.538, Speaker A: And basically what it does is use an oracle to bring the results of a Snapshot vote snapshot proposal on chain and allow you to kind of autonomously permissionlessly execute the results of an off chain proposal on chain. So this was the framework that we decided to go for with the Nosisdaw because it, in our opinion, kind of checked all of these boxes that we had previously set as our requirements. But in designing this, we realized that this pattern could be generalized and actually created a bunch of really nice features or outcomes for our Dao, but also for the Dao space as a whole. And so this is essentially how our Zodiac was born. I'm going to go and share my screen. Not that there's much in the way of content there, but we can just have a bit of a backdrop for it. So Zodiac is, we're calling it this expansion pack of doubts.
03:22:01.538 - 03:23:44.674, Speaker A: And basically what Zodiac does is makes this really fundamental distinction between the account and the logic that controls it and tries to decouple those two. So in every kind of existing Dow framework right now, those two things are pretty tightly coupled. Either kind of within the same contract logic or multiple contracts, but in a system that tightly couples them and makes it really difficult to migrate and to kind of, I guess, change things beyond the kind of initial scope of that change things kind of outside of the scope of the framework. And so what we have done here is basically decouple those two things, use the Gnosis Safe as again, this kind of programmable account standard and treat it essentially as your organization's avatar on chain, then plug in as a module any additional logic that you want to use to control it. And so this is essentially what Zodiac is. There's this kind of design philosophy and kind of standard for building organizations, building kind of Dow structures that inherit this nice property of being kind of flexible, portable, composable and allowing organizations to kind of leverage those. So essentially, Zodiac has a handful of components, avatars, which are the core of your organization.
03:23:44.674 - 03:24:23.522, Speaker A: In this case, we're using the nosis Safe. And essentially any contract that exposes this I avatar interface can work. Basically, you need to be able to enable modules and then call an exec module transaction function. If your kind of account can do that, then it can act as an avatar. Modules are contracts that are enabled by the avatar and then implement some decision making logic. And when I say contracts, I guess actually it could be anything. It could be an EOA as well, but it's some address that can basically call that function.
03:24:23.522 - 03:25:09.438, Speaker A: So you could enable an EOA like someone's MetaMask account as a module and just give them total control of the safe. But more than likely, you would want to create a scenario where you actually have some logic there. So this is going to be, in most cases, a contract, and that's going to implement some logic. So a module can be literally anything that can call the exec module transaction function. And so that could be one of the modules that we've built, but it could also be any of the existing Dow frameworks. And so this is what we say when we're talking about kind of enabling portability and composability. Essentially with this pattern, what you're able to do is set up a notesafe and then control it with any of the existing Dow frameworks.
03:25:09.438 - 03:26:14.914, Speaker A: So say you're an organization and you want to start out with an Aragon Dow. Then you go and deploy well, I guess maybe we'll do two kind of hypothetical examples here. One where you just deploy your Aragon Dow and you use that account to control all of your assets, control all of your systems and kind of references externally, say, then six months down the road, you say, hey, Aragon's not working for us for whatever reason. Let's migrate over to a molokdao on Dow house. So now you have this kind of monumental coordination challenge, right, to move all of the assets that the Dao controls, to move all of the systems that it controls. They update the owner transfer ownership function and any kind of ownable systems, and then also to move any external references to your Aragon Dao account, now to your new Moloch Dao account. And so that kind of monumental coordination effort in the context of a Dao that probably has to put through proposals where people vote and all that kind of stuff is exactly that monumental.
03:26:14.914 - 03:27:06.054, Speaker A: It's a painful coordination challenge. If you imagine the same scenario in a Dao that has, I guess, a little bit more foresight and says, okay, we're going to set up. A notesafe as the core, we're going to enable our Aragon Dao as a module to the nosis Safe. So Aragon Dao now has kind of unilateral control over the nosis safe and then same thing happens six months down the road, they say, hey, we'd like to switch over to Moloch. For whatever reason, it's literally one proposal with one transaction to enable the Moloch Dao as a module sort of safe and disable the Aragon Dao. And so that monumental coordination challenge now is drastically reduced simply because you've decoupled your account and your control. Anyway.
03:27:06.054 - 03:28:28.340, Speaker A: So modules are these addresses, accounts that control the safe modifiers contracts that you would sit basically between a module and an account module and an avatar to modify what it does. And so simple example of that would be things like a time delay or potentially something to scope out the functionality that a module can interact with. And then guards are another concept here where you can basically implement pre checks and post checks on execution. So you can do things again like limit the scope of the addresses and functions that the safe is allowed to interact with, or that the module, I guess, is allowed to send transactions to the safe to interact with. Then also prohibit things or kind of limit things like whether it can do delegate calls, what functions it can interact with, potentially things like pass out and limit what types of parameters it's allowed to pass. And also in post checks do things like make sure that certain state hasn't changed. So really with these four kind of basic pieces you create a really flexible and composable framework then to build dowels on and to leverage all of the existing tools in the space in a really composable way.
03:28:28.340 - 03:29:36.674, Speaker A: And so, for the rest of the talk here, I really just want to take a quick dive through one of our modules to kind of show you how it works. If you're wanting to build your own modules, you'll essentially just add the Zodiac library into your module repo and then import the module contract into your contract or the module kind of abstract into your contract. And I'm going to jump over and we'll take a look through the Exit module. So exit is one of the modules that we built and what this does is essentially replicate closely Molok's Rage quit function. So this gives you the ability to claim a portion of the safe, ERC 20 and native token assets in exchange for some token that the Dow designates. So it has a designated token and you can redeem it for a share of the safes assets. So basically, to build out this module, we've imported our module contract here.
03:29:36.674 - 03:30:35.740, Speaker A: And then there's a few functions that we basically need to overwrite or kind of write our own implementations of. So here we have a setup function. This is leveraging the module factory that we created. And so this just really exists so that we can allow anyone to easily create proxy implementations of their sorry, deploy proxies pointing to their modules. And so the reason for that is to reduce the deployment costs for end users and it also then gives us a nice quality of making it a bit easier to track in things like a subgraph. But here we've got a kind of standard implementation of this. You'll override it and basically just pass in some variables that get then decoded by the setup function.
03:30:35.740 - 03:31:25.066, Speaker A: The main piece that you need to essentially do for your module is at some point you will call an exact function. Let's see if we can find it. So here we go, an exact function. And so this is not, this exact function is essentially what you'll see over in the module contract. Let's jump into here. Um, bear with me. All right.
03:31:25.066 - 03:32:05.590, Speaker A: So we've got our exact function here and this is what, whatever the kind of logic is in your module that's going to eventually trigger the safe to do something, this is what it will call. So you'll pass it to a value and data parameter as well as an operation. And essentially two is just the address. Obviously you want safe to call. Value is your ether value, data is your abi encoded input. So essentially kind of telling the safe what it should do and then operation is whether it's a call or a delegate call. So back over to here.
03:32:05.590 - 03:33:38.600, Speaker A: We're essentially for our exit function up here, a few different places are going to call. We're basically going to build this exact function here for in this case transferring a bunch of ERC 20 tokens. So we build out this exact function call to then trigger the execution in the safe to give us our share of the ERC 20 token. In this case here, we drop in some designated tokens as a parameter so amount to redeem of your designated tokens and then you pass in an array of tokens that you want to claim. And essentially then the exit function is going to go through. Check that you have the right amount of tokens, check the circulating supply, transfer the tokens from you to the avatar, and then it's going to transfer you your share of the SAFE's native assets and then go through and basically iterate through this loop to transfer you your share of any one of the tokens that you passed in to the array. Once it's done that, it's going to emit a successful exit event and you're good to go.
03:33:38.600 - 03:35:04.498, Speaker A: The point of all this being that with this kind of module sol that you are importing, you get to essentially skim over having to implement a bunch of the logic for actually kind of creating a module and being able to manage it and focus just on the functionality that you want in your module, just on the limited piece of control. And the reason I chose to show the exit module here is just to illustrate that a module doesn't have to be a kind of fully fledged governance framework. It can be something that implements a really specific piece of logic. So in this case, it implements just the equivalent of the kind of rage grip function in Molok, just the ability to redeem a designated token for a share of the safes assets. And then you can essentially mix and match all of these little modular pieces to build out any combination of functionality. And build out essentially the dow framework that best suits your organization. And so that might be, say, a compound Governance dow in combination with an exit module or something like that, if you're wanting to use an existing very robust governance framework, but add this one piece of functionality that it doesn't have.
03:35:04.498 - 03:36:37.882, Speaker A: Or it might be that you go and kind of piece together a bunch of individual pieces. Maybe you use a reality module connected up to snapshot with our Safe Snap plugin. And then maybe you go and add things like the Allowances module to give a few people some spending limits and things like that to really kind of be modular and I guess, composable. So the reason that I guess we wanted to talk about this here this week was really just that Zodiac kind of represents a shift in how we and hopefully how others will start to think about constructing dows. So for anyone that's thinking about spinning up a dow, adopting this pattern essentially gives you the most possible kind of future flexibility without having to go through these kind of, again, monumental coordination challenges to migrate from one framework to another, or to kind of enable functionality after the fact. The other thing that this setup kind of enables fairly uniquely is the idea of kind of cross chain dows, interdimensional dows. What that's going to do is essentially allow you to have a Dao deployed on one execution environment, control a safe on another execution environment, and potentially control multiple safes across multiple execution environments.
03:36:37.882 - 03:37:59.622, Speaker A: So you could do something like have a Moloch Dao deployed to XDI and control that, or have that Moloch Dao control another safe over on Mainnet, and then also potentially control one on Polygon and one on Arbitrum and one on optimism. And since we're creating this kind of constellation of nursesafes and this is obviously the thing that gave us the idea for calling it Zodiac was essentially starting to think about dows as these constellations of contracts of systems, of people, of communities in a much more, I guess, again, composable way. But yeah, this idea of these kind of interdimensional cross chain dowels is one of the really key features that this new pattern of designing dows really enables. And it's one of the things that we're really excited to help facilitate as this kind of sidechain and layer two ecosystem continues to evolve and flourish. So I guess I'll wrap it up there for anyone that wants to check out Zodiac more jump onto Twitter, follow at Gnosis Guild jump into the Gnosis Discord server at chat. Gnosis. IO you can always find me at underscore Macmillan on Twitter.
03:37:59.622 - 03:39:20.930, Speaker A: And yeah, look forward to, I guess, seeing what people come up with, what different modules people start building on this. And if you have any questions, then yeah, feel free to lean on us as a resource. There's also a link to the Gnosis Guild Discord server on the Gnosis Guild Twitter account, so feel free to jump in there and happy to answer any questions if there's any that have come through from the audience. That was really awesome and thanks for doing even walking through the code base, it's always risky to do live demos, but this worked out. No questions around what the modules or sort of how Zodiac is set up, but I do have a couple of questions around, maybe just out of purely out of curiosity, what are some things on your wish list as modules that you'd like to see? You obviously talked about the rage quit one, but can you just walk us through a handful of things that are possible or things that you would like to see just get uniquely enabled with Zodiac? Yeah, so I think probably the earliest thing on the wish list is I would love to see some kind of native integrations into some of the existing Dow frameworks. So the Dow House guys jumped in really early to do that for Dao House. So you can already spin up a safe minion for Molok DAOs on Dao House and that allows now your Dao House DAOs are really easily controlled and those are safe.
03:39:20.930 - 03:40:23.240, Speaker A: So I'd love to see the same kind of pattern happen for each of the other Dow frameworks. An Aragon application, a colony extension, a Dow stack, schema, and then same thing for compound and tally and stuff like that. I think that would be a really great first step. Some of the other things on the wish list are additional voting types, proposal types, novel ways of reaching consensus. We are looking into doing things like zero knowledge voting with Macy and so anyone that's interested in that, then please jump in and come and help us build it, help us make it a reality. We have a really cool proposal framework called Ziller that was built by a community member who is now a part of the nurseskill team. And so we're going to be looking to extend that out, make all kinds of different adapters for different voting types on that.
03:40:23.240 - 03:41:53.860, Speaker A: Can you walk through a couple of these different types? Was zero knowledge like one of the examples or what are some other ways? Yeah, things like as of right now, the adapters that have been built, I think like a quadratic voting option, a linear voting option, like an ERC 20 balance type thing. So you can imagine the same kind of flexibility in Zillow as you have for strategies in something like snapshot where it's up to you to kind of design a strategy or pick one of the existing strategies, but there's unlimited flexibility in terms of what the voting types could be for. That another thing that I'd love to see is more kind of oracle types than just the reality ETH oracle that we have currently. So we built that out as our first kind of foray into this kind of pattern of designing things. And we're going to generalize, probably using Ziller generalize how the Reality module works. And so we could imagine also similar kind of adapters for other Oracles. You could imagine one for Chain Link or one for API Three or literally any other kind of Oracle framework just for bringing kind of decision making from off chain or from other chains that maybe don't have a reliable bridge or something like that.
03:41:53.860 - 03:43:05.482, Speaker A: So I could see that being really useful. And then I think the other thing that I'm really excited to dive further into is more a variety of kind of Bridging technologies. So the version of our kind of bridge module right now that allows you to do things like control a safe on mainnet with a Dao on XDI leverages XDI's arbitrary message bridge, or in the case of Polygon leverages their data tunnel. But I would really love to see some exploration into other Bridging mechanisms. So like cello's optics would be neat to leverage. I'd love to see things like NIA's rainbow bridge leveraging that so any chance that we can basically get to extend the reach of a dow deployed on one network, one kind of execution environment out to the stars, out to all of the other execution environments where there's other fun stuff happening that makes a lot of sense. Maybe it's just my not good understanding, but how does the Bridging work in this case? If it's cross chain or even L two? Yes.
03:43:05.482 - 03:43:54.054, Speaker A: I mean, that's dependent obviously, on the bridge that you're going through. Let's use Polygon as an example. Yeah, so the Polygon bridge I'm actually not as familiar with. I can talk pretty concretely about Xdive AMD. And so that essentially it's a multi SIG of sorts, where you essentially have a set of bridge Oracles and you call a function, which is the request to pass message on the XDI side, those bridge oracles then sign that message. And then anyone can take that signed message once it passes some threshold of signers and execute it on the other side of the bridge. The contract on the other side of the bridge has logic to basically validate that the signatures that you pass through are valid.
03:43:54.054 - 03:45:17.570, Speaker A: And if they're valid, then it'll reach out to whatever contract it's meant to be reaching out to. And then our bridge module essentially is going to receive that message validate that it came from the right address, as in from the right bridge contract, that the chain ID is correct, that the equivalent of message sender on the other end is correct. And if it kind of passes all those checks, then it will let the execution pass through to the safe. And so I'd like to see that kind of generalized to a whole bunch of different bridge types so that organizations can, one, kind of extend their reach to other networks and then two kind of choose their trust assumptions. Choose which set of validators in the case of these kind of more trusted bridges they accept or what kind of cost or kind of time trade offs they need to accept in order to get this kind of cross chain execution. Got it. And maybe one other question and I feel like this may be a stupid question from my end but could you clarify the difference between not difference is there a nuance between who can write these modules and deploy them? Because does this mean anything that you want to think about or you talked about on your wish list has to be adopted and agreed to by that Dow community? Or does that mean anybody can say, hey, I'm going to add this attachment, but I don't necessarily need this to be part of the main Dao's decision or progress.
03:45:17.570 - 03:46:03.966, Speaker A: Right. I mean anyone can write and deploy a module obviously but for it to pass a kind of execution call through to the Safe the Safe has to enable it as a module. So there's a function call on the Safe side that is enable module and once you enable the module the module gets unilateral control of the safe. And so a Dow needs to be really selective about what it enabled as a module. If you just enable someone's EOA address then they just now own the Dow. So yeah, need to be very careful about that. One other thing that I wasn't very explicit about is that the modules they gain kind of unilateral control and so once you've kind of enabled that control mechanism you can get rid of all of the multi SIG signers.
03:46:03.966 - 03:46:49.294, Speaker A: And so we see this as kind of a progressive decentralization pathway right? You start out as a nosisafe as it's kind of a multi SIG and then maybe you add something like snapshot to give your community kind of a voice but no direct control. Then a step three might be to add something like our reality module and the Safe snap plugin to now give the community more permissionless control over the Safes. They now can execute things without the multi SIG signers having to do anything. The multi SIG signers are still there. They can both kind of control things in parallel. And so now maybe your next step in progressive decentralization is to scope what the multi SIG signers can do. Maybe you say we only want them to be there as a backstop we only want them to be there to be able to stop malicious transactions.
03:46:49.294 - 03:47:59.930, Speaker A: So we're going to scope them to only being able to call the Mark transaction as invalid or Mark proposal is invalid function on the reality module. Anything else they do is just going to fail but they're allowed to call that. And so now if a malicious transaction happens to make its way through the snapshot vote and through the Oracle then we've still got them there as a backup and then last step would just be to go no hands, get rid of the multi SIG signers altogether and just let the community kind of totally own things. And the thing that we really like about this is that it is a lot more comfortable for many organizations to take those kind of baby steps towards decentralization than just going from zero to one. Just going from hey, this is our baby. This is the thing that we built, you guys have it now and do your thing. So that is one of the reasons that we really like this kind of framework, is that we can very much enable you to take the smallest little increments that you're comfortable with to get your project from being controlled by a small group of people to now being controlled by your community to now really being kind of a dow.
03:47:59.930 - 03:48:24.882, Speaker A: Awesome. No, I think that's a whole new set of possibilities now. I kind of do like the pitch you have for the launch. It is an expansion pack. You want to think of it as like a big video game and you can kind of add and customize all these modules. So this is really cool. And a couple of already asked how do we learn more about it? People have sent the link to the blog so please check that out.
03:48:24.882 - 03:49:13.886, Speaker A: Is there any other way people can follow what's happening with the project or is that the best way? Yeah, I mean keep an eye on the blog. Obviously if someone's already shared a link there otherwise gnosis guild on Twitter it's just at nosis guild on Twitter is another great place to keep in touch and short of that then jump into the Gnosis Guild discord or the Gnosis discord. We're available most of the time and happy to answer questions, happy to help people through getting set up or if you're trying to build your own modules or plug into existing modules. Yeah, happy to help wherever we can. Amazing. Well, I hope everybody is satisfied with that answer. Paying or in 50 different places until response.
03:49:13.886 - 03:50:18.886, Speaker A: Yeah, great strategy. And then I guess my ask for anyone listening is just if you are thinking about a dow, about setting one up, if a project that you're working with is thinking about setting one up, then explore this pattern as a way of essentially future proofing your dow, allowing your dow to kind of grow and adapt where it needs to. This is probably the biggest challenge that we have now, is just encouraging people to kind of explore and start using this as a pattern because it is new and it's not the prettiest user experience yet. We're working on that, but it will pay dividends in the long run. Absolutely. And I think this is also a pretty good segue to what we want to actually cover next in the talk in general, because that's exactly the topic which is how do we manage thousands of scale and mostly from the point of view of what are the things that we think are just not good right now and things that we can improve? But the way Zodiac is starting off with an expansion pack and a more plugin based model, I think this is super cool. So thanks so much again and really appreciate you doing this talk today.
03:50:18.886 - 03:50:39.734, Speaker A: Cheers. Thanks for having me. Awesome. So with that, we are ready for our last talk of the day. And for that, I want to welcome these four amazing people. So we're going to talk about managing DAOs of scale and this is going to be from the perspective of managing anywhere from Decide Trust foundations to grant programs. So we have Julia from worker protocol, larry from compound grants.
03:50:39.734 - 03:51:00.340, Speaker A: We have Corbin from Ave Grants and Eva Bailing from the Graph Foundation. They're going to cover all things Dow. Anything from on chain to off chain to legal to complaints to tooling. And it's going to be a really fun talk and discussion. So without further ado, I'd like to welcome all of them here and get us started. Welcome everybody.
03:51:04.410 - 03:51:07.560, Speaker B: Hey. Hello.
03:51:08.010 - 03:51:09.480, Speaker A: Thanks for having us.
03:51:10.010 - 03:51:31.040, Speaker B: I'm so excited for this panel to talk all things Dows. I know everyone here wears many different hats, so I kind of wanted to give everyone the opportunity to just give a quick intro and talk about all the things they have their hands on in the crypto space. Larry, you want to kick us off?
03:51:31.570 - 03:52:06.086, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. So I'm Larry, I'm the co founder of Reverie and also the program lead for Compound Grants and a quick background on myself and Reverie. I mean, I was a VC for three years and we started Reverie because as me and my co founder, he was also a former VC. And we just thought Dows are really cool and we thought Dows could be trillion dollar organizations. But it wasn't enough for us to just say that. Sort of had to roll up our sleeves and work for them. And so one of the first things we did is we left our jobs and started working for, you know, we did things like Compound Grants and a bunch of other cool things.
03:52:06.086 - 03:52:09.660, Speaker A: And that's what we do. We invest in Dows and we work for them too.
03:52:11.950 - 03:52:34.050, Speaker B: Amazing. Eva. My name is Eva, director of the Graph Foundation. I was part of the initial team that launched the Graph Protocol. We're currently exploring how to transition to a Dao, but prior to that, I worked very closely with Molokdao and even Dow House. So have been around the Dow space for some time. Thank you, Corbin.
03:52:34.710 - 03:53:05.610, Speaker A: Hi everybody. So I'm corbin. I'm currently at Consensus, where I help lead product for all of our fintech products. And then I also spent a lot of time with the Aave community, mostly with the Aave Grants Dao. So we've deployed, I think it's over a million dollars at this point, to various projects that help kind of grow the ecosystem. And it's just been like a great learning experience to see how a Dao can be as impactful as a major software company. Right.
03:53:05.610 - 03:53:16.110, Speaker A: This is a totally new type of organization. We're trying to figure out how to make this work from the ground up. So excited to share learnings and jam with you folks on a good Friday afternoon.
03:53:16.530 - 03:53:54.422, Speaker B: Amazing. I think it's so interesting that all of you kind of sit in different parts of the Dao ecosystem. Like, Corbin, you're in the grants ecosystem. Eva, you're helping transition to graphs into a Dao. Larry, you help provide services to DAOs. I guess what are just sort of the biggest pain points you guys see as you help grow these Dow ecosystems? I can go ahead. So something that we're seeing just starting from a foundation that gives grants and sort of has these external contributors.
03:53:54.422 - 03:54:30.310, Speaker B: So in a sense, emulating a Dow but in a centralized format is figuring out how to scale the real life aspects of jobs that people actually need from Dows as well. So something like knowing that you're going to have a full time job, not because the Dow is going to not vote you in again next quarter, but because you can maybe continue working as long as you're not fired from the Dow, perhaps. And thinking through what are those tools that need to exist that aren't a technology problem, it's like people safety problem for them, committing to whether it's a protocol or a Dow community, but long term, so they're not just like a short term contributor.
03:54:33.130 - 03:55:06.290, Speaker A: Yeah, I totally agree with that. It's always a human thing or even like little things. Like if you're starting at a new company, you're going to probably discuss your offer, how much money you're going to get with what? Like an HR person, your private boss. And then the Dow setting it's all public. That's kind of awkward, right? It's just a weird sort of thing to do to discuss your salary in a public forum that anyone can see and then potentially someone's going to tweet about and then everyone just knows your salary, which is awkward. And so just dealing with those sort of things is super necessary. And with compound grants, when we started it, we didn't really think this through.
03:55:06.290 - 03:55:35.642, Speaker A: We didn't know that's going to be an awkward sort of thing. And so the way it ended up working out, though, is in private. We sort of had to discuss with the grantees, hey, how much do you want to get paid, what's the hourly rate? That sort of thing. And then in public, we would say what the final sum was but know all those sort of details. And that really just makes it more comfortable for people to join, which hopefully lowers the barriers to entry and gets more people working for Dallas. But it's always a human. I would I would second that.
03:55:35.642 - 03:56:42.942, Speaker A: I think it's absolutely fascinating because we're basically reinventing organizations from first principles, right? Everybody says the same thing about right? We're looking at the financial system. We're looking at what it's providing from first principles and rebuilding it with the Internet on chain. We're doing the same thing with corporations, foundations, nonprofits with DAOs, right? All those types of coordinating bodies for humans are being reinvented now that we have the Internet and these awesome types of tools. And so that is a very messy process. We're figuring out what's working, what's not working. Like these folks said, what should be public, what should be totally public, what should be private, because it's more of a human matter, right? And then at the same time, the tools to do these things aren't purpose built for Dowels, right? Like, Chris Dixon had this great post the other day that we're in the kind of like scuomorphism phase of Web Three and we're applying traditional structures to this new movement, right? We're talking about Dows as if they're a software company, but they're very different than a software company. Right? There is no w.
03:56:42.942 - 03:57:14.730, Speaker A: Two. Right? So all this Dow tooling that folks are working on, we're using kind of the framework of things that we know from the traditional world, but Dows might end up operating totally differently. And so now we're using that as a reference. We're trying to make it work here. And then we're also constantly evolving it. So even things like signing transactions, coordinating people, figuring out salaries, all that type of stuff is going to need to be reinvented. And that just takes a lot of iterations and it's going to be messy in some cases.
03:57:15.870 - 03:57:48.550, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that a big issue we see is the definition of a Dow and what that thing is, is constantly evolving. I'm kind of hearing that's. What you're saying, Corbin, is know, we don't actually even know what this thing is yet. How can we be applying old tools? But also we still do need to be applying those tools to it. So I guess also just to take a step back, why do we even care about that? Why is this so important for us to be working on and helping develop these tools?
03:57:53.130 - 03:58:15.594, Speaker A: Like a year ago, I was chatting with the founder of a company, I was an investor and asking for the cap table. And then I opened the cap table and there's. Like, four people there. It's myself, three other guys, and him. And this guy has, like, hundreds of employees. I thought it was weird, so I hit him up, and I'm like, hey, why are you so greedy with your employees? It's kind of weird. They should get some upside.
03:58:15.594 - 03:59:13.540, Speaker A: And he tells me I should know this guy, he's in Southeast Asia. And he tells me, in our know, employees don't want equity. Right? The idea that, hey, I can work for a startup and make a bunch of money on this piece of paper is not a really fully formed idea in many countries, right? And we're super lucky in the US. Where there's fully formed startup markets, and parts of Europe have that, too, but most of the world does not. And I think with DAOs, right, we literally have that on a global basis where people over the world could get ownership in this network and potentially make a lot of money and have life changing wealth through really contributing to the world through really cool products that make the world better. And so if there's one thing that gets me excited about Dows, it's that globalization of wealth and these opportunities that mostly folks could read about on TechCrunch and stuff, but never experienced for themselves. Yeah, I totally agree with that.
03:59:13.540 - 04:00:08.850, Speaker A: I think in terms of the accessibility, you're seeing the exact same trends in crypto kind of apply to organizations with DAOs, right? So accessibility, literally, for the Ave Grants Dao, we're spinning up, like, a developer's Dow as part of the Grants Dow. And so they're going to help contribute functionality to the core protocol, working with the Genesis team, spinning up improvements, parameter tweaks, adding new assets, that type of thing. And I was helping do some of those interviews, and I hop on Zoom one day, and it's like an 18 year old dude from Nigeria who just is a smart contract whiz, right? And I was, like, looking at his GitHub repo beforehand. I'm like, Holy shit, this guy ships. Right? This guy knows his shit. And I never would have talked to that individual if we were running a corporation in the United States. You just don't have access to that talent pool, or maybe he would have been too intimidated to apply.
04:00:08.850 - 04:00:27.734, Speaker A: And so it's like that open door is where I see a lot of the benefit of DAOs. Just like in DeFi, one of the benefits is that you have a global audience on day one that anybody can start contributing to. Right. The same kind of ethos is instilled in DAOs. Yeah.
04:00:27.772 - 04:01:14.840, Speaker B: I echo everything Corbin and Larry said, and I would add, DAOs let us coordinate almost around a mission, something larger than just an entity. Whereas, like a private company, the only people who care about what the private company does are, like, the shareholders of the people that work there. In a protocol, you can have literally hundreds of companies full time aligned to that protocol and a dow can be that framework to coordinate them in a way that aligns them to something larger than just their own private interests. Yeah, I agree with all those things as well. I do think that sort of the ideals of a Dao are very different than the reality of today, which I think we can all sort of agree on. So, like Corbin, to your point, do we actually think that dows are accessible today?
04:01:16.810 - 04:02:13.622, Speaker A: Yeah, that depends on who you ask. I feel like I know other developers who feel know they're sharp developers and then they haven't been able to get into any of the dows they've been interested in because maybe it feels a little bit more clicky. Right again, all organizations are different shapes, different sizes, and have different gateways. And so I think yes and no. Frankly, if I could wave a magic wand, I think we need to unbundle this term dow because a DeFi protocol dow has very different needs, users accessibility than a dow spun up to invest in NFTs or a dow that emerged around your favorite podcast. Right? We're calling all of these things dows, but they all are very different types of organizations. They do have certain things in common, right? Like we try to be internet native, we try to have code as law and there are certain principles that flow through them all, but they're very different organizations.
04:02:13.622 - 04:02:18.380, Speaker A: And so even the term dow could mean ten different things to ten different people.
04:02:20.910 - 04:02:45.590, Speaker B: I agree with that. I'd also say that dows ultimately are just communities and the dow is kind of supporting that community. So if someone's struggling to enter dows because that community might have high barriers to entry and a lot of the coordination even between people is currently still off chain, it's maybe discord or a forum. So there's some real regular social improvements that can be done just to even improve dow engagement.
04:02:47.450 - 04:03:14.030, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree. I'm sure everyone sees those funny tweets like is a group of friends paying for dinner a dow? Or is like a group project a dow? And it's like, well, we don't really know what a dow is, but we know what a dow is not. Right. And that sort of gets us halfway there. But I think over time, this sort of stuff, 20 years from now, we won't probably be arguing about what's a dow, we'll figure it out. It's like one of these growing pains that we all have to deal with in emerging industry.
04:03:15.970 - 04:03:33.220, Speaker B: Yes, I think this is an issue that continues to come up is like, what is the dow? What is it? But how do we sort of create standards and move sort of processes and tools forward if we don't have a fixant definition around this thing?
04:03:36.170 - 04:04:11.946, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm happy to jump in on that one. I think we were actually chatting about this before we hopped on, ideally, the tools get configured around the needs and goals and operating processes of the organization. Actually, we just had the Zodiac kind of demo before this panel, and I'm a big fan of their approach. Right. Because security is the top concern, built on top of Gnosis Safe, which is very much battle tested, but then you have kind of like an open ecosystem of plugins that you can attach to that. Right. Capital is kind of like the lifeblood of any organization.
04:04:11.946 - 04:04:43.900, Speaker A: And then, so having very different rules for modifying how that operation actually runs and having that as an open system that anybody can kind of use what's there and it's what has worked for Dows in the past. Or build your own if you need something that's more tailor made. And so I think the platforms that are going to win, the platforms that are going to own B to D or D to D Commerce are going to be the ones that are configurable to make sure that the tools work well for the type of organization that needs to use them.
04:04:44.750 - 04:05:31.820, Speaker B: Well said. Gary Eva, do you have any thoughts on that? I generally like in practice, I'd say maybe the Urine ecosystem has really figured that out. There's a tool called Coordinate that was literally created out of the Dow's need and is now the most used way of coordinating sort of rewards and acknowledging the actual contributions within the Dao. And I don't know if Coordinate is actually the best tool for every Dao. Right. It kind of just worked for the Urine ecosystem because of the way they kind of spun out. But I echo Corbin's sort of sentiment that I suppose even if you're using the same Dow framework, the Dows you create might be completely different.
04:05:31.820 - 04:06:02.494, Speaker B: I would say the original Malik Dow is very different. That was supposed to be simply funding e two is very different than MetaCartel Ventures that now is a full venture fund. It even has these off chain connections to enable the actual participants to have ownership over the Dow. And so even when you take the same smart contract, the actual execution might be completely different. It might require different tools. Awesome. I want to talk about grants programs.
04:06:02.494 - 04:06:15.240, Speaker B: I know you all sit on grants programs in different ways. So sort of why are grants programs an essential part of Dow ecosystems today? And why are we seeing so much development around them right now?
04:06:16.970 - 04:06:50.658, Speaker A: I can start on this one. I think a lot of people are so confused about grants programs. It's like, why do they exist? Right. Maybe illustrating an example for Compound could be useful. But when we started Compound Grants, which was, I guess early this year and maybe February, March prior to that, if you were into discord or if you were just an active comp token holder and you're really just interested in contributing. And you needed money to either quit your job or have some sort of financial motivation to do the work. You shouldn't be working for free.
04:06:50.658 - 04:07:50.630, Speaker A: You basically had to write a proposal on the forums, lobby people to pay you money publicly, and then wait for this weird governance process that could basically take seven days for you to get paid out. Right? And that is a crazy barrier to entry to get like, $25,000 to do a little project. Right? And so with Grants, the idea was, hey, let's create a pretty centralized organization, which is called the Multisig, that basically creates a process for people to get paid super quickly. Right? And that was the idea. And the longer term motivation is, well, hey, there's maybe 1000 or 2000 or however many people in the community that are active, and maybe some subset of them could actually be full time contributors one day, but we just don't know which ones they are. So what if we provide grants to a lot of them, see who is capable and who actually delivers on what they say they deliver, and do that for a period of maybe six to nine months. And if that experiment is successful by the end of it, we'll know, okay, well, this person, they asked for $25,000.
04:07:50.630 - 04:08:13.870, Speaker A: They shipped like $150,000 worth of code. These guys are fucking killers. Maybe we should hire them full time. And that's funded by grants. And so that was sort of the motivation for Grants, and it's worked really well so far because it's such a simple thing that makes the user experience for the grantee really enjoyable compared to especially the inverse of that, which is governance.
04:08:15.650 - 04:08:43.480, Speaker B: Yeah, I totally agree. We've also seen that proven where we've had a number of grantees now become full time contributors. Either like, another team will hire them or they'll get just paid a long enough grant to be full time. So it's clearly proof that a grant is a really low key way to start dipping into a community without proper commitment, because people leaving their full time jobs, especially in web two to web3, is still pretty scary. So grants being like a really good hybrid solution to that.
04:08:43.850 - 04:09:37.954, Speaker A: Yeah, I would jump off that, and I think Eva is going through it right now. I see Grants as like, a really critical point in the progressive decentralization process where you're just saying, you know, we obviously could keep this capital closer to our organization, but we're not, because we want to decentralize, right? We want to incentivize contributors, we want to grow our ecosystem, we want to grow our number of integrations, and we want to basically open up our KPIs to anyone around the world to kind of help us meet. Right, which is a really cool thing to do. I also don't necessarily think that this first wave of DFI grant experiments has gone far enough. I'm very proud of what we've done at Ave Grants. I think we've funded over 30 projects, built all these kind of cool folks contributing to the ecosystem. But it's still decently hard, right? I think we have two tiers.
04:09:37.954 - 04:10:30.242, Speaker A: So if it's over 100K, you still have to make a post on a public forum and we gather Ave community sentiment, and maybe it goes through. If it's less than that, then it's like the Ave reviewers that are taking a look at your application, setting up milestones and then payments, right? Maybe we need more than just two tiers, right? Maybe if it's less than two K, anybody around the world can just point to evidence that they did something like had a thoughtful take on risk analysis for the protocol or went ahead and built out the integration. And now I'm retroactively applying for a grant to get compensated for doing so. Right. So I think, again, we took grants from the traditional world model of we have a bunch of capital, we want to grow the ecosystem. All right, grants. I think we can now take it a little bit further and say, with crypto, we can do all these programmatic things that we couldn't do before.
04:10:30.242 - 04:11:01.890, Speaker A: So what does a grant actually mean now? Maybe we need a whole bunch of other experiments and different peers to continue to get other people involved. But that said, I think it's been relatively successful with what you pointed out, with part time work. Like, half of our grants come from people that are holding down a full time job. And it is like the best gateway drug in the world to get people moving crypto into web3 is through grants because they're like, oh my gosh, now I have crazy upside to this protocol. People love me here. They're posting memes about me. People are excited to use my tool.
04:11:01.890 - 04:11:07.430, Speaker A: And so I think it's another great gateway for getting talent into the ecosystem.
04:11:08.410 - 04:11:44.990, Speaker B: Yeah, I think those are great points, Corbin. And I think what I've noticed is there's really interesting activity happening in sort of this Siloed grants, this part of the ecosystem, and these grant programs. I think Ave is a great example of what you're working on at Ave Grants and seeing the amount of subcommittees that are forming underneath Ave grants and seeing where there's activity and like, okay, how can we provide resources to those little nucleuses of groups? Can you speak a little more specifically to some of the initiatives that you guys are spinning?
04:11:46.150 - 04:12:34.050, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So the two key ones are really the developers Dow and then the risk Dow, right. In terms of a Dow that's going to be governing a major DeFi protocol lending credit, the total addressable market of something like that is absolutely massive if you look five years out. So what is the specialized knowledge that you want to cultivate internally to manage that growth, to manage that as it scales? The first one everybody turns to, because we're all nerds, is developers, right? Like, we need more software coders are going to solve the world. We're going to automate everything away. And so we've started off with this developers Dow. And if anybody on this call is a developer and wants to get involved, please apply Avegrants.org.
04:12:34.050 - 04:13:13.514, Speaker A: We basically are going to take off some of the load from the Genesis team, right? And this is core protocol functionality. This is tier one stuff. But we're going to start opening it up to anybody that has solidity or scripting or JavaScript skills around the world. So we're really excited about that one. And then the second key one is risk, right? We all know that monitoring the risk of these systems is so important, especially as crypto assets continue to be volatile. We have crazy up, crazy down days every couple of months. We got to be able to react to that and we need a lot of thoughtful, very specialized expertise around risk.
04:13:13.514 - 04:13:19.710, Speaker A: And so I believe we have a risk Dow that's spinning up too to make sure that the protocol can scale and meet all its goals.
04:13:20.210 - 04:13:50.410, Speaker B: That's amazing. I think it's interesting because I think every Dow is trying to get developers and community managers. I think those are probably like the two most in demand kind of professionals right now. But what makes getting just a small grant from one of these programs a compelling offer for these extremely in demand users or these extremely in demand professionals?
04:13:52.830 - 04:14:35.720, Speaker A: I could maybe chime in here. In my experience, the grantee archetypes, there are several core archetypes and everyone's basically trying to get something different out of the Dow, out of a grant. Sometimes there's a company that maybe has a good idea. It's pre venture funding, but it's a company, it's formed. And the people are like, well, it'd be awesome to get some non dilutive capital, build something for the Dow, and just kind of work together and see how we're vibing, right? That is a clear use case for that archetype. It's a clear use case for the Dow. It's like a group of folks working on something cool, great, let's give you some money.
04:14:35.720 - 04:15:28.070, Speaker A: And so that's definitely a huge bonus for people in that position. There's people who are like, I'm not sure if I'm a good dev and I just want to try something out and I want to test my skills, right? And it's like, you're getting paid to improve your skills. That's great, right? Like, why would you not do that? And by the way, a lot of these grants programs, they promote you on Twitter, right? So if we give you a grant at compound grants, we'll promote the heck out of you and we want you to find a cool job, of course, at compound protocol after. But if you want to go somewhere else, we want to promote you too. And we'll actually give you opportunities to get a gig elsewhere. So a lot of it is a lot of people just want to break into the industry and they want to improve their chops a little bit by working on something. And then there's just people who are just, they're really good at what they do.
04:15:28.070 - 04:15:48.400, Speaker A: They don't like having a boss and they're like, I could work for like six, seven Dows basically as a contractor, do really good work, get paid a bunch of money and do that. And I am a nomad. And it's a good lifestyle for a lot of people too. Those people are really good professionals and there's all sorts of sort of archetypes in between. But those are, I would say the most common ones I've seen.
04:15:49.810 - 04:16:32.080, Speaker B: Yeah, I'd agree anecdotally it's been mostly individuals, contractor types, although I predict that we're going to see a lot more entities. So we definitely have a lot of grantees that are like dev shops that are doing something, maybe building out a product. But I foresee us doing a lot more like Dao nesting in the future where maybe it's know a security, you know, received a grant from the mother Dao and maybe that security. Dao is then like five security teams working for this protocol. And so it might know in the future be even individual, kind of like Larry said, archetypes. Like we might see a Dow that represents every single archetype just because that's the service that's needed at that time.
04:16:33.170 - 04:17:07.558, Speaker A: Yeah, I would say Larry covered the archetypes really well. I have nothing to add there. What I would say is I think the space needs to evolve also beyond just developers. Right. At the end of the day, community is everything behind these things. If folks have energy and some amount of talent or at least accountable for certain things, we can probably figure out a pretty good job for you. Just, I don't think anyone's scoped out what that job means for a 22 year old communications major that just graduated, right? We could probably find something useful for them to do.
04:17:07.558 - 04:18:00.246, Speaker A: It just hasn't popped up yet. So devs and community managers are definitely towards the top of the priority list. But I also think we need to think about what roles are important. And you're seeing this flush out on very active discord servers a little bit, but there are curator roles or, I don't know, hall monitors, some type of role that you don't need crazy dev skills or management skills or security auditing type skills to do. And I'm not sure, I haven't seen a ton of great experiments there yet, but I think they'll come. Yeah, I think Corbin brings up a good point, which is like not going to name any names, but I've seen DAOs where it's know, hey, anyone can come in, get some free money, right? Let's go, let's go. And there's really no focus on scoping the roles and you see the forums and the work product and it's all kind of disorienting.
04:18:00.246 - 04:18:36.920, Speaker A: It's really just confusing. It's a cluster, right? And that's not to say something of value won't get created there, but man, if you are a focused person, or if you're an ambitious person and you're like, I know what I want to build, just give me the resources, you're not going to want to work there, right? And so I think scoping hey, here are the roles the Dow needs. Here's what we are building towards is necessary. And then every now and then, if you find someone who's too good to ignore, you want to fund them as well and give them a little bit more of a free rein. But it is a struggle, I think, to scope those roles appropriately in a dao environment and we all got to get better at it.
04:18:39.450 - 04:18:51.020, Speaker B: What do you think is like a specific skill set that DAOs aren't attracting now that they need to be like? I know Corbin mentioned a few, but can you point out specifically what some of those roles might be? Lar.
04:18:53.870 - 04:19:45.434, Speaker A: We had just hired someone at the radical community, a governance facilitator, and the role was basically inspired by the maker governance facilitator role. And long story short, for a more mature Dow, there's going to be many different working groups, just like a company has many different groups. And you basically got to make sure that the dominoes fall in the right order, right? If you have a product and you're shipping a product, maybe you want the engineering team to ship it by date, x the marketing team to pick it up from there. But you basically have a factory, right, to run for a complicated product. There's many different working groups, and making sure everything is running on time is the job, I think, of a governance facilitator. So it's almost like a program management role, but you basically need someone there to be lashing those whips. And if people are not delivering on time, right, they got to be told that so that everything is running on time.
04:19:45.434 - 04:19:56.302, Speaker A: And so I think that is a role I've not seen many Dows do, but it's so critical and so necessary because it keeps the train running on time. Yeah.
04:19:56.356 - 04:20:55.620, Speaker B: Another role I'd add is PMS, technical PMS or product PMS, because most of these proposals or the teams behind these proposals aren't good at doing the proposal writing. Like it might be a really technical engineering team. And so it really goes a long way to have a really well formatted proposal, like having know done the proper due diligence for the community, whatever it might be. The concern, or I guess the unsolved problem here is how do you properly incentivize PMS? So right now, for example, in the Uniswap ecosystem, a lot of the people sponsoring the proposals are very large uni voting power holders, whether they're delegates or they are uni holders themselves. So that's one way to align those incentives. But I think there's maybe even a better way to incorporate PMS as part of the Dow contributor process and for us to kind of all accept that Dows don't eliminate the middleman or kind of the middle management of shipping products and getting things done. They just allow us to coordinate better.
04:20:55.620 - 04:21:30.090, Speaker B: Amazing. I feel like the general sentiment of those answers comes back a lot to just the onboarding process of a Dow, which I think we've all sort of identified in this conversation as one of the weaker points of how we actually turn engagement and excitement into contribution. How do we sort of better facilitate that and better facilitate people who might be interested into actual real valuable work in these ecosystems?
04:21:31.470 - 04:22:07.110, Speaker A: Yeah, I can jump in there first. I think you just described a new right. Like, this is your first day, buddy. Maybe easy role that anybody in the Dow can take is, like, new member ushering in education, set up a call, talk through how they want to contribute, why they're interested. Maybe that's a new role. I know for me personally, it's my own problem, but I'll join a Discord and then there's like a whole big list of things I have to go through and I have to interact with a bunch of bots, and then maybe I already own their token, but I have to verify it. And I'm just like, oh, I just go back to something else.
04:22:07.110 - 04:22:53.686, Speaker A: Right. And that's bad, right? We should do better. I think that this is a tooling problem like we were discussing earlier, we've got to have better tooling that meets the needs of the different type of organization. What if somebody puts my Dow in their bio on Twitter and just tweets about it all the time? Maybe it's even, like, thoughtful tweets on what could be better, what they're working on, how they're contributing. They're a new Dow member and they should be onboarded somehow, right? And so I don't necessarily think Discord is going to solve it. Maybe some other chat type tool comes out that solves it. But I think we need to figure out how to make participation as frictionless as possible and then people to get feedback right away.
04:22:53.686 - 04:23:12.320, Speaker A: First shout out a conference, whatever. They get Swag, they get something, they get an NFT to create that excitement that's like, this is a community I want to be a part of. This is where I want to be. Corbin, I'd love for you to be my first day budy at Aave. Where do I apply?
04:23:21.010 - 04:24:04.430, Speaker B: Eva. Larry, do you guys have any thoughts on onboarding? I hate to say it, but, like, crypto, Twitter, Discords, it really starts with getting involved in the community because it's really hard to be employable if you don't know what's going on in that protocol. That's kind of the unfortunate situation now is there still is quite a bit of education ramp up that needs to occur. So I'd say getting involved in those forums and that is like, public knowledge. I think it's just us even sharing that these forums exist. On the other web, two platforms we should be talking about, the E Three search forum on LinkedIn. There's all these developers on LinkedIn craving crypto content and they don't know where to find it.
04:24:04.430 - 04:24:41.690, Speaker B: So maybe there's just like more crossover we could be doing between those platforms. Amazing. A topic I always like to talk about around Dows is what does leadership look like in Dows? I think in this sort of Dow ideal, we talk a lot about decentralized, power, control, ownership, all these things. But there's also been a little bit of pushback on that and that leaders are important in these Dow ecosystems. What do you guys sort of think about leadership in Dows?
04:24:44.510 - 04:25:38.886, Speaker A: Maybe I could speak about my experience here, but this would be more focused on the larger Dows we're part of, right? Which are primarily the DFI ones. I know we sort of discussed about what really is a dow, but I'm talking about maybe some of the larger ones, not some of the social token ones. But the way I think of this stuff is there's formal governance power and leadership power, which is like I own 10% of the company or I'm on the board of the company or on the multifig. And then there's the informal, which is we're all a group of individuals at the end of the day and there's a social hierarchy and some people have more command and control and some people have less. Right. And none of this stuff is ever documented. But if you go to the forums and you see the founder posting, they may not hold more tokens than everyone else combined, but they definitely hold a lot of social credibility.
04:25:38.886 - 04:26:40.400, Speaker A: And that credibility is used for governance power. You see a lot of this sort of stuff with traditional companies where maybe the founder left or has no formal position, but whenever there's the CEO saying something and the founder comes in and says, hey, I disagree, people generally look at the founder for control and governance. And so I think a lot of this stuff is tricky, right? And at the same time though, a lot of it from the traditional world kind of maps over because we are just groups of people coordinating around projects and groups of people always have some sort of informal ties with each other and that sort of tie is the governance power. But I think generally though, it's good practice for a young early stage project for the founder or the founding team to use that informal power to sort of shepherd the community towards a certain vision. And that's the easiest way to just coordinate a group of individuals to build something special. But curious what everyone else in this panel thinks too.
04:26:41.090 - 04:27:29.770, Speaker B: I'm curious too, because I think what we've seen in a most recent experiment in Loot was the sort of leader of that ecosystem realized his soft power in. The ecosystem and that was actually taking away from the potential vision of the group. So I'm curious, corbin, Eva, if you guys have any thoughts, more thoughts on leadership. Yeah, I'd say that know, in productivity, regardless of a dao or whatever, it like there usually is a team. Like at three people there's always a leader even there. So I think there's always going to be these micro leaders, maybe for specific objectives, maybe for a specific grant or team. And then we don't necessarily need some kind of overarching leader because the point of these protocols is that they're actually so multifaceted that we need everyone's domain expertise.
04:27:29.770 - 04:27:58.940, Speaker B: You're not supposed to have one centralized entity that is controlling it on the counterexample or maybe proving of this example is so Kane, he was on the Spartan Council left and then was asked to come back. And so he has been a leader this whole time. But just because he was a leader doesn't mean he was then an autocrat or some kind of centralized figure, simply that he was good at leading specific initiatives and the community respected that. So I think that's that possible.
04:27:59.870 - 04:28:59.034, Speaker A: Yeah, I would piggyback off that and just say the leadership also evolves with how the Dow matures. So take a DeFi Dow, they're going to be going through a progressive, decentralization process. Ideally the founding team or the founder should be seeding control over time as it's appropriate to more people in the organization. And what's interesting is that's what success looks like for Dows versus it's generally not what success looks like in traditional tech startups, right? It's like oh, we want to be founder led through the IPO and all that type of thing. So Kane's a great example. Maki from Sushi, I think there are a couple others that are like that benevolent leader, which vitalik is the archetype, I think of the benevolent leader who's like, yeah, I will take a step back once the organization can kind of run on its own. That said, I think it's an art more than a science, right? Like you got to know when to weigh in, when not to weigh in.
04:28:59.034 - 04:29:51.094, Speaker A: I think the uniswap core team has had to make that decision at some points with different proposals that have come through. So yeah, I just think we're seeing it evolve. The last thing I would say is I like to think that Dows promote a merecratic type system a little bit more than traditional organizations, right? You might have a non users or pretty much everything has a time step online, whether it's chat or your actual PRS, everything is recorded with these organizations online. And so it's very clear who's doing the work and who's doing a lot of the thought leadership and whatever politicking still exists. I like to think that it's less so than a traditional corporate structure where it's like drinks after work, get you the promotion. So it's an art more than a science. It's still evolving.
04:29:51.094 - 04:29:56.240, Speaker A: But I like to think that Dows are a little bit more flat and fair than what came before them.
04:29:56.850 - 04:30:40.272, Speaker B: Yeah. I think on the other end of the spectrum, too, like, we're talking about extremely good, productive contributors in these ecosystems. What happens when we have bad actors in these ecosystems? Like, how do you handle bad actors in Dows that are potentially creating problems? That's a tough question. I guess one way that we've sort of tried to manage quality at the foundation is not paying out the full grant up front. So we'll do 20% up front the rest of the 80% upon completion. And that kind of weeds out anyone who didn't want to work. And you do kind of pay a small cost, perhaps, but they also take on a reputational cost.
04:30:40.272 - 04:31:10.780, Speaker B: Like they're a team maybe we won't work with again or won't recommend. Similarly, like we saw today with Robert Leschner, there's ways to sort of intrinsically and reputationally bring someone to be more altruistic than they otherwise were that are also part of the incentive formula, but just aren't simply like a Dow grant that is incentivizing. That good behavior. So I think there's a lot of social ways to manipulate perhaps a bad Dow actor on chain to be better off chain.
04:31:12.880 - 04:31:33.988, Speaker A: Yeah, certainly Milestones GABA mentioned work really well. But then to double click on that social point, I think it's like a little like company culture, where some companies have this vicious culture, and if you're a dick, people allow you to do that versus some other companies. If you're being a prick, they fire you, you're gone.
04:31:34.074 - 04:31:34.710, Speaker B: Right.
04:31:35.480 - 04:32:07.532, Speaker A: And I think it really does require the Dow to sort of have an informal or even formal social contract. Here's our code of conduct right here's, how you behave if you're commenting in a forum and you're being addict to people, we're just not going to take you seriously and the moderator is going to ban you. And it's like little things like that, it feels so obvious. But it's necessary, I think, to set up for a Dow context. Yeah. The last thing I would say is I'm not saying that a token always makes sense, but a great thing a token does is it aligns interests of the token holders. Right.
04:32:07.532 - 04:32:41.764, Speaker A: So a bad actor is going to be less likely to be there if they're working against the goals of the overall group or they're being disruptive or they're slowing things down. Right. Because that is the most powerful kind of incentive mechanism that these things have. And then if you remember way back in the day, one of the original innovations for Mulligdow was like the rage quit. Right. Because if we aren't getting aligned or if I'm a petulant child, that we absolutely have to do this and everybody else is going the other way. I can take my toys and I can go home and I can rage quit.
04:32:41.764 - 04:32:50.590, Speaker A: So I think, again, we're evolving these mechanisms in real time, and frankly, bad actors is one of those things we're going to have to figure out.
04:32:52.960 - 04:33:10.176, Speaker B: Sounds fair. Okay, last question of the day. We have to wrap up, but what do you hate about your Dao setup right now? Corbin, we were joking about some pig points you were experiencing before, but what is terrible in your Dow setup right now?
04:33:10.358 - 04:33:29.496, Speaker A: Yeah, I think, Julia, we're going to go over now because I'm just going to start multi SIG. Signing is the worst ever. Oh, my gosh. Like a bunch of telegram pings. And first thing I do when I wake up in the morning, I log on, see what's up. It's like, oh, my God, I got to sign eight transactions. There goes, like, 30 minutes of my day.
04:33:29.496 - 04:34:26.300, Speaker A: We just got to figure out maybe a better coordination mechanism or maybe it's a UX problem and we should experiment with ideas like assumed signature if you haven't vetoed within a 48 hours period or something like that. I think there are all types of things that multi SIG of seven of nine is probably not the end game of the space here. So I think that's one easy one. Governance actually gets a lot of attention, right. So I think that problem is on its way to being solved, right? Like, how do we coordinate better and actually have thoughtful discourse on a proposal and get it voted through? But it's also still a shit show today, right? Like boardroom and tally, do a decent job snapshot. But we also see proposals get to a far stage without core people paying attention because there's just so much stuff going on, right. So thoughtful thinking about governance and voting on it and having really good, solid delegates is something that needs to continue to improve.
04:34:26.300 - 04:35:01.408, Speaker A: Capital allocation, treasury management, all those things need to improve. How we explain this stuff to normies is another great one, right? Anytime you say, oh, I contribute to a Dow, they're like, the Dow, like that big hack, like, oh, I remember that. It's like, no, it's not that. But dows are still around. They're actually pretty cool. You should contribute. If these things do go mainstream, probably around social tokens or streaming about these organizations, around content creators is kind of how I think they'll go mainstream.
04:35:01.408 - 04:35:17.100, Speaker A: We need better ways of introducing these concepts, these tools, these ways of contributing to normies. So all those things from the minute, like signing multi sigs to explaining these things to the real world in a way that they'll rock.
04:35:18.400 - 04:35:23.660, Speaker B: Yeah. So Corbin has basically laid out there is no room for improvement in Dow.
04:35:24.000 - 04:35:58.280, Speaker A: Larry Eva I think we should just come up with a new term like Dow sucks. Can you imagine being like, in 2044 and still saying Dows? It sort of feels like saying introweb in 2020. No, you don't say that term. So to Corbin's point, just the marketing of Dows. I don't think most people intuitively understand what a Dow is when they hear it. And so just trying to simplify the messaging a little bit, I think could go a long way to making Dow just more accessible to normies.
04:36:02.300 - 04:36:54.868, Speaker B: Maybe. One thing I'll add is I don't think we've quite figured out what a Dow holds as liability in itself versus its participants. And I don't think we've had that many examples to explore this space yet, or not that many very large capital inflows or outflows. But there could be a time where a government regulatory agency or really just people are upset about some behavior that a Dow grant has achieved. Right? Maybe it's funding some malicious behavior, but the Dow didn't realize it was malicious at the time. And then who is liable then? And how do you then protect maybe your Dow members from being the ones to incur pain? Yeah, really good points that I don't think gets talked enough in these Dow discussions. Well, Eva, Corbin, Larry, thank you so much for this awesome panel.
04:36:55.044 - 04:36:59.470, Speaker A: I think before we end, Julia, what is your answer to that same question?
04:37:00.960 - 04:37:09.660, Speaker B: The lack of accountability in Dao systems. People need to face repercussions for their actions in DAOs.
04:37:12.740 - 04:37:48.860, Speaker A: I wanted to dig more into that, but should have started off with that question. Fire the bad guys. Fire them. We have a force quit function instead of a rage quit. Amazing. Well, Corbin, Eva, Larry and Julia, thank you so much for that amazing chat. Before we end, let's kind of go in order and just quickly say how people can get involved in each of your organizations and DAOs and communities and how can they find or contact you after start off with Corbin.
04:37:48.860 - 04:38:04.336, Speaker A: Great. Yeah, I'm Corbin page on Twitter. Reach out about anything. The biggest things are go to Avegrants.org and apply for a grant. There are a bunch of RFPs on there, there are a bunch of things that we need. So take a look at the list and see if anything speaks to you and apply, please do.
04:38:04.336 - 04:38:13.700, Speaker A: And especially if you're a developer, check out the developer Dow. We're literally hiring folks in the very near future, and so come contribute and get involved.
04:38:19.420 - 04:38:37.580, Speaker B: So the graph is for non technical and technical people. So if you are interested in running a node, get involved by being an indexer. If you're just a front end, full stack developer, you can build a subgraph. If you're just here interested in the crypto ecosystem, you can be a curator and use your knowledge about apps in Earn, GNT and the network.
04:38:40.660 - 04:38:57.904, Speaker A: Mary for compound grants. You can always go to compoundgrants.org. Always apply to us before Ave though. Just saying. And if you just want to message me, I'm at Sakarnik at Telegram. You can ping me at any time. I'm joking.
04:38:57.904 - 04:39:10.090, Speaker A: You should apply to both Aave and the graph and compound everywhere. It's not a zero sum game. This is awesome. And Julia, lastly, we'll end off with how people can get in touch with you.
04:39:10.780 - 04:39:24.316, Speaker B: Yes. I didn't get to introduce myself, but I'm co founder of Orca Protocol. We're building tools for DAOs. Check us out on Twitter and join our discord. We are gearing up for launch, so lots of exciting updates to come.
04:39:24.498 - 04:39:46.320, Speaker A: Amazing. Well, thank you so much, everybody. And this marks the end of today's summit. We had the Ave Grand style summit yesterday, and the next summit is next Thursday with Compound Grand. So we'll give the same people both opportunities to have watched both, but we'll see you all next week. And in the meantime, for everybody participating at the hackathon, happy hacking and see you next week. Enjoy your weekend.
04:39:46.320 - 04:39:48.996, Speaker A: Thanks, everybody. Thanks for having us.
04:39:49.098 - 04:39:50.800, Speaker B: Thanks. Bye.
