00:00:08.410 - 00:00:28.754, Speaker A: CEO of the Wildcat protocol. Give it up for Lawrence, everyone. Hello. It is working. I'd like to start by registering a protest at making Europeans come to a city which is this high and I lose my voice. It should be a crime. So if I do crack my voice, please laugh.
00:00:28.754 - 00:01:03.520, Speaker A: That's absolutely fine. So I am going to be talking to you about credit, as was just suggested. We've gone through this in a couple of cycles in the past, the way it was done, how we're looking at it now. Is it a good idea? Where are the problems? Normally I go on a full blown rant for about an hour. When someone says a word that's associated with this, the matrix is attacking me and constraining me to 15 minutes so I may cut a bunch of things out. Please tap me on the shoulder. I will talk to you until you are sick of me at the end if you want to chat about it.
00:01:03.520 - 00:01:32.726, Speaker A: So look around you, right? Here we are in this wonderful stadium. None of this would be built if we did not have credit. Rails we have even for events, for parties that you're going to. Deposits go down and then you pay later. Anyone who's suggesting that the fate of a blockchain based economy is that everything should be paid for in credit in full is delusional. It's an engine for growth. It's weird.
00:01:32.726 - 00:02:21.270, Speaker A: My take on Defi has always been that we should be taking the bits that work in the traditional financial system and replicating them on chain. And the most powerful engine that the traditional markets have for growth is fractional reserve banking, which you could consider credit to be. I do think that we need credit mechanisms and base level privacy as the things that we really do need to solve for in the next couple of years if we are going to be taken seriously at all and not just a niche little project. Wind back two years when all of us had money. Although actually, if you look at prices, things still were doing pretty well. Celsius, blockfly, Genesis, they were all around, they were doing absolute gangbusters. Celsius, 25 billion, 10 billion in blockfly.
00:02:21.270 - 00:02:39.102, Speaker A: And they were lending stuff out. You're getting 8% and what have you. And the desire was strong. People were pouring in to deposit, right? That's where the lender side of things comes from. It's the desire to seek risky capital. They will perform their risk reward analysis and go. Here you go.
00:02:39.102 - 00:03:34.674, Speaker A: Fine. In DeFi, we've been inculcated to believe, well, not believe, to follow, know everything needs to be over collateralized, don't trust verify. But we have Aave, we have Euler, we have compound, wonderful, wonderful protocols that allow us to form these things, but they're not lending, they're margin platforms. And yet, CDFI did so well two years ago because it's easier for people to use usernames and passwords for things instead of having to have responsibility for the eoas or safes that they're performing things in. The trusted platform pitch worked really well. People liked the charismatic posts, bullish posts of like, Alex Machinsky and Kurson. And then we got to the middle of last year, and the widowmaker arb closed three ac didn't meet its margin calls, and everyone pulled out of CDFI and went, right, where should we put our money? Here you go, Mr.
00:03:34.674 - 00:03:58.354, Speaker A: Bankman. Freed. And lo and behold, $35 to $45 billion of lender credit evaporated. This is the only meme I have in here. Yeah, I'm assembling a team. Right. The defaulting pages of all of those platforms in the past, these protocols still exist.
00:03:58.354 - 00:04:58.490, Speaker A: There are protocols that will support and enable under collateralized credit already. There's Maple, there's Clearpool, there's solve, there's others like Glendis, ribbon Finance and what have you. The model that they generally use is that they will collect willing capital, that capital that's willing to be deployed off chain or perhaps for market making or trading or what have you, and then put delegates in the middle of it who will perform a risk analysis. They will look for long tail risk or something in the documentation or in the financials that suggests this is what they should be getting or what have you, and they will generally dictate, you should borrow at this capacity, at these rates. And that's what they'll allow. Over three years, we saw $5 billion being extended in credit that way, which is a lot of money. But when you consider the size of the global credit markets, is butter drop in the pond again, like I just said, that's 20% of what Celsius had at any one time in user deposits.
00:04:58.490 - 00:06:02.014, Speaker A: And my thesis, and the reason that I'm wearing this hoodie and this shirt and I'm tired all the time, is because I believe that these existing platforms made it difficult to become a borrower. So people who did want to borrow money, like USDC or wrapped ETH or whatever, were forced to paper it up off chain so that they would sign an agreement. It would get papered away and no one would really know about them until something went wrong, until a margin call went wrong or something unraveled. I do believe that the promise of DeFi is visibility into things. We have June dashboards, we have a series of people who will do nothing but post about any slight deviation from expected behavior. I think the way that you treat credit mechanisms and their visibility on chain, it's a really good way of seeing. Are we overheated in terms of leverage, how is the general health of a market? If people are starting to default on things, this is fine.
00:06:02.014 - 00:06:54.798, Speaker A: If my prop shop melts, I'm not important. The only people that are angry at me are my lps. If a market maker melts, that's a big problem for all of us and might be indicative of rot somewhere else. Like we need to deleverage our systems. I do think we really need to be encouraging as the hotball of institutional money starts rolling in the next cycle, that all these mechanisms we reject CDFI platforms and we start putting things on chain, we should be encouraging them. And so why not invert the model of the on chain credit that already exists, right? You've got a pool of capital and you select who your borrowers are. Why not attempt to bring borrowers on who appear sane and you allow them to create a market parameterized however they want.
00:06:54.798 - 00:07:21.430, Speaker A: I want to borrow a dog with hat. I will pay you 30% interest at it. It's 20% collateralized and I have a week to pay my withdrawal requests, so on and so forth. The promise of DFI is that people are self, they're making their own analyses about what they are doing with their funds. They're being responsible and react. My voice is going, I must apologize. They are interacting with each other as rational actors.
00:07:21.430 - 00:08:08.994, Speaker A: If someone creates a market, that's a desire for credit, that is insane. No one will react with it. I do think there is a potential for if we start driving the desire for credit and its settlement on chain, we do start getting ideas about this is how much risk your big parties in crypto are willing to accept, how much rate, like the rates their exposure. It's straight. We do have some existing stuff that accepts permissionless deposits. I do think the future of credit just because the nature of the trusted bulk of the relationship should be institutional. But yeah, two years ago we didn't really have platforms like KYC registries or being able to geofence on chain.
00:08:08.994 - 00:08:37.486, Speaker A: We do now. So we could do these kinds of things for every market. Make every trading firm, some real world athletic companies, they want to borrow unclateralized. Why would they not? Presuming that they believe that they're able to meet their obligations. But whenever you speak to people, they say, oh, we're really wary about getting credit on chain for several reasons. Right. So the one which I'll talk about a bit more is the legal certainty about settling on chain.
00:08:37.486 - 00:09:14.894, Speaker A: There's the smart contract risk. We have had a torrid couple of years. It is an araborous of us chasing things and repairing them and learning our lessons. We don't have incredible mechanisms yet for really broadcasting the financial health of how much we trust a borrower to make good. We can have some summary statistics, there are some services out there that will allow you to kind of dig into some financials. But beyond that, a lot of it people are working on this, are mechanisms that, oh, trust us, or high level stuff. We need to fix this as well.
00:09:14.894 - 00:10:01.754, Speaker A: And the great paradox of on chain funds is that if you're borrowing from a bank account from Morgan, you can't realistically check every serial number on a note. But if you can look at stuff like USDC on chain, some borrowers will feel an obligation to go, right, where did this go? Is this within eight hops of something that's OFAC sanctioned? And it can be a nearly impossible bar to clear. It really depends on the risk, appetite or the nature of the borrower. And then the nature of credit is that it is a trusted relationship. There is trust involved here, and you do need legal underpinnings. I am not of the belief that we can subvert banks. We don't have to involve credit unions.
00:10:01.754 - 00:10:59.950, Speaker A: But fundamentally, if there is a default, you do need a legal underpinning for this. All of the off chain stuff that exists already, we have master loan agreements. We're working on some stuff that are kind of savvy to the fact that it's on chain that you're settling, that APRs might be liquid, the risk of where things are held. But again, opening the ability to lend to institutions as retail is quite dangerous. I believe if you lend fifty k to someone and they default, it can be really expensive to go through arbitration and a court, and then collection is the hardest bit. But with that said, whether you bring this on chain for visibility and analytics, this is not a problem that blockchain can fix. Blockchain can fix many things, but not this, not the legal aspect of things, much to the chigoring of some coders, law believers.
00:10:59.950 - 00:11:46.574, Speaker A: I've been speaking to many people over the last couple of months who believe that fundamentally, regardless of whether you do this off chain or on chain, there is no desire to lend, but if you consider the capital that is willing to lend as just being I'm looking for yield, I don't care how I get it. It's slightly unfair for me to mention Eigen layer here compared to blast, but there is money sitting around willing to be deployed. If you look at platforms like institutional credit marketplaces like the hidden road platform, they are growing. You can start borrowing tether at like 18.5%, but it has to be fully collateralized. It is going to come back. I've been working on this with Wildcats supported by Wintermute for the last couple of months.
00:11:46.574 - 00:12:24.660, Speaker A: We've deployed recently. While I've been here, I've been having several interesting conversations of people that are looking to start bringing capital on chain to lend to market makers, to l two s to protocols. It's nice to hear this was a twelve minute talk. Basically, if you want me to give you the full hour version of how I think about credit unchained and where it needs to go, I will happily talk to you wildcats there on Twitter and the website. I will be hanging around for the next 2 hours. Please Dm Loondart for points regarding this. Thank you very much everyone.
