00:00:00.330 - 00:00:49.926, Speaker A: You. Hello ETH global Hackers, and welcome to our short video about dxDAO. I'm going to do my best to give you a short overview of dxDAO and the products that we have and the opportunities that may make sense to hack on. So to start with dxDAO brief history, it was launched in 2019 through a collaboration with Gnosis and Dow Stack. The there was an initial staking period, as it was called, where people could lock up tokens to earn initial voting power. In the Dao, the voting power is known as reputation. It's non transferable and that makes dxDAO unique compared to many projects in that, yeah, the voters can't sell their voting power, they have to earn it through making contributions to DX Dow.
00:00:49.926 - 00:02:04.846, Speaker A: So that was at the inception and then the next step that was important for DX Dow was it raised capital by issuing an ERC 20 token called DxD. That happened in the spring of 2020. And over the course of DFI summer, dxdo was able to raise 25,000 Ether, which powers its treasury today and puts the treasury upwards of $50 million, giving Dxdo lots of capital to develop its suite of DFI products. So I'll dive right in and talk a bit about the products that dxDAO is developing and also about how dxDAO has actually taken over its own governance and plans to actually offer these governance tools as a service to the community. No plans to monetize those, but everything that Dxdow does is open source and the governance is very key aspect of what Dxdow does. But I'll start with the product. So there's a prediction market platform called Omen and there's a Dex called Swapper and there's other things in the works, but the only two that are live right now are Swapper and Omen.
00:02:04.846 - 00:03:31.754, Speaker A: So I'll start with Swapper. Swapper is a Dex that's based on a fork of uniswap fee too, with a key modification to the smart contracts that enables the Dow to change both the swap fee on individual pairs and the protocol fee across the board that is fed back into the Dao. So the swap fee is how much the user is paying to the liquidity providers and then the protocol fee is a fraction of that swap fee and the protocol fee is directed back to dxDAO and in the near future to the swapper guild. So guild is what we call sort of a subdao that we're forming around individual products. So swapper would be the first guild to go live for dxDAO and when the guild is ready, dxDAO will transfer ownership of the swapper protocol and of the fees derived from that protocol to the guild itself. And the guild will be governed by the swapper token holders and the swapper token is the ERC 20 and so it has similar to many other projects out there, it'll be governed by the ERC 20 token, which you could potentially buy on the open market in addition to the uniswap V two. At the smart contract level, that's the core.
00:03:31.754 - 00:04:51.706, Speaker A: What the core is based on, you have core contracts, you have periphery contracts which include the router that handles kind of the logic above the individual pairs. In addition to that, TXT has also developed farming contracts and it's referred to DIY farming or do it yourself farming. We call it DIY farming because the user can go to the front end and create farming campaigns with a few clicks of a button. On the smart contract level, any ERC 20 token can be used to stake and any ERC 20 token can be used as the reward token. What is exposed in the UI is the ability to use swapper liquidity provider tokens as the stakeable tokens and then any token as the reward token. So if you're looking to build on top of swapper, you could look at things that might be cool to do around the DIY farming, or you could potentially leverage the liquidity providing tokens that are available from the core smart contracts. A recent development with swapper is the launch of the swapper token and the deployment to the Arbitrum L2.
00:04:51.706 - 00:06:02.518, Speaker A: So that is another area of active development within dxDAO is how to bridge liquidity across chains, how to make that easier in the UI. In addition, there's also a stats website, Dxtats ETH Link, that exposes information about the trading on swapper. So yeah, if you're looking to build upon swapper, those are the kind of elements to think about and how to tie together and where to build on it. The next big product that Dxdo has is Omen, which is a prediction market platform. So again, at the smart contract level, this is based on the conditional token framework by Gnosis. The conditional token framework is very flexible and powerful and allows you to create conditions which have any number of outcomes. So you can ask a question who will be the president? And you could have outcomes candidates using that basic building block.
00:06:02.518 - 00:06:52.810, Speaker A: You can then actually create markets around that. And so what Omen does is it supports two types of outcomes and then allows markets to be built on that. So the two types of questions you can ask are either categorical or scalar. So categorical has discrete outcomes like ABCD, so on, and so you know, Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump will win the election. Those are the discrete categorical outcomes. The other type of question you can ask is one that has a scalar outcome. So this could be like, what will the price of ether be at the end of the month? And the answers could fall within a range such as like two thousand dollars to five thousand dollars.
00:06:52.810 - 00:08:16.118, Speaker A: And so that's why it's called a scalar because the outcome can happen along the scale between the two endpoints, but it is necessary to specify two endpoints. So once you set up the condition, the question with either scalar or categorical outcomes. The other piece of Omen is to have a market that is created around that and Omen will set up its own variety of a fixed product market maker or automated market maker. So very similar to the type of markets that you see on Balancer, which is a generalized version of the markets that you'll see on Uniswap. So constant product markets that can have more than two tokens, all the way up to eight tokens trading within that. And Omen has its own variety of this, where the liquidity is deposited first the Outcome Tokens are minted from the conditional token framework and then all of the Outcome tokens are deposited into the fixed product market maker. So what is trading on the fixed product market maker is not the underlying collateral that was used to enter, but rather the Outcome Tokens which are either ABCD for the categorical markets or long and short for scalar markets.
00:08:16.118 - 00:09:44.002, Speaker A: So yes, scalar markets have tokens as well and they're both long and short and those are the only two that you could have in a scalar market. And then at the front end of Omen on Omen E link, it enables the users to create these markets and to also participate in them in addition to the market and the product, in addition to the conditions and the fixed product. Market maker Omen at the smart contract level also has to deal with how to answer the questions. This is done through Reality ETH which acts as the Oracle. So Reality ETH operates in a pretty simple way of anybody can come and stake on the outcome. So if you think the answer is A, you put down a little bit of stake saying it is A and if somebody disagrees with that answer, they can come and stake on say, Outcome B by providing an increased amount of stake and this game could continue add infinitum. But there is a circuit breaker mechanism for that Oracle answer because if, say, people feel that the answer is trying to be stolen, manipulated by a whale, you can actually spend a certain amount of capital to call the arbitrator.
00:09:44.002 - 00:10:37.880, Speaker A: So it will kick it out of the reality system into the arbitration system to be decided once and for all by the arbitrator itself. Right now the arbitrator is either dxDAO itself and through the governance the voting of dxDAO or using Claros court. So the Kleros token holders, if Claros is used as the arbitrator, would be deciding the outcome when arbitrator is called. So a fairly complex system. The front end also provides some additional functionality including the ability to trade into different collateral tokens such as like Dai into CDI. And the reason to do that is to have an interest bearing collateral token so that while participants are in these prediction markets, their capital is continuing to earn money. Instead of just sitting there locked up in the prediction market doing nothing.
00:10:37.880 - 00:11:49.760, Speaker A: Lots of cool primitives there in Omen, lots of food for thought. If you wanted to try to build something on top of it, something to do with prediction markets, you could think beyond the kind of core pieces and more abstract ways of how to use prediction markets in innovative ways, maybe for governance or helping to inform decisions in other ways. So the final topic I'd like to touch on is Dxdao's governance itself, which in the future could be something used by others. Everything again, is open source. Dxdo adhering very stringently to a strict open source philosophy of everything the front ends Smart contracts being open source and accessible by the public to develop on top of. So I'll explain first the dxDAO governance model and then some of the other things we're doing in addition to that. So, dxDAO itself is governed today by reputation, which I explained earlier is a non transferable token that is earned by making contributions to differing, you know, providing contrast for dxDAO from other liquid token governance models that are more common.
00:11:49.760 - 00:12:55.330, Speaker A: However, dxDAO has this issue now where DxD token holders have no say in governance. So there are plans in dxDAO to develop what we are calling Governance 2.0, which will combine both DxD and rep holders into having the governance power over dxDAO. So the primitives of DxD, the financial token and reputation, the one earned by providing contributions and doing work for dxDAO will remain in place. But what will be added is a new way of calculating governance power that will derive from both DXT held by the governor and their reputation held. And it will require people to have, in order to have voting power, it will require the participant to have both DxD and reputation. So in one way you could think of this as different personas, right? It would support a speculator or investor who would want to just hold the financial token.
00:12:55.330 - 00:14:07.558, Speaker A: It could support a worker who just wants to get their reputation and have recognition for their work in order to build their resume, credit for other things within blockchain. And also, and importantly, it would support a persona that acts as governing the system, right? So this would be somebody who is truly interested in participating governance, not just a speculator, not just a worker, but somebody who has a vested interest, financial interest in the network and has proven their ability to contribute value and on top of that wants to be a governor and participate in voting. That is the core idea around Governance 2.0 for DX Dow itself that is actively being developed for the future. Right now, the existing system is based on the Dow Stack Smart contracts, which uses the reputation. In addition to that core governance power, there's a concept from the Dowstack system known as Holographic Consensus. And what this is useful for is providing a way to filter votes and focus voter attention on issues that needs their attention.
00:14:07.558 - 00:15:40.538, Speaker A: Obviously, there's a lot of smaller things that need to be done on a more frequent basis and some more important decisions that can be really pivotal for the Dao. And in order to enable operations, it's important to only consume the necessary bandwidth from the voters, right? So what Holographic Consensus allows is for proposals to go into what is called a boosted state. And so when participants UpStake, they provide some stake onto proposals, it can go into a boosted state, and when in a boosted state, proposal can pass with only a relative majority, which means only more votes for it than against it. So it could be a relatively small amount of total voting percentage, but as long as more is in favor, a boosted proposal can pass at the end of the boosted period. And so this enables less controversial, less important proposals that are necessary for day to day operations to get passed through the Dao without consuming the entire bandwidth of all the voter participants. So at Txdao, we think the Holographic Consensus system is very important for enabling scalable operations, and that's a key part of the governance that exists today and will continue to exist in Governance 2.01. Key difference though, between the current system and Governance 2.0
00:15:40.538 - 00:16:24.678, Speaker A: is that the current system uses gen as the staking token. So when the user participant is staking on the proposal to say it should get boosted, they're using gen token today. And in the future with Governance 2.0, it will be the DxD token, which is the Dxdo token that is used to do the staking. So that's the Dxdo governance moving towards Governance 2.0, built originally on Dow stack, code named currently DX vote for the one being actively developed by DX Dow. In addition to that, I mentioned earlier that the products will eventually have their own guilds, which will be their own governance system.
00:16:24.678 - 00:17:54.382, Speaker A: So to support the guilds, dxDAO has also developed guild governance contracts which support governance by ERC, 20 tokens, having certain quorum thresholds and et cetera. But that system is a little simpler and does not include Holographic Consensus, doesn't include non transferable voting, but this system will be used for the individual product governance components. Yeah, and with that, I think I've covered the key live elements of the dxDAO ecosystem that could provide hackers like yourself building blocks for the hackathon. And there's a lot of cool stuff that you can start thinking about how to combine these products into each other, how to extend them, how to create efficiencies, whether it's through better governance or deployments of DApps or better. Statistics around the exchanges or the prediction markets, or who knows on what other ways you might be able to combine them to create new products. So if you have any ideas or questions about this, definitely reach out to any of the Dxdow contributors in the ETH global Discord, and hopefully this provides you with some food for thought and an initial idea on how to engage with the dxDAO ecosystem. And, yeah, happy to answer questions myself.
00:17:54.382 - 00:18:05.250, Speaker A: And there's some of other contributors on the discord, so hope you found that informative. And happy hacking, and good luck. Bye.
