00:00:01.880 - 00:00:24.310, Speaker A: Hi everyone. Just a disclaimer. I had a presentation this morning about, actually the other title, what's next for DeFi in terms of yield farming and everything? There will be a bit of overlap with this presentation, but this one is more focused on building those derivatives and how to make that for Defi. So my name is Gaspar P. Luzzi. I'm co founder of AP one protocol. I have a computer science background.
00:00:24.310 - 00:01:21.660, Speaker A: And in 2020, surfing in the DeFi summer, we were thinking with a group of friends that we must build some tool to be able to edge or speculate on the variation of those interest rates because they are crazy volatile and cannot be arbitrage more than moving liquidity directly there. So who there use Defi on a regular basis? Approximately up to you say what's regular? Okay. And we would use DeFi, but like, who is using defi on a regular basis, but apart from liquidity provision? Okay, clicker is not working. I think that was my only slide. Oh, no, actually. So thank you. Yeah, so big question here.
00:01:21.660 - 00:01:59.696, Speaker A: Is defi organic? Like, compared to the volume and liquidity, what is this liquidity used for? And that's a big question because a lot of criticism that we have usually is DeFi is just for yield farming and you don't have real usage. And when you look at this protocol that seems to be used for real usage, looking at how the liquidity is actually used a few steps away is actually usually for yield farming. So the question is actually a very legit one. The purpose of this talk is to say that to make DeFi used, we need to be. It's still not working though. Okay. It just delays.
00:01:59.696 - 00:02:28.270, Speaker A: We need to make it practicable. Practicable in terms of interest rates, we had a lot of reserve. Not here in DeFi, resolute, not your intrafi. We had so many news about interest rates in the last year, so many things with span, I'll actually go through different use cases and like corporate cases. But even in DeFi, we had extremely volatile of interest rates. I mean, like, imagine that you're borrowing USDC at 2% and someday it jumped up to 80%. It's crazy volatile.
00:02:28.270 - 00:03:06.254, Speaker A: And you cannot have that kind of volatility if you're actually intending to use that finance in an organic way, because those costs need to be controlled and you need to have more certainty about the revenues as well. And that's where interest rate derivatives come into play. Interest rate derivatives, when we explain what we're doing to people, they think it's very niche, but it's actually not niche, it's actually at the roots of finance. Because interest rates is the time value of money, the price of liquidity. And every defi protocol needs liquidity to function. Every businesses handle their cash flow in a way that can make their activity profitable. That's the basis of finance.
00:03:06.254 - 00:03:44.032, Speaker A: Most of the big companies use, on a daily basis, interest rate derivatives, to be able to do what they do. You, when you go to a bank and do, for example, a loan at a fixed rate, eventually somewhere else, there will be interest rate derivatives involved. And that's needed, because you are evolving in an economy where interest rates are going, and you need to hedge yourself against those. And the same with Defi occurs. You need liquidity. For some things, you need to be able to control those costs. What is interest rate derivatives? It's basically instruments that allows you to manipulate the value of, like the value change of interest rates.
00:03:44.032 - 00:04:14.604, Speaker A: It can be options, swaps, futures. You may have heard of bonds, for example. All those are instruments you can use, and they are basically two sides. Here. You can speculate, volatility means interest, or traders, you can speculate on those variations, it's very volatile. Or you can edge yourself against those, because you're just a passive user, and you want to take a loan and you don't want to get exposed to that, or you want to control your revenues as well, because based on that, you can control your equity. It's the biggest market in traditional finance.
00:04:14.604 - 00:05:02.936, Speaker A: A case study, maybe a lot of us had a cold, like a cold times during a weekend, where we were thinking that maybe USDC was dependent, not necessarily because you had USDC, but also because maybe you were exposed to something that had USDC. And eventually the domino's effect, the contagion is pretty high. And that contagion initially happened because one bank was defaulting. Why was it defaulting? Because that bank invested in bonds where the maturity was in average too long compared to their liquidity need. So to decompose a bit that a treasury bond is basically a dollar that you buy, that is locked until an expiry. So the dollar that you will be able to have at the next expiry. So it can be three months, six months, way longer.
00:05:02.936 - 00:05:39.226, Speaker A: And the longer, the longer, the most far the expiry is the biggest. The discount on the dollar is because that basically represents an opportunity cost on what you can do with that liquidity. So you can buy bonds, sell bonds. And bonds are like the basis, the most basic instrument reserve bond of the whole economy. It's a bit like stake east, for example. If you're building a protocol that gives you an API and east that is less than what you can have with Ethereum staking, it's probably not very profitable because that's the basic activity that you can have. Same thing with treasure bonds.
00:05:39.226 - 00:06:10.824, Speaker A: So that's something that banks, for example, invest a lot their liquidity on. And of course when a lot of people want liquidity back, either they have the liquidity available or they need to sell those bonds back. And given that interest rates rose a lot, they were selling this bond at an inferior price than what they had initially. And so hence the loss and the default. And so that replicated into circle not having the liquidity maybe for the USDC and then the whole economy. The domain effect of interest rate is huge. And I think this year was a great example for that.
00:06:10.824 - 00:06:50.378, Speaker A: You can also have happy cases with interest rates. For example, Teeser, they made a lot of money investing in shopping short term bonds. They didn't have liquidity issue and they made a lot of profit from that. And the example that I showed initially with the bank that shorted interest rates, they also made almost 4 billion doing that. Okay, the signs are a bit weird, but now DeFi, how do we do that? DeFi, because it's great to have treasury bonds, international finance, but we want to have those products for DeFi protocols for all our pools on lots of different assets. And we need to have that in permissionless way. So with time came standard, like 4.66,
00:06:50.378 - 00:07:28.350, Speaker A: the volt standard, which can be defined as a layer on top of which you can build derivatives. And that's basically what we did two years ago with APY. We said, well, if we have an interest bringing asset, we can basically split it in two. We set an expiry and we set the principle from the yield again. And then the principle is basically a bond is the locked underlying that you deposited until the expiry. And the yield token on the other way around is actually all the yield that will be generated by this interest bring token that the holder can redeem progressively. It's very simple, but with the veto that we built, you can do that on a permissionless way.
00:07:28.350 - 00:08:07.754, Speaker A: So anyone can select an interest bearing token, select a duration and tokenize and create a pool for that. And so people can create bonds and trade yield independently. Once you have that, you can build very simple products, not crazy derivatives, but also just fixed income product. People can now buy locked ease until a fixed duration. We had like a lot of food with the stake ease and the restraining queue and everything. We actually had a discount during sometimes on the stake ease because people were speculating well, I prefer to sit, I may stake east at a discount because I don't know when I will be able to get it back. Well, bonds are operating more or less the same way.
00:08:07.754 - 00:09:17.524, Speaker A: It's also extremely good collaterals because for a lot of protocols that need liquidity at an expiry they can do just like the banks in the previous example, they can buy asset at the discount because it will be unlocked at the defined expiry. So it's fixed income product because you sell yield and recreated layer two marketplace for that, meaning that actually you're generating interest on AAVE. Let's say you deposited a million dollar on AAVE, you have quite irregular revenues because of that. You can say, well actually I need to use the yield already. Now I will sell q one and q two of my future yield. You go into yield marketplace and if you click you can sell your interest, your future interest over two quarters, for example, just one click, sorry, that's selling in advance. Basically know what you earn kind of parity that makes the ecosystem as a whole way more practicable because then you have also the other side, you want to take a loan, you think the interest rate will go in like real estate between the margin, but you cannot afford to have a liquidity crisis, an interest rate interest rate going way too up and then your position gets liquidated and anything.
00:09:17.524 - 00:10:27.102, Speaker A: So that's also something that building a layer of derivatives on top of existing lending market, we can bring this primitive tokenize it, creating a marketplace for it, and then people can trade directly to interest. And so you as a borrower, you can actually have fixed rate lending in a way more efficient and permissionless manner, which you cannot do if you integrate that at the lowest level like AAVE is doing, for example. So we build on top of AAVE and then eventually that's how interest rate derivatives are progressively making the ecosystem more efficient. Why? Because if you look at AavE for example, again, you have a huge spread between lending and borrowers, then you have another protocol coming on top, morpho doing peer to peer matching, then you don't have any spread and then you have AP wine being built on top of morpho that allows you to trade those interest rates and to fix them, swapping variable against fixed, whether you're a lender or borrower. And that allows us to do a lot of market arbitrage because a lot of time you can see on different lsds on different protocols for the same asset. You have a lot of variation between interest rates and those derivatives. Also allows you to take leverage exposure on those.
00:10:27.102 - 00:10:46.938, Speaker A: So reduce like improving the arbitrage by quite an important factor. Thank you. If you have any question, I'll be more than happy to answer them. As I mentioned, APwan exists since 2020. We worked on the v two since 1.5 years. And that will allow you it will be fully open this month.
00:10:46.938 - 00:11:04.034, Speaker A: I can already send beta invite to anyone that wants some and you can integrate that into any protocols, any pools, in a very, very easy information way. Thank you. Yes.
00:11:10.654 - 00:11:46.122, Speaker B: Thank you. Great presentation. I have just quick questions about the users actually. How are you thinking about who is going to use it? Because even the base, plain vanilla slopes for interest rates are basically used by institutional investors, right. Usually inter bank transactions and this just feel more like retail usage. So how are you thinking about your customers and what is the overall traction of the project? Thanks.
00:11:46.298 - 00:11:49.426, Speaker A: So do you mean how do we get institutions or.
00:11:49.570 - 00:12:24.222, Speaker B: No, I mean who is actually going to use it for institutional investors? They already have solution, right? They use it on daily basis. So if you want to have institutional crypto investors. Yeah, I'm just trying to figure out what is the market, how big is the market and who is actually going to use it because it seems, I don't know from outside, a bit complicated. And I think in the treadfi world you already have solution for that. I'm just like, you know, trying to figure out like of course, you know.
00:12:24.398 - 00:13:05.804, Speaker A: Thank you very much for the question. There are actually two aspects, two different answer to that. The first one in terms of current user base. It's also a question for the whole defi, right? Like who is currently using DeFi and the current tools that you have available there fixed income product are actually very simple by their use. Even without having those protocol existing for that, people were making speculation, as I explained, for example, for stake east. So those products are very easy to be used. But the current retail defi user base that has a very diverse spectrum of financial knowledge and necessarily like a very advanced one still for those user categories, we're building this simple interface, simple product.
00:13:05.804 - 00:13:31.298, Speaker A: We already had interest for that in Obi Wan. We currently have like it's easier to write now, but it's mostly, let's say bonds and people that want to speculate a bit on the version of those interest rates. And that's even the case with the current user base. Now there are like two different other users. The protocols, most of the liquidity usually of Defi protocols come from other DeFi protocols. And that's the same with Apyne. Those derivatives, they make extremely good collaterals.
00:13:31.298 - 00:13:57.218, Speaker A: That's why we choose the tokenization approach and the layer approach. So we prefer to be at a lower level and be integrated as collateral in other protocol. So that's another answer. And bringing the two first into perspective. Once you have actually all those layers of protocols, and once you have interest rate derivatives, that's where you start to be efficient. That's where you start to be efficient and even really more efficient at Trustfi. And that's where you can have those other actors.
00:13:57.218 - 00:14:49.062, Speaker A: And the current challenge for Defi, in my opinion, is actually to be relevant for those people that can have access to maybe product with higher efficiency, but that comes with different layers, different products. And it's not just a liquidity issue, because, you know, if you have less liquidity to handle, it's actually easier to make it efficient in some ways. So it's not just a liquidity issue, it's that layer approach where you have more foe. Because even for institutional actors, why would you want to play with a lending market that have like one person spread between lending and borrowing? That's huge, that doesn't exist finance. So you need this product to arrive. And interest rate derivatives, I think in my opinion, the next step to make the ecosystem more practicable, because you can actually have control over what you earn and what you spend. That was like very easy to understand concept, but immediately that's what makes it practicable for the bigger sectors as well.
00:14:49.062 - 00:15:04.434, Speaker A: So still today, a lot of DeFi is not organic, but interest rate derivatives will make it so. All right, thank you.
