00:00:00.480 - 00:00:40.790, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 29 April 2021. Alright everyone, another great 24 hours to be in the ethereum ecosystem, all time high on ETH USD at 2800, I think, at time of recording. And the ETH BTC ratio is back above 0.05 for the first time in a very long time. The last time it was there was August of 2018, but that was when the price was actually dumping against bitcoin, obviously, because it was the bear market. But during like an uptrend, the last time it was kind of at that level, I think was, was early 2018 and then before that, obviously mid 2017.
00:00:40.790 - 00:01:16.310, Speaker A: And, you know, people talking about the flippening and things like that again, and I'm abstaining from talking about the flippening at all on Twitter because then I reckon the second I tweet about the flippening, the ratio is just going to dump. And I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to curse us with that. But, you know, I put out this tweet today because I was thinking about, and I'm like, this just feels so inevitable to me. It has always felt inevitable to me that, that ETH would gain, you know, much more on, on bitcoin eventually. And I think the only reason why it didn't do it sooner was because of all the kind of news that came out for bitcoin. Like, I remember when the ratio went back above 0.04,
00:01:16.310 - 00:01:52.792, Speaker A: the last time the news came out that Tesla has bought BTC. So obviously, like all, you know, everyone just plowed into BTC and the ratio kind of went down from there to have like a reset in the markets. But, you know, as we approach things like EIP 1559 in July and the, the merger, the, the ETH one to ETH two merger, it just becomes too hard for people to ignore it anymore. And I put out this tweet where I said the fundamental value drivers for Ethereum and ETH were set in motion a long time ago. Only now is the world finally waking up to them and accepting the inevitability of Ethereum. Cheers to those who had the foresight and conviction from early on. You now get to reap their spoils here.
00:01:52.792 - 00:02:15.346, Speaker A: And you do. I mean, what I mean by this is ERP 1559 was set in motion in 2019, right, in April of 2019, when the ERP was first published. And since then, if you had been in the know. Yes, it took longer to kind of come out than we thought it would. But if you'd been following along, you had conviction because of that. That was just one reason, right? Proof of stake. You knew proof of stake.
00:02:15.346 - 00:03:00.448, Speaker A: If you were in a theorem, you knew that it was, it was making progress and it was gonna launch, you know, sooner rather than later. But if you were outside the ecosystem or if you were not paying close attention, you believed the Fud, right? You believed the misinformation or the disinformation that it was not coming out ever, and that Ethereum would never launch. Proof of stake now with the merge coming up, I mean, we've known about the merge for a long time in the Ethereum ecosystem because that was the next logical step once we had launched the beacon chain. And people will tell you, right? Like some people will tell you, oh, it was never going to happen. And then people didn't understand that the issuance would drop by, like 90%, which was also known for a long time. I mean, Eric and I made the ETH hub page with the ETH two economics a long, long time ago. Like, the ETH price was under dollar 200 when we made that page, and it has not changed since then.
00:03:00.448 - 00:03:47.722, Speaker A: And it was just very easy to kind of look at that and be like, okay, well, once this happens, you know, the ETH issuance is dropping 90%. So those two major factors that the market is now seemingly beginning to price in have been known for so long, which is always hilarious to me, and this is why I don't believe in the efficient market hypothesis. It is total bullshit. Because the efficient market hypothesis assumes that every market participant has the same amount of knowledge, right? Has. And that the market pretty much knows, you know, the kind of like, I guess the market's run by people, and it assumes that the people are kind of, like, on the same page about everything, which I always thought was stupid because they're not, you know, not just within the crypto ecosystem itself, but think about all the new people coming in now, and a lot of you might be new to the ecosystem. You didn't know about 1559 until you came into it. You didn't know about proof of stake.
00:03:47.722 - 00:04:35.354, Speaker A: You know, even if you knew about it, maybe you didn't even understand it until recently, right? It takes some time to digest this stuff, but this is the reason why if you're early, right, and you can see this and you have conviction and you have the foresight, you're greatly rewarded for it. And all of my friends like that that sat through the bear market and kept buying. Ethan, like, held on to the ETH because they knew what was coming. You know, they're all, they're all pretty much like financially independent now. So, like, if you have the foresight and conviction to do this, you do very well in investing in general and all that isn't to say this is investment advice or anything like that, but I've always taken the long term outlook look on everything personally. And I've always, you know, suggested that people to do that if they want to kind of play in these markets because this is what, this is the reward you get for having long term conviction. And now, don't get me wrong, this wasn't a sure thing.
00:04:35.354 - 00:05:20.566, Speaker A: Right? There was no certainty here. It was a calculated bet that you made and you had faith and you had conviction that all of this stuff was going to get delivered. I never once kind of like, I guess, faulted in thinking that, I guess, proof of stake was going to be delivered. With 1559, it was a little bit touch and go there for a while where it was like, you know, this isn't making as much progress as we would want. But then, you know, Tim Baiko came on board as the champion and he really pushed it along and that happened a while ago now. And he really, really pushed it along and he kind of, like made it into reality. So if you kind of, like, we're following that and the core developments and stuff and listening to, you know, even before I started this YouTube show, listening to Eric and I on the ETH up weekly podcast, weekly recap podcast, we spoke about all of this on there as well.
00:05:20.566 - 00:06:01.110, Speaker A: So as long as you had been paying attention, you knew, you know, what was coming, what was changing, and kind of like, I think it's so powerful and I think that the, the early believers really do deserve it at the end of the day for, for having that conviction. So, yeah, and I hope, I hope some of you listening to this or most of you listening and watching this are part of that cohort. Right? And that's not to say that, like, you know, I believe, like, buying now is buying too late or whatever. Like, obviously I gave kind of my prediction the other day that I think ETH would go to $100,000 sooner rather than later based on a bunch of fundamental drivers. I still think that I still haven't sold any ETH and I'm still not planning to sell any ETH. I just, I can't bring myself to do it. Like, it's just, it's insane.
00:06:01.110 - 00:06:36.238, Speaker A: Like, ETH should be worth a trillion dollars already. It's worth, what, 320 billion today? It should already be worth a trillion in my mind, given how much value there is being kind of like generated and the potential for growth. And, you know, I won't, I won't go through the bull case again, but I think always just looking back and, you know, in hindsight, it might be obvious to say, oh, well, you know, looking back now, you know, all those things were obvious price drivers. It's like, well, you know, at the time, they weren't. At the time, it required faith and conviction. And if you were kind of like, you know, clued in enough and plugged in enough to the ecosystem, you got to kind of reap the rewards here. So, yeah, anyway, I'll leave it at that.
00:06:36.238 - 00:07:25.410, Speaker A: There's another tweet I wanted to go over. Got to do, I guess, with price was, well, I mean, Santiago, as I said, I talk about him every day at this point, but he put out this tweet. That's a screenshot of JP Morgan report, same one I spoke about yesterday. But I didn't read out this quote. And the quote from JP Morgan basically states, BTC is more of a crypto commodity than currency and competes with gold as a store of value, whereas ETH is the backbone of the crypto native economy. To the extent earning a share of the potential activity is more valuable, ETH should outperform BTC over the long run. It's wild to see JP Morgan say this, because this is like the bull case for Ethereum, is that ETH not only is a superset of BTC, where it actually does what BTC does, but better, but it also has the utility to back it up, which is like a massive price driver or a value driver, besides just being golden store of value.
00:07:25.410 - 00:08:16.538, Speaker A: I actually think Bitcoin has made the critical mistake of paying themselves into a corner by limiting BTC just to digital gold that has a ceiling on it in my mind, that is always going to get compared to other stores of value like gold or kind of like things like that. I don't think they dreamt big enough at all. I think they put a cap on it and they'll say, you know, oh, well, you know, bitcoin is like 100,000 times better than gold, so it's going to be worth 100,000 times better, more. And then to that I say, well, ETH is 100 times at least better than BTC in my mind. It has a better monetary policy, it has better value accrual drivers from utility and it just, it's an all round better asset and ecosystem. And ethereum social layer isn't broken, I believe bitcoin social layer is broken, um, beyond repair, to be honest, whereas Ethereum's isn't at this stage. Maybe it does in the future, but I don't see it at this stage.
00:08:16.538 - 00:08:50.914, Speaker A: So from that point of view, I believe, and have always believed in the flippening, and I'm not going to, you know, I'm not going to talk about it. It may not even happen on this run for ETH, right? But I believe that it would inevitably happen because of the fact that ETH, as JP Morgan puts it here, is the backbone of the crypto native economy, and on top of that is going to be the backbone of the entire economy one day. I truly, truly believe that. That's where my conviction comes from. So that's why I keep stacking, right? Even at these prices, who cares? Like, this is, this is still cheap beef to me. Keep stacking, keep holding. You know, if you need to take profits, it's fine.
00:08:50.914 - 00:09:44.746, Speaker A: Like, everyone should be taking profits if they have their own personal sell goals, and you shouldn't be moving your targets too much. At the end of the day, everyone's in their own individual position, right? And, you know, if you, if you kind of like want to buy something nice for yourself or, or, you know, depending on how much money you made, buy a car, buy a house, whatever, no one's going to blame you for that. I'm not going to blame you for that. I think there was a thing in the, in the bitcoin community where they actually shame people for selling BTC, which I always thought was, was beyond stupid. I'm not going to shame anyone for selling ETH. That's just dumb. But if you do sell, and you, and you sell to cash and you just want to sit on cash, well, you have the option of yield farming in Defi, right? You don't have to go to fiat, just put it in a yield farm, like, as long as you're comfortable with the risks, of course, but, you know, and start earning an outsized yield on your USD, which is, which is also awesome, because maybe you just want to de risk, right? Maybe you just want to take some profits, take profits to stable coins, yield farming ETH, right? You don't have to leave Ethereum anymore, which is awesome.
00:09:44.746 - 00:10:21.490, Speaker A: And which is my main driving thesis behind why I think we're not going to get another two year bear market is because the utility is too great. The utility is greater than the, I guess, you know, downward pressure and forces that will be placed on the crypto markets eventually. And that, that means we'll, in my mind, get a faster recovery in a downtrend rather than two year bear market. I just, I can't see that happen. But anyway, living at that with the price talk for today, I do want to mention that. I mean, I guess last thing on the price, because the price has gone up so much, the Ethereum foundation now has $1.2 billion worth of a war chest here.
00:10:21.490 - 00:10:41.672, Speaker A: This is insane. And they only have 430,000 ETH, which is a tiny portion of the supply. It's like 0.3% of the supply. And obviously, they had more, more than that back in the day. But since 2015, they've been spending this ETH for developments. And obviously, ETH was worth, like between one and $10 for a long time as well there during the early days, which required a lot of spending.
00:10:41.672 - 00:11:14.262, Speaker A: So the fact that they've still got $1.2 billion is quite cool. But at the same time, as, as Joseph DeLong and I kind of pointed out here in the comments, he says, if only they deploy it for core devs. And then I followed up and said, I do also wish they were much more aggressive with how they spend this money. And yes, the core devs should be getting a healthy chunk of it. I mean, yeah, I feel like sitting on $1.2 billion in is, you know, I know you can't throw money at a lot of these problems to speed up the development, but I think that the Ethereum foundation could be doing more with this money to, you know, to be honest.
00:11:14.262 - 00:11:58.296, Speaker A: And, you know, I remember actually back in the bear market talking to people, and they all, and some of them were like, you know, why does ETH need to go up in value? Who cares? Like, it's fine, we can keep building things. And it's like, okay, well, I mean, this should be obvious, but let me, let me spell it out for you. Essentially, if the Ethereum foundation has 430,000 ETH, right, which they do currently, every time the ETH price goes up by just $1, the Ethereum foundation now has $430,000 more to spend, right, to allocate, to keep in their war chest and spend later, so to speak. So that when I, when I put it like that to these sorts of people, it clicked for them. They're like, oh, okay, that really makes sense. I'm like, well, yeah, of course it makes sense. Like, I don't I don't understand how it can't.
00:11:58.296 - 00:12:25.372, Speaker A: But anyway, some people need that kind of analogy. But, you know, and at this point in time, I mean, I'm glad that the Ethereum foundation has this war chest, but they need to be more aggressively spending it. I don't like seeing $1.2 billion worth of ETH kind of sitting here when it could be going towards like a bunch of other kind of things. And don't get me wrong, the ethereum foundation already employs, I mean, they don't technically employ anyone. It's all contractors, I think. But, you know, they are, they basically already pay out a lot of money to, to, you know, to have these people on board.
00:12:25.372 - 00:13:03.246, Speaker A: Obviously, a lot of the core developments done through there and stuff like that, they give out grants and they find a bunch of different things. They've been funding git coin grants and stuff, too. So that's fine. But from that, from this, from the perspective where I'm sitting right now, it's like, okay, well, do you need to, if just burn, just burn through this money. Like, just, I mean, don't throw it at the, the wrong things, but, like, spend more of it because the more you spend, the more bank fuel kind of like buck you get, so to speak. Um, but yeah, still, still cool to see that this is like this. Because, I mean, you think about it, back in the day, the Ethereum foundation, when the, like, when they were first starting out, um, what ended up happening was the Ethereum crowd sale was done in for BTC.
00:13:03.246 - 00:13:38.530, Speaker A: So they raised BTC, and then BTC's price halved, it halved, and they didn't sell anything because ETH wasn't live yet. So essentially they had half of it and they almost went broke. And then the, you know, the network went live and eat, got a price, and then the market recovered. BTSD started going up again, eats started going up again. But then Vitalik had the foresight at the end of 2017 to de risk here. So he ended up selling a huge chunk of the Ethereum Foundation's ETH for about $80 million end of 2017, before the market turned down. So I think he learned from the early days there, which was cool.
00:13:38.530 - 00:14:25.500, Speaker A: So, yeah, they have fiat reserves, they have obviously, this massive ETH war chest here. I just, yeah, I hope to see them kind of, like, continue to spend this, make sure you don't sit on it like a dragon hoarding its gold, so to speak. But, yeah, I'll leave it at that for now. So diversify have launched a new feature today called Defi pooling. You can basically lend into DeFi protocols directly from within L2 instantly, privately, and with zero gas fees. So compound C USD is first on the menu here. So basically, I guess how this works is that you'll be able to buy like C USD or, sorry, you're able to supply to compound here and then diversify will kind of handle it all in the background for you and issue you that C USDC USDT or, you know, other compound assets will be supported here.
00:14:25.500 - 00:14:56.106, Speaker A: This is what we need going forward. And this is why I think that people who said stuff like our fragmented liquidity is going to kill L2s were completely dead wrong because we're already mostly solving this fragmented liquidity problem through a number of different means. I've spoken about how starkware have their Caspian Amm going live where you can actually harness l one liquidity. At l two, diversify is built on starkware and they're doing, and they're using this technology to power their L2 exchange here. But they're not just an exchange anymore. They're also letting you go into defi protocols. Right.
00:14:56.106 - 00:15:23.900, Speaker A: I spoke about yesterday how we have batched onboarding and kind of like batched L2 stuff going on with, with seller network and stuff like that, connects networks, doing bridges between them. I just, I always thought the alt two fragments of liquidity argument was so, was so dumb. And then I always kind of saw people shilling some other chain and being like, oh, well, this chain scales at layer one. We'll just use this. It's like, well, okay, so instead of L2, fragmented liquidity, we now have layer one, fragmented liquidity. Okay, you've solved the problem. It's.
00:15:23.900 - 00:16:01.452, Speaker A: It's so stupid. There was always going to be bridges between every layer to every chain, right? Every exchange, all of these kind of things, it's just going to be bridges. And I think the bridges are going to accrue a lot of the value too, because they're going to be able to essentially capture the value transfer from, I guess, like a lot of these other chains and a lot of exchanges and things like that. So that's something that I've been bullish on for quite a while, but, yeah, great to see more innovation coming out of diversify here. One of my favorite apps on Ethereum, just been quietly building for a while and, you know, building on L2. Layer two exchange. Kind of like what loopring has been doing, but diversify is building on starkware, whereas loopring is using its own technology.
00:16:01.452 - 00:16:48.168, Speaker A: So, yeah, good to see the differentiators there, but really cool release from diversify today. So Coindesk put out an article where they announced that the asset manager, Wisdom Tree, which I think is a pretty big asset manager, has listed its Ethereum exchange traded product on the Deutsche Boys Boise extra market in Frankfurt and the swiss stock exchange in Zurich. So an exchange traded product is essentially, I think, the EU version of, or I guess, like, maybe not the EU version, but like the, the, the swiss version of, of an ETF, I believe, or the german or swiss version of ETF's, I believe. I may be wrong, and someone correct me in the comments if I am here, but essentially. Okay. And they've also got, like, an application to list a bitcoin ETF in the US. That's, that's, that's good to know, too.
00:16:48.168 - 00:17:31.874, Speaker A: But, yeah, I mean, this is just more institutional ETH products going live. And, you know, I've been thinking about it lately enough. I've spoken to a few people about this. I think this current ETH rally and the ETH rally over maybe the last, least, the last few weeks is more and more institutional driven now because institutions, they have been underweight, I think, on ETH because they, I think for a time, they were just like, allocating to BTC and being like, okay, well, you know, let's see if ETH proves itself. Let's see if outperforms bitcoin, but also regulatory stuff as well. They had to get the sign off there, and the products probably weren't there for them, too. So I think from that perspective, a lot of people have been underexposed to eat, and that's why we're seeing the ETH price kind of like, I guess, go up like it is right now.
00:17:31.874 - 00:18:03.952, Speaker A: And, you know, I saw a tweet before that was saying that the price is rising slowly right now, but that's because the buyers don't want to, you know, people want to buy, but they're trying to buy at the cheapest price they can. Like, no one wants to kind of like, buy and kind of like, pump the ETH price up too much because then they miss out on cheaper ethnic. So, yeah, I kind of believe that institutions are a party that will, that will kind of do that as well. And institutions will also only trade during business hours. They're not going to trade on weekends or anything like that because they can't. Because they can't access how they can't access these products and things like that. They have to go through regulated trading venues.
00:18:03.952 - 00:18:53.700, Speaker A: So from that perspective, you kind of like, I guess, look at that and you're like, okay, well, I'm looking forward to seeing Q two earnings reports for public companies, because maybe one or two of them have bought ETH. We'll have to see. But, yeah, great to see more, I guess, institutional support coming for ETH, and great to see, I guess, like this, this ethereum exchange traded product going live on traditional finance exchange here. So Tom Schmidt has been monitoring metamask swap daily active users and volumes. So he put out this first tweet on February 10 where he said metamask was printing $170,000 a day in fees. Now, he put out an update here saying that their daily active users are up three times and volumes and revenues are up two times. So they're making $400,000 a day in fees, which is absolutely incredible.
00:18:53.700 - 00:19:25.662, Speaker A: Right. That is what I mean. If you, if you annualize that out at 365 days and 400k, you know, I'm gonna do head math right now. Forgive me for getting this wrong, but like $180 million, or probably less than that, a year for swap fees. And that's pure profit, right? Because what metamask swap does, it's basically a button. In metamask, you click, and it aggregates a bunch of other kind of decentralized exchanges and other aggregators, and it also layers on a 0.8% fee on top of that.
00:19:25.662 - 00:19:47.416, Speaker A: So, you know, and people were saying, oh, you know, people, no one's going to use this because the fees are too high. It's like, well, that's not the product for you. This product is for newer people, really, for people who just want the convenience that they don't know how to use dexs and stuff like that yet. So they just use this swap feature. So that's why metamask is absolutely printing money right now for the team. And they're profitable. Like extremely profitable.
00:19:47.416 - 00:20:14.358, Speaker A: Now, do I think this is going to lead to them issuing a token? Maybe they don't need to, though. I remember I said, like a few months ago that I gave like an almost hundred percent certainty that they would issue a token. But I underestimated how much money they would be printing from fees here. So I think that maybe this, they might still issue a token, but I don't think it's necessary. Like, why would they issue a token? It's like a liability. They're making a shit ton of money anyway. Maybe they want to decentralize metamask out.
00:20:14.358 - 00:20:24.214, Speaker A: But I don't know. I mean, we'll see. I don't know. They just. They're printing cash. I don't see a reason for them to do it, but they may just do it because that's what you do in crypto. We'll have to keep an eye on that.
00:20:24.214 - 00:21:04.688, Speaker A: But, yeah, I wouldn't say it's 100% certainty anymore. It's probably like a coin toss at this stage, whether they do it or not. So gnosis announced yesterday that they've launched gnosis protocol v two, and they've launched something called Cow swap in partnership with a balancer. So what cow swap does is it essentially allows you to protect your trades from Mev and save up to 90% of the gas costs on your trades. Now, the reason why it's called cow swap is because it's the cow stands for coincidence of wants, which is a concept of essentially, they explained it here. It's an economic phenomenon where two parties each hold an item the other wants, so they exchange these items directly. So this is what cowswap does.
00:21:04.688 - 00:21:28.294, Speaker A: It essentially leverages batch auctions, and then trades can be matched against each other by doing this, which means there's zero exposure to mev and fees. Right. The fees. That fees are quite, quite a bit lower as well, because users submit their orders off chain. No more gas costs or any failed transactions here. Now, this is really cool. I mean, Mev has been the hottest topic over the last, I guess, like, couple of months in, in the ethereum ecosystem.
00:21:28.294 - 00:21:54.910, Speaker A: And a lot of people have been talking about, okay, well, how do we kind of, like, make, make the MeV, you know, flow back to ETH holders and that we do that through 1559. But Mev, we want to solve. Right. We want to make sure that we can, you know, remove a lot of the negative externalities of this and protect users from MeV. There's multiple ways we do this. Justin Drake speaks about, speaks a lot about this on his podcast with bankless, which I highly recommend going and listening to. I think he's done three now.
00:21:54.910 - 00:22:17.046, Speaker A: Yeah, the other one came out yesterday. Sorry, a new one came out yesterday. But, you know, we need to kind of, like, make sure that MeV as a concept is, is kind of mitigated, or MeV is like, in practice as well. He's mitigated because it's. It's really just taking value away from users at the end of the day, and users are the ones losing here, and it's very toxic. So how we do that is things like cow swap. Right.
00:22:17.046 - 00:22:49.124, Speaker A: AIP 1559, mitigate some MeV, I believe last time I checked. And, and also there's a bunch of crypto economic things you can do, you know, random transaction ordering, stuff like that. But that's gonna take more time to get there. So I'm just really excited to see more Mev minimization techniques go live. I think there was another exchange recently a keep it. That's right, keep a Dow keeper Dao arms Archer protocol. There's a bunch of them right now, they just need adoption at the end of the day because pretty much like a lot of the MeV happens.
00:22:49.124 - 00:23:18.930, Speaker A: Most of the MEV happens between decentralized exchange trading and when you look at the, the dominance of decentralized exchanges right now it's mostly uniswap. So these things will only I get adoption. I think maybe once uniswap kind of joins the fray here and maybe routes users to it or it just like takes a while to get there because most people aren't going to be using kind of cow swap, right? They're going to be using Uniswap because Uniswap has the brand and everything like that. But still. Good to see this. And I guess congrats to Gnosis on releasing v two of their protocol. Gnosis has been around for a very long time.
00:23:18.930 - 00:24:09.870, Speaker A: Very ethereum aligned team. Love what they're building here and keep, and I hope they keep up the good work with all these innovative products. So Ali put out this really great tweet today that I wrote about in my newsletter. But basically the tweet says ethereum is winning because it's been focusing on the right things. BLS aggregation data availability, proof of stake, zero knowledge or ZK sharding out L2 minimum viable issuance imperative programming model. And then he goes on to say he or she, I don't actually know, um, stop whining about maximalism and do useful work for a change, you low float marketing addled piece of number go up junk. I thought that was quite funny because low float marketing adult piece of number go up junk was referring to a lot of these other kind of chains that are launching with very low circulating supplies because they're full of VC's and oh my God, this the first tweet here.
00:24:09.870 - 00:24:26.966, Speaker A: BNB will flip your ETH. It's so so dumb. Anyway, I want to focus on the tweet now. This is so true. Ethereum has chosen the right things to focus on for years now. It has not taken shortcuts to get there. Proof of stake took so long to get to ship because we didn't take shortcuts.
00:24:26.966 - 00:24:56.266, Speaker A: We wanted to do it right. We wanted to deliver something that has lasting value, that will last for centuries, that will not be, you know, that will not be taken down by nation states sharding. We want to get right, and we want to do it. We want to do it in a safe way. Layer two, we want to get right because we want to be able to scale Ethereum while inheriting its security properties. Essentially, L2, at its very core, should just do one thing very well, and that's increase the available block space on Ethereum, right? Increase the available kind of throughput, because that's what users care about. Data availability is also a big issue.
00:24:56.266 - 00:25:25.822, Speaker A: I read about this in the deli Gray newsletter the other day. It's an open research topic. And BLS aggregation is actually one of the key technical breakthroughs that proof of stake uses in Ethereum. And that's what allows us to get to hundreds of thousands of validators. And BLS aggregation was actually one of the things that took the longest, I believe, to get right. And that's why it took, you know, a considerable amount of time, one of the reasons why it took a considerable amount of time to get proof of stake. And then he says, here, he or she, sorry, says minimum viable issuance, which is Ethereum's monetary policy.
00:25:25.822 - 00:25:50.178, Speaker A: So Arp 1559 and perpetual issuance. That took a while to kind of, I guess no one kind of centrally planned it. The community planned it. The community came together and kind of like came up with that. So that took a while to get there. And on that note as well, I have had this prevailing kind of like, thought for a while now. And it's been like, I guess a couple of years where I think that Ethereum's monetary policy is actually more fair than bitcoins.
00:25:50.178 - 00:26:10.702, Speaker A: Because if you think about it, bitcoin's monetary policy was set by one person or group. Satoshi, they said it from the beginning. They said 21 million cap for every four years. It halves, and that's it. Whereas Ethereum's emerged organically, the monetary policy for Ethereum when it first was created was essentially non existent. It was just like, okay, we're just going to issue this ETH. It's going to be used as gas to power the network.
00:26:10.702 - 00:26:51.342, Speaker A: There we go, all cool. Then over time, people were like, well, okay, let's, let's define this. Let's come up with a, with a model that the community actually has a say in. And, you know, Eric and I published a page on ethub that a lot of the community had a big say in which was minimum viable or minimum necessary issuance, which basically means issuing the minimum amount of ETH required to secure the chain. And this is why we have perpetual issuance with proof of stake. And then we have ERP 1559 fee burning to basically make ETH deflationary while still keeping it secure. So from that point of view, I think Ethereum's monetary policy is better and fairer and more democratic and more neutral and decentralized than bitcoins has ever been.
00:26:51.342 - 00:27:22.948, Speaker A: And I know bitcoiners will often argue, well, the, the value prop is that the monetary policy doesn't change, right? It's set in stone. I think that's crap. Like, why would you, why would you keep something set in stone if you know that it's not the best that it can be? That's Ethereum's motto. It's like, we know that we can do better, so we do better. And you know, I'm fine with like, bitcoin is believing whatever they want to believe, and lots of people believe that, but I just don't think it makes for a, for a great asset. I think ETH is a better asset than BTC because it's designed to be a better asset based on new knowledge. Right.
00:27:22.948 - 00:27:39.772, Speaker A: And kind of like iteration and, and all that sort of stuff. And Justin Drake talks about this a lot on the bankless podcast. Again, recommend listening to those. But yeah, just a really great tweet here. I mean, as I said, wrote about more of it in the Daily Gray newsletter. You can go read some more there. But I essentially gave the TL doctor.
00:27:39.772 - 00:28:09.284, Speaker A: TL Doctor. Yeah, TL Doctor on the refuel here. So I'll leave that one at that for now. So Raul from the prior labs team posted a thread today which basically went through a main net incident retrospective for the bug that happened the other day with the prism client. Now this is a long and technical read, 30 minutes read here. I highly suggest going giving it a read if you want to know exactly what happened in the timeline of events and everything. But there's also a TLDR thread as well that I'll link in the YouTube description too.
00:28:09.284 - 00:28:52.580, Speaker A: What I did want to comment on about this because I've already obviously spoken about what happened, but what I did want to comment on was the fact that the prior labs team is world class. They are just, I mean, from the very beginning, since I've been following them in my mind, in my eyes, they've done everything right. They give a very detailed reports like they have here, right, of incident reports. Very detailed overviews of everything. They've been doing, bi weekly reports for ages for their. For their pre, for their, um, foot, for the progress that they're making on their client and things like that or have made. They've been extremely professional and very committed and super aligned with Ethereum, obviously one of my favorite teams in the space, hands down, and just.
00:28:52.580 - 00:29:29.602, Speaker A: They just keep blowing me away with what they're doing, what they're building. And that's not to say that the other teams aren't doing the same thing, but prior labs have been very vocal, you know, and I think they're the most well known ETH two client team, but Sigma prime and with Lighthouse is doing an amazing job too. Status with nimbus as well. And Taeku is doing a great job as well there. So, yeah, I just. But I have, like, deep respect for any team in kind of like this ecosystem that takes their work extremely seriously and doesn't just spend all day kind of like yelling at people on Twitter or memeing about things all the time. Like, there's a time and place for that.
00:29:29.602 - 00:30:18.796, Speaker A: But when it comes to the real work and work that actually impacts people's money, you need to take it very seriously. So I'm glad to see that from the prior labs team here, but stop gushing over them. Last thing to talk about is Polygon, released today, a Defi for all fund, which is a $150 million defi fund, which basically aims to make DeFi more accessible and cost effective and bring the next million users into DeFi. Now, they've launched this with, I guess with the support of a bunch of different kind of like, DeFi protocols here. They've basically committed up to 2% of the Matic supply, which is $150 million at the time of writing, for this long firm term fund to continually and grow and support DeFi over the next two to three years. This is just amazing. I mean, I was talking about funding before with the Ethereum foundation, right, having that massive war chest.
00:30:18.796 - 00:30:48.704, Speaker A: But, you know, all these teams now have massive war chest like the Polygon team, because the Matic price has gone up. Uniswap obviously has a massive war chest. A lot of the other DeFi apps do as well because they have these tokens, and putting that to work is imperative. Sitting on it is not the way forward. Sitting on it is actually bearish because it means that you have all this capital that you could be, you know, making the most of right now to. To basically increase the value of the entire ecosystem by spending it. You know, you spend money to make money, so to speak.
00:30:48.704 - 00:31:33.124, Speaker A: So I'm really glad to see this from polygon. I'm really happy that it's coming out of, I guess, like, you know, the total matic supply here, because that makes sense, right? The more value that polygon adds, you know, the higher, theoretically, the matic token price goes and everything like that, which is, which is really cool. So, yeah, I mean, disclosure, I'm an advisor to Polygon, as most of you know. But I think, you know, this is one of the reasons I am, because they're just so aligned with the ecosystem, you know, and they're just like, they're so hard at work getting defi, like with this defi for all thing, where they want everyone to be able to use defi with kind of lower fees here and things like that. So, yeah, just really awesome to see this, but I'll leave it at that for now. That is it for today. Thank you, everyone, for listening and watching.
00:31:33.124 - 00:31:40.604, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the YouTube channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
