00:00:00.250 - 00:01:27.480, Speaker A: What is going to happen is inflation will increase, the yields of the global financial system will stay low and stagnant, which means people will essentially be experiencing a negative return. The returns of DeFi will continue to remain in the 3457 8% range as more assets flow into the DeFi and the crypto format at and at the same time, each additional flashpoint of a robin Hood or a Wall street bets getting shut down through whatever reason, eventually the reason won't matter. It'll just be part of a mosaic of reasons that all have the simple message of this is a bad deal for you as a user. And the reality is that the transparency of blockchains and therefore DeFi, as well as the control that people have over their assets in those systems, is going to be more and more attractive with each of those flashpoints. So I actually think there's two real cases for it. One is the ability to get yield, and that is the really strong economic case for it. And if you go to a bank account or you go somewhere and you get like below 1% or something like that, and then you can go and take your dollars and put them in a stable coin and put them into DFI, and you can get 3% or 4%.
00:01:27.480 - 00:01:59.150, Speaker A: People don't know where their savings account gives them a return from. They don't know if the bank does commercial loans or residential loans. They don't know the risk rating of their bank. They don't know the solvency of their bank. They don't know how much assets under management by the bank. They don't know a lot of these things. And so eventually, I think what will happen is people will just provide an interface, or maybe even the very same banks will provide an interface that flows user value into DeFi as the superior source of yield.
00:01:59.150 - 00:02:11.890, Speaker A: And in this way, DeFi will simply become the way that you get yield, because it's the superior source of yield. And that is what the global financial system is very good at seeking out. It's good at seeking out yield.
