00:00:00.920 - 00:00:34.336, Speaker A: You're now listening to Alpha Leak, a podcast mini series highlighting the most under the radar projects and developments in crypto, and this series is brought to you by the Blockcrunch podcast. I'm your host, Jason Choi. I'm a general partner at Spartan Capital and an active defi angel investor. Nothing on this show should be construed as financial advice, and my guests, myself and my employer may hold positions and assets discussed on the show. And if you'd like for your project to be featured on this series, reach out to me on Twitter mrjasonchoi. This episode of the Blockcrunch podcast is brought to you by coin, flex and Paraswap. Stick around to learn more.
00:00:34.480 - 00:01:02.476, Speaker B: Hey, everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. Now, a while ago, I invested in a project called Syndicate, and they just launched a new platform for people to create investment clubs with just a few clicks. So in my opinion, this not only changes the landscape for Daos, but also disrupts the investing game. So obviously, I'm very excited to have Will and Ian, the co founders of Syndicate, on the show, to describe exactly what this is and what its implications are. So, Will and Ian, welcome to the show.
00:01:02.660 - 00:01:04.332, Speaker C: Thank you so much. It's great to be here.
00:01:04.468 - 00:01:05.844, Speaker D: Yeah, thanks for having us.
00:01:06.004 - 00:01:08.864, Speaker B: Awesome. So just to get us started, how did you guys meet?
00:01:09.444 - 00:01:43.616, Speaker C: Yeah, so Ian and I both worked together at Ideo. Ian was running their crypto venture fund. I was focused on crypto related R and D, some other R and D topics, and we actually came up with the idea for Syndicate while we were brainstorming there. So that was four years ago now, but the timing wasn't right for it until the beginning of 2021. So one year ago was when we decided to go all in and found the company.
00:01:43.760 - 00:02:04.164, Speaker B: That's awesome. And syndicate is incredibly community driven. I remember you guys raised a community round from a lot of different people in the crypto space, I guess. What was the decision to create a more community driven project versus a more conventional startup where maybe you raised one or two vc's and then build a company from there?
00:02:04.864 - 00:03:24.262, Speaker D: Yeah, we obviously very much believe in the principles of web3. We believe that important technology platforms like Syndicate should be as community owned as possible, and we want to live by that at every stage of the way as a company. Now, obviously, like, we started as a company in the traditional sense, and we still are. But even still, like with our initial seed round the community raise, even with the series A that we ended up closing last summer, we've been very intentional, that it's our intent to make syndicate ultimately as community owned as possible, or even in the most extreme way, and to live by that. We really wanted to make every single step, like as widely, I guess, widely distributed as possible. So I think in the series seed, our first fundraise, we had something like nine or ten different investor groups and 20 different angels involved. It was pretty small, though.
00:03:24.262 - 00:04:17.076, Speaker D: Then we did the community raise, which had 100 operators and founders in the crypto space, and some people even in the traditional world, like the head of financial inclusion at the Gates foundation, as an example. And then when we did our series A, we had, gosh, something like 20 to 30 different investor groups, and then over 200 to 300, I think, operators, investors, creators in both web3 and web two. We've tried to really hold onto that and we will continue to do so. But obviously, like, you know, setting ourselves up as a more traditional company, at least for now, has given us a lot of time, I think, to build at the pace that we need to build and do the right thing.
00:04:17.220 - 00:05:02.014, Speaker B: Got it. Got it. And I thought that was really interesting because it's quite different from, you know, conventional startup wisdom where you race from like two, three vc's. And I thought it's really interesting how you guys brought in basically everybody in crypto to have some skin in the game, and you guys just pushed out this product that is probably the most excited I've been for any product in a while, which is this idea of investment clubs. But before we dive into that, let's talk about the general idea of investment daos in general, because there are multiple ways for people to manage money online. Now, in crypto, there's these decentralized hedge funds like numerair, where people kind of collaborate on different strategies. There's publicly investable on chain hedge funds like Dhedge, and then there's daos, where people pull together money and invest.
00:05:02.014 - 00:05:13.498, Speaker B: So in general, are those kind of the main types of way people manage money in crypto online in a decentralized way today? And which one of these would you say is the largest kind of opportunity set?
00:05:13.626 - 00:06:58.578, Speaker D: So I'll start out here with a few comments, especially given my background as like a traditional investor. Right. And you know what I see. But I think will should definitely talk about some of the future of venture and investing as it relates to syndicate, because that's where I think a lot of the mind melting occurs. So as it relates to, like, the world that we live in today and how we think that some things are going to start to, I guess, transition, if you will, is that there, in my opinion, there's going to be during this transition period, a high degree of skeuomorphism in the sense that things that exist today in the investing world will start to move fairly methodically and sequentially more and more on chain. And I think that some of the things out there that you mentioned and many more that are fully autonomous, fully decentralized, fully permissionless, from an investing perspective, whether it's hedge fund like or it's even like index fund like or yield sort of generating kinds of protocols and stuff, I think that that's really powerful and, and really exciting, and those projects have a lot of potential in their own right. But if you think about like, the traditional world and how it might transition, right, we're talking about $100 trillion in investing in the traditional world.
00:06:58.578 - 00:09:24.074, Speaker D: Not all of that is going to move on chain tomorrow, or even necessarily in the next couple of years, but even like 1% of that is a trillion dollars. And that is a really big opportunity. And so the one question is, how might that trillion dollars, if we're thinking about the traditional world, move over into the on chain world? And I think that at least over the next couple years, the models for that will look more skeuomorphic than maybe the web3 community would like, unfortunately. Meaning that, for example, a lot of these investment or daos that are formed for the purpose of investing, they will likely need legal wrappers if there are people like traditional investors, professional investors, whatever involved in them, that want those same assurances and protections that traditional investment vehicles provide, whether it's an LLC, an LP, or something else. I think the question more is as far as that side of the market, the transition from old world to new world, what are the right investment structures and what are the right, I guess, submarkets within investing that are going to more likely use on chain investing Dow vehicles. Again, I could be wrong about this, but I think that the traditional venture markets, meaning early stage investing in web3, whether that is into startups, tokens, nfts, or things like that, is actually, from a market perspective, one of the most likely places to transition as compared to, for example, let's just take like a hedge fund, for example, which generates a lot of alpha based on the fact that people can't monitor like a wallet completely transparently on chain. And so I think that things like hedge funds, for example, are probably going to end up moving on chain at some point, or maybe through a different model like numerai, as you mentioned, but like a traditional hedge fund with billions of capital probably not move completely on chain.
00:09:24.074 - 00:09:49.334, Speaker D: There will probably be a big component of it that is still off chain and proprietary based on the model with which they invest and generate returns. But that's very old world. I think what is more interesting is actually like the new world that is going to emerge via investing daos, and hopefully things that pop up on syndicate and will. Maybe you should definitely talk about this.
00:09:49.904 - 00:10:35.480, Speaker C: Yeah, definitely. I think that there's a really, really interesting aspect that is fascinating with investment clubs, where they really represent a sea change in how daos are organized. So previously, for example, they would be organized in the webtoo world as investment clubs. But that was very, very difficult. So most people didn't do it because you had to set up shared entities and you had to handle bank accounts manually. And it was a massive, massive pain. But in the web3 world, we can automate all of the difficult parts of this and dramatically decrease the cost, increase the speed and increase the distribution.
00:10:35.480 - 00:11:02.516, Speaker C: And what you get as a result is what we believe is going to be a similar level of disruption to the venture industry that YouTube did to the film and television industry, where we know that syndicates, investment clubs will lead to things that look radically different than how investing looked before, particularly investing that will be more open and more equitable. But we don't know how that will change yet. We only know that it will.
00:11:02.660 - 00:11:29.050, Speaker B: I was really surprised by the answer that on chain investing entities are going to become more skeuomorphic. I totally thought you were going to go to the opposite direction with that answer, where you're going to say, hey, future investment entities are going to look completely different from what we have today, instead of more like what we have. So if unchained investing entities do become more similar in many ways to what we have in the traditional investing world, what are the main benefits of investing on chain versus investing off chain?
00:11:29.162 - 00:12:46.330, Speaker D: So actually, let me clarify one thing just to, because I think it's super nuanced. And you point out how it may seem contradictory. I think that what I mean by this is, and I think what will, and I mean by this is that it depends on the investor, actually, who we're talking about. If we're talking about investors today, the investors of today, meaning, you know, VC's, hedge fund folks, you know, wealth managers, those kinds of things, then it is likely, in my opinion, at least for now, going to look more skeuomorphic than not. Because, for example, if you're running a several hundred million dollars venture fund, the motivation to go completely to a new model using daos that looks radically different. The incentives and also the risk reward profile is just not there for those people. But I think what is not going to look skeuomorphic or is going to look pretty radically different are the people that are not investors today that are now going to be investors tomorrow using daos.
00:12:46.330 - 00:14:31.430, Speaker D: And I think that if you look at like our tool that we launched, this web3 investment club tool, it's really interesting because it, yes, can enable and be used by investors, traditional investors, or people that are investing today and have been professionally. But I think what we are already seeing is actually that a lot of these investment clubs are bringing people that traditionally were not investors into this market and are becoming investors by creating investment clubs. And just to give you a couple examples, like a lot of these investment clubs that we are seeing that we've been working with in private beta before the launch or are starting to see post launch are like a lot of them are groups of actually builders, founders and creators. So just to give you an example of this, like founders of other crypto or web3 projects, creators of other NFT projects and NFT collections, or even developers and contributors to open source protocols and other Daos and other teams, these people are not professional investors. They oftentimes actually have no interest in becoming professional investors. But they have a lot of access to really great founders and people that are creating companies. They want to be a part of those companies, they want to be stakeholders in them and support them and also be a part of the upside there.
00:14:31.430 - 00:15:21.336, Speaker D: And what we are seeing, and we think we are going to see more of, are these basically communities and collections of founders or builders or creators that create investment clubs and start investing. And that doesn't look like traditional investing. It's not the traditional investor kind of archetype. It may seem kind of like an adjacent kind of toy thing, but if you project that out over time, if there are potentially thousands or millions of these things, it is going to start to change the investing landscape in terms of where funding comes from and who is actually supporting early stage startups and technologies and where that money comes from.
00:15:21.480 - 00:15:37.632, Speaker B: That's really interesting to hear that there are not just finance people or fund managers, but these creators that are coming in to start funds with syndicate as well. I'm curious, what are some of the more interesting examples or more exciting ideas that you guys have come across with people doing things with syndicate?
00:15:37.728 - 00:17:18.476, Speaker D: So a couple that I've seen and will has a number as well, like a couple that I would point out. So we have two, I mean, we have many, but like two that I point out is kind of like a proto archetype is on the creator side. So we have, there are two clubs. One is called Dow Jones, the other one is called Mori Musicdao. And these Daos are collections of musicians and artists and DJ's and creators in the NFT space, in Maury music's case, creators, specifically in the NFT, the music NFT space. And if you actually like Zoom in to those investment clubs, the people in them are really, really well known people in the music NFT space. I mean, they're kind of, there are a number of the who's who in that kind of group, right? And so if you think about it, if you're a startup trying to create a music NFT protocol or project, right, who are you going to, who would you rather raise from? You know, a VC who may know something about nfts and music and stuff? I mean, they have like legit connections and all this other stuff, or would you also, maybe not in replace it, but would you actually also want to take capital from other music NFT creators who are deeply embedded in that community? And I think we are already seeing this where even outside of web3, where founders raised from other founders or builders, this is going to accelerate that change, but scale it exponentially.
00:17:18.476 - 00:18:27.392, Speaker D: So that's one thing Dow Jones and morning music I think are super interesting to watch. And there's a bunch of other kind of creator like investment clubs. The other one I would say, I mean, there's many, but the other one we've seen pretty consistently now a pattern around is we're working like actually over 50% of the Daos that were announced as part of our launch with syndicate yesterday, more than 50% of them were either or are either women led or all women investing dows. And what they're trying to do is invest in more women and non binary founders and other things in the space. And I think that's going to be a consistent theme where it's communities of people that may have some identity and want to invest based on certain values or whatnot. And I think that in particular, when you think about women, right, and the investing world, you know, we need more women in Web three. We need more women in the investing world.
00:18:27.392 - 00:19:22.482, Speaker D: And you know, traditionally they've been unfortunately, you know, really, I guess, disadvantaged in the traditional world. And I think that, you know, even just that small stat in our private data is emblematic of how the tools in Web three and the tools, specifically of syndicate, can radically empower communities that maybe didn't have access to those same tools because they were hard to access, they were really expensive, they were really difficult to use or whatever, can now take those tools and empower their communities and help invest in the development and growth of them. And so I think that that's going to be like a pretty big theme, and it is very much tied to the mission of syndicate.
00:19:22.618 - 00:19:28.282, Speaker B: That's really powerful. And I'm curious, will, if you've seen any interesting examples as well that you're excited about.
00:19:28.378 - 00:20:40.188, Speaker C: Yeah, so I think that there's really interesting ways where we can radically expand ownership in ways that would have been difficult to do before. So, for example, we helped Citydao with legal formation, and they purchased land in Wyoming to build the first dao governed city. And that's something where could you buy land with your friends and govern it together? I mean, in the web two world, sort of, but it would be incredibly, incredibly difficult to do so, whereas the web3 world is exactly built for that kind of expanded participatory and ownership model. Likewise, we helped constitution doubt with compliance. And that's another example where that kind of bid process had never really been done before. It was always individuals bidding, sometimes cultural institutions, but very rarely groups of people coming together because they had an affinity for a specific work. So these are good examples of how we don't really know what the future looks like, but we do know that it'll be radically different from the past.
00:20:40.188 - 00:21:01.774, Speaker C: Was it possible to do these things before? Technically, yes, but extremely, extremely difficult. And we take this process down from months of compliance work to literally 1 minute of an on chain transaction. And then between that and using our legal box, you're in most cases, good to go.
00:21:01.854 - 00:21:13.334, Speaker B: And how does that actually work? When you say you help Citi doubt with legal structure and constitutional compliance? Do you have a legal team in the back end that you're offering to these projects, or how is that done?
00:21:13.414 - 00:22:14.432, Speaker C: Yeah, so we don't provide legal advice as a company, but we do see common patterns. So essentially we share those common patterns with teams to help them bootstrap, because those patterns allow them to operate much more quickly than before. We have developed essentially a set of best practices for remaining compliant. And of course, we can't ever guarantee compliance. It's always the responsibility of the group we're working with, but we provide something off the shelf that otherwise before we did. So every single group was just reinventing the same process from scratch with their own, like without any guidance whatsoever. And we help teams have a much better starting point for getting through that, where 90% of the time, the best practices that we provide are everything they need, and the other 10% of the time, then they can engage their own lawyers, but already from a much better starting point than they would have before.
00:22:14.608 - 00:22:42.840, Speaker A: Before I continue, I'd love to share more about our latest sponsor, Coinflex. Now, Coinflex is an exchange that's been around for a while. They're actually doing $1.5 billion in daily trading volume right now. Recently, their team reached out and walked me through their latest product, the AMM. In short, it lets anybody earn fees as market makers on the Coinflex exchange simply by depositing their assets. As of this recording, the seven day in range average for ETH AMm pool depositors is 82%.
00:22:42.840 - 00:23:20.760, Speaker A: So how does this work? If you're familiar with how other amms out there work, this is very similar. You can basically select what price range to provide liquidity for, and the UI even shows you your risk under different scenarios. I also love that they have this cross collateral system so you can market make in any market you want using pretty much any collateral you have. If you know how to manage your risks, you can even access up to ten x leverage while providing liquidity. So this is one of the most creative ways I've seen a company borrow elements from Defi in a centralized exchange setting. So I highly encourage you to check it out@coinflex.com. Ammunition I'd love to share one of my favorite products in crypto with you now.
00:23:20.760 - 00:24:02.470, Speaker A: Whenever I want to trade a token, instead of going to uniswap sushiswap Bancor one x one to see where I can find the best quote, I just go to Paraswap to scan for the best price anywhere because Paraswap aggregates all the popular Ethereum dexs and saves me a ton of time and headache in finding where I can trade something for the best price and lets me trade in one place. Now, the cool thing is they've also integrated with ledger life as well, meaning I can now swap at the best prices directly from my ledger wallet. So seriously, if you are a defi trader and you're worried about the security risks of centralized exchanges, but you also don't want to scour dozens of dexs just to find the best price, you have to check out Paraswap. So head on over to Paraswap IO blockcrunch.
00:24:02.582 - 00:24:39.544, Speaker B: Got it, got it. And kind of zooming out a little bit as well because in the past few years, we've also seen different creations in the web two world to help people, people invest in a more democratized way. So one of these is the angellist rolling fund, where with a few clicks as well, you can set up a fund on angel list and your friends can invest if they're accredited or you can spin up illegal SPV to invest in different things. So what would you say for the people out there who are not as familiar with syndicate? What are the major differences between starting a fund with syndicate versus starting a rolling fund, an angelist versus spinning up an SPV for, you know, a venture investment?
00:24:40.204 - 00:25:51.542, Speaker D: Yeah, it's a great question. And look like what Angellist has done and other platforms have done over the last number of decades actually is incredible. You know, I think that we see ourselves as part of a broader movement, actually that angellist and many others initiated or helped pioneer well before us. And frankly, this whole, I think, movement around the decentralization and democratization of investing and venture capital has been happening for many decades. And Angellist was a big part of that with their syndicates, SPV and rolling fund products that really unlock this whole angel investor market and solo capitalist market more recently. Now, web3 takes that and daos take it to the even like, more logical extreme. And I think that there's a few important, nuanced but really important differences between web two and web3 platforms, or web two and trad five platforms versus web3 platforms like Syndicate.
00:25:51.542 - 00:27:13.766, Speaker D: So one of the things which is the most kind of obvious is that you can basically run entire backends as smart contracts on these decentralized networks. And what does that mean? Well, if you reduce the cost structure of a service by 100 to 1000 x, then the cost of that service to the end user will also be reduced by that same multiple. And as a result of that, it reduces just like the cost of things dramatically and opens up access dramatically. Now, web3 isn't perfect. There's a lot of missing components to web3 that would enable, for example, web3 service to completely replicate a web two, one. But in time, those kinds of things will get there and already, like, you can see some of those cost advantages that are pretty dramatic. Number two, though, is that because assets move natively on these blockchain networks, you're not only looking at 100 to 1000 x improvement in cost, you're also looking at 100 to 1000 x improvement in terms of speed and efficiency.
00:27:13.766 - 00:28:10.924, Speaker D: So, for example, if you want to create an investment club in the real world, how would you do that? You have to open an account at a bank, you have to have people wire into it, you have to wait for those wires. You have to go through archaic software to see who sent what and when. All this other stuff, all that stuff is just dramatically simplified via Ethereum blockchains and daos. People set up an investment club on syndicate with an existing crypto or web wallet, whether it's like a hardware wallet, a gnosis safe or a metamask or whatever. And then people just natively can send USDC ETH or any ERC 20 into the investment club via syndicate immediately. And the smart contract tracks all that in real time. It updates everything in real time.
00:28:10.924 - 00:28:58.994, Speaker D: And that smart contract is completely decentralized with, you know, it basically runs on it on its own. And so the cost of running an investment club basically just becomes the cost of gas. And like that is both a cost efficiency as well as a speed of sort of like process efficiency. Now the last part though, this is the main thing. So people, a lot of people look at that and they go, okay, but so what? Like actually the user experience around some of these existing platforms, like Angellist and whatnot, are still better. And that's true actually for traditional investing. But what, what everyone knows obviously, in web3 is that the fundamental structural unfair advantage of web3 over any other thing.
00:28:58.994 - 00:29:28.732, Speaker D: You know, there's a couple of them. One is community ownership, but the other one is composability. And composability means that anything on web3 can snap into anything else in web3. Syndicates or daos on syndicate. And investment clubs on syndicate are the same. They are composable with all of web3. So you could start an investment club as a Dao and syndicate in 45 seconds.
00:29:28.732 - 00:31:05.324, Speaker D: Have people, your friends that you privately invite don't publicly do this because that would probably likely mean that you would break securities laws. But if you privately invite them into your investment club, you can immediately utilize the infrastructure of syndicate and the DAO and that investment club to snap into other web3 tools like snapshot or coordinate or all these other things. And that is what's amazing is that like, you know, these things like, like syndicate are not just 1000 x better in terms of cost and speed, but also 1000 x more capable in terms of what they can do due to composability. And that kind of capability, advantage over time is just going to exponentially accumulate. Then in time, as some of these key user experience things or gaps in web3 get addressed, something with 1000 x better capability and cost and speed is going to end up, we think, maybe not necessarily disrupting everything because there's always going to be room for traditional systems, but it likely means that these things will be very, very important in the future. And we think that that is the most exciting thing about the future of investing, using this primitive of daos.
00:31:05.744 - 00:31:08.392, Speaker B: Absolutely. Will anything to add there as well?
00:31:08.528 - 00:32:24.720, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that definitely echoing Ian's point about composability, where the composability means that this entire ecosystem using syndicate unlocks the rest of the tooling that exists as well. So one great example of this is that so syndicate shares are tracked via ERC 20 tokens, and then the owner of those ERC 20 tokens can be defined based on the Daos needs. So if a DAO is making a $5 million investment into a startup, they probably want to use multisig with lots of signers, because they're concerned at that point about the security of the funds. And they don't need to be super nimble within like a, like reacting to things on a minute by minute basis. But if they're joining new NFT mints, they probably want to use a hardware wallet to have a better balance of nimbleness versus security. So that's the benefit of composability, is that we don't have to dictate any particular solution to people. We recommend best practices that work for most people, but beyond that we, we offer the flexibility for them to choose what they need and pull in the parts that they need to configure for their use case if they have to.
00:32:24.872 - 00:32:59.224, Speaker B: I understand the part about if a DAO wants to buy liquid tokens or they want to mint an NFT, it's easy to just interact natively with web3 tooling. But let's say this DAO wants to invest in more traditional company, invest in maybe a safe or invest in a saft. So these are just paper contracts with nothing on chain. Yet is the expectation that these early stage kind of pre token projects will also turn their contracts into maybe nfts that you can verify on chain? Or how do you kind of bridge that tradfi aspect of crypto investing onto the DAO platform as well?
00:32:59.884 - 00:34:42.733, Speaker D: So I guess there's a few things about this. Let me talk about like the traditional kind of world, and then some of the stuff that you just alluded to. I think in the near term for a Dow to invest in private equities, which startup equities and stuff like that, where actually not the Dow, but the startup equity requires because they're also following certain laws that investors and investor entities that buy their equity are accredited. That will mean that these investing daos will also need some kind of legal entity and some form of accreditation or an accreditation status, especially if they're in the US or whatever. And so as a result of that, whether we like it or not, unfortunately, this fully decentralized vision for venture, in many cases, it's just not, in many cases feasible at the moment with equity. So what that means is an investment club will attach, or investing DAO will attach a legal entity as a wrapper to it, follow all the same rules that any other investor or investor group would need to follow, and make those representations, and also sign the equity agreement or the transaction with a legal entity on the name. Because, I mean, a DAo can't sign a legal agreement without a legal entity.
00:34:42.733 - 00:36:11.414, Speaker D: And so I think that that, again, coming back to your point, like, what is the sequence here? I think that that will continue to exist for quite some time. I think what does become interesting, though, as we look into the future and some stuff that's already happening is you have these native Dow raises right now that are happening where it's really a wallet and people are putting money into it to help bootstrap the treasury. And there's not really like a, in many cases, like even initially, like a token, there's no company, there's no equity. And so a lot of things, or some things are completely on chain, you know, and that's how they're starting and also how they're kind of like natively building now. I think. I think that is really interesting because if that becomes more and more common, then it is possible that, yeah, like if you're raising, you know, as a dow, then maybe raising from other daos that also don't have legal entities could be okay. One of the big questions though, is this is not on the investing Dao side.
00:36:11.414 - 00:37:16.404, Speaker D: This is more on the, the, the thing that is raising, whatever that is, the dow that is raising is what is that thing going to be viewed as by potential regulators? You know, regulators are not going to be completely on chain. They are going to be skeuomorphic or exist in the legal world for a long time, if not forever. And so they are going to, whether, again, we like it or not, they are going to try and fly. They try and look at that thing and map it to something that currently exists right now. I think that I'm optimistic that long term there are actually going to be, for example, states or even countries that were even maybe in the globe, maybe worldwide, daos would be recognized as a different kind of entity or something, but we've got a long ways to go. There are potential risks in the near term that dows could be viewed as any number of different types of things. They could be viewed as C Corps, just, they just didn't do that.
00:37:16.404 - 00:37:54.324, Speaker D: They could be viewed as llcs. They just didn't do that. They could be viewed as nonprofits. They just didn't organize as one. And so there could be, unfortunately, now, I'm not trying to be like a downer here, but there could be some implications, because if that ends up being the case, then if there is a dao token that another DAo or any other investor invested in, then that may have been, for example, security. And so I guess, just to summarize, it's still very unclear. I think it's still going to be very confusing for quite some time.
00:37:54.324 - 00:39:03.362, Speaker D: And frankly, it depends on the risk profile of both the investor as well as the builder that is raising capital. And for some people and in some, maybe jurisdictions, they're more willing to take that risk. That's fine. And that is what it is, because they're taking that risk. That said, there are a lot of other people, though, or a lot of other communities or investors who don't want to take that risk. And I think that our approach is to provide a web3 tool that is broadly accessible. But if groups want the peace of mind that they are following things more by the book, we've snapped in various open source tools, as well as other partners like this partnership with this fintech doula, that can help get people, legal entities, bank accounts, et cetera, you know, tax filings for their dao, make those tools and those services available so that they can choose to do it that way if they want.
00:39:03.362 - 00:39:11.402, Speaker D: And we are finding that a lot of people do want to do it kind of more by the book because they want that peace of mind that.
00:39:11.418 - 00:39:25.650, Speaker B: Makes a ton of sense. And let's say someone listening to this episode, they've heard everything you guys mentioned. They're really excited to start their own investment club. What are the steps they need to take to set one up with syndicate? And what are the, I guess, the pitfalls to watch out for or the best practices?
00:39:25.842 - 00:40:19.324, Speaker C: Yeah, so it's incredibly easy with syndicate. You essentially go to syndicate IO, you choose the option to create a club, and then you literally put in a club name. The total amount you're raising, the amount of time you're raising for, and the maximum number of people can join and you're good to go. That's it. So we took a process that would have taken weeks to months in the web two world and made it take under a minute for just the cost of gas in the web3 world. The thing that's the main thing to watch out for is the type of dao you're setting up has extremely different compliance requirements. So, for example, the standard structure we recommend for most people is an investment client where you can have up to 99 members as long as everyone actively participates.
00:40:19.324 - 00:41:11.464, Speaker C: This means that it's not regulated because it's not a security. But if people don't actively participate, then it could be a security and could cause issues. So knowing that that's the structure you're choosing matters a lot in how you design your DAO in your community. There's other types of daos we've helped launch. For example, community daos like rug radio, which is a media dao where they are essentially allowing members to participate in the ecosystem by owning these membership nfts that help create a really strong community together. So there's other DAO types that have different implications. But for investment clubs in particular, following 99 members and active participation is the most important piece.
00:41:11.584 - 00:41:32.080, Speaker B: That's really interesting. I didn't know about that at all. And let's say today, if I want to set up the DAO, I'm curious, what was the process before syndicate existed? Because DAos is a concept existence before syndicate. So for people who wanted to start investment daos before you guys came along, what was the typical process there and what were the main pain points that I guess syndicate comes in and solves?
00:41:32.232 - 00:42:27.630, Speaker C: Yeah, there's really three different waves of Dao tools. The first wave was the original DaO in 2016, which I invested in back in the day. And the DaO in 2016 was an investing Dao that was set up where everyone would make decisions together and the community would essentially split into yes and no votes for each decision. And that was a really interesting idea because it was very specific. The idea of investing in protocols on top of Ethereum was really novel at the time. Of course, the implementation didn't work out as well after it was hacked, but the idea behind it of a specific type of investing DAO was really, really interesting. Then the 2017 wave happened, and in 2017, a lot of people were thinking about highly composable defi primitives.
00:42:27.630 - 00:43:32.512, Speaker C: So all the DAO tools that came from that same era are also similarly very generalizable and very compostable. So Moloch on gnosis, for example, are both extremely generalizable tools, also ones that don't help you set up any specific kind of Dao, but can help you set up any Dao with some level of customization on chain governors would fall under the same category. And then the 2022 wave of daos is very specific. For example, using mirror and juice box for crowdfunding or partydao and coop for collectively buying NFTs or syndicate for investment DAOs. So I think that we're really in this third wave of use, case specific daos, which is, interestingly, where daos started off, but they went in a very different direction for the past few years, which is one reason why there's a lot of new DAO tools emerging now that look pretty different than what came before.
00:43:32.688 - 00:43:58.488, Speaker B: That's really interesting. And when you talk about daos to people in crypto, you usually get very divisive opinions. Some people either think Daos are going to eat everything, and some people think, well, daos are just very loosely organized groups of people. There's no real structure around it. So I guess for you guys, if I were to ask you to give me one reason that you think Daos would become massive and one reason that Daos could fail as a concept in the next ten years, what would those be?
00:43:58.616 - 00:44:32.604, Speaker C: Yeah, so with those, you're essentially making the trade off between efficiency and resiliency. So daos are a lot more difficult than traditional organizations to work within. It's a lot less clear who does what. It's a lot harder to organize. The decentralization means that there can be lots of overlapping efforts. And I've seen a lot of this firsthand. For example, in Loot, where I talked with three separate teams who all were working on what they believed was the first player versus player game for Loot.
00:44:32.604 - 00:45:27.394, Speaker C: At the same time, though, the flip side of the aspects that you get resiliency. Loot will continue to have builders for an extremely long time without needing any central party. And Loot has over 100 derivatives, which is just absolutely stunning, where, like, no NFT project that was centralized would be able to recruit 100 builders to build different derivatives on top of it. But loot was able to do so. So I think that daos will fail if they or succeed based on how they get this trade off right between efficiency and resiliency. And I think a lot of the rhetoric right now is that daos are like a magical coordination mechanism. And you set up a Dao and everything's easier, when in reality you set up a Dao and everything's harder, but in exchange, you get a much more resilient organization than before.
00:45:27.694 - 00:45:30.530, Speaker B: What about you, Ian? Anything to add there as well?
00:45:30.702 - 00:46:56.664, Speaker D: Yeah. So reason why daos won't take off, I think, is because, you know, I think just like all of web3, it's going to need to mature, actually. And there are certain trade offs, I think, that we're going to have to make on the spectrum of decentralization, actually, to ultimately, and I come at this from a very biased lens, as an ex, as an ideo person who thinks about things from the user lens. But I really believe that to enable widespread adoption of daos, you need to think about the end user experience. And the end user experience, when you think of it that way, is likely going to require things that are not fully decentralized to enable that higher order experience and benefit of daos to unlock. And I think it's about being very, very thoughtful and choiceful about where those things are and where those things need to occur, where they should be, where they shouldn't be, in terms of a little bit of centralization or something that's not completely decentralized. Because I think that when you get into it and you figure it out, if teams figure that out, that is going to unlock the DAO market by 100 to 1000 to 10,000 x.
00:46:56.664 - 00:48:14.092, Speaker D: As far as the more optimistic take, I think that daos are the most interesting technology in web3 and will be actually for quite some time. The reason I say that is because the way we think about daos is that they are social financial technologies and they are technologies that coordinate human capital and financial capital together seamlessly, natively on the Internet. And I think that the potential for that is very, very profound because a lot of technologies in crypto didn't really, you know, organize or coordinate human beings at scale. Like, as an example, a lot of the amazing innovations in DeFi were kind of this concept of, like, person to contract, which is like, really amazing, right? Like, you know, it's like a one player mode marketplace, which, you know, the traditional world just, that is not possible. And that has incredible potential. But it is like a one player mode thing. It's one person.
00:48:14.092 - 00:48:45.032, Speaker D: I mean, yes, multiple people coordinated via contract, and that's amazing. But I think that as we think about the next phase for Web three, I think that if you can start to not only coordinate financial capital, but coordinate human capital and talent and energy and resource on the Internet natively, that can do amazing things in the world, that something that only coordinates human capital financial capital would be able to do.
00:48:45.208 - 00:48:58.040, Speaker B: That is super exciting. And I'm definitely excited to see how Dao is going to scale in the future. For people who want to know more about syndicate and want to test out starting their own investment club today. What are some places they could go? Yep.
00:48:58.072 - 00:49:41.208, Speaker D: So as will was mentioning, Syndicate IO is actually the best place. You can even demo the application without doing anything. You can just kind of see and poke around it before you commit to starting an investment club. But all of it is there. Also linked to our git book, which has extensive resources and links to people who are thinking about starting and running an investment club. And we also opened up our public discord, so that's very active right now and growing. Lots of people kind of jumping into that and engaging with us and other members of the community.
00:49:41.208 - 00:49:46.224, Speaker D: So obviously we'd love to see people join that too.
00:49:46.384 - 00:50:02.292, Speaker B: Absolutely. And yeah, I was poking around the demo yesterday as well and definitely recommend people who are remotely interested in daos to check it out. And I think many people will be surprised at how advanced the tooling is today. And I'm really excited for what you guys are building. So thank you so much, Will and Ian, for coming onto the show.
00:50:02.468 - 00:50:04.476, Speaker C: Thanks so much. It was fantastic to chat.
00:50:04.580 - 00:50:04.964, Speaker D: Thank you.
