00:00:01.720 - 00:01:33.674, Speaker A: I hope you can hear me. So this is from Pancakesworld swap to be here and very nice to meet everyone, although in rock setting swap. So I come from a product background and today I need a very talented team to a long term vision of being an all in one multi chain five protocol. So I'm happy to talk about the protocol, who we are, what we've been up to, defi space, what I'm most excited about, whether the Pancreas team and the protocol for the rest of the year. Next slide please. Sorry, we move on to the next slide. Okay, I hope the echoes is a bit better now.
00:01:33.674 - 00:03:04.306, Speaker A: So yeah, I'm sure many of the you guys have been in the crypto space for some time, maybe as you and you may have heard of our protocol before. So we started BMP chain of Uniswap V two back in the days where we were centered around in exchange for BNB chain tokens using the auto create model maker, market maker or the AMM model. So one of the things I want to share with you today is that we are much different. Those early days, our team, the kitchen, have tirelessly been growing such that today are no longer just a BNP change focused AMM exchange. Today, Pancakeswap is a leading DV five and a multi chain chain being not only on BMB, but Aptos and Ethereum SMS as well. Thanking Swap's vision is we aim to provide on chain crypto users all the defi services that they want to use on a simple and integrated experience, no matter where the users are and watch in YouTube. So with that we expanded our product suite and when multi chain started from last year at such that last we served 3.7
00:03:04.306 - 00:04:00.344, Speaker A: million users in the month of May and processed nearly 15 billion in trading volume on the same month. Next slide slide please. So we have over ten products on the Pangaecom now and to show you what we've done. So explain how do these products so let's start with our trade results. As I mentioned, Pancakeswap started as an EMM exchange on the BFMB chain. Today we are still the largest DeX on BFB exchange and also the second largest buyer trading volume across all chains combined. As this is our core strength, we have experience users to buy and sell their tokens.
00:04:00.344 - 00:05:17.996, Speaker A: So swap. Our first feature on streaming there allows you to trade any tokens on DNB chain and Ethereum which is not only supported by our but also our integrated slightly different model from a pure ammm. This means that on top of the users like bitcoin ETH or BNB and any other nice tokens through Pancakeswap. You can also trade tokens which we work with on chain mark create markets for certain tokens on BNB chain Ethereum even for so that users can experience doing their trade space on one chain chain. This means deep, deep liquidity in terms of trading without liquidity providers, without the token incentives to draw these on chain liquidity, and without users having to deal with procedures. So if you are a trader, you don't really need to figure out whether or the users are providing on chain or market maker liquidity. From your perspective as a trader you are judging and buying any other index transaction.
00:05:17.996 - 00:06:30.204, Speaker A: And we need this integration come to exchanges just wanting to have a simple experience of trading any assets they might find. And while the AMM model has been great in providing perpetual liquidity on chain, it has its own limitations and in some ways can't compare to a centralized exchange in that they offer all sorts of tokens across and unified manner. So we do think that the market maker integration which brings a complementary sight to AMMM and enhances user experience on an exchange. Moving on to our second product. So of course with NB you can always provide to our MM pools to earn trading fees, also integrated with various on chain bridges such that you can bridge tokens from other chains to Pancakeswap on any of our networks, all within the component of a single UIUI. Last within our trade products is a perpetual offering ring. Like on chain petrol markets such as GMX or DydX.
00:06:30.204 - 00:07:53.294, Speaker A: We offer users a way to trade with leverage on a significant spread of tokens. Because we have both on chain and off chain traders can come to Pancakeswap to do leverage trading on a large amount at a very competitive price. And this is available on both BNB change and Ethereum to cater to the vast majority of Defi users. And so you can see as a trading platform, Angusoft is trying to cover most of what DeFi users would want to trade. Reading can we move on to the next slide slides please? On top of being able to trade tokens, we have a group of Defi products just familiar to all of you here today would probably be which is our version of liquidity mining. Users who are providing liquidity can stick their tokens in our farms to earn crypto tokens in liquidity pools as users earn withholding and providing liquidity. Now this is probably very very and complementary to that network or what we have about 150,000 people.
00:07:53.294 - 00:09:11.134, Speaker A: Our platform is a great project to get connected quickly to a significant and passionate user base. So how this works is that Kik token holders stick with our platform and projects who work with us can very slowly distribute some of their projects to all the users who are staking with us will earn some tokens at a very gradual rate and that to understand participate in the project they are doing a serup with us. So I think it's a great way for project end users to get connected. Sorry to get we have also rolled out Ethereum liquid staking or e liquid staking. So unlike most other protocols which roll out liquid staking on the Ethereum network only we've actually rolled out the ETH liquid stake staking on BMB chain. So as chefs, we do think that stake has more than become recognized as a safe asset and is increasingly a common way to participate in the Ethereum network. We do think that even users on CME chain and other auto chain chains would be interested.
00:09:11.134 - 00:10:21.720, Speaker A: Therefore, we've introduced recently to save users and hassle having to be bridged to a few new to state their identity. Now of course if you want to have it on main, we won't stop you. And Pancakeswap has a liquid staking service on Ethereum as well, so can we move on? So on top of being a platform, we do think that users to have some fun while package platform as well as well. We don't really, we didn't want users to come to our platform and feel like they were just purely trading activities. So therefore a variety of fun games over the years for users. I just like to talk about the one that's called pancake protectors on the bottom right? So that's something that we've done very recently. We worked together with a partner and we released a full fledged tent game called Pancake Pancake Protector.
00:10:21.720 - 00:11:32.506, Speaker A: So this game has been very popular. We released the game a week and has currently reached 1000 daily. And to top it off, we released the game without any token and so it's not based on a play to earn model. Was very popular, you know, some one to two years ago, we could provide a fun one and competitive casual gaming to our community. So in mentor I ask that if you're interested in this type of game, try it out gaming for a few new days, a few minutes, a daily if you're busy and join up with other studio quests and compete with other players and player teams prior prizes on the leaderboard board. We've even designed some cute pancakeswap swap NFTs and characters, some of which you can trade on or any marketplace to craft different battle strategies. So these NFT pieces variously to different characters in the game, allowing you to craft different type strategies to win win.
00:11:32.506 - 00:13:02.034, Speaker A: So yeah, I've, you know, went on for quite a bit of our products, you know, and I hopefully have think about to our users, that's pancakeswap in a nutshell. So it's not all that we've done at times are short to see and share in our vision of an all in one DeFi platform for everybody. For those of you who still remember pure Dex on the BMP, actually chaingate, I hope they've given you a new perspective on what Pancakeswap is now. Products which all the bases in DeFi, you know, most users will want to use and we do so that we think users and we need to do so in manner that focus on UI UI which we hope will encourage users to come. Can we move on to the next slide slide please? Thank you. So next I want to highlight the newest iteration for ammm pancake for b three. Now that's really so I won't read all of them, but I want to talk about how we are implementing it and how we're taking a different approach to the other Dexs out.
00:13:02.034 - 00:14:05.710, Speaker A: So at the base layer, the liquidity and unit which allows liquidity around two defined PI point, which primary purpose is to increase capital efficiency. Now we do think that this is a very beautifully designed and powerful upgrade to v two e two. There are some layers which we have added on top to take a different approach and which I our V 33 succeed. If you use a sample project. We're building V 33 not as a single layer, as is a suite of integrated product, easier for users to be providing on top of just being able to concentrate your liquidity. We introduce farming rewards only to activate 2020. As a Dex, we organizers supporting trade trading volume.
00:14:05.710 - 00:14:57.114, Speaker A: Therefore Pancakeswap v three provides liquidity to only liquidity that is priced to support trading execution. And we distribute liquidity mining void in proportion to the equity that is supporting trades. This means zero actively encourages best liquidity debt at all times. Trading dynamic self monitoring, diversification mechanism. Those all means. And if what traders need right now will receive any liquidity might be borrowed, allowing to be efficient and economical. Providing liquidity is more challenging, especially for retail users.
00:14:57.114 - 00:16:26.404, Speaker A: And we are going to roll out management platform soon. That will help users active and inre so that they can while minimizing. So we are working with so that users can have many different strategies to choose from in terms of their active management. No users we are also active projects want to interact with tank Explorer to provide mix of BB 33 to also allow them to have position management platform some of their position. This relieves pressure on projects so that they can focus on product and community development. Fretting about how the other partnership is the three positions in the coming morning months. I do think increasingly integrated is what's driving where we are now a top ten decade.
00:16:26.404 - 00:18:27.044, Speaker A: So on this last slide, I just want to talk about a little bit more about our multi chain expansion efforts. For instance, pancake swaps fundamentally believes in two first, that cross chain bridges will improve every year and blur the lines for user users and on different blockchain chains and second, the ecosystem built together with many different strongholds. I talked about working ecosystem around V 33. This is the same approach we take with Pancakeswap as a whole. So Pancakeswap this year is going aggressively on multiple chain we are actively looking out to work with partners from first technologies, pair them up with our trading and earn class, which I just described right. And we are also working with game builders and work with our community to develop a fun, engaging entertainment experience that improved last year's play to earn models was very, very mostly on the unsustainable. Lastly, chefs here, some of which are, you know, very interesting things around account abstraction, simplifying user experiences, meV three positions ending and borrowing mechanisms around v three liquidity positions, you know, and that sort of stuff.
00:18:27.044 - 00:19:15.556, Speaker A: So we want to work with project builders who are solving constraints in Defi to one of the largest audience. So I would ask for everyone present today to do building with us. Last. To add to that, I hope I've given everyone one where swag swap is added and what Hank Xwap is today we're actively building and expanding. I'm sure you'll hear about us please on Telegram and Twitter. That's on the slide there. I'm happy to chat about how and work with you and our pancakeswap user is always open to contact.
00:19:15.556 - 00:19:16.444, Speaker A: Thank you everybody.
