00:00:06.170 - 00:00:18.510, Speaker A: But we are going to be moving over this transitions well into our next talk. We'll be bringing on Davide Barnaby and Justin to be talking about Ethanomics meets Mev economics and we'll be starting with a presentation.
00:00:19.730 - 00:01:35.970, Speaker B: So we are kind of going to have like fireside chat discussion on the lay of the land more broadly. We start with a brief pitch introduction from Me, then Justin, then Barnaby and then probably going to have longer Q A. So I can go to next slide and I'm going to start at a high level defining mev flows kind of from first principle. So if we go to the next slide. So essentially where I want to start is that these nev flows are actually a property not of the blockchain itself, but of the economy that we build on top of blockchain. So like the system of value transfer which includes also the economic and financial games that people play on top. So they kind of affect the Ethereum protocol but also the trustless infrastructure or hopefully trustless infrastructure on the Ethereum protocol and then any other protocols that user may use.
00:01:35.970 - 00:01:53.264, Speaker B: So essentially when we think about how can we make Ethereum protocol mev resilient, which is an idea that I put forth a few days ago, we actually need to think about how the whole system can be mev resilient.
00:01:53.312 - 00:01:53.524, Speaker C: Right?
00:01:53.562 - 00:03:14.876, Speaker B: And these properties, which I call blockchain SEC properties, so security, equity and cost efficiency, some of them are inherited directly from the blockchain but some of them relate to the broader system, right? So essentially what are these properties like? The first one is economic security which in the context of mev we know that it changes the incentives from validators to behave honestly. So we want to build incentives that are robust to mev with some of the solutions we are developing is essentially to make these incentives robust to this process that arose and that now it's a constant because people are playing these DeFi games continuously. The second property is equity. So here we think about equity both in access. So essentially people should not be censored, but also equity in distribution. People should have fair game and have a fair distribution of value like comparable to the externalities they introduce into the system. So we want to minimize the losses for honest user.
00:03:14.876 - 00:04:19.232, Speaker B: And then the third one is cost efficiency which affects a fourth property which is the utility of using the blockchain. And here essentially we want unethical user users that are just there to play the game of extracting red to have minimal rents. So this is kind of the high level goal we are trying to achieve and I'll argue there is like four ingredients to achieve this. So the first one is we need to reduce mev with clever design. So essentially both at the game level so the economic apps that we build should be cleverly designed to account for mev and also at the meta game level at the transaction inclusion game. Also that one should be cleverly designed to account for mev and that's what most people in this group are working on. Then the second step is extraction.
00:04:19.232 - 00:04:52.204, Speaker B: So there is a potential mev in the system. This can cause instabilities to incentives. So we need an efficient technology for extraction. Today this is searchers and builder. Then the third one is capture. So once the mez is extracted, we need to make sure that this is captured and this needs to be captured by trustless protocol. It doesn't need to be entirely the ethereum protocol, it can be order flow, auctions or other protocol that are in the broader infrastructure.
00:04:52.204 - 00:06:07.040, Speaker B: But it does need to be trustless because otherwise there is going to be capture and this mechanism will not be credible. And then finally, mev allocation is very important because essentially once we capture this mev, we essentially need to make sure that this flows back to the users. Or essentially maybe we can talk about this a little bit more. What should be the goal of allocation of energy. So if we go to next slide so here is a cartoon view of the block supply chain which kind of includes, if you stare at it for a little bit, all the elements that we are seeing today, including the bad elements exclusive order flow, vertical integration between searcher and builder, horizontal competition at different layer. Maybe stronger versus not stronger than desegmentation. And then finally mevtake can differ at different layers.
00:06:07.040 - 00:07:20.796, Speaker B: So if you look at this you realize that although we would want a clean supply chain, we actually have a supply network where there is several connections across layers. So we kind of need to be aware of this. And essentially if we go to next slide, what we started doing is looking closer into all the important metrics of the supply network. We launched Rig Open Problem which is essentially a way to advance research around more complex properties of this supply network. So essentially what we are going to try to do is create an open source framework to both define and measure these more complex metrics that are related to inclusion delays. They create for different segments of the market, validator deviations from honest behavior. And our goal is to bring together multiple parties in the ecosystem.
00:07:20.796 - 00:07:43.510, Speaker B: We already have people from Flashbots, block, native EGFI, Uniswap labs that are looking with us at what's happening concretely into the market in order to then use this data to design better protocols and system. This is all for me, I believe Justin is up next.
00:07:44.680 - 00:08:42.090, Speaker C: Okay, great. Thanks, Davide. So today I want to talk about mev precedents, which I guess I just named today, which is what is the ordering in to which parties the mev should flow to, who should have president on the mev over other parties. And basically in my mind we have two types of presidents list. We have the President's list that we want and the President's list that we have and those are actually different today. So in terms of what we want, I think is we want to give users precedence over all other types of participants over the mev. So if they create mev, they should be the ones that capture it through this concept of rebates called mev share and things like that.
00:08:42.090 - 00:10:09.030, Speaker C: And then my claim is that the next entity in the precedents list should be holders, the token holders, and the way that they receive these flows is through burn. So we already have part one of the burn which is EIP 1559. I think of the base fees as actually parts of mev, right? It's not fancy or sophisticated mev but it is extractable value and it turns out to be extracted by ETH holders and there's this other idea called mev burn which is kind of part two of the burn where all the mev, not just one part of it, goes to the holders. So already from these two items in the precedence list, the way that I see where we want to be moving towards is users capturing all the mev that they initiate and then all the rest or almost all the rest going to the holders. Now, the reality is that there is a whole mev pipeline or chain or network, whatever you want to call it, of intermediaries. And these intermediaries will capture a little bit of mev, but they will capture a very small minority. And in the competitive market, the inefficiencies should go to zero.
00:10:09.030 - 00:11:35.600, Speaker C: And the reason why I ordered these entities in the way here is basically, the closer you are to the user, the higher the precedence you should have. So if you're an interface, for example, you're very very close to the user, you provide value by bringing the user onto ethereum and so you should have precedence over the searcher. The searcher is doing complicated stuff in terms of building the bundles and that's maybe more valuable than the builder which is just bundle merging and then the relay is doing something even less valuable and then the proposer is just doing almost nothing. The only thing that they're doing is that they're receiving a few bids and then they're picking the highest bid and they're signing it. They're doing almost no work now, it turns out in terms of what we have today for the users, I put the skull emoji here, that the users are being not receiving the flows and so they're not being prioritized in this precedence list at all. And in position number one, what we have is the proposer. So the proposer who should be, in my opinion, the very bottom of the president's list is right now at the very top of the precedents list and that is something that I think needs to be fixed.
00:11:35.600 - 00:13:21.436, Speaker C: And one of the cool things of this kind of model is that we have a clean definition of toxic mev and it's basically this idea that it's mev that doesn't respect the precedents list or at least the ideal precedence list. So in this case, any mev that should be going to the users but instead is going to the proposer is toxic mev. So things like front running and sandwiches and you could argue that maybe proposers receiving mev that doesn't originate from the users is also toxic and I'll talk about that later because it leads to all sorts of economic distortions that manipulate the incentives that we've tried to bake into the protocol as designers. And then in terms of what we have, again, we have these more commoditized entities that will receive a small portion of the mev in a competitive market. Okay, now I want to talk about maybe what is the most controversial thing of this whole diagram, which is why should holders have precedence over the proposers? And this goes back to this idea of these economic distortions that happens when you give the mev to the proposer. And so the way that we give mev to the holders is through mev. Burn.
00:13:21.436 - 00:14:12.460, Speaker C: I won't explain how it works, that's for another talk but I'll explain some of the advantages of it. So on the left we'll have distortions that happen if you give the mev to the proposer. So the very first one is this idea of reorgs, short term reorgs. So if you have a very valuable block 100 E, 1000 E, 10,000 E, 10,0000 E who knows in a single block then really you're putting a lot of pressure on the chain to do these short term reorgs and we haven't seen that right yet. But it might happen as the market becomes more sophisticated and more mature. So that's the first thing that is not good when you give the mev to the proposer. The second thing which is not great when you give me V to the proposer is that you're basically introducing a lottery.
00:14:12.460 - 00:14:50.700, Speaker C: All the proposers are lottery participants. They each have lottery tickets. And as in most lotteries, almost everyone is a loser, right? Almost everyone doesn't win the lottery. And then there's like the one person, the one proposer who wins the jackpot at the expense of everyone else. And in order to correct for this fact that almost everyone is a loser, the proposers need to pool and that creates centralization vectors. It goes against solo validating and things like that. So that's the second economic distortion that we would avoid if we were giving the mev to the holders as opposed to the proposers.
00:14:50.700 - 00:16:02.180, Speaker C: The third economic distortion is what I call rug pools. So it's rugging the pools. And here the observation is that even if you have a pooling system, it's still not incentive aligned. And the reason is that the operator of a validator that's part of a pool has an incentive to basically not give the mev to the pool if the mev is large enough, specifically is larger than their collateral or their reputation. So if there's a massive block that comes in 10,000 E block, and they only operate one validator with 32 E, they're happy to say, okay, the pool, you can keep the 32 E as my collateral, but I'm going to run away. I'm going to ruck pool with the 10,000 E. And so even if you like the concept of pools like Rocket Pool or Lido Mev Burn actually makes these pools better because it removes the Rug Pooling.
00:16:02.180 - 00:17:21.200, Speaker C: And then the fourth economic distortion that I want to highlight is this idea of drought. So there's two use cases for ETH, right? There's the staking which is economic security, and then there's this other very important use case which is economic bandwidth. So for example, we're going to need decentralized stablecoins that are backed by pristine collateral, by ETH. And if we're in a bull market, let's say, where Mev has just gone crazy, then what's going to happen is that the incentive to become a staker are going to grow and all the ETH is going to be sucked into staking. And then that's going to dry up the ETH for the economic bandwidth and it's basically going to fight the ethereum economy. So in a way the chain is kind of too successful and it's overpaying for security and that leads to less economic bandwidth for the rest of the ecosystem. And then another thing that's not on this slide, but I just kind of remembered is that if you're giving the mev to the proposers, you're kind of incentivizing people to use derivatives as collateral.
00:17:21.200 - 00:18:30.784, Speaker C: My personal belief is that if derivatives are risky to use as collateral because they can lose all their value from one day to another through slashing and so they're not high grade collateral and ideally they should be avoided if you're building things like decentralized stablecoins. And in terms of the good things, if you give the mev to the holder you have basically more scarcity. You increase the shelling point that ETH is money for the internet and that ethereum is the set on it layer for the intake of value. But ironically, you're also increasing the rewards for stakers even though you're removing the mev portion. And the reason is that the rewards are going to tend to the cost of value in either case. But for most people, because of this variance around the rewards, most people are going to be earning less than the cost of value. So actually most people are going to be losing money staking and a few people are going to be making money staking.
00:18:30.784 - 00:19:24.260, Speaker C: So that makes everyone earn kind of the same rewards. And also from a USD denominated perspective, presumably if there's more scarcity, the price of ETH is worth more. And so you actually have more USD denominated rewards even though the ETH denominated rewards are the same. You also have more economic efficiency in the sense that you don't need as much issuance to pay for economic security. And the reason is that the amount of issuance grows with the total amount of stakers. And so we can reduce the amount of stakers and therefore have less issuance and still have enough economic security for ethereum. And then the final thing is that this kind of related to the scarcity.
00:19:24.260 - 00:19:55.890, Speaker C: Even though the total amount of ETH staked will go down, it's possible that counterintuitively, you'll have more economic security. And the reason is that, again, the price of ETH might be worth more. And so from a USD denominated standpoint, you might have more economic security. So all of this to justify this new precedence list that I think we should be targeting for when we redirect mev to various participants. And now on to barnaby. I believe.
00:19:56.740 - 00:20:40.940, Speaker D: Thank you, Justine. Hi everyone. I want to talk a bit about protocol credibility and principal agent problems. I'm told that there's an echo memory. Great. So can you move on to the next slide, please? In October, I released a post on Unbuddling PBS with something I called Pepsi protocol enforced Proposal Commitment. It allows the proposer to basically commit to any kind of executable contract and the commitment is fully defended by the protocol in the sense that block validity depends on the satisfaction of the proposal commitment.
00:20:40.940 - 00:21:16.276, Speaker D: In particular, you can write PBS in Pepsi, but you can also do much more than that. So it's much more general. And Pepsi came from a feeling that I was somewhat unsatisfied, let's say I thought we don't really have a theory of protocol upgrades and so we might as well give ourselves as much optionality as we can. And Pepsi is really maximum optionality in terms of what the proposer can commit to. That's not to say that we shouldn't do protocol upgrades. I think we have a good intuition for them. We've done them in the past and they worked pretty successfully.
00:21:16.276 - 00:21:46.180, Speaker D: And there's something to be said for being iterative community driven, this kind of diffuse, pragmatic approach to protocol development. But the arc of ethereum is the arc of any complexifying economy. So processes get more sophisticated. You have a division of labor that we call modularization in blockchain slang. If you can move on to the next slide, Justin. And so this division of labor, it fractures basically trust domains. More and more things get delegated.
00:21:46.180 - 00:22:39.200, Speaker D: You have delegation, and if you have delegation, you have principal agent problems with Paps. And if you have principal agent problems, you have potentially misaligned incentives. So we can always choose to protocolize systemic Paps principal agent problems. But then we have to define what the system is. And in this conversation I think we're often led to ask what is the role of a protocol in that larger system of protocol and infrastructure? And I don't think we can have this conversation properly without having a bit more theoretical background on basically protocol credibility. And so the discussion on credibility is really taking off at the moment, along with commitments. To me, the groundbreaking work is virgil's Ethereum is game changing technology, literally.
00:22:39.200 - 00:23:32.272, Speaker D: But recently Shin from Flashbots has revived this conversation. He has a much more holistic theory of credibility and commitments and I think in parallel, very much in the Zeitgeist, you're starting to see much more results on credibility in auctions and credibility in mechanism design where you don't have, let's say, a central controller. And so what this conversation tells me is that there is this hierarchy of commitments and the reason why we want to put things in protocol is because we see that as being more credible. And so I want to just go a bit into why we might think that. And basically it's because the protocol gives us a shelling fence. The validator set says anything we put behind the fence, anything we put in the protocol is going to be defended with the whole might of a validator set. But the protocol can only defend what it sees.
00:23:32.272 - 00:24:20.388, Speaker D: So most of the upgrades that we do, they're really done with the aim of extending vision of the protocol. And I call it seeing like a protocol. We want to make legible certain outcomes and certain pieces of infrastructure so that the protocol can control and defend them. And so the aim is to get a credible signal, for instance, if we see a safety fault in the FFG Gadget, if we have the base fee, these are all credible signals of things that are happening in the protocol. Next slide, please. And so this protocol credibility to me is the sum of two things is this first, protocol introspection and also protocol agency. So the more introspection we have, the more control and the more we can have actionable responses to events that are happening.
00:24:20.388 - 00:25:23.444, Speaker D: So sometimes we don't want to go through the diffuse process of community government if there's a fault that we can't control, for instance, people are driving baseb to zero. It's not something that a protocol can see as a fault and we need to act as a community to defend against that. But there are faults that we can deal with pretty much automatically, like slashing people who are finalizing and doing safety faults. But the trade off here is that when we build in this protocol credibility, when we extend the boundary of a protocol, it means that we also need to become opinionated about outcomes that we want. And so there is a higher risk that we lock in kind of local optima or mechanisms that are suboptimal. But more importantly, when we do that, we also start overloading the validator set with the duty to defend more and more things. And we can do so, but then we must be convinced that we as a community are going to defend these mechanisms basically with the protocol's life for whatever falls under its zone of controls.
00:25:23.444 - 00:26:26.412, Speaker D: For instance, we commit to forking out validators who subvert the censorship resistance gadgets that we build in the mev burning, the finality gadgets, all of these gadgets. And to me this feels like it gets harder as time goes on because there are other domains like suave or like eigen layer that may directly shift the incentives of the validators such that honest behavior and rational behavior start deferring more and more, especially when the protocol has locked in suboptimal outcome. And by suboptimal I mean non welfare maximizing. Because when this is the case, the welfare gap is basically a subsidy for bribing validators into doing the wrong thing. And so back to Pepsi. To me the idea was nice because it creates this idea of programmable protocol credibility, but it may be at ODS with the goals of zeroing in on a minimal set of gadgets that we are willing to defend with basically the protocol's life. And that question is still open in my mind.
00:26:26.412 - 00:26:40.290, Speaker D: So yeah, I think we're getting closer to this theory of protocol upgrade. I think commitments, credibility, both have to do with that and I'm excited to see what's next. I think we're a bit overtime, but we should jump to the questions.
00:26:43.740 - 00:27:32.952, Speaker A: Awesome. Great presentations guys. So we will have a brief kind of question section here before we move on to the next one. The first one I'll go up will be kind of basically getting Davide and Barnaby your reactions a bit on kind of the mev allocation and distribution type of convo for the most part. I know Davide, like you've written previously, as far as mev allocation, the goal is basically distribute the captured mev to participants in a way that is most beneficial to the protocol. So that last part is really kind of what hones in on the question of how do we define what is that objective function, what is beneficial to the protocol that we're trying to optimize here, whether that be mev smoothing burning in particular. Because it does address some of those points that Justin had spoken about as far as the reorgan resistance and some of that kind of stuff.
00:27:32.952 - 00:27:36.670, Speaker A: So how you guys kind of think about what you're optimizing for here?
00:27:40.750 - 00:28:05.714, Speaker B: Yeah, good question. So I think the answer is nuance and it ties to parts of the presentation of Justin and Barnabas. So maybe I'll start and then they can continue. So in the ideal world, what does most beneficial for the protocol means? I mean, the protocol is just like organizing all the participants, like users and service providers validators in this case.
00:28:05.752 - 00:28:06.146, Speaker C: Right?
00:28:06.248 - 00:28:55.010, Speaker B: So on the user side, the ideal allocation is essentially like a fair tax. So essentially the mev you contribute to the system and the mev you get allocated, if you subtract those, they should be proportional to the externality that you bring to the system. And on the other side, you also need to use part of this mev to make sure that the validatory incentives are not distorted, behaving honestly. So I think this ties to the kind of precedence hierarchy that Justin was talking, so I'm not sure if he wants to comment next. Also because the allocation doesn't need to be monetary, could be purely fiscal, but it could also be monetary in the case of burn.
00:29:00.850 - 00:29:02.670, Speaker C: Sorry, what do you mean by fiscal?
00:29:03.090 - 00:29:28.534, Speaker B: In the sense you could organize direct transfers. Right. For example, in the type of allocation that an ofa system would do, there is a direct transfer back to the user. So essentially the user is getting that mev directly, not through inflation or deflation in this case.
00:29:28.572 - 00:29:51.760, Speaker C: Yeah, right. There's a separation of the consensus layer and the execution layer. Right. And I guess what you're saying is that the execution layer is the fiscal layer and I don't think users would get Issuance. Right. That's kind of the wrong layer because issuance is at the consensus layer. Right, okay.
00:29:51.760 - 00:30:24.474, Speaker C: Yeah. I mean, Johnny made a good point around know, potentially solving some of these issues. Smoothing doesn't solve the economic bandwidth drought basically just to staking sucking in. Yeah. And it's also unclear in terms of the reorg, even the reorg. Like one of the ideas is that we have some sort of small committee that's in charge of the smoothing, but this small committee is maybe not representative of the whole valid data set. Or maybe it is, I don't know.
00:30:24.474 - 00:30:27.660, Speaker C: But there's some nuance there a little bit.
00:30:31.470 - 00:31:29.070, Speaker D: Yeah. On that point, if I can comment, I think sometimes we also get the monetary policy that we can defend. And if we can't defend things like Mavburn or things like maps moving because they rely at the end of the day on this honest majority of committee to defend these things, yeah, it might be something that we can't get. But I wanted to also mention some research that is done by Anders in our group on the dynamic yield curve and notably the idea of capping the size of a validator set and potentially even auctioning of the slots of a validator set, that's I would say, another way of internalizing that mev allocation in the protocol. And in particular, if you get rewards from like Egan layer as a validator, you're going to be willing to pay more at this option and so you can even internalize more than the execution layer mev via this mechanism.
00:31:30.130 - 00:32:05.894, Speaker C: Or you could do both. I think that would be the ideal. Right. One of the things that you mentioned is that mev burn or smoothing requires an honest majority. I do want to highlight that EIP 59 also requires an honest majority. And just for people to understand this, basically if you have a dishonest majority, they control the fork choice rule and then what they can do is that they can fork any block that increases the base feed. And so basically the base feed is like decreasing only and it goes to zero.
00:32:05.894 - 00:32:20.350, Speaker C: And then you've just essentially deactivated the IP 1559. And actually there's a lot of parallels between the IP 1559 and mev brand. It's just essentially the same mechanisms, the same dynamics. It's just on a different side of the coin.
00:32:24.220 - 00:33:18.344, Speaker A: Very good. So moving on to one of the other questions that we had. This one will be for you, Justin. It relates to several of the earlier presentations that referenced it. But your recent post on base Roll ups where the basic idea is letting the layer one kind of do the sequencing for these roll ups eventually and TLDR. The very simple mev implication here is if you implement it in that simple form, basically the mev that would normally approve to rolled sequencers would start going to the l one cells. So the question here is kind of why is that such a desirable or undesirable feature of this? And then in particular, is there kind of a tension here between now all the value goes to ethereum and maybe this is kind of the dominant solution to them and compared to roll up should have their own incentives to continue to innovate and continue to grow over time.
00:33:18.344 - 00:33:26.190, Speaker A: Is that kind of in any way a rejection of the roll up century roadmap where we want this private market of people to be incentivized, to go make these things.
00:33:27.920 - 00:34:23.580, Speaker C: Right? I mean, on the topic of incentivization, I'm not at all worried about the rolled up teams. There's like $10 billion plus kind of market caps. I think they're doing very well and for good reason because they're doing something very complicated that requires very big teams, it requires taking a lot of risk. And also the fact that we have these tokens is kind of fuel to kind of almost disrupt a little bit the layer one network effects and create new network effects at layer two. So I'm all for this capitalism, as it were, at the rollup layer. But I think what will happen is that what is capitalism in the short and medium term might become commoditized eventually. It will be just like running water and electricity and there will be less and less of a need for incentivization.
00:34:23.580 - 00:35:08.856, Speaker C: I mean, even the roll up teams themselves, right, they want to be credibly neutral, they want to be maximally decentralized. And so they go, for example, from centralized sequencer to decentralized sequencer. They go from governance token, governance for upgrades, and then they might remove the governance and become like uniswap, fully trustless. And I think the move from being layer two sequence to being layer one sequence is part of this natural progression of progressive decentralization. And then once you've reached the base roll up, the ultimate maybe goal is to become an enshrined roll up. And I'm talking to the scroll founders and that's one of the things that they're thinking about. Like how could scroll become an enshrined.
00:35:08.856 - 00:35:43.956, Speaker C: Roll up. So there's kind of this spectrum of roll ups. And by the way, my definition of a roll up is when there is sufficient data on chain that you can recompute the state. And so some of the roll ups that people don't talk about is centralized roll ups. So for example, optimism today is a centralized roll up. It's a roll up because you can recompute the states, but it's centralized. And I think another type of roll up that people are not looking into, but I'm relatively optimistic about is SGX rollups where the security engine is SGX.
00:35:43.956 - 00:37:05.376, Speaker C: But I think that what we're doing is we're progressively fleshing out this whole design space of roll ups and we're rediscovering enshrine based blah, blah, blah. In terms of the advantages, I think they really do lean highly towards credible neutrality, right? So it's like maximum security, maximum liveness, maximum decentralization, maximum simplicity. And so all of these things are tending towards the mature side of the roll up. So what I expect will happen is that the dominant roll ups in the short and medium term will be the non based ones and that eventually maybe a based one. And actually one of the ideas that we've been thinking within the ultrasound team is like should we launch an ultrasound roll up? And if we were to do such a thing, it necessarily must be a base roll up because that's kind of like the natural selling point. Now, one of the things that I think will happen with roll ups is that there is kind of winner take most because of the network effects. And so roll ups need to be very strategic, right? On the one hand, they need to move extremely fast, have the first move advantage, have a lot of token fuel to do the boosting, but at the same time they need to have this credible story that eventually they'll become maximally credibly neutral.
00:37:05.376 - 00:37:45.970, Speaker C: And I think adding becoming a base roll up as one of the line items in their roadmap could be a very powerful strategic move for them. And one of the things that was highlighted about base roll ups is that it's a little unclear how you get some of the services like pre confirmations, but I'm actually relatively optimistic that with things like Eigen layer that we can actually have fast pre confirmation so we can have our cake and eat it. To have all the advantages of non base roll apps. And all the advantages of base roll ups. So yeah, the future is a bright for roll ups for sure.
00:37:48.580 - 00:38:50.150, Speaker A: A lot of different options I think we have we'll squeeze it in one more since we started this a few minutes late. This one kind of gets to the question of what is really the protocol job to kind of provide to everyone who's kind of using this ecosystem. So it's a question that I had actually asked Phil earlier as well. So curious to hear your guys take it's regarding enshrined PBS, and is this something that we actually need to do? Is this something that actually needs to be enshrined in the protocol at any point? It's clearly not a near term action item that's happening imminently, but there is that real risk of you enshrined something, a very specific structure. And crypto has a strong tendency of finding new existential risks every couple of years, and you might find a new one of those a couple of years later and realize you wanted more flexibility. So what are the downsides if we were not to do that? And kind of how do you think about that, starting with Barnabay on this one?
00:38:51.160 - 00:38:53.076, Speaker C: Sure. Yeah.
00:38:53.098 - 00:40:04.910, Speaker D: I thought Phil's answer was quite interesting to say that basically our job is to do research on providing nuclear options or almost like deterrence for people to not do bad things and for the market to stay. Actually, I'm pretty hopeful about, let's say, the development of PBS. Justin can probably talk more about this, but lately there's been a lot of innovation like optimistic relaying towards this roadmap to PBS. So to me the risk was not to say that, okay, PBS is a bad idea. Clearly I think you would want this clean interface of a protocol to communicate with what's outside of it. I think PBS is probably part of the right one, but I did want to see more data, more experimentation, more research. And it feels like we're at this point where every day there's like a new paper, not necessarily about PBS, but that can be applied to PBS or new data sets, new findings, and that makes me fairly confident about figuring out that nuclear option, like the shape of it before we actually need to use it.
00:40:09.120 - 00:40:37.364, Speaker C: Yeah. My take is that enfront PBS is going to take a long time relative to how fast the blockchain space moves. It will take let's say two, three years at the minimum. And in two, three years, the mev space is just going to dramatically change. Every week the mev space dramatically changes. We're just speed running the whole thing. And I'm hopeful that we'll have some sort of reasonable equilibrium in, let's say, one and a half years or two years.
00:40:37.364 - 00:41:29.056, Speaker C: And then that will be close to the end game of the non enshrined PBS. And then we'll be able to make an informed decision as to whether or not we really want enshrined PBS. But intuitively, as a roll up operator, as a relay operator, I'd say we really do want Enshrined PPS. Being a relay operator is not good. On the one hand, it's kind of a lot of work and there's a lot of pitfalls. But one of the things that I've been thinking about is, okay, how can the role of the relay be abused? What happens if someone hacks our relay? And I believe that if someone hacks our relay, they can steal millions of dollars. So basically it's a high kind of trust environment.
00:41:29.056 - 00:42:22.650, Speaker C: You could collude with the builders, you could collude with the validators. There's all sorts of attacks, many of which are not documented, and really you just want to remove this trusted entity as quickly as possible. But, yeah, it is possible that there's some very clever technique that allows us to remove the trusted entity without Enshrined PBS. And I think Flashbots, for example, is working on using Know to remove the relay. And I think, as Van Albe mentioned, there's this whole roadmap that we have now that's been written by Mike Nuder basically documenting a progression for optimistic relaying, which incrementally brings us towards Enshrine PBS. And I encourage you to read it because it kind of shows you almost how natural the Enshrine PBS should be in a few years.
00:42:26.300 - 00:42:34.310, Speaker A: Awesome. This was a lot of fun. I don't want to keep Patrick waiting any longer. So thank you again, all of you guys. This one was really great.
