00:00:00.480 - 00:00:22.014, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Dailygway refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 8 March 2021. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So just a quick kind of note here. I did post the third episode of the Dailygui data pump series, I think yesterday or a couple days ago. Now you can go check that. Check that out if you missed it.
00:00:22.014 - 00:01:15.376, Speaker A: Basically what I do in these videos is that I kind of go over all the various on chain metrics for Ethereum and defying kind of like run through them, kind of how you can use them as signals for various different things and kind of like, show you how to use them, basically. So definitely go check out that video if you haven't yet. And, you know, I do them every month, basically going over the previous month's worth of data. So, yeah, be sure to subscribe to the channel so you don't miss any future ones there. All right, so the biggest news since the last refuel was that EIP 1559 has finally been accepted into a hard fork. So it got, it's been accepted into the London hard fork, which is tentatively scheduled for deployment in July of 2021. So only a few months away after almost two years of waiting, you know, since 1559 was, I guess, originally kind of put forward as a proposal by Eric Connor and Vitalik as an EIP, you know, we're finally here.
00:01:15.376 - 00:01:39.380, Speaker A: Right. It'll be, I think it'll be on, like, pretty much exactly two years by the time it gets deployed here. And obviously, this is the most kind of hotly anticipated EIP ever. Right? Right. I don't think there's ever been a kind of a network upgrade or an EIP that has been more anticipated than this. Even the last kind of issuance reduction was, you know, it was kind of, like, hyped up, but it was nowhere near as hyped up as this is. And I think, you know, obviously for a few reasons.
00:01:39.380 - 00:01:58.106, Speaker A: Right. I mean, I've gone, I've talked about 1559 a lot in the, in, you know, previous refuels, but obviously, the main reason people are excited about it is the fee burn, which is, which is cool. But the funny thing is about the fee burn is that it's just a bonus. Right. I think the fee burn was the narrative. But the actual fundamental improvements that 1559 bring are more than that. Right.
00:01:58.106 - 00:02:32.800, Speaker A: I've gone through it before. They, they provide like, an on chain gas oracle for smart contracts and it's especially important for L2 as well. Right. It provides much better, um, you know, smoothing of transactions than we've got now, uh, because of the way the base fee works. Um, it basically makes it so that you can pretty much be guaranteed that your transaction will get into a block. You won't have to basically, you know, say you're like, doing a transaction, you put like, a gwei amount in, and then what ends up happening is that, like, the, the fees spike during, you know, while the blocks being mined, and then you might not get into the next block. 1559 helps a lot with this.
00:02:32.800 - 00:03:14.930, Speaker A: It also, you know, enshrines ETH as the only asset that can be paid for the base fee because it gets burned. So you can't do what's called economic abstraction, where you can go around that and pay fees and other kind of like currencies, not, not ETH, which is really important. There's a few other benefits as well to this, but I won't go through them all again. I think it's just really, really cool to finally see that this is going in. I mean, obviously, we had a bit of miners kind of like, being against this lately, and they still are against this and they're signaling against it. But I've spoke about on the refill before how I don't think they have really any power here or any, say, they're just going to mine on the chain that everyone else sticks to and pretty much everyone's going to stick to 1559. Like, I doubt any exchanges are going to side with the non 1555 nine fork.
00:03:14.930 - 00:03:34.490, Speaker A: I doubt any kind of infrastructure providers or any kind of apps are going to, going to side with the miners here. So that's not a worry. I don't think so. Yeah. I mean, if all goes well, this will be out in July of 2021. The reason why I said here, tentatively scheduled, because just in case something happens, we have to push it back to August. Right.
00:03:34.490 - 00:04:15.806, Speaker A: You know, for whatever reason, sometimes these things happen. It might get pushed back to August, but it has to happen in July or August because of the difficulty bomb. As I've explained before, that will go off in, it will start going off in July where the, the block times will start getting longer and the network will actually, you know, really feel kind of like a, it'll basically feel like a slog to do anything on it because of the difficulty bomb. So we have to get this kind of out there and, and diffusing the bomb is basically going into the London hard fork as well. So, yeah, I'm pretty confident that we can hit the July date here. As far as I know, all the development around 1559 for the clients has been done, or at least most of it has been done. It really is just waiting now.
00:04:15.806 - 00:04:53.510, Speaker A: And, you know, we've got the Berlin hard fork coming up as well, which is next month, basically, on the, on Mainnet. This month it's being deployed to testnets that's coming with a bunch of technical improvements that obviously a lot of people aren't really too interested in because they're kind of low, low level stuff that, that a lot of people don't really understand, which is fair enough. I don't understand all of it either. But I know that there's some upgrades in there people are excited about. But 1559 is obviously the one that everyone's waiting for. And it's just, it's just awesome, right? It's just really, really awesome that we're finally at a stage where it's going in. But yeah, anyway, I've spoken about it too much over the last few weeks, so I won't dawdle on this, on this too much.
00:04:53.510 - 00:05:38.748, Speaker A: But one other thing I wanted to go through was a great thread from Hasu here where he basically spoke about what I was just speaking about. And he explained how with 1559, you can get more predictable transactions, basically. So he says here in his first tweet, and I'll just read the first one because this is a thread. But he basically says, one of the most common questions we get around ERP 1559 is how predictable the price of getting into the next block will be. Or in other words, how often will you be able to pay the current base fee plus minimum tip compared to the system degrading to today's first price auction. And then he kind of like, explains how this all works. And then he ends it with saying that basically this all means that 95% to 99% of the time, users will simply be able to pay the quoted price and reliably get their transaction mined in the next block.
00:05:38.748 - 00:06:29.656, Speaker A: That is a critical ux upgrade, right? Like, absolutely critical. Like, I can't even tell you the amount of times that I've, you know, put my transaction in, paid the rapid fee, right? And then I still didn't get my transaction in the next block because the rapid fee just kind of like, you know, spiked so much. And, and even the fast fee and stuff like that, that's not gonna happen most of the time anymore with 1559. And that's what I think people should be most excited about, because I'm sure you've all experienced that, right, where you put a transaction in and then you get, you know, front run and the prices spike up and all this kind of stuff happens, you know, that's gonna be like basically only, you know, maybe at most 5% of the time this will happen across the whole network. So really, really massive ux improvement there. And I think, you know, as I said, the fee bo, the fee burn is just a bonus on top of all these kind of improvements that are coming with 1559. But yeah, very, very excited for that.
00:06:29.656 - 00:06:55.292, Speaker A: I'll link this thread in the YouTube description. You can go check it out and read the whole thread to see how this works. And, you know, on my tweet as well here, I've got like a second tweet where you can learn all about 1559. This is Tim Bicos resource pack here. And on that note, actually, I did want to give like a massive shout out to Tim here. I mean, I've spoken about him before. Without Tim leading the charge on 1559 and basically being the champion for it, I don't think it would have happened, like straight up.
00:06:55.292 - 00:07:22.174, Speaker A: I find it highly unlikely we would have got to the point where we are today. This was his baby. He made sure the things got done. He made sure that teams were coordinated. And as I said before, he was basically the Danny Ryan for 1559. And for those of you who don't know, Danny Ryan is critical to kind of like ETH two and the ETH two coordination between all the different teams and researchers, just as Tim Baiko here was critical to 1559. And he's actually part of the kind of like ETH one effort.
00:07:22.174 - 00:07:51.442, Speaker A: And he's actually the going to be hosting the all core devs calls from now on. Hudson Jameson stepped down there from that, but yeah, so just wanted to give a shout out to him and basically everyone else that made this happen. I mean, there are so many people that made this happen. Like, you can go on the resource page here and see how many people kind of like contributed to it. Right. You know, Hasu and Georgios did a lot of research around it. Um, the Ethereum, cat herders, fine Maddox ETH global, Barnaby from the EF, who does basically analysis on these sorts of things.
00:07:51.442 - 00:08:16.636, Speaker A: Micah Zoltoo, Tim Roughgarden, who I've spoken about before, who actually is outside of the crypto ecosystem. He did an economic analysis on it and so many more names. I mean, you can just go here and see it all. But basically this was like a massive effort from so many people in the Ethereum community and outside of the Ethereum community. So a huge thanks to them. Without them, and especially without Tim, this would not have happened ever. Which is, which is kind of crap to think about, right, since it was so hotly anticipated.
00:08:16.636 - 00:08:44.178, Speaker A: But we got here and this is the power of the Ethereum community at the end of the day, I think. All right, so this week, Gitcoin grants round nine is launching. I did warn you guys, you know, over the last couple of weeks that I'll be annoying you about this. Basically this launches on Wednesday. There's going to be a $500,000 matching pool that you'll be able to kind of like pull from when you donate to different grants on gitcoin. And just a quick recap for those of you who don't know how this works. Basically there's a bunch of different grants on gitcoin.
00:08:44.178 - 00:09:24.990, Speaker A: You can donate to them and your donations can potentially be matched up to hundreds of times. So, for example, if you were to donate one dai, it could get matched by up to 100 dai with these matching funds. Now, there's a lot of good projects on here. I mean, I'll talk more about it and walk through it once it's live on Wednesday. But basically, you know, I think everyone in the Ethereum ecosystem, especially if you've made like a bit of money during the last few months, I think, you know, it's basically your duty to give some of that back. Like, I'll just straight up say that I think that, you know, give what you can, but I do think that the ethereum economy gives, you know, you so much, right? And a lot of it is built on open source software. A lot of it is built on projects that don't have coins, right? So they're not even monetizing or anything.
00:09:24.990 - 00:09:45.056, Speaker A: They're just like building software because they're passionate about it. So from that point of view, I truly believe that you should give back, you know, as much as you can here. And as I said, because of the matching pool, you don't even have to donate much. Right. You know, you can donate ten dai to a bunch of different projects. Maybe you just have 100 kind of dai you wanna donate, donate ten dai to ten different projects and that'll get matched as well. So.
00:09:45.056 - 00:10:23.778, Speaker A: Yeah, but I'll bug you guys more about, about that on Wednesday, and I'll kind of walk you through how it works, too, for those of you who haven't done this before. But I do think it's your duty as an Ethereum citizen to basically do this. And, you know, I mean, I'm not gonna blame you if you don't, right? But I do think that if you've made money, you know, it's always good to give some of that back to the ecosystem because at the end of the day, a lot of it's open source, a lot of it's built for free, a lot of it's built as passion projects. And, you know, people got to eat, right? So it's always good to give back, I think. So an interesting tweet here from Victor Bunin. I'll read it out. He basically said, I think all new protocols, airdropping tokens should reward gitcoin contributors.
00:10:23.778 - 00:10:53.754, Speaker A: Badger did it first, as far as he knows, but it shouldn't be the last. This is likely the highest return on investment in the whole industry. Target good ecosystem participants, increasing open source software funding. Beautiful. Now, I wrote about this in a deli Gwei newsletter today, but I'll quickly go over what I basically wrote about. I think this is critically important because what we've seen with airdrops within the community right now, within the ecosystem, you know, let's take the uniswap airdrop, for example. You know, that was the biggest and most high, high profile airdrop.
00:10:53.754 - 00:11:33.720, Speaker A: You know, everyone that ever interacted with Uniswap got 400 uni per address, right? And then the liquidity providers got a bit more, depending on when they provided liquidity and for how long and stuff like that. But what ended up happening is a lot of those uni tokens ended up being kind of dumped, right? Because it was free money, right? I mean, you know, uni, the uni price went up to like $10 during that mania. So that airdrop ended up being worth like $4,000 at the time. It's obviously worth a lot more now because uni went up, but a lot of people sold back then. And I'll say I sold mine too, right? I mean, for me, I was just like, not that I didn't want to hold uni, but like, for me, I mean, taxes, of course. Cause it's income. And then I wanted to take some profits from something anyway, so I just figured I'd sell it.
00:11:33.720 - 00:12:09.700, Speaker A: But there's a lot of people like me. And in all honesty, I shouldn't have been airdropped, these tokens, because I don't really have much of a kind of interest in participating in uni governance, for example, where the tokens are basically a governance token, right? And you want people participating in the governance of it. And I just wasn't really interested in participating in uniswap governance. It's not a community that I spend a lot of time in. Not that I don't like uniswap or anything, but it's just not something that I focus on personally. So from that point of view, I sold my tokens into the market to basically speculators. And I don't know how many people held onto their tokens and are actually participating in governance.
00:12:09.700 - 00:13:04.058, Speaker A: But from that point of view, I think basically those airdrops are kind of a waste. I think there are much better ways to do airdrops. I mean, we've seen airdrops from like one inch and pulled together and a bunch of other things. I mean, you know, as Victor mentions here, Badger Dao actually did a really good airdrop where it wasn't just airdrop to users of the Badger protocol, which actually wasn't live, but they airdropped it to users of different protocols, and they airdropped it to Gitcoin contributors as well. So, and I actually argue in the piece that I wrote that Gitcoin contributors are pretty well aligned with open source software, with governance, with things like this. And because Gitcoin is a really great platform for cyber resistance, where a lot of the people on there, you know, have to kind of be verified and you have to kind of like, know that they're a human and it's not like multiple addresses and things like that. That's a really good way to get, like, quick alignment from really kind of hardcore Ethereum, you know, ecosystem participants.
00:13:04.058 - 00:13:49.114, Speaker A: Right? Because a lot of people who have donated in multiple git coin grants rounds have been around for quite a while now and have been like, you know, we, you know, donating on git coin is kind of like a thing you do. Up until maybe the last couple of rounds, you only did that if you were, like, really deep in the ethereum ecosystem. So from that point of view, air dropping some tokens to them would align them better than just airdropping it to maybe some random people who use the protocol, for example. But again, that's not a silver bullet either. I think that just an airdrop in general is not enough. I think that you have to do way more than that if you want to get alignment from token holders. You know, airdrop is one thing, but another good way to do it is you pay out tokens out of the, the kind of like protocol dao to contributors, right? And you make them want to hold the token, you basically, you know, because they're contributing to the protocol.
00:13:49.114 - 00:14:25.080, Speaker A: They're actually kind of like in the discord, right? They're in the forum, they're talking, they're, they're adding value because, you know, they obviously want to get paid tokens, but by doing this, they actually get involved and kind of like go down the rabbit hole of your protocol and get like, kind of attached to it as well. So that's one way to do it. Another way is that with liquidity mining programs, instead of just paying it out and, and letting people constantly dump it, you do a vested model. The most successful one of these is synthetix. They did a liquidity mining program which started in, I think, April of 2019. So it's been going for almost two years now, and it's actually vested for a year. So you claim your tokens and then you have to wait a year to get them.
00:14:25.080 - 00:14:46.914, Speaker A: And because of this, they were able to build up a really great community with this. Because everyone that held for like that whole year, right. They couldn't dump it straight away. They got more involved with the ecosystem, they got more involved with the community, and by the time their tokens unlocked, the price had gone up so much. Right. They had been, become so involved with the ecosystem and like made friends and became involved with the community, they didn't want to dump anymore. Right.
00:14:46.914 - 00:15:15.670, Speaker A: Like some of them did for sure, but, like, a lot of them didn't. And Sushiswap's doing this as well, where they're vesting two thirds of the rewards. You know, there are other kind of projects experimenting with this as well. But I guess my general point here is that if you want to get like a kind of like wide distribution of your governance token, you kind of need to do not just an airdrop, but like everything. Do an airdrop, do a liquidity mining program with vesting pay out tokens to contributors to the protocol to get them aligned. Right. And you can even put vesting on that.
00:15:15.670 - 00:15:47.174, Speaker A: That doesn't have to be paid out straight away either, as long as you're upfront about it, that it's going to be vested. Right. There's another thing where you can actually raise funds with, from the Dow, right, sell tokens to a bunch of really strong strategic partners within the ecosystem, really key players. And I'm not talking just like VC funds or like hedge funds or traditional investors or whatever. I'm talking like actual strategic players on board, like angel investors and things like that. People who have a name in the community and can actually add value to your kind of like protocol and add value to your project. That's another way to do it as well.
00:15:47.174 - 00:16:15.860, Speaker A: So I think we're going to see more of this kind of experimentation play out. You know, one project that I really like how they've done things is, you know, one that I'm involved with the index co op, and I've spoken about them before. The airdrop that they did was only 1% of all tokens and that was just to DPI holders. And then from there they've been rewarding tokens, like index tokens, to a lot of contributors. Right. The liquidity mining program that they're doing is not super lucrative. I think it's like 20% apy or something on a dpi ETH pool.
00:16:15.860 - 00:16:44.476, Speaker A: And they're actually doing like not just one liquidity mining program, they're doing multiple ones across different protocols, like one on loop rings, L2 exchange, for example, to kind of like get loop ring users involved. And, you know, that's just resulting in a pretty healthy kind of like token holder base. And it takes time to build this up. You can't build this up in a week. It can kind of play out over years. And, you know, from that perspective, you can get a really nice base of token holders who really care about the protocol and really want to govern it and really want to be part of it. And this is what happened with Ethereum as well.
00:16:44.476 - 00:17:15.048, Speaker A: I think during the last few years you've had a lot of people kind of like, you know, come in and out, but a lot of people have stayed and built up an ETH position. And now, you know, even though ETH doesn't give you governance rights over the Ethereum platform, you have like a pretty like big vested interest, right. You have a lot of skin in the game to see Ethereum succeed, to make sure that you're involved with different discussions and different kind of conversations around Ethereum. Maybe not governance, but like in general. Right? You know, maybe you're just a cheerleader for Ethereum. That's fine, too. So I think all of that stuff is very powerful.
00:17:15.048 - 00:17:56.204, Speaker A: And yeah, I mean, kudos to Victor here for sharing this out today because it got my brain spinning, as you can, as you can tell. But yeah, I think more, more kind of projects should experiment with this sort of stuff. And, and even more than this, I mean, there's so much you can do, I think, you know, where we're kind of like, I guess wasting the opportunity by just basically do, you know, just doing a vanilla airdrop and calling it a day. I think there should be, you know, more done around this, and I'm looking forward to, you know, seeing teams kind of experiment with this. So, you know, I've been going on about March being a big month for Ethereum for, I guess, like the past week or so. And I, I mean, it is really shaping up to be a big month, right. I mean, I kind of put out this tweet today is saying NFTs are going truly mainstream now, and they really are.
00:17:56.204 - 00:18:37.136, Speaker A: I mean, it's actually amazing how many people from outside the ecosystem are coming in to the ethereum ecosystem just through nfts. So that's, that's huge, right? And it's really ramped up in March. Like just over the last couple of weeks, there's been so many people coming in, it's been, it's been nuts. Right. We have the Berlin testnet deployments going live with Mainnet Drew next month, which is, which is, you know, the first ethereum network upgrade in a very long time since I think, you know, maybe, I guess, like a year and a bit now. We had ERP 1559 approved for the London hard fork, so, you know, there's no more. If we know if it's going to happen, it's like, when it's going to happen, right? Or like people were asking, you know, will this happen? You know, when's it going to happen? It's like, well, we know when it's going to happen.
00:18:37.136 - 00:19:00.882, Speaker A: We just got to wait for it now, which is in July, companies putting ETH on their balance sheets. I mean, I have this here, over here. So I'll talk about this kind of later. But more companies are doing this. And, you know, the biggest one, I think, is optimism and other L2s launching this month. Right. Where we're changing the narrative from a theorem can't scale to a theorem will scale, and we're going to kill all the competition and we're going to just blow you all away with how much we can scale, basically.
00:19:00.882 - 00:19:28.004, Speaker A: So. And I call this the march of Ethereum. Right. Because it's, it's, it's march if you don't get my little kind of play on words there. But yeah, this is what's got me excited for, for this month and for the next few months as well, especially the L2 stuff. I mean, I've gone on about L2 a lot lately, and, you know, I have a feeling optimism is going to launch either this week or next week and then do the other L2s. Like, I've talked about immutable x before and arbitram, and I'm sure there's a bunch of others as well.
00:19:28.004 - 00:20:09.218, Speaker A: There's like bridging going live with Connexvector and hot protocol, which I'll talk about in a sec. I mean, there's so much stuff happening right now, right? And it's just crazy. I mean, you know, in a few months time, I bet you we'll have like so much activity happening on L2, it's just going to be nuts to see it, right? We went from like basically, you know, just, I guess, loop, ring and diversify and a few other things to like a kind of like, massive, er, sorry, L2 ecosystem, which is going to be really, really cool to see kind of play out there. I didn't even mention, you know, uniswap v three here. I don't know if it's going to come out this month, but I mean, I kind of feel like it will. And Uniswap v three has been, you know, beyond hyped, right? I mean, Uniswap is the darling project of Ethereum. V three is like promising all these kind of things.
00:20:09.218 - 00:20:33.328, Speaker A: It's so hyped. I mean, that's just another thing from a narrative point of view. That's going to be good for Ethereum this month as well. So a very exciting month left. There's 22 days left of the month, or 23. I don't know if there's 31 days in March or not. But basically, you know, on top of all this, like, the price action has been pretty kind of like good as well, right? I mean, you can see here on the chart, you know, we kind of ended February at like, what, in the 13 hundreds right after that dump.
00:20:33.328 - 00:20:54.324, Speaker A: And then since then we've kind of come back up into the 17 hundreds during March. And I, I was saying for a while that I thought March was going to be a good month for east price because it usually is, like during a bull market. So that's just the bonus. And I think that's a function of all this stuff kind of happening as well, especially with the L2 hype getting real. And like, it's not just hype anymore. We're actually going to launch these things imminently. I think it's really positive there.
00:20:54.324 - 00:21:23.326, Speaker A: So, yeah, really cool to see that playing out. And on that note as well, I mean, I just mentioned how there's going to be bridging kind of, I guess, things going live and hot. Protocol is one of them. And in this video, they give a demo of them sending kind of like dai from arbitrum to Xdai. So arbitrum is a L2. Xdai is a sidechain. But this was one of the concerns of L2s and side chains for scaling, right, where it would fragment the liquidity, fragment the user experience, you know, would we be able to do cross change and transactions? And yes, we are.
00:21:23.326 - 00:22:09.130, Speaker A: We're gonna be able to do it, right? I mean, L2s, technically, you know, you could call them their own chains, but they're not really, they inherit ethereum security. But for the sake of, like, what I'm saying, you could say that, you know, it's like cross chain things, right? So, yeah, I mean, this is really cool. And this isn't just going to be like arbitrary into XDai. You can imagine a world of cross chain stuffs just using metamask, right? You don't need to use another wallet or anything like that, and you don't need to kind of fiddle with anything. You just kind of sign a transaction like you normally do, and you pay like a small fee because you're going from L2 to a side chain or a L2 to a L2 or a side chain to a side chain. All this sort of stuff, right? There's just going to be a theorem sitting in the middle as that economic nexus that I always talk about and all these L2s and other side chains and exchanges and everything. Like anywhere, there's kind of like economic activity happening kind of on the sides.
00:22:09.130 - 00:22:28.566, Speaker A: It's just going to flood all into ethereum. It's going to pass through ethereum. It's going to pass through a theorem. Layer two. It's going to. It's just going to be wild, right? The future of everything is indeed kind of like, I guess you could call it multi chain, but I really do believe that a lot of that activity is going to be happening on ETH L2s, rather than chains that aren't secured by ETH. It's just what people are going to prefer.
00:22:28.566 - 00:22:56.602, Speaker A: I think what projects are going to prefer, prefer to build upon, especially if the fees are like basically free or like near zero. There's kind of like, no, you know, it's a no brainer to use L2s that are secured by Ethereum. So really cool kind of demo video from hot protocol here. So Faye Protocol has announced that their genesis event is launching on Monday, the 22 March. Now what this is is basically it's their token sale, I guess you could call it. It's gonna be live for three days. Everyone gets the same terms.
00:22:56.602 - 00:23:42.240, Speaker A: So you can commit ETH to this and get Fae tokens, sorry, tribe tokens in return, which is their governance token. And basically by doing so, you know, at the end of the three days, the ETH will be used to bootstraps, face protocols, controlled value, which is the PCv, which is the way the protocol works. And basically the FAe token, which is kind of like the, the stablecoin and the tribe token will go live on kind of March 25 here. So yeah, if you're interested in getting involved, definitely go read this blog post and interested in getting your hands on some tokens here. You know, I guess like I've spoken about kind of like algorithmic stable coins before and how I think a lot of them weren't very appealing or weren't very kind of like, you know, I guess they weren't stable coins. Right. A lot of the mechanisms didn't make sense.
00:23:42.240 - 00:24:20.624, Speaker A: I think Faye protocol actually can work and does make sense. I'm actually really excited to see how it plays out. I mean, you know, obviously they've tested it a lot internally and it works, but you can never really tell what's going to work and what's not unless it's on main net. And I'm really, really excited to see this play out because if we can get like a fully decentralized algorithmic stablecoin that is governance minimized and backed by ETH and other decentralized assets, that's the holy grail. I mean, I wrote about this in deli Gray newsletter that the holy grail of stable coins is it for, is for it to be like decentralized, you know, scalable and stable, but also be governance minimized, which is hard to do. Right? It's very hard to do. But if fake and succeed here, it's going to be big.
00:24:20.624 - 00:25:07.234, Speaker A: So yeah, definitely check this out if you haven't already. So there's this little video here from a user called Web on Twitter with his nft in his hand using kind of AI glasses, or I guess this is probably using his phone. But you know, the future is like AI glasses, augmented reality glasses. Now I think this is like super cool, right? This is what I think people are missing when it comes to nfts is it's not just what you see on like, you know, on chain, right? It's also what you can do with these things. Like you can basically have a whole augmented reality world where people can kind of like have their own items that are provably theirs, right, that are the real thing in these kind of like metaverse worlds where these virtual worlds where everyone can come into. I mean, there's so much stuff you can do here. Just seeing this, like, you know, when I saw this, it's just like a trading card.
00:25:07.234 - 00:25:47.528, Speaker A: There's like you can make like an entire trading card kind of series. Like you have like the physical cards, but it's like an AR card. You can still, like, kind of like see the card in your hand, right? If you have AI glasses on, you can just look at your hand and kind of like see it there, and then other people can see it with their AR, right? I mean, you know, it's still maybe a couple of years away or maybe a few years away until it matures. But this is the future here. You know, you can see that what they have is like a real card or a fake card, and people aren't going to want to, you know, kind of like being, aren't going to be impressed by the fake cards. I mean, as someone who collected a lot of trading cards as a kid, I mean, everyone knew it was fake. You know, when you had a fake card and no one cared about fake ones, no one was going to trade your, you know, a real one for a fake one because they knew it was fake.
00:25:47.528 - 00:26:36.980, Speaker A: Just like how there's nfts that can be fake where, you know, you copy, like a crypto punk, and you say, oh, well, this is the same thing, right? It's got like the same picture and it's on chain, but it's like, well, that's not the real crypto punk, right? And I don't want it because it's not the real one. So I think that's going to play a big part in all this and why people kind of like going to want to own value nfts, and, you know, a lot of it is, I guess, subjective value and bragging rights, too. But yeah, this is definitely the future here, the AR stuff. And honestly, I can't wait until AR glasses become a thing because I've wanted that ever since Google Glass announced it, you know, a few years ago and they discontinued that program. But I hear that Apple is building, you know, augmented reality glasses now. But, you know, that might be a few years away store or maybe a couple of years away. But I think that's going to change, like, not just, you know, the NFT space and crypto in general, it's going to, like, change a lot about how we do things, right.
00:26:36.980 - 00:27:06.310, Speaker A: You can imagine having an always on display, you know, on your glasses as you're walking everywhere, it's going to be, you know, truly like you're in, I guess, like a cyberpunk 27 2077 game or, you know, a lot of those futuristic Sci-Fi movies that you see where. Where there's just, like, ar stuff everywhere. I think we're gonna get there, and it's probably gonna be sooner than people that people think. And I think NFT is gonna be a big thing and play a big part there. So. Yeah, definitely something I'm keeping keeping an eye on here. So, as I said before, there is.
00:27:06.310 - 00:27:22.324, Speaker A: There was a public company that bought ETH, and they actually bought more, Ethan. They did BTC. So there's a company listed in Hong Kong called, I think my two. That's. That's how you say it, basically. I think it's a cosmetics company listed in Hong Kong. But basically they bought $17.9
00:27:22.324 - 00:28:05.996, Speaker A: million worth of BTC and $22.1 million worth of ETH. I don't know if this is the first public company to put ETH on their balance sheets, but they are definitely one of the first. And, I mean, it's pretty insane how they bought more ETH than BTC, right? Like, usually see, you know, that these companies just buying BTC or if they've bought ETH, maybe it's like, in the, quote, unquote, others section of their alternative asset kind of like, I guess, portfolio position there. But, yeah, I mean, I don't think this is the last company we're going to see putting ETH on their balance sheets. And I, you know, I remember saying this, like, a few weeks ago that, you know, they're, they're going to do this. You know, I've said it so many times on the refill as well, that the jump from non crypto to BTC, like, being outside of crypto into BTC, is huge.
00:28:05.996 - 00:28:40.508, Speaker A: Right. But the jump from BTC to ETH is tiny in comparison. So anything that happens to BTC is going to happen to ETH within, you know, maybe weeks or, like, maybe just a few months. Right? It's not going to take many years for it to happen. You know, if bitcoin gets an ETF in the US, I'm betting that ETH gets an ETF shortly after that because all the companies that, you know, have a bitcoin ETF are going to be like, well, you know, let's do an ETH one now, and they're going to apply for an ETH one, and then that's going to come out there. There's already one in Canada of an ETH ETF with the BTC ETF that kind of went live. I mean, these things happened really, really quickly.
00:28:40.508 - 00:29:18.194, Speaker A: So I just, you know, I mean, I was surprised that they put more ETH than BTC on their balance sheet because normally you kind of, like, market cap weight it, right? But, you know, this is really positive. This sends a really, you know, cool signal to, like, other public companies that you can buy ETH, and you, you know, ETH is legit, right. ETH is something that you should own. And they actually had, like, a thesis here about why they bought each kind of asset. I think, you know, their ETH thesis rested on, like, the utility thesis, which I think is cool. They're basically saying, you know, they're buying it as, like, a reserve for gas and things like that. And their BTC thesis, I mean, is the same as everyone else, like, as a store of value, right? It's like digital gold, whatever, right? We've heard that story before.
00:29:18.194 - 00:29:32.122, Speaker A: But I think that this thesis will evolve over time as well. I do think that ETH is a store of value. You know, it's an incredibly valuable asset outside of its uses. Gas, you know, it can be used as trustless collateral in defi. It's used in staking, right. All that sort of stuff. So.
00:29:32.122 - 00:29:49.358, Speaker A: But it's just good that this signal has been sent out now and the genie is not going to be put back into the bottle. There's gonna be plenty more public companies coming out and saying that they've bought Ethan, put it on their balance sheets in the near future. So I'm really, really excited for that. And it's gonna be bring really positive kind of price movements to ETH. Right. Which is gonna be cool as well. So.
00:29:49.358 - 00:30:25.274, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely gonna keep my eyes on that one. So an interesting tweet from Santiago here that I thought was cool. He basically listed, you know, different generations, and he said, you know, boomers were first, then Gen X, then Gen Y, then Gen Z, now there's gen e, right? Or generation ethereum. And the reason why I thought this was interesting is because generation Ethereum isn't based on kind of when you were born, right? It's not based on your age. Anyone can be part of generation Ethereum. It's just, you know, if you're in the Ethereum ecosystem, you are basically, like, especially now, you are basically, you know, part of the Ethereum generation. You're growing up with.
00:30:25.274 - 00:31:11.864, Speaker A: I guess you're not growing up with Ethereum but, like, you know, Ethereum is, is advancing and you're along for the ride, right? So you're like, being involved, like, really heavily with the protocol, the ecosystem, with the community. You're, you know, depending what you're doing within the ecosystem, you're influencing it, right? You know, maybe you're contributing in some way, whatever you're doing, right? You're investing whatever it is. And that makes you part of Generation E or generation Ethereum. And I guess the symbol that he's got here is the, is the ETH symbol, which I thought was just a really cool way to put it because, you know, if you go through all these different generations, I mean, they do have the defining kind of traits. I mean, boomers basically have the defining trait of, they were like the post war generation, right? Where there was like a massive kind of rebuilding happening post war, where, you know, the boomers got a lot of the wealth because of that. And then Gen X came after it. They kind of like, I guess.
00:31:11.864 - 00:31:51.736, Speaker A: I guess, like on the coattails of the boomers. Got some of the wealth from there. Gen Y got pretty screwed over, right? Millennials, you know, my generation, we got pretty screwed over by the old world where, you know, we a lot, like, house prices are really high, right? Everything's super expensive, wages are stagnant, all that sort of stuff. And then Gen Z, who are, I guess, below me, I think they're like, maybe the, the oldest is like 20 years old or something like that. They got really screwed, right? They got even more screwed than we did. But then you have this new kind of generation, Gen E, where basically all, like, the boomers, Gen X, don't really understand this technology, right? They don't understand how to invest in it. They don't, they don't really get, get it, right.
00:31:51.736 - 00:32:48.442, Speaker A: They don't really like, not all of them, but the majority of them just don't get it. And that's fine, right? But what that means is that these three generations or these two, Gen Y and Gen Z, get to take advantage of that and just become part of Gen E. And basically what I think is going to happen is that all the old world money from the boomers in Gen X is going to flow into Gen E because we're going to own all the assets, right? We're going to own all the future assets on the chain. You know, we're going to own the ETH, we're going to own the BTC, we're going to own all the defi tokens, right? We're not that money that they had, that the old world has, because the boomers and Gen X have most of the money, like all the wealth and all the money is like, concentrated in those kind of, like generations. Like Gen Y has a bit of it, right. Gen Z doesn't really have that much, but I think Gen E, it's like a wealth transfer event where a lot of money from, from, from boomers and Gen X are just going to flow into Gen E. And a lot of Gen Y and Gen Z are putting their wealth into crypto and digital assets and NFTs and stuff like that.
00:32:48.442 - 00:33:07.712, Speaker A: I mean, you know, I can't even imagine trying to explain NFTs to a boomer. Right. Like, most of them are just not going to understand it, so. Yeah. And what they'll end up doing is that they'll end up just buying these assets in kind of like their brokerage account. Right. Or like their investment advisor just puts, you know, puts it on their kind of like, portfolio as like an alternative asset or whatever, right.
00:33:07.712 - 00:33:27.792, Speaker A: But by that point, there are going to be massive asset classes. Right. You know, at, you know, I guess, like, institutions didn't start buying BTC until it was around ten, $20,000. I mean, that's very late into BTC's life cycle. And now they're starting it with, with ETH, right, right. And, you know, ETH is like, what is it now, $1,700? Right. And they're just starting doing it with ETH now.
00:33:27.792 - 00:33:48.720, Speaker A: So, you know, the boomers might end up buying ETH when it's ten k. Like, you know what I mean? Like, all this kind of stuff is playing out where this massive wealth transfer event is happening. And I think it's super positive. I think it's the only way, really, that Gen Y, Z and kind of like generations after that have. They have the advantage of technology. They understand that they grew up with it. Right.
00:33:48.720 - 00:34:22.674, Speaker A: But all the wealth is still in the kind of boomer and Gen X generations, and I think that's just going to trickle down. So, yeah, that's why I thought this tweet was really interesting. But also because, like, being part of a, of a kind of, like, worldwide, kind of like a no borders generation that's fully digital is also a cool concept to kind of think about as well. So, yeah, definitely. Really cool, cool tweet from santiago here. So last thing I wanted to talk about was this tweet thread from Lucas, who is an editor at bankless. He basically put together a thread on how you can evaluate different I guess tokens and how you can evaluate them from an investment perspective.
00:34:22.674 - 00:35:02.028, Speaker A: Now I'll link this tweet in the YouTube description. You can go check it out for yourself. But basically I've got a lot of people asking me questions about this. They're like, you know, they're not asking me for investment advice, but they're basically asking me how to evaluate these things. Like how do you know what tokens good, what's not? What's not good? How do you separate narrative from reality? How do you know, you know, what's, what token is going to capture value, what's not, and all these sorts of things. And I, you know, I'll link this thread, you can go read through the whole thing. I won't go through, through the thread itself, but one thing I did want to reiterate here, and I've spoken about on the refill before is that if you think that governance tokens are just governance tokens, then you just like, as they say, you're not going to make it, right? Governance tokens have the power to do anything.
00:35:02.028 - 00:35:36.362, Speaker A: They have the power to vote in fee capture, right? They have the power to change different parameters on the protocol. They have the power to basically add new features to the protocol, all this sort of stuff. So if you, you know, if you kind of like, look at these tokens, be like, oh, it's just the governance token, I'm not going to buy it. Well, I just don't think that's a great, great way to thing go about it. And this thread explains, you know, all the different things that can happen for these tokens. You know, even if they're just governance tokens, they can start out as that and then progress towards being more than that. I mean, for an example, if you look at uni, it's like number eight on Coinmarketcap has like a $17 billion market cap and like $35 billion fully diluted.
00:35:36.362 - 00:36:04.886, Speaker A: Uni is just the governance token. It does nothing right now. There is no fee capture, right? There is nothing. But the expectation is, is that fee capture is going to get turned on and Uni token holders will be able to, I guess, get a portion of the fees generated by Uniswap. Now, at the same time, the current valuation doesn't, doesn't kind of like justify that because it's not generating enough fees to justify that, the massive valuation. But Uni also has like a narrative valuation as well, right, where, you know, it's uniswap, right? Everyone knows what it is. You know, unis on Coinbase.
00:36:04.886 - 00:36:39.066, Speaker A: So a lot of retail investors can get access to it very easily and all that sort of stuff. But what Lucas's thread here does is basically go through the fundamental side of things as well, because fundamentals do matter in the long run. I think short run, obviously, narrative rules and like a good story rules. But in the long run, you need the narrative, but you also need the fundamentals to back it up, because eventually people kind of realize that the emperor has no clothes if you don't have the fundamentals, and they just sell their tokens. And, you know, people, people kind of like lose money because the token price goes down and all that sort of stuff. So, yeah, go check out this thread. It'll be in the YouTube description because that is it for today's episode as I've gone over time.
00:36:39.066 - 00:36:48.874, Speaker A: So thank you again, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the Daily Gwey newsletter, join the Discord, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
