00:00:00.330 - 00:00:25.586, Speaker A: You. Thanks for tuning into this week's news recap. First headline. Ethereum Two Zero's. Beacon Chain is live on Tuesday at noon UTC. The Ethereum 20 beacon chain, launched after years of anticipation, ushering in the blockchain's next era. The Beacon Chain launch is phase zero of Ethereum's multistep upgrade to a more scalable block chain.
00:00:25.586 - 00:01:14.574, Speaker A: There are still many technical hurdles to surpass, including Sharding and Rollup adoption before the chain will be fully operational. However, as of press time, there are almost 1 million ETH staked, almost double the number that were required for the launch. If you're wondering about staking's risks and rewards for staking, One ETH validators are currently earning around zero point 14 ETH per month, or $8.50, with the amount expected to decrease as the number of participants rises. However, any Ether staked on the chain will be locked up for months and potentially even years. Staking also entails software risks, as well as the possibility that you could lose your initial deposit if you fail to keep up with the network. Despite some suggestions that current DFI rewards may be a better bet, exchanges are already intending to support Ethereum Two staking.
00:01:14.574 - 00:02:37.210, Speaker A: Coinbase has announced it will support East Two staking and trading to eligible jurisdictions starting early next year, while also allowing customers to convert east to East Two and earn staking rewards. Finance likewise announced an East Two staking service that would be live on December 2, with daily rewards distributed in the form of beef tokens. Next Headline Bitcoin hits a new Alltime high Bitcoin reached $19,850 on Monday morning, inching past the previous record set in December 2017. Chainalysis attributed the rise to institutional investors purchasing steadily over time and then taking the money off exchanges to hold. An analysis by CoinMetrics beginning in November illustrated that the recent upwards price movements have been occurring mostly during US market hours, further supporting the thesis that institutional investors are the ones pushing the price up. When tracking the bitcoin price against notable events of institutional interest such as microstrategies and square's purchases of bitcoin PayPal's, integration of bitcoin and well known traditional investors Bill Miller and Stan Druckenmiller expressing confidence in bitcoin, a clear trendline emerges. Another data point showing or supporting theory that institutional investor interest is driving the price up is that there is a lack of public interest in bitcoin compared to late 2017.
00:02:37.210 - 00:03:37.086, Speaker A: The amount of bitcoin related Tweets is far below levels at that time and has been relatively flat for the last two years. Media mentions and searches are also at lower levels than during the previous bull run. Neil Ferguson, writing in Bloomberg, cited the pandemic as a catalyst for increased adoption in bitcoin this year. He noted that the explosion of stimulus dollars underscored bitcoin's value due to its scarcity, and he said that this was all happening already amidst a shift towards digital payments. He went on to say that the incoming biden administration should not seek to develop a quote chinese style digital dollar, but instead, quote should recognize the benefits of integrating Bitcoin into the US. Financial system, which, after all, was originally designed to be less centralized and more respectful of individual privacy than the systems of less free societies. Metrics show Bitcoin and ethereum activity is heating up Online metrics are showing an increase in activity on the bitcoin and ethereum networks.
00:03:37.086 - 00:04:34.370, Speaker A: The Block's director of research, Larry Cermac posted a comprehensive data summary to Twitter showing quote Almost everything we track is reaching alltime highs. Total onchain volume increased to 51.5% to a new yearly high of $204,000,000,000 in November, with minor revenue growing 48% over the previous month for Bitcoin and 22% for ethereum. Stablecoins in particular have more than tripled in 2020, with Stormac citing DFI and Tether collateralized derivatives as main factors. A study by Blockchain Capital survey by Blockchain Capital also shows increasing awareness and adoption among the general public. More than one in three Americans interviewed said they're likely to buy Bitcoin in the next five years, and 41% of Americans found it likely that most people will be using Bitcoin in the next ten years. Next Headline US congressional bill would require bank charters for stablecoin issuers in the US.
00:04:34.370 - 00:05:52.486, Speaker A: Congress has presented a bill that would require stablecoin issuers to secure bank charters and regulatory approval before issuing any stablecoins. The bill is designed to protect individuals, according to Representative Rashida Tlaib, who said, quote Preventing cryptocurrency providers from repeating the crimes against low and moderate income residents of color traditional big banks have is critically important. Circle co founder and CEO Jeremy Alair responded to the news on Twitter, saying quote Forcing crypto, fintech and blockchain companies into the enormous regulatory burdens of Federal Reserve and FDIC regulation and supervision is inconsistent with the goals of supporting innovation in the fair and inclusive delivery of payments that comes from stablecoins. Next Headline Visa Partners with Circle Internet Financial to Connect to USDC Next year, Visa's card network of 60 million merchants will be connected to stablecoin USDC visa will be the first corporate card to allow businesses to spend a balance of USDC. Visa does not plan to custody the stablecoin at this time, although effective immediately. Circle will begin working with Visa to integrate USDC software with its platforms. According to Visa head of crypto Kui Sheffield, quote we continue to think of Visa as a network of networks.
00:05:52.486 - 00:06:57.694, Speaker A: Blockchain networks and stablecoins like USDC are just additional networks. So we think that there's a significant value that Visa can provide to our clients, enabling them to access them and enabling them to spend at our merchants. Next headline crypto News Roundup more than $4 billion worth of cryptocurrency, including $3.8 billion of BTC, was seized by Chinese police during a crackdown on the plus token Ponzi scheme, with the Chinese court saying that the seized crypto quote will be processed pursuant to laws and forfeited to the national treasury. In collaboration with crypto startup Luca the SMP, Dow Jones Indices plans to launch two index products which will enable asset management firms to build their own crypto based investment products. The Libra Association announced the adoption of a new name DM, as well as several executive appointments ahead of its eventual launch after its chief executives were charged with violations of the Bank Secrecy Act by the Department of justice. 100 X Group, which runs BitMEX, appointed Alexander Hopner as its chief executive officer.
00:06:57.694 - 00:07:47.474, Speaker A: Hopner was formerly CEO of Bors, Stuttgart and EU. Wax time for fun bits, a strong crypto showing and Forbes 30 under 32,021 list. Forbes published its annual 30 under 30 list celebrating young entrepreneurs. Several blockchain and crypto stars made the cut in the finance and venture capital categories. Among the crypto heavyweights on this year's list were Volt Capital's Suna Amaz, a previous guest on Unchained FTX co founder Sam Bankman Fried, another previous guest Auger co founder Joey Krug, another previous guest Coinless co founder Brian Tubergan and Bitcoin core developer Amiti Udawar, among others. You can also read an in depth write up on the cryptocentric names on the list at decrypt. Alright, well, thanks for tuning in.
00:07:47.474 - 00:08:08.210, Speaker A: To learn more about James Liquid Stake and Dharma Capital, be sure to check out the links in the show notes of your podcast player. Don't forget we are now on YouTube. Subscribe to the Unchained podcast YouTube channel today. Unconfirmed is produced by Me Laura Shin with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Ness, Bossy Baker Shishank and the team at CLK transcription thanks for listening.
