00:00:00.090 - 00:00:51.840, Speaker A: Is Ethereum two MeV with liquid staking, and it's delivered to you by three teams, netamind, flashbots and lido. And what has been shown in simulations so far in the research is that in ethereum two, we can add 70% revenue on top of existing revenue to validators and ethereum two networks. If extractable value, minor extractable value is delivered it as an opportunity to make more money and solve the arbitrage opportunities on the network from decentralized finance. Mostly the block construction format. So selection, how the transactions are selected didn't change before the merge. So before Ethereum two, before proof of stake and after the merge, the spot construction is the same. How the block is distributed changes.
00:00:51.840 - 00:02:06.066, Speaker A: So first it was the winner of proof of work, now it will be the block that is voted on in the Ethereum two consensus layer. What we propose is that the searchers of such opportunities still will use relay deliver that to Ethereum one client as it was before. Similarly as it was before Ethereum one client chooses the best bundle available. And then whenever Ethereum two client asks for the block assembly, the block is being created as part of processing. There is a transaction that distributes the MEV tip to the participants of the scheme and you have Ethereum one node operator staking pool and validators splitting the reward between themselves. For simplicity, we're showing the one third split between all of them. And the next steps would be really creating the decentralized way of agreeing on how this value split should happen between validator stakers, so they can do the handshake and say, okay, we'll enter this agreement and we'll be together accepting MEV payments and maybe some gas optimizations.
00:02:06.066 - 00:02:55.854, Speaker A: Currently we pay around 150,000 gas to process the payments. How did we deliver that? So we built two plugins, one for the Ethereum merge. So Ethereum two block production within ethereum one client that was delivered as part of the Ryanism. And then we built also a plugin for MEV in the dominant. And this allows the bundle simulation, selection and creation of a block that can be delivered to Ethereum two consensus layer with the MEV included. We also created two smart contracts for the value distribution. The first one is splitting the value between the pool and executor.
00:02:55.854 - 00:03:37.450, Speaker A: So dirm one and the staking pool. And the second one is distributing the value from the staking pool into the stakers and the validators. So one for burning shares and the other one for iterating over the list of validators. That is short list of validator pools that receive the payment. And let me show you. We'll watch for the arbitrage opportunities. And actually here we deploy the smart contracts.
00:03:37.450 - 00:03:59.860, Speaker A: And then when we see that there is arbitrage opportunity, we generate the transaction. We send transaction, and as part of this transaction bundle processing, we make a payment to staking pool and coinbase. And that's it. Thank you so much.
