00:00:03.130 - 00:00:24.462, Speaker A: Welcome to Uncommon Core, where we explore the big ideas in crypto from first principles. This show is hosted by Su Zu, the CEO and chief investment officer of Three Arrows Capital and Me hasu a crypto researcher and writer. Hey, sue, it's good to talk to you again. How are you doing?
00:00:24.516 - 00:00:25.746, Speaker B: Pretty good, that raya.
00:00:25.858 - 00:00:43.098, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm doing great, actually. Thank you. A lot of people have reached out to us asking that we record an episode again, asking that I pick your mind, especially on the state of the market. And the biggest question that I have received over and over again is, is the bull market over or not?
00:00:43.184 - 00:01:51.374, Speaker B: Yeah, it's an interesting question. I think a lot of the reason why people are asking that now is just recency bias, right, where after markets have fallen off the cliff a bit and momentum is kind of stalling on some coins, people are wondering, is the whole thesis dead? Is it just all froth? And I think people, they tend to have trouble zooming out, I think, because if you look year on year at the total value locked in protocols, if you look at year on year, the activity in addresses the daily volumes. We're at monumental figures, right, just across a number of metrics. I I think that there's very healthy signs of adoption and there's very healthy signs of continued momentum. I think that zooming out, some of these coins went up almost every month for nine months straight. So I think the pullback, while it was very brutal, it's not necessarily the sign that the whole market is over. Right.
00:01:51.374 - 00:02:34.800, Speaker B: And I think that it does give people that have been watching this go up for several months, it does give them an entry point, right, where up to now, it didn't really have that entry point available. So I think that the bull market is definitely not over. And I think that this kind of allows for institutional participants to come into the market and get involved and that will know. You saw just today, goldman they mentioned in the report that they're going to support ether options and ether futures and that a lot of their clients have been saying that this pullback has been a good chance to finally get into ether because up to now that they just have no chance to even get in right for the whole run.
00:02:35.570 - 00:03:29.520, Speaker A: Yeah, and I think we saw that with I mean, this run up has been maybe the most orderly in the history of crypto, right, where there was just relentless buying on every dip, and the dips just got smaller and smaller, and we kept only going up one green weekly candle after another. And then a lot of people thought, we can't really have major dips anymore just because there are so many institutions waiting to buy up every dip and they sort of take the volatility out of the market right when it goes up 20% then they sell some, and when it goes down 20%, then they buy some. Right. And so we end up with the extremely orderly bull market. But then we had a break from that regime, right, when the market dropped a lot, like 40, 50% in the span of one or two weeks. Did that surprise you?
00:03:30.050 - 00:04:27.618, Speaker B: Yeah, I think there was a lot of news that came out around then that was bit bearish, especially out of China regarding mining, but then also in the US with Elon's tweets about Tesla and bitcoin energy usage. So I think mean, those are not the proximate causes necessarily, but there some of them. And I do think that the market took that as a shelling point to start taking profits. I think that it was a combination of that plus the fact that people who had been buying throughout kind of said, okay, if I just wait, then I can get it at a much lower price, and so I'll wait. So I think those combination of those two factors that put it through, but if you look at the way that the markets have bounced too, you can see those buyers are still there. It's just a matter of what price they're going to get. Right.
00:04:27.618 - 00:05:32.402, Speaker B: So during the beginning and the mid part of this run, they kept having to buy at higher and higher prices, and this time they managed to get some at lower prices than before. So I think it's just that simple, right. Bottom line is there's still a tremendous amount of buy demand. And I think that the fact that it's dipped like this, it didn't have to happen like this. I think there's a lot of worlds where it would have been a calmer landing, but I think just the nature of the reaction was kind of exacerbated by the nature of how the FUD came out of China, right? Like, first you had one announcement, then you had another, and then people didn't know where it was going to stop. So there's a lot of sort of bear sentiment coming out of China at that point because they didn't know when it was going to end and there was not enough clarity. So I think that's something to keep in mind, where when there's like a cycle of FUD and you never know when the shoes drops, then people start pricing in things that are quite extreme.
00:05:32.402 - 00:05:57.360, Speaker B: Right? Whereas if you have regulatory clarity, even if it's bad, if you get clarity, that's not bullish, but it's clear then that can actually be a bull catalyst as well, because then people so, you know, miners are actually basically going to leave China and then that then allows people to be bullish again because they know that that's the extent of it.
00:05:59.090 - 00:06:08.302, Speaker A: So what are the biggest bearish news that we got out of China, and what do you make of them? How do you think this changes sort of the state of crypto in China?
00:06:08.366 - 00:07:22.860, Speaker B: Well, I think up to now there's been this narrative that maybe some countries will support POW proof of work because they have energy and so on and so forth. And I think that China kind of is one reputation of this now where they are really much more concerned about green energy and just climate change issues. So they kind of just taking that kind of approach to a whole bunch of industries at once, including crypto. I think that the crackdown on mining is primarily just based on that, just based on they don't really think it's worthwhile to have that activity relative to the environmental, what they perceive as the environmental cost. And so that on the outset, I think is kind of bearish just because of the fact that it didn't have to happen that way. Right? It could have been that China took more of a US approach. It was thought for a long time that they had more of a US approach toward mining, that they were going to support it because they had the resources and they have the energy, they have the hydro, they have the wind.
00:07:22.860 - 00:08:34.106, Speaker B: I think that kind of caught people by surprise a bit. And also I think it was precipitated by the there were a few notable mining facility issues that occurred I think in May, I believe Elon referred to that as well, that event. I think that those things kind of just drew a dark cast a dark shadow on the market. I think separate from that, the exchange leverage stuff has also been kind of bearish as well, right where the regulators in China have been pointing out that maybe these offshore exchanges that use a lot of leverage, that offer a lot of leverage, maybe they should not do as much. You saw huawei. They announced that they're not going to have options anymore and they're also not going to have longer dated futures either. But they're going to still keep some Perps and some derivatives.
00:08:34.106 - 00:09:35.170, Speaker B: So interesting that they're not fully pulling away from derivatives but they are sort of trying to be more conservative. So I think those things were pretty bearish also just kind of running out of momentum at that point, right? Because I think after this kind of a hurdle, a lot of people went and said, okay, I have to start hedging BDC. I have to start hedging into the market, not just in terms of the coins they own, but also maybe in terms of mining in the future, because some of these players, they may have a very large amount of mining equipment that they own. Right? And so if they need to figure out their cash flows, they may need to lock in a bitcoin price because they can't afford it if it goes lower. So I think those kind of things definitely weighed on the market as a whole. I think also separately from that, I think the all coin market more broadly was kind of already having some signs of froth. But I do think that it's difficult to say that it was overheated per se.
00:09:35.170 - 00:10:15.554, Speaker B: I think people look back on it now and say, oh, here are all the top signs. But I don't necessarily see it that way. I think that there were still quite a few. I mean, funding was not that high, leverage was not that high. So I think that for me, I view it as sort of a more exogenous event that happened as opposed to if nothing had happened, it would have still pulled back like this. I think that's the way that I kind of conceptualize what happened. So I think the market kind of just started pricing in the idea that daily that there would be these flows coming in, and then it got hit with a lot of news that was.
00:10:15.592 - 00:10:44.926, Speaker A: Quite bearish, especially in Europe and the US. We kind of tell ourselves the story that regulators will go pretty soft on crypto because they fear the international competition. They fear being left out of a new paradigm. A new paradigm like the internet, right? But if now china cracks down on crypto and biden's regulations, kicks out miners, what ripple effect do you think this will have on regulation abroad?
00:10:44.978 - 00:11:36.810, Speaker B: I mean, that's kind of exactly what I'm getting at, right? I mean, just a couple of months ago, I think Peter thiel, he said china in a way is bullish on bitcoin or they're kind of benefiting the most from it. So we need to do more in the US. To also do it. And that's completely refuted, right, by these actions from china, where they're clearly not investing in bitcoin or the idea of bitcoin or the idea of mining it. But I think those people are still correct in the sense that bitcoin is one of the pieces in this great geopolitical game. I mean, bitcoin crypto broadly because it's money that is digital, right, and it's permissionless network. There's this huge importance of being able to harness that energy of the people.
00:11:36.810 - 00:12:49.618, Speaker B: And I think there is this growing understanding now that this is in like a life force that you can't really just coordinate and then all kill at the same time. And you also can't really stamp it out sort of in a naive way where the presence of privacy coins. The presence of coins, that it's the kind of thing where I think regulators are at the point now where I think the smarter ones, they realize that if they crack down too hard in a certain way, they risk pushing the evolution of the space very fast toward a direction where then they really can't control anything. They can't see anything at all. So I think that's kind of the interesting thing, I think, in the US. Too. Regulators, they're aware of their history with things like file sharing, like even something like drug decriminalization and things like that I think there's kind of this understanding now in the west that you don't necessarily get very popular or do good policy by just cracking down on things.
00:12:49.618 - 00:13:33.054, Speaker B: It's just not something that they do as a whole. So I think that those kind of were the two reasons why I think regulation in the west has always been much more dovish on crypto than people expected given that bitcoiners often say that they're going to literally overthrow the dollar, like overthrow fiat, right? Like you would think that that raises more than a few eyebrows but yeah, I think that it is a refutation of the idea. It does make it harder for bitcoin advocates in the US to go and say that hey, we need to claim our stake in this before China does. That is much harder argument to make.
00:13:33.092 - 00:13:52.920, Speaker A: Now do you also follow the pandemic numbers at all? So I saw, for example, someone from Rafa said that they sold their bitcoin and the main reason is that young people now can go outside again and spend way less time gambling and at the computer. Is that something that you subscribe to?
00:13:54.170 - 00:15:23.374, Speaker B: I don't really think about that as much. I think that there's a generational shift toward digital anyway, so I think that that isn't really going to stop even if you have zero lockdowns anywhere and you have full travel, I think that's a secular trend. And also I think that the nature of adoption in cryptos and these gartner cycles is that each time you bring people in and then these people will stay, x percent of them will stay, y percent of them will leave but the direction of the arrow is straight up basically as a result. So I think that if you have COVID be such that people don't really care about crypto anymore, then I think that the problem. I mean that kind of almost proves that then crypto is nothing more than just pure speculation, right? It's just like a fad that happens. And I think that we both know that that's only one small element of kind of what brings people in. And I think that if you look at the array of reasons now that people are coming to Crypto, whether that's nifty's, whether that's DeFi, whether that's store value as a hedge against inflation, I think that these kind of issues are much more powerful.
00:15:23.374 - 00:16:19.974, Speaker B: But I do think to comment on the idea that Ruffer had, which is to sort of take profits, this is something that I've always felt that sort of the macro participants in the market not only that they're not bitcoin maximalists, they're not maximalists of any kind, they're beyond profit maximalists, right? They have no problem buying and selling, right? If the market makes a high and then comes off and they didn't sell near the top, they feel very bad and they also feel like they didn't do their job right. So they almost have a fiduciary duty to sell near tops. And so I think that's basically a double edged sword. And I think that is part of the maturity of the market that we're talking about. Right. So what that does mean is that on dips too, they will be buying those dips when the market came back to off the highs. There's a lot of buyers there, right? And presumably a lot of those people were the ones who sold up top.
00:16:19.974 - 00:17:20.978, Speaker B: So when the market neared thirty k, and then a lot of people on Twitter were wondering who can buy that price? Isn't everyone liquidated? Well, no, absolutely not. Right. A lot of macro funds sold near the top, so they can now buy near the bottom. So I think that kind of double edged sword is probably a bit brutal for crypto Twitter to think about. But I think that that's just the reality, right, of the and and I think Rougher is probably, like the good version of it, where they at least, like, they disclose and then they also mean I think Guggenheim is kind of the more caricature version of this, where Scott Minnard, where he'll say one day that it's going to go to then the next day it's going to go to ten K, and this is literally like 72 hours gap or something like that. I can't remember the exact gap, but it was like something insane. So I think that kind of is a bit strange.
00:17:20.978 - 00:17:48.450, Speaker B: But yeah, I think that people would come up with all sorts of reasons for why they sold, why they bought. At the end of the day, it's about their own risk management. It's also about their own view on the chart. Right. It's their view on adoption, the view on the markets. And sometimes it's never one reason. I think if anyone ever tells you they have one specific reason for buying or selling, it's usually an oversimplification of multiple reasons.
00:17:49.510 - 00:18:10.010, Speaker A: One bit that we have seen in the market that was extremely consistent was MicroStrategy. And now they have raised another $500 million bond, not even convertible, I think, and announced that they will also sell more equity to raise even more money to buy Bitcoin. What do you make of all this? What is the end game here?
00:18:10.160 - 00:19:23.460, Speaker B: Well, I think he's a true Bitcoin bull, and I think he's sophisticated, right. So he knows how to use capital structure, market structure, to access capital cheaper than other people can. So I think that the convertible bond route that he took was really ingenious right. Where because he knew that the cost of capital from issuing CBS was so much lower than what he was willing to pay, and that the market had such a demand for all kinds of these kind of assets that he could basically pull this off as the first to do it. Right. But I do think that now with GBTC still at some slight discount and then also that kind of resale froth exiting the market a bit in BTC, that I think he realizes that he can issue more CBS easily. So I think going toward this straight bond is kind of an admission of that.
00:19:23.460 - 00:20:30.226, Speaker B: And I think that longer term, where he's going to sell shares to then bring in capital to buy more. You see, it almost creates like an ETF structure for his stock, right? Eventually it can just be people give him money and he gives them shares, and then he takes their money and buys Bitcoin with it. Well, that's exactly what Grayscale does, right? That's exactly what an ETF does too. So it's kind of like transforming into a holding vehicle. But interestingly, in his latest disclosures, I think he mentions that from time to time, MicroStrategy will sell as part of its cash treasury policy. Right? So, in other words, he does have a sell button, and he wants to remind people of that. So I think maybe Elon kind of also put that thought in his mind where he's realizing that if you get a big drawdown and then the company needs cash and it doesn't have it, then Bitcoin turns from being like an asset to a liability to have on the balance sheet.
00:20:30.226 - 00:20:58.638, Speaker B: Right. So I think those are kind of where I generally see MicroStrategy now. As long as the stock market is hot, and as long as credit spreads are reasonable, I think he'll be fine. I think that as the only one to have done it too, I think he fortunately occupies the public attention. I think it'll be worse for him if there was a lot of people doing this now, actually, and that he has to compete with them for, like.
00:20:58.644 - 00:21:13.410, Speaker A: In a way, are there, though? I was actually going to ask you that. When Michael said he started doing this, I thought they were laying out the blueprint and there would be a lot of people who follow in and do the exact same thing. But is anyone doing something similar that I have missed?
00:21:13.830 - 00:22:20.118, Speaker B: I don't think anyone's doing it, I think for a few reasons. I think, for one, if you have a business, you do have to think about, where does Bitcoin fit into that business? And oftentimes the answer may be like, it could be something you put x percent of the balance sheet in, or it could be that if you have a consumer facing business like Square, and then you have clients that also buy, then maybe you keep some of that. You basically keep some of your revenue as BTC. Things like this, I think, are kind of in the realm of possibility. But I think that what Sailor has done, which is that turned its company into a Bitcoin holding company. I think that's impressive, right? And that's ambitious on a scale that's ambitious on a scale that it's uncommon, to say the least. So I think that for companies that have their own business models.
00:22:20.118 - 00:23:17.260, Speaker B: That looks really scary because the Bitcoin bet can then actually destroy the company itself. So MicroStrategy, I think, mainly held domain names and baskets of tech assets and things like this. So I think they were kind of uniquely positioned to go into becoming a Bitcoin holding company. But yeah, the irony, of course, is that he laid out the blueprint and said he was going to talk to 500 CFOs or something like in two months. And he's actually very lucky that nobody's taken him up on it, because imagine if they did, these would now be multiple firms competing to issue Bitcoin back derivatives and Bitcoin backed structured products on the market, right. And that competition would then make terms better for investors, worse for borrowers. He would be hurting his own kind of business model and market standing in that sense.
00:23:18.270 - 00:23:32.106, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, the cost of capital would have gone up. But I think when he originally tweeted that, then he thought that it would push the price of Bitcoin up so far that it wouldn't matter to him that they can't cheaply raise more capital. I suppose.
00:23:32.298 - 00:23:32.654, Speaker B: So.
00:23:32.692 - 00:23:55.720, Speaker A: Anyway, let's move on. We have talked a lot about your Eve BTC thesis in the past. We have done a whole episode about it with Kobe, almost listened to episode to date. Your thesis was that Ethereum would flip in Bitcoin in this cycle and then it would be kind of speculative what happens from there. But do you think this thesis is still in play?
00:23:56.410 - 00:25:20.946, Speaker B: Yeah, I think thesis is actually very strong now. I think there's actually a number of signs that it's pulled back slightly, but I think it's still at a very strong level historically, right at zero point 65 as we speak. And I think that what's interesting now is that because Ether has all the same on ramps as Bitcoin does, or has the same products, it has the same futures, the same options, the same ETF type products, the same listings, people are already naturally conditioned to just think of multiple crypto assets. Now it's hard for me to think of any individual investor that now learns about crypto, comes to the market and just says, I buy Bitcoin. It's something that is very rare relative to what I think OGS would have thought the space would look like at this kind of there's this kind of breakdown of the shelling point, right? Where the shelling point? And we wrote an article about this during the deep bear market, about a case against Bitcoin and monetary maximalism. Right. And we speculated that this idea of a monetary shelling point may not actually be as strong as people think.
00:25:20.946 - 00:26:50.362, Speaker B: And that was actually very controversial at that time because back then EDC was under 0.2, I'm pretty sure, and altered, just dead, tokens dead back then. It was very controversial for us to talk about monetary maximism being a questionable thesis. But I think now you're kind of really seeing this where if you believe that there's incredible amounts of money printing, is there then a tie for you to buy a specific asset? There may or may not be, right? And I think that kind of breakdown is something that's quite clear. I think, if you think about the fact that the institutions, when they first started covering crypto around the sailor time, there was a lot of writings about bitcoin store value and digital gold thesis. Now they write about Ether as a productive asset, and they also write about why ether has outperformed bitcoin and sort of why these things are occurring. And I think that as people get more and more into the space, they ask the question of, okay, first of all, to call a crypto asset digital gold is like reasoning by analogy, right? It's saying that there is gold in the real world, there needs to be a gold digitally, and then therefore this is what you buy as a digital gold.
00:26:50.362 - 00:28:28.634, Speaker B: But ultimately it's an analogy, right? It's a meme. I think that especially for new entrants, they above all else know that it's a meme because they neglected the meme for a long time, right? They rightly recognized it as a meme from the beginning and said, well, because this is a meme, I'm not going to buy it. It's not real, it's just a meme. Now that they say, okay, crypto has adoption, it has merit behind it, it has mind share. Then they look at the space and they see, okay, what do I want to buy? Given this reality and this shelling point toward bitcoin as a monetary because it has, let's say, the most decentralized governance, this shelling point at the moment that we live in is not just not that strong, right? It's not strong relative to the shelling point of, say, programmable money or the shelling point of programmable finance or programmable culture that I think ethereum finds itself in and more broadly, smart contract platforms. So I think that's kind of the philosophical backdrop that I tend to see the world with now, which is just that there's remarkably low demand for the digital gold thesis relative to what should be the best conditions for it. And that kind of points to me that history is written by the victors too, right? So in a sense, if Ether were to flip in bitcoin, then after it would have happened, all of history gets rewritten, right? Because then the previous ICO boom was like the first phase.
00:28:28.634 - 00:29:42.806, Speaker B: It was like the phase, but it set the pieces in place, and then basically all previous market cycles can be described in different terms, right? So in terms of alt, BTC, now we're talking about bitcoin scaling. And so I think these are kind of the interesting philosophical questions now in the space where if institutions, if JP. Morgan and Goldman are both telling their clients that ether may be a better buy than Bitcoin. And if retail is already buying ether at a higher rate than Bitcoin, and then if Crypto OGS, if a lot of OGS now are like 100% ETH, right? If a lot of OGS go 100% ETH, then who is actually left to come in and buy Bitcoin? Well, then you really need this kind of central bank thesis to play out, right? You need this corporate thesis to play out. This corporate one. I think aside from Sailor, it's been relatively quiet on that front, as we said. I think on the corporate side, it's just the matter of that it's not really a product market fit for a company to hold crypto on its balance sheet to hedge against something, because what.
00:29:42.828 - 00:29:44.680, Speaker A: Are you hedging yeah, you went into that.
00:29:45.050 - 00:30:56.974, Speaker B: What is the hedge, right? And I think even his supporters, they kind of saw the ludicrousness of a few of the arguments where I think I saw one podcast he did where he talked about an Argentina farmer borrowing against his land to then basically or borrowing against his farm to buy Bitcoin and then putting it all in Bitcoin. And it's kind of the moment where the tank is getting tapped almost in a way where it's like that he wants everyone in the world to borrow against their family land assets to buy Bitcoin. It's a bit much, right? It's a bit much. If the corporate thesis is kind of overstated, then the central bank thesis comes into play. I think here is where it gets really interesting, because there is a game theory for proof of work based high energy countries to come out in full support of Bitcoin, really kind of shill it and hold it as well, and then meme it into digital gold. I think that that game theory very much exists for those countries to do it, especially if they don't have much gold. But we're not really seeing that yet.
00:30:56.974 - 00:31:44.890, Speaker B: That could happen. I think El Salvador is really interesting because there he's starting with a very Bitcoin centric thesis on one, attracting talent and capital to his country, but then two is also mining it from volcanoes and also just being like a Bitcoin nation, basically. Right? So I think that's very cool to see. And it's too early to tell what that will look like, what exactly will happen. But these are kind of the bullish Bitcoin dominance cases that I see, where central banks adopt nations, make it legal tender. If they give it a status that is higher than any other asset, or they give it a status as good as Fiat in their countries, then that is very powerful. Right? And if that were to occur, then that's very bullish for Bitcoin specifically.
00:31:44.890 - 00:32:09.110, Speaker B: I think my concern there is just that this kind of game theory, it requires not just one country, but a few countries to come in and then do it together, right? And it kind of requires. This coordination that that playing out is definitely not trivial. So I think have to monitor and just see how that continues.
00:32:10.090 - 00:32:26.458, Speaker A: Do you think that countries will actually pick winners like that for El Salvador? What is the reason to bet just on Bitcoin and say we will make Bitcoin legal tender but we won't make some other cryptocurrency legal tender a few months down the road?
00:32:26.544 - 00:33:25.854, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a great question. In theory, for countries that don't have any coins, they should just support any coin, right? Because it doesn't matter to them what coin it is. It's kind of like why would a country support a specific company over, let's say, many companies unless it has a vested interest in doing so? So proof, proof of work does offer a vested interest for countries with energy, right? Because they're more likely to support the one that they can benefit from the most. So there is that incentive there. But aside from that, they have no reason to alienate other large communities or other large crypto assets, right? They have no incentive to that kind of fact. Also, it does mean that even if you get central bank adoption, it may be pluralistic. So I think that is also something that people think about.
00:33:25.854 - 00:34:33.380, Speaker B: And I do think that the ESG stuff, it has kind of raised an interesting question, which is if you get people saying proof of stake works, proof of work also works, but proof of stake is next generation. That's a very dangerous narrative for proof of work coins because you then could be in a spot where, let's say ethereum migrates proof of work, proof of stake successfully, right? If it does so and then the narrative is that proof of stake is an upgrade versus proof of work, then it becomes very challenging to argue as a central bank, for instance, that is also concerned with SEC, the SEC and the Fed, they have a climate change mandate now, I think. So, you know, if you have these kinds of issues that are already at the forefront, everyone's minds, you then have on top of this overlaid the idea that proof of stake is an upgrade to proof of work. Whether it is actually an upgrade or not, that's very intellectual question.
00:34:33.990 - 00:34:37.170, Speaker A: Right, and that's what Zuko said as well, right?
00:34:37.240 - 00:35:11.920, Speaker B: Yeah, Zuko said he doesn't agree with the characterization that bitcoin waste energy or proof of work is wasteful. But he also admits that it doesn't matter what he thinks quite often, right. Because crypto is about people as well. So I think that kind of fact, it makes it quite challenging. I think once that transition happens for proof of work to successfully argue that it's needed for consensus and for coin issuance, it becomes a very obscure argument, if that makes sense.
00:35:13.330 - 00:36:14.450, Speaker A: Yeah, and it's so hard to argue for it's becoming so hard to argue for proof of work because I think there are some benefits shown sensorship resistance and decentralization, but many of those, they only become visible after one or two decades, probably, right. It takes a long time, sort of for these vulnerabilities to show themselves and then it may be too late. But it's still not something that factors into people's buying decision, not unless they are really deep into the crypto space already. And Care deeply bought this on sort of a deeply intellectual and ideological level, and the marginal dollar just doesn't do that. Right. Where do you stand on the Zcash thing? So obviously Zcash has been toying with the idea of moving to proof of stake for a while now. Do you think they will? And if yes, do you think that this is a trend that could extend to other coins like Dogecoin, Monero and litecoin?
00:36:15.130 - 00:36:54.206, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it's interesting. I mean, Zcash kind of it has a history of upgrades, right? So for it, adding anything in the roadmap is within the social consensus of that. And it's also relatively well aligned with the Ethereum community. So I think that once Ether does it successfully, there will be a lot of pressure and momentum on Zcash to go proof of stake, at least hybrid proof of stake. I think. I saw a few posts about it on forums, and I think Hudson Emerson also mentioned that he would support this. So I think Zcash probably the most likely.
00:36:54.206 - 00:37:47.406, Speaker B: I think Zuko also mentioned that there's some shielded asset benefits from being proof of stake instead of proof of work. So, yeah, Zcash probably the most likely contender to go in that direction. I think Doge would probably be second. I mean, there's already been talks about it, but Doge, when it was conceived, it's kind of like a joke, right? It's merged mined with litecoin, which is already kind of not ideal given it's worth a lot more than litecoin now, given that it already has to change anyway, I think that they're going to consider proof of stake kind of ideas very seriously. And the question of who decides dogecovenants is a really interesting one because it's very hard to know. Right. Is it just elon? What does the community do? A lot of the coins are on Robinhood, but yeah, I think Doge would probably be the second most likely.
00:37:47.406 - 00:38:05.750, Speaker B: I think Monero would definitely not go proof of stake, and I don't think it needs to either. I think if there's one coin that should stay proof of work, I mean, aside from Bitcoin, I think Monero is definitely up there because it simply just has to work, right. It doesn't have to cater to any narratives.
00:38:06.650 - 00:38:23.270, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly. You could argue that Monero users care much more deeply about sort of these arcane threat models or attack vectors from nation states and actually like three letter agencies.
00:38:23.350 - 00:38:23.882, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly.
00:38:23.936 - 00:38:49.960, Speaker A: And if they think that proof of stake makes this like 5% 10% more vulnerable, then they're not going to do it for Zcash. I think that does make a lot of sense based on what you said as well. The big problem, or one big problem with Zcash would be that just the shielded pool is too small and if they can have staking only via the shielded pool, this is sort of what Decred does as well.
00:38:50.570 - 00:38:51.174, Speaker B: Exactly.
00:38:51.292 - 00:39:04.330, Speaker A: A much smaller coin. But they have a pretty clever approach to this where the staked assets are all automatically in sort of the shielded pool, thereby creating sort of a bigger anonymity set.
00:39:04.400 - 00:40:12.640, Speaker B: It was interesting too, now that you bring up Decred, right. I think when bitcoin first came out and then like a year or two later, there were a lot of discussions about how do we make it more carbon neutral, right, how do we reduce the footprint, and there's a lot of interest in that kind of technology at that time. And then I think later on as well, decred itself, I believe it was several bitcoin core devs, right, that contributed to it. And they want to make it bitcoin compatible and they wanted to test out some of the ideas of hybrid proof of stake and they thought that maybe one day it would be in bitcoin as well to have hybrid proof of stake. So I think that these kind of debates and these kind of I mean, nowadays, if you speak to the typical Bitcoin maximalist type, they would just say that proof of stake, it's flawed for these reasons and those reasons, and that's why it can never do it. But this is not always the case, right. It's kind of illuminating to see what the narrative would be within bitcoin itself around proof of stake once it happens.
00:40:12.640 - 00:41:17.086, Speaker B: I think that coins like Litecoin and bitcoin cash probably the least likely to go proof of stake, just because a lot of the biggest holders, they are also the miners of it, so they're kind of shooting themselves in the foot in a way. If they stop mining, that incentive is there. But bitcoin is kind of interesting because bitcoin, I think that it's not as much I mean, most of the miners in Bitcoin, they sold their coins in late 2017, right, during the scaling war, so they don't actually have that much PDC. Quite a lot of the hash rate is just treating it as a pure business at that point. So I think BDC holders could, in theory advocate for hybrid POS. I think that's entirely possible. But at the same time, because bitcoin governance is less clear now around how these things fit together, I think that's not necessarily easy to do and not necessarily easy to coordinate.
00:41:17.086 - 00:42:03.406, Speaker B: On the one hand, there will be interest, but on the other hand it will be hard to coordinate. So you could see a wave of friendly forks and I think 2024, you probably will see a lot of friendly forks pop up just because then people also be talking more about fee issues. Right. They'll be talking more about confirmation times and fee subsidies and these kind of things. So you could see more experiments done again. Yeah, so I kind of see bitcoin as like it's almost like politics, right? Like politics. You have the left wing, you have the right wing and then you have waves of very conservative governance and the waves of very liberal and very conservative.
00:42:03.406 - 00:42:34.160, Speaker B: And now we've finally had the first soft fork in several years with taproot and maybe that opens the door to more like a faster cycle and then you might get more and more. Right. It's kind of something that you mentioned to me privately before too, that you think that if Ether were to flip in bitcoin that would be actually bullish for bitcoin because it would mean that the bitcoin governance would move toward something more malleable and more upgradable because it would recognize this fact in the market.
00:42:35.250 - 00:43:24.410, Speaker A: Yeah, I actually still strongly believe in that. And yeah, you gave a great analogy there with like this is what could asher in a more liberal time in sort of bitcoin governance. I thought it was good to see teproot activated even though it's not a big change. Almost no user is going to feel it in any way at all. But what it does do is it just helped the bitcoin community go through the motion of getting consensus on something, even if it was something small, and then getting it implemented in an actually swift way after the technical consensus was in place. So that's pretty cool. One of the things that we mentioned in our thesis for Ether was that it will become a productive asset.
00:43:24.410 - 00:44:05.402, Speaker A: And both if we are talking about proof of stake and ERP 1559, we talk about the fees, right? The fees that are burned and then it's like a buyback and burn that goes to the ether holders. But now fees are actually the lowest they have been in nine months or something. It's insane. They are sub ten way and of course, as a result we have to adjust downward the sort of money that would be burned by ERP one five nine. We have to adjust downward the potential APY from staking. What do you make of this?
00:44:05.536 - 00:45:16.302, Speaker B: I think that there's the question of will a ten x increase in throughput ultimately yield 100 x adoption? And I think that that's kind of the phase of the market that we're in now where I think in the past fees were low because literally no one was using ethereum. Right? And then fees went really high because too many people wanted to use it relative to throughput and there was no scaling. And then now you have polygon. So a lot of the most active DApps moved over to polygon and using that to scale that kind of takes the transaction pressure off of Ethereum layer one. But I think that there will always be demand for layer one transactions. And what people are underestimating is that with L2 you have a massive explosion of use case and a massive explosion of usability, right? I think BSc proved it more so than anyone, where it said, look, if you had actually had low fees during the DeFi summer and during this, here's what you could have done. You could have onboarded this many more people and you could have had this much more usage.
00:45:16.302 - 00:46:03.070, Speaker B: So I think that that's kind of the groundwork. Now. We're in the phase of we're entering the broadband phase, right? So ultimately, once you enter that phase and you have insane amount of economic activity happening on Ethereum, at that point, the fees will go up from that sheer amount, so each user will pay much less, but the user count can 100 x. And so that is kind of the big focus. And even now, the Ether fees per day, I believe, are still higher than bitcoin by three or four x at least. So I think that it's still no slouch from a block space, people paying for block space perspective. And I think that now we're in the intermediate phase where the scaling is there and then we're kind of in a bit of a lull.
00:46:03.070 - 00:46:50.160, Speaker B: The apps are kind of re gearing up to redeploy. We may look back on this period and say, wow, people actually thought L2 would be bearish for Ether, right? I mean, I remember for the longest time, people thought bitcoin L2 would be incredibly bullish for bitcoin because it would allow so many use cases and bring so much. I mean, I remember people used to write 20 page articles about this kind of stuff, right, that L2 would increase demand for layer one and all this. And now it's kind of ironic that L2 is now literally here for Ethereum and people are now they need to just reread those articles and then change the word and then change the words a bit. I think the same arguments apply.
00:46:51.570 - 00:47:24.870, Speaker A: Yeah, I agree totally. I mean, sometimes it helps just going back to the basics and things like us increasing or like bringing L2 online has always been seen as bullish. And it's probably just a sign of our times that people are so fixated on recent bearish price action that it paints everything that's happening, even the good things, and that light, and people are just looking for reasons to be bearish about something is actually very positive for Ethereum.
00:47:25.030 - 00:48:10.840, Speaker B: I mean, the thing about price too, right now Ether is 2600. If it goes to, let's say, 3100 within the next five days, then all the bearish arguments, you know what I mean? Right. It doesn't even take that much of a price move. Sometimes bitcoin the same thing, like bitcoin going into 30K, it's going to ten k, bitcoin above 40K going into 100K, right? So it doesn't even take that much movement in terms of percentage for the whole narratives to start flipping again. So I think that zooming out credible adoption and credible scaling is already here now on Ethereum. And that, I think, is like super bullish long term and I think super bullish in the midterm too, actually.
00:48:11.450 - 00:48:37.394, Speaker A: Yeah, I remember when we recorded the episode with Light and we were quite bearish Ethereum back then. And then someone, I think it was Amin who tweeted actually at us and said if Ether was, I think, $200 at the time and when Ether would be 400 right now, then we would be saying the exact opposite because just the fundamentals were the same.
00:48:37.432 - 00:48:37.682, Speaker B: Right?
00:48:37.736 - 00:49:10.874, Speaker A: It was already crushing bitcoin back then when it was at 200 was crushing it in many of the key performance numbers, like transaction volume, like fees even back then. And he had a very smart tweet where he just enumerated all of those numbers and said if the price was actually at 400 or 500, you guys would be crazy bullish right now, but the price is at 200. And so you look at the exact same numbers and invent like a bearish narrative around it and he was like in hindsight, he was just spot on.
00:49:10.992 - 00:49:11.900, Speaker B: Very true.
00:49:12.670 - 00:49:22.890, Speaker A: But talking about the sort of DFI and DFI summer and there too, do you think there's any real chance that the next DeFi summer does not happen on Ethereum?
00:49:22.970 - 00:50:57.982, Speaker B: I think it'll happen across all chains. I'm not really into the whole chain maximalism thing that happens in Ethereum now too, where they get into fights with polkadot people or solana people. And I think that ultimately I think a healthy bit of asset nationalism is fine. But I think that reality is that if people are using on chain activity to bring about economic freedom and to bring about adoption, I think it doesn't really matter what chain it's on as long as it's a reasonable, decentralized chain. So I think both Solana and polkadot and Avalanche, near these all qualify as reasonably decentralized. And I think that I find it incredibly unlikely that it's like I mean, people love thinking in terms of winner take all because the mind is just kind of this tribalist thing where if you watch sports you're like well, this team wins this year and that team wins that year, right? You're kind of just in this mentality of sports, this beats that, this beats that. But in reality, in business or in markets even, it doesn't really work that way, right? In tech industries, quite often two competitors, they increase their net market caps because of their synergy or because of the way that they bring users in or the way that they grow the pie.
00:50:57.982 - 00:51:54.450, Speaker B: So I think that we're very much in the growing the pie phase of smart contract platforms, given that I don't think there's anywhere near winter tick all effects coming for DeFi kind of deployment and DeFi adoption. But I do think that of all the smart contract native assets, I do think Ether is the only one that kind of has really been around long enough and has the mind share to kind of compete as more of a store value asset. So that I think is kind of my nuanced take on Ethereum maximalism, which is that Ether probably is going to outperform most things, but that doesn't mean that applications that are happening on other chains are not correct or that other chains don't have merit.
00:51:56.070 - 00:52:21.882, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean the sports analogy is actually quite fitting because people have this huge mental roadblock. There also when one team wins one year and then it doesn't win the next year even though there's like 20 teams in the league. They call it the winners curse or something or the Headline curse because it was in the headlines one year and then it didn't surprisingly didn't win the next year even though there were four teams that each had like 25% chance to win.
00:52:21.936 - 00:53:23.600, Speaker B: It's true. And I've noticed this too in governments, in countries where the politics system is very two party and then there's this win that win and there's like brutal battles, there's like a big focus on winning, you know what I mean? So that's why I see the most bitcoin maximalist and Ethereum maximalists out of the US. Just because I think maximalism is a really it's very fitting almost for Americans, right? Because it's know, you do your left versus right battles, you do your vegan versus carnivore battles, you just do all these battles, right? And it's like sports is huge. So like organized sports, professional sports and things like that. So there's like this big battle element to it. Whereas I think that it's actually very rare to meet those type of people out here in Asia. I've actually almost never met a full on maximalist in that sense.
00:53:23.600 - 00:53:58.860, Speaker B: Just because people are very open minded, people just think, okay, I know bitcoin miners that use DeFi, there are a lot of them that hold several other coins, albeit small percentages. I do think there's something in the water there where if the culture that you're around is very into, my team beats your team, your team loses to my team, then you end up in the kind of echo chamber, I guess.
00:54:00.110 - 00:54:07.418, Speaker A: Would you say that sort of maximalism coin maximalism is a bet on other people becoming maximalists themselves?
00:54:07.584 - 00:55:11.902, Speaker B: I think yes or no? I think if your thesis is monetary maximalism then I think you are very much betting that people will also become monetary maximalists and then all hold the same money. I think smart contract platform maximalism is incoherent and I think even most Ethereum people, reasonable people will admit that, right? That's why they are open minded and they do look at what's happening on other platforms. And I think that that's kind of the most reasoned way to think about Ethereum. I'm quite influenced by Joe, who I talk about sometimes on Twitter, where he told me he used to be a bitcoin maximalist and then later he was an ethereum maximalist and then he realized that it's actually incoherent to be a maximalist of any coin. You're basically joining a club at that point and it's more about your own investment thesis on these different crypto assets. And he considers maximalism around assets just to be cope. Basically.
00:55:11.902 - 00:55:25.890, Speaker B: It's basically like a mild form of cope. It's like you hold x and because it's a high percentage of your net worth, you need to cope with that and you cope by being a maximalist of it. Right, but that's all you're really doing. You're just going through a cope exercise.
00:55:26.710 - 00:55:56.186, Speaker A: You mentioned that Ether, of all the smart contract platforms, is the only one that has any semblance of being regarded as a store of value. Is that something that you expect to change? Or like when we look at, for example, Solana Polkadot, Avalanche, do you expect five years down the road that all of these will be in a state of being more or less used as your assets? Or is this like ethereum will have this edge against them forever?
00:55:56.298 - 00:56:57.250, Speaker B: I wouldn't rule any of them out, but I think that it's a tough road to follow. I think if you look at the previous wave of alts, only three or four coins made it out of there as relative store values. Right? Yeah. And so I think you'll have similar percentage survival rates for that. Like for instance, Bit shares is not a store value today, but if you ask people in 2015 it could have been, right? Why not 2016? So Auger is not a store value today, but it literally traded like one for many years. I think the future is incredibly hard to predict, but either having been around as it is and how time increments in ten years for the new investor into the space, bitcoin and Ether are basically the same age at that point. There's no difference mentally and in 100 years then there's for sure no difference.
00:56:57.250 - 00:57:25.100, Speaker B: Right. So I think that kind of time dilation is actually very bullish for the coins that can stick around and get a community and use case because you kind of have that effect and you're seeing that with Dogecoin now as well, right? Where because it just managed to survive it then organically managed to collect followers and interest and viral kind of meme ability came out.
00:57:25.790 - 00:57:50.290, Speaker A: My last questions are on DeFi. So for one, you said that China might crack down on derivatives trading options. No longer on Wobby. We've seen this in Japan in the past, I think in Korea derivatives are also banned for retail customers. Europe is also cracking down right now. I know because I live in Germany. We had a pretty big crackdown on retail trading for derivatives.
00:57:50.290 - 00:57:57.698, Speaker A: Do you think this belt's bullish for DeFi exchanges? DeFi derivatives exchanges?
00:57:57.874 - 00:59:07.974, Speaker B: Yeah, I think in a roundabout way, sure. I think near term harder to say, but definitely I think there will be demand for people to just use MetaMask and be able to get the same functionality that they already mean. That's part of the big solana bullcase, right, which is that FTX will basically bring over all their liquidity and all their support for serum and for other apps. So I think that that's a sound bullcase for think. As regulators understand DeFi better, I think it'd be very hard to predict how regulation goes, but I think that they will be cognizant of this kind of dichotomy. So I think when we first started talking about DeFi way back, we were discussing what would happen if there's government action against maker or government action against protocols like Aave or Compound. And I think that there are interesting questions to be raised about how USDC and USDT are very high percentage of DeFi assets.
00:59:07.974 - 01:00:55.354, Speaker B: So how DeFi is DeFi? That's a question that people do raise, rightly? But I think that technology is also very powerful now as well with cross chain and with being able to trade just in more and more powerful ways, right, and to provide liquidity. So uniswap liquidity plus sushi is like higher than all centralized exchanges now on ether pairs. And I think that kind of activity, it's unstoppable for the most part. And I think that that kind of momentum is something that gets placed in a position where I think for regulators who are viewing DeFi, it has the unmistakable mark of innovation, right? And this kind of demand for fewer intermediaries, for a lighter weight, for more toy financial system, I think that's why you're seeing very esteemed people kind of support DeFi now publicly you're seeing big kind of broad support for it because I think they recognize that it does have a lot of benefits. If you're looking to remake the financial system, DeFi offers a nice solution because it takes away some of the custodial risks, right? It takes away some of the concerns. And you can just stick with pure ideas. It's probably the purest ground for just ideas.
01:00:55.354 - 01:02:05.250, Speaker B: Now, if you want to take an idea and you want to put it in action, you can do it, right? If you're a PhD student in economics and you have like, let's say you're an experimental economics and you want to know how people react to this or that, you don't have to run experiments anymore, right? You can just actually deploy it on chain. You can actually do these kind of games and these kind of things and see what behaviors are like. And so I think that this kind of infiltration of DeFi into the hallowed halls of economic thinkers and financial thinkers and this is like a huge push. And so I think that kind of is the big bold thesis for DeFi that people have to just always keep in mind, which is that it really is a reimagining of the financial system built on on chain protocols. And this as a base layer for financial activity is incredibly compelling. Once the applications get better, the tooling gets better. This just makes sense if it were to be the future.
01:02:05.320 - 01:02:21.210, Speaker A: Ed completely agree. So my final, last and final question. So what is next? Feel free to answer with everything. What do you think happens next in the market or what kind of themes are interesting to you?
01:02:21.280 - 01:03:25.360, Speaker B: I think we're getting into a space now where even for crypto denialists or people that are against it, a lot of them will still come in and then farm. I mean, they probably won't farm in D Five because they will be too scared, but they will do like yield harvesting via futures, right? Like they'll buy spot, sell futures, even the yield is only 5%, still beats what they can make anywhere else. So they're happy with that 5%. And then as they own spot and sell futures, they get into this mentality where they're like, okay, this is actually not as much of a scam as I thought it was. They start researching into it. If the yield on bitcoin gets a bit lower, then they start going to ether yields or they go to other yields and then they research more and more into the space. And so this kind of massive pull factor, I've been seeing it happen the last few weeks, right, among large multi billion funds that they just say, okay, I wanted to deploy a few hundred million to yield into dollar yields in crypto because it's just like it's free money.
01:03:25.360 - 01:05:14.786, Speaker B: This pulling in, I think it incredibly legitimizes the entire space, right? Both of the offshore derivative exchanges but also of crypto assets as a whole themselves because people just it just infiltrates, right? It's a massive infiltration. So I think that the reality is that once you have this infiltration and that people are used to this idea of digital scarcity and this kind of floating around, then you will have a whole new set of natural buyers that come in when there's dips, right? People that are trading these assets as just like instruments like copper or like another commodity, they will also find reasons to buy it and they'll also find reasons to sell it. I think that that whole process is something that is very bullish long term because it broadens the base of potential holders massively, right? Apparently hedge fund surveyed estimating 7% of all hedge fund assets will go into crypto core longs on crypto assets, not farming or dollar yields, but just pure longs will be 7% within a few years. So I think if that were to happen, right, that's hundreds of billions of ownership. I think that these are the kind of things that people should not lose sight of in terms of just the vast amount of capital in the traditional. World and looking for places to go. I would just leave with one more interesting idea, which is that there's now regulation in the US.
01:05:14.786 - 01:06:44.110, Speaker B: Talking about making it harder for big tech firms to do these mergers and acquisitions because there's a lot of anti big tech legislation, right? And just people are mad at how big these companies are, how low their taxes are and all these kind of things. And I think that that more so than crypto regulation is what sort of the people want to see, right? Because there you have the multi billionaire kind of villains, right? You have like Bezos, you have Zuckerberg who are just like massively villainized by the left, right, because they literally employ so many people. And it's just impossible to not be villains in that backdrop where if they start moving more aggressively against big tech, then I think that you will really see a lot of interest in decentralization and in Dow governance and in sort of pseudonymous economic activity. And the world will look very different. It would be a very historical moment if we move toward those regimes. But I think that those are kind of the big currents that are making a lot of people think about massively upping their allocation into crypto assets.
01:06:44.930 - 01:07:39.134, Speaker A: I definitely echo everything that you said. I think it's very important to take a very long term and holistic view on the market and every once in a while remind yourself that crypto is sort of riding a wave up of secular megatrends like digitization, like demographic change. And also there are smaller secular trends within the broader crypto space like DeFi that are extremely innovative and a new paradigm. And I think it's important to come back to those every once in a while and reread articles from a few years ago and so on and realize that our current view, like how we interpret the information of today is always sort of blinded or painted by the recent price action. And I think it's extremely difficult to not think that way.
01:07:39.172 - 01:07:40.000, Speaker B: Well said.
01:07:40.850 - 01:07:47.246, Speaker A: Thank you. Thanks, sue, so much for the discussion. That was, as always, a lot of fun.
01:07:47.348 - 01:07:48.010, Speaker B: Thanks, Ben.
01:07:48.090 - 01:07:48.460, Speaker A: Thank you.
