00:00:00.240 - 00:00:29.134, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Delhi Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Dan. This is, I know it has the 19 January 2024. Right everyone, let's get into it. So I did mention yesterday that there would be an all core devs call happening today basically, or yesterday basically, and it happens. And Tim Biko put out a tweet thread about it. Now, of course, I also mentioned on yesterday's episode that on this call they would discuss if there were any kind of delays to the Testnet forks for Dengkun because of the little bug that we had on the girly fork.
00:00:29.134 - 00:01:13.156, Speaker A: And I'm very, very happy that there isn't a delay. Like I mentioned yesterday, today there was a very low chance that there'd be a delay. And I Tim says here in the thread that the testnet forks for Dankoon, Holsky, Sapoli and Holski will go ahead as planned on January 30 for Sepolia and Holsky on Feb 7th then. And we can expect an announcement with client releases next week. Of course, after those testnet forks go through, we'll then get an announcement for main net date, which I still expect to be mid to late March. So it was great to see that all of that, you know, everything that happened on girly didn't delay anything as expected, which is great there. And then the old core devs also discussed a few other things in relation to Deng kun, but then moved on to a bunch of other stuff as well, which you can kind of read the thread to get a, to get a view into.
00:01:13.156 - 00:02:14.930, Speaker A: Here they are definitely, you know, firmly moved over to, I guess, discussing the Prague and electric aips at this stage. Really it's just kind of a little bit of discussion over Den Koon now, because of the fact that Denkun is just on the test nets, there's no more kind of, obviously research into the aips, there's no more real clients, things for clients to do unless it's a bug or an performance improvement. So really they're, they're kind of moving all towards the Prague and electric ips. And as I discussed, or I've been discussing over the last few days, there are a lot of eips slated for that upgrade, or at least proposed for that upgrade. So really the next few months, just gonna be working through the motions of which ones we'll actually make it into. I'm gonna start calling it Petra just because saying Prague and Electra is longer than saying Petra, we're gonna, you know, have a discussion about which ones are actually going to make it into Petra and then go through the motions that we always do leading into an ethereum network upgrade. As you guys know, I'm most excited about things like the max effective validator increase, but also with execution layout, triggerable exits for for validators to make permission less staking a reality.
00:02:14.930 - 00:03:09.600, Speaker A: Because right now, even in the most permissionless staking ecosystem rocket pool, there is still reliance on the OdaO because the ODA needs to process validator withdrawals and needs to actually process kind of removing validators that are offline for long periods of time and stuff like that. Whereas and a fully permissionless system, you could trigger these exits from the execution layer without having to go through any kind of like oracle, Dow or any kind of like, I guess, centralization vector, which is obviously really, really good for permissionless staking on Ethereum. But anyway, you can go give Tim's tweet thread a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so I've been talking a bit about this on the refuel lately, and it's been a topic of discussion within the Ethereum community for at least a couple of weeks now, but I guess much longer than that generally. But it's all about the Ethereum gas limit, right? Which is effectively Ethereum's block size. Now, Parathos has put out a new research post about the potential testing path to figure out gas limit increases.
00:03:09.600 - 00:03:58.424, Speaker A: Now, I did mention this the other day, saying that if we want to actually seriously think about increasing the gas limit, we have to know what the trade offs are, we have to know what the effects on the network are going to be. We have to know basically how much we can increase it by what we're getting out of it, stuff like that. And that's exactly what parathos is trying to do here. He's getting the conversation started, trying to put put together basically a framework for this. Now, there were a few replies already on his post, one from Micah Zoltu here, who's been quite active in the Ethereum core dev and research space for quite a while now. But basically he has like this seven point list here of who we should be optimizing for being able to run a node. And basically he starts off with number one saying, you know, should we be optimizing for someone with a ten year old flip phone being able to run a full node and then going all the way to number seven, which is someone with a data center.
00:03:58.424 - 00:04:42.994, Speaker A: So there's, there's basically a spectrum here of where you can run a full node. And he basically comes to the conclusion that Ethereum should be optimizing for numbers three to six, which, which is someone with a consumer daily driver laptop, someone with a gaming rig, someone with a low cost dedicated server in their home, and someone with a dedicated server in a data center. Because the top two here, some with a ten year old flip phone and some with a high end cell phone and great network Connecticut Connectivity, are probably not what Ethereum is, is kind of going for at this stage. And he mentions there's also blockchains out there that can target this, the fully ZK blockchains. And maybe eventually Ethereum becomes a fully ZK blockchain. But in the. I guess, like, probably even the longer term, like, I don't expect Ethereum to be kind of snarkified probably for like ten years at this stage.
00:04:42.994 - 00:05:09.666, Speaker A: So if we're talking over the next five to ten years, we're probably going to be targeting that three to six there. And even, I mean, in seven, like, you can run Ethereum full nodes in a data center, but it's more about kind of what the minimum requirement is. And the minimum would be, you know, maybe just a daily driver laptop or even below that. Right, like a. A daily driver laptop. I get. I guess that's a broad thing to define as well, because there are different types of laptops out there, ranging from, you know, your hundred dollar laptop all the way to your many thousands of dollars laptops.
00:05:09.666 - 00:05:49.340, Speaker A: And people use these as their daily drivers, right? And then there are gaming rigs, which can cost even more, whether they be gaming PCs or gaming laptops. So I think that if we're talking about the hardware that we can run full nodes on today, probably the cheapest you can do it on with a two terabyte solid state drive. So you'd probably go like a raspberry PI. With a two terabyte solid state drive, you're probably looking at four to $500. And it really depends on where you are in the world, of course, because the components will cost different, different things, and then you'll have to factor in your Internet cost and your electricity cost as well. But if we're talking about just pure hardware cost, you could probably get it done for dollar 400 at this point, depending on what SSD you buy. Obviously the, you know, the different brands offer different price points depending on if you get a good deal.
00:05:49.340 - 00:06:09.244, Speaker A: So I guess it's safe to say around $400 there. And you can get laptops for that amount as well. And they can probably run Ethereum full nodes. But I like to look at Raspberry PI's and these kind of dedicated devices that you can install Linux on and basically do whatever you want with them and have them. And they, and they're a small footprint as well. Laptops has a screen attached to it, right? So it's going to take up more space. It has a keyboard and everything, whereas a raspberry PI is very, very small.
00:06:09.244 - 00:06:59.702, Speaker A: Even in a case, it's absolutely tiny. So that is kind of what I look at when I look at the most low powered hardware that we can run Ethereum full node on. Now, will that always be the case? You know, that's a question that people come up with. Will that always be the case with all the upgrades that are coming to Ethereum, with the fact that we have effectively increased the gas limit because we've added 4844, which for a period of time, obviously blobs expire, but for a period of time it increases the, I guess, like bandwidth requirements and the storage requirements for full nodes and the general overhead of the network. But then, you know, if we decrease the gas limit, if we double the gas limit, as I mentioned the other day, that automatically doubles the kind of load on the network, automatically doubles the chain size. And not straight away, obviously, it's not going to double the chain size based on history, but it doubles it from there. So for example, if the chain is growing a terabyte per year, which I think it's much less than that, but for argument's sake, let's say the chain is growing 1 year.
00:06:59.702 - 00:07:49.742, Speaker A: If we double the gas limit, then you would expect as long as we're using all of that gas, right? It does require the network to be at capacity at all times, which ethereum is. So let's assume it's at capacity, it would mean that you're using two, the chain is growing at two terabyte per year from, from that, from that point onwards. So it's all about kind of optimizing for, you know, I guess deciding what hardware we want to optimize for and then raising gas limits around that. So yeah, I was great, I was glad that Micah brought this up because it's definitely a critical point. I mean, it's the whole reason that Ethereum is built the way it is, right? Ethereum layer one being the sentiment layout, ethereum L2 is being the scalability, scalability layer. There's no point increasing requirements for Ethereum l one to the point where we basically kick off things like Raspberry PI's on the network, kick off low power devices off the network. Because in that world we just get closer and closer to the monolithic kind of design, which is not what Ethereum wants to optimize for.
00:07:49.742 - 00:08:50.194, Speaker A: And of course there are other upgrades that play into this, such as verkle trees and statelessness and state expiry, which can potentially allow us to increase the gas limit without actually putting an additional burden on the network. So those are, I guess, orthogonal discussions to this. This is more for like increasing the gas limit in the current state of things, not with vocal trees enabled, but I guess like when those things come along, it's a different calculus again. So anyway, you can go read this post for yourself to get a feel for this, and also read the replies here. I'll link that in the YouTube description below. But this is definitely a discussion that I think that if you're a solo staker, if you're a full note operator, if you're doing anything with Ethereum, I guess like software and running your own hardware and stuff like that, you should definitely read this and have a say. Because I think that for me personally, I would be really sad if my rock five B board was kicked off the network because we increased the gas limit for, as I've argued before, not really much benefit, because essentially you would, you would just fill that capacity pretty quickly, and then you've increased the overhead on the network by a huge amount if you double the gas limit for very little gain.
00:08:50.194 - 00:09:14.698, Speaker A: That's my general view on it. But still, we want to test that. We want to do, you know, we want to get empirical evidence. We don't want to just based it on vibes and feelings, right? So that's what parathos is trying to do here, and a bunch of other people within the community. So you can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Sriram put out a great tweet thread today, basically comparing side chains versus optimums versus any trust chains versus validiums.
00:09:14.698 - 00:09:47.466, Speaker A: And this tweet I'll link in the YouTube description below. But snow sledge also, quote, tweeted this with a nice little summary of Sriram's post here, which is basically comparing side chains to optimums, to any trust change to validiums, based on, you know, the, the ledger growth, uh, censorship, resistance, data availability, real resistance and validity. So the, it's all about kind of trade offs again here. And it's all about different trust assumptions here. Any trust chains are something that arbitram came up with. Optimums are basically validiums, but using optimistic roll ups instead. And validiums, starkware, I believe, initially came up with this.
00:09:47.466 - 00:10:29.408, Speaker A: And you guys know that basically validiums and optimums and any trust chains all basically store their data off chain that I installed on Ethereum. L1. And side chains are a thing that's been around for a very long time now, actually. And people will argue that you can consider anything, a side chain to anything. So, for example, you could consider bitcoin, a side chain to Ethereum, like if you have a bridge between them and it. And the thing is, though, is that like, there's different bridge constructions as well. And it's kind of hard to argue that bitcoin is a side chain to Ethereum because maybe there's a bridge to bitcoin via a centralized exchange, because technically you, you can bridge to bitcoin via a centralized exchange, right? You can basically send your, let's, this is very convoluted, but like, this is an argument people make.
00:10:29.408 - 00:10:56.608, Speaker A: Let's say you send ETH from Ethereum to a centralized exchange. You're still in the ethereum network, obviously. Then you swap that ETH for BTC, and then you withdraw that BTC to the bitcoin network. Some people argue that that is you bridging to bitcoin. And I'm like, eh, I don't really, I don't really buy that argument. I don't really kind of vibe with that argument. But then people argue, well, okay, what about bridging via something like Thor chain? What about bridging via wrapped bitcoin? For example, going from the bitcoin chain, wrapping your BTC and then going to Ethereum.
00:10:56.608 - 00:11:40.370, Speaker A: Wrapped bitcoin is very centralized. Four chain has its own trust assumptions because it has its own validator set that manages all of that. Right? So there are different kind of trust assumptions here of, of those sorts of things. And side chains generally are regarded as not inheriting any security from the base layer, essentially, or basically inheriting anything from, from the, I shouldn't say base layer, but from the layer that it's considered a side chain too. So, for example, the most popular side chain in Ethereum, the ethereum ecosystem, is probably the polygon pos chain, which does want to become a validium, a validium zk evm eventually, but right now it still exists as a side chain. It does checkpoint itself to Ethereum L1, but that's not going to give it, that's not going to make it kind of like an l two. It's not going to give it the same guarantees as an l two, it's not going to give it the same guarantees as a roll up or anything like that.
00:11:40.370 - 00:12:09.066, Speaker A: Because the polygon pos chain has its own consensus. Consensus has its own validator set. It is not a reliance on a theory like totally reliant on Ethereum for those sorts of things. I know that the staking is done via Ethereum and there's kind of, I guess like a hybrid model going on there, but ultimately it's secured by the PoS chain validators. That's kind of how it works there. Whereas something like a validium is very different. Because a validium, even though it's not storing its data on Ethereum L1, it is still not using its own consensus mechanism, it's not using its own validator set.
00:12:09.066 - 00:12:42.470, Speaker A: It is inheriting that from Ethereum L1 because it's posting its proofs there, right? And it's, and it's basically got its bridge on there as well. So to bridge assets in and out, same for things like optimums and any trust chains, but they have even different trust assumptions here. So that's exactly what shrimp thread goes through. And I'll link it, as I said in the YouTube description below. But you've also got this table to reference as well. And I think it's great to be on top of this stuff and to actually understand basically what the, what the trade offs are here. At the end of the day, the most secure l two construction is going to be a roll up, always, because a roll up is considered to store both its proofs and its data on the same layer.
00:12:42.470 - 00:13:31.682, Speaker A: It doesn't have to be Ethereum l one, but obviously, I mean, most if not all of the l two s today are all the roll ups or Ethereum L1, but that is the top security. That is the top security from the proof perspective and from the bridge perspective, but also from the fact that your data is highly available and highly secure on Ethereum l one versus some off chain data availability network or data availability committee or any such thing like that. Um, but still, validium is much better than a sidechain because of the fact that it is still a one of interest assumption. Their validiums can actually be built as hybrids, where essentially you could potentially download the data yourself, install the data yourself, and then be able to recreate it if you can't get it from anywhere else. So there are just different types here. And of course, l two beat, uh, l two beats website has everything on this. Like, has all the information you need on this and breaks it down for you.
00:13:31.682 - 00:14:32.000, Speaker A: So you can go visit the l two beat website as well on this. But yeah, I just thought it was something interesting to bring up for you guys to go check out, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Nethermind has announced that Nethermind research, in collaboration with four pillars, has introduced a framework for evaluating security measures and eigen layer restaking strategies in shared sequences. Inside the report, there are that they cover technical nuances of sequences like Espresso, Astria, and Aztec Furnett. An analysis of the cost profit dynamics, invalidated corruption and its impact on security, a review of sequencer attack types centering on the most threatening ones, and strategies for optimizing risk adjusted returns, including slashing mechanisms and dynamic reward models. Now, the reason I'm highlighting this, and you can go download this for yourself, it is a file that's linked here, an Adobe 40, Adobe file, 40 page report, and it's free to check out here. But the reason I'm talking about this is because there's been a lot of talk lately about Eigen layer generally, and the risks of eigen layer, the risks of the eigen layer, avss, and.
00:14:32.000 - 00:15:07.576, Speaker A: And understanding those risks and breaking them down and essentially having a comprehensive overview of them. Well, that's exactly what Nethermind has done here. This is, as I said, a 40 page report going through how shared sequences would work in the outside the context of eigen layer, and then also within the context of Eigen layer as an AV's. So if you want to go check this out, you can. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But this is exactly the stuff that we want to be seeing. And this is why I think that a lot of the risks and concerns about Eigen layer are really overblown, because the Ethereum community has always prided itself on making sure that those risks and concerns are very public and also doing the research to understand them.
00:15:07.576 - 00:15:40.726, Speaker A: On a deep level. We don't tend to sweep things under the rug, for better or worse, right? Sometimes it kind of comes and bites us on the ass because we're a bit too honest about things, and then people use it as FuD. But I'd rather we be honest, too honest about things, and people use it as Fud than not do any research at all. And just kind of bury our heads in the sand, because there's been plenty of other ecosystems over the years that have done this. I think one of the greatest example of examples of this is the terror ecosystem. Many, many people were telling the terror ecosystem, hey, what you're building with the UST stablecoin with anchor is a ponzi, and it's going to unwind and collapse. Like, the design was not a secret.
00:15:40.726 - 00:16:05.006, Speaker A: Everyone could read the white paper, and if you understood the way the design worked, you understood that it would death spiral. And of course it did death spiral. We saw that play out, and it happened very, very quickly, within three days. But because everyone was drunk on the moon boy Kool aid, essentially everyone was drunk on Luna token going up. Everyone was drunk on those 20% yields that anchor was offering. And a lot of big players got involved with it, too. This wasn't just normal retail guys, this was a lot of big players within the ecosystem.
00:16:05.006 - 00:16:42.954, Speaker A: I mean, even the biggest players that ended up going bankrupt like 3 hours capital Celsius, FTX, right, and SPF and all that, they were involved in this stuff. And, and because of that, because there was no real interest in being intellectually honest and doing deep research here. What ended up happening is that you had basically people burying their heads in the sand and things blowing up, and then a lot of people get hurt. And the worst thing about terror was the fact that people went into the UST stablecoin thinking that it was a somewhere safe to be, because they're like, oh, it's a stable coin, right, but it. No, not all stable coins are created equal. There are different risk profiles for different stable coins. And that was just not made apparent because everyone was drunk on the Kool aid.
00:16:42.954 - 00:17:07.294, Speaker A: Whereas within the ethereum ecosystem, there has been stuff like this before. I think like specifically within Defi summer, there was a lot of this, but it was very contained back then. And I think the Ethereum community learned from that and basically said, okay, well, let's not repeat that. Let's make sure that we call out the risks as we see them. We do deep research on them, we talk about them openly. And it's not just within the context of restaking, it's also in the context of client diversity. It's in the context of validators.
00:17:07.294 - 00:17:46.628, Speaker A: Market share, like Lido, for example, having, having a big market share on the network. What the implications of that are, it's in the context of l two s. I mean, l two b does a lot of great work around this. And now, obviously, we have themes like nethermind looking at restaking, looking at things like shared sequences, looking at avss. And that sort of stuff is honestly one of my bull cases for Ethereum. The fact that we are so transparent and we are so kind of interested in getting to the bottom of things and outlining all those risks and making sure that we're aware of them. That to me is a massive strength of the ethereum ecosystem that really, I think that any other, there are other ecosystems that do take security and, and kind of research into it seriously.
00:17:46.628 - 00:18:20.422, Speaker A: But I think that in terms of like the amount of stuff going on in a theorem and the amount of stuff that we have to keep track of and we have to do research on, especially because the theorem is at the forefront of a lot of things like MeV, for example, all networks will suffer from MEV, but because Ethereum is at the forefront, it's had to deal with those problems first and head on, had to come up with solutions to them. Yeah, I just think a theorem is way, way ahead in that regard. But yeah. Anyway, enough of my rambling here. You can go read this report for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Metamask announced today something called a validator staking on metamask portfolio.
00:18:20.422 - 00:19:23.110, Speaker A: So with a 32 ETH deposit, we run your very own validator node, where you're always in control, no pulling, no hardware, just rewards. So metamask is using consensus, consensus staking to do this, where essentially you can just deposit 32 ETH with them, they'll run the validator, they'll manage all the node operation, but you're always in control and there's no pooling, there's no hardware requirements and there's just rewards to you. So if you're someone who has 32 ETH and you don't want to go through the hassle of setting up your own validator, and you also don't want to put that into something like, like Lido or any other of those services out there, then this may be an option for you. Honestly, I feel like the market for this is relatively small, because if you have 32 ETH, like, I would hope that. And you want to run a validator, I would hope that you'd be doing it on your own, honestly, because it, the main barrier to entry in my, that I believe within, within solar staking is that 32 ETH capital requirement. Because as I mentioned before, the hardware requirements are very low and, and the cost is very low. So, and the technical requirements.
00:19:23.110 - 00:20:06.604, Speaker A: As much as people like to talk about them being super complex, at the end of the day, if you have 32 ETH and you want to solo stake it, I think it's worth it to go through that. And at the end of the day, like, the people that say that it's too complex and too technical, well, you know, most of them aren't even going to have 32 ETH to begin with, so they don't have to worry about it. And maybe that requirement goes down over time. But as I've mentioned to you guys before, let's say we drop it to 16 e today, and the ETH price maybe not today. Let's say we plan to drop it to 16 eigth in, like, six months, and the ETH price doubles in six months, then we're back to square $1 wise. Like, it doesn't really make a real lasting difference if we expect ETH to go up in value over time. So really, if you have less than 32 ETH, the next best solution, obviously, is permissionless, pooled staking.
00:20:06.604 - 00:20:34.392, Speaker A: And there's a lot of solutions out for that, like lsts and LRT's. There's a lot of those out today. So you're spoiled for choice there. But in terms of, like, pure solo staking, and I'm talking, like, pure solar staking here, not. Not staking with something like rocker pool, which is obviously not pure solo staking, right. There are still various different risks there, and it's a different mechanism altogether. But if we're talking about pure solo staking, then obviously you still need 32 ETH, which is a lot of money, right? I mean, off the top of my head, what is it, 30? It's $70,000.
00:20:34.392 - 00:21:01.900, Speaker A: I think if I'm doing my math correctly there, or maybe a bit less than that, $65,000 or something. Regardless, that is like a ton of money for the vast majority of people in the world. That's like, I would say 99.9% of percent of people do not have that just lying around to buy ETH with. Maybe they have that somewhere else in some other assets. But if we're talking about a spare money to buy ETH with no people, most people don't have that. So that is always going to be the main barrier to entry to pure solo staking.
00:21:01.900 - 00:21:40.042, Speaker A: And as I've talked about in the past, if you want to bring that barrier down, there are so many different considerations to that. But the biggest being the fact that we can cut it in half and then each price doubles and we're back to square one. So really, the better solution for people with less than 32 ETH or less than the minimum, whatever the minimum, it ends up, ends up being down the line is to just have pooled staking, permissionless pooled staking, and also doing things like squad staking with Oval, for example, where essentially you can have. You can run your own validator, you can run your own nodes, and you only need to put up 3.2 ETH, because if you have to do it with nine other people, you, at minimum, only 3.28. So it's a much less of a capital requirement than it is for, for 32. Eight.
00:21:40.042 - 00:22:14.720, Speaker A: And I actually would consider oval in its, like, final decentralized form, to be the closest thing, like, oh, boy, squad staking, I should say, to be the closest thing you could get to pure solo staking, because you're still running the validators, you're still running the full node yourself. You're just sharing the load with others out there. But, so it does, it's not obviously the same as solo staking, like, 100%, but it, like, gets you 99% of the way there. And I'm hoping other designs follow that as well, like rocket pool, for example. I hope that that follows that over time. I think what's possible from, from staking with rocket pool is obviously the fact that there's also an RPL requirements to put up for it. And also, it's still quite high.
00:22:14.720 - 00:22:43.180, Speaker A: I mean, eight ETH plus the whatever it is, 2.4 ETH worth of RPL or something, that's still a pretty, pretty big capital requirement. But then there are other solutions as well, coming online to, to help with that, too. So a lot of competition there, a lot of stuff happening there. But Metamask just joins the fray here with a rather unique solution for people. All right, some big news out of the arbitrum ecosystem today. So they put out a tweet where they said arbitrum orbit continues to enhance customization, empowering projects to tailor their solutions to specific requirements.
00:22:43.180 - 00:23:35.394, Speaker A: Today we introduced an arbitram audit expansion program, allowing you to have a self service path to launch custom orbit chains, l two s or l three s, that settle to Ethereum. Now, the reason I wanted to talk about this was not because they've obviously done this, this huge update today, but because of the way that they've done it. So you may be looking at this and thinking, okay, well, I can launch an orbit chain and settle down to, as an l three and settle down to arbitram one and then settle down to Ethereum. You can do that, but also you can actually do this on any l two. So they say here, orbit chains are granted the right to make customized l two s or l three l three s that settle to Ethereum directly or other ethereum l two s, such as optimistic roll ups, zk roll ups, optimums, and validiums. So essentially, you can build these chains on any l two. You can build an arbitrary orbit chain on an optimism on op mainnet, for example, as an l three.
00:23:35.394 - 00:24:04.880, Speaker A: Like, how cool is that? This is a, this is kind of a synergistic approach from the arbitrary ecosystem here. It's not a monopolistic approach, which I really love to see. And then you can see how they continue. A portion of the profit, profit sharing will go to a newly established arbitrary developer guild, which will help fund arbitrary core developments. And l three s that settled to arbitrum one and Nova are already covered by the existing permissionless path and don't need to contribute revenue back. So, essentially, as I said, you can use these on other l two s, but you will have to contribute something back to arbitrum. It's not like a free lunch.
00:24:04.880 - 00:24:41.066, Speaker A: You don't just get to get to deploy these things on there, on op mainnet, for example, or another altoon, for example, and then not contribute anything back to the arbitrum ecosystem. There is still kind of profit sharing agreement in place there, which I think is completely fine, because at the end of the day, if you're using Arbitrum's technology, you're relying on the arbitrum ecosystem to continue to develop and maintain that technology. So you should fund that. And this is a really great way to do it by doing this profit sharing. And there's been a few Defi apps that have done this before. I know curve basically gave permission to people to fork their app onto other chains, but then contribute back a percentage of the revenue to the curve ecosystem for that. You know, for, for that.
00:24:41.066 - 00:25:18.546, Speaker A: Basically, it's basically a way to ensure that curve gets something out of it, so to speak, rather than just being like a vampire or vampiric kind of attack on, on the protocol there. So, yeah, just a very, very cool announcement out of the arbitrum ecosystem today. And you can also see a nice little graphic here of the orbit chain hierarchy. So you can have, like, orbit l three sitting at the top here, settling down to an ethereum l two, any ethereum l two, or arbitram one, an arbitrary nova or an orbit l two as well. And then ultimately it all settles down to ethereum l one. And this is what I mean by obviously ethereum being the settlement layout. Like ethereum, l one is the ultimate settlement layer here, even though there's an l three at the top settling down to an l two.
00:25:18.546 - 00:25:37.614, Speaker A: But then it settles down to l one. So l one is always the ultimate settlement layer. So really great to see this, but you can go read the post. I think there's a blog post here from arbitram one. Is there a blog post? I'm not sure. I hate the way Twitter does links here, but there is a little bit more information in the tweet thread. I'll listen to the YouTube description below for you to go check out.
00:25:37.614 - 00:26:03.848, Speaker A: All right, so l two beat has added a new page to their website called the finality page. Now you can see the average time it takes for an l two transaction to be finalized on the l one. This has been a long time coming. I've wanted to see this for a long time actually on the l two bit website. And it's really great to see that they've started putting this out there. Now, of course, not every l two is supported here. You can see here that they've got six that they currently support, including op mainnet and base.
00:26:03.848 - 00:26:41.358, Speaker A: And then you can see they list what type of l two this is the Da mode. So what DA mode it's currently in and the 30 day average time to finality. And you can see here that for op main net there's four. It's 48 seconds plus l one finality. So basically it's assumed that the transaction data batches are submitted sequentially and the maximum time is seven minutes plus l one kind of finality here. There's also a note here that says please note the values on the page reflect the time required to achieve ordering finality, at which point transactions cannot be reverted or reordered from. For simplicity, they did not include the overhead time to reach l one finality, which is the same for all projects around 13 minutes under good network conditions.
00:26:41.358 - 00:27:13.074, Speaker A: And what this means is that ethereum finality happens around 13 minutes right after two epochs. So that is, you know, you have the l two finality and then you have l one finale on top of that. Now, in a world where you have basically single slot finality, you would essentially, it would essentially mean that the l two gets finality at at the same time gets l one finality at the same times that it gets l two finality. Because single slot finality means that finality happens per block. So if you're submitting a batch in the block, then finality has happened in that block. And it's completely finalized. Can't be reverted there.
00:27:13.074 - 00:27:41.766, Speaker A: So it's really, really great to see that they've got this page out there and I'm sure they're going to keep updating it here. But l two b just continue to kill it with the transparency that they're bringing to the l two ecosystem. So you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, last up here, I just wanted to announce that Nifty Island Open beta is now live. Now, I spoke about Nifty Island a little while ago and I did mention to you guys that I thought that this was really cool, that they continued building during the bear market. They've been around for quite a while now.
00:27:41.766 - 00:27:56.462, Speaker A: They've been quiet for quite a while. But you can now go to Nifty Island.com and start playing. I did manage to play around with it a little bit. There are bugs. I believe my game client crashed because I was just searching for something in my inventory and I hadn't got, haven't gone back since then. I just have too many other things to do right now.
00:27:56.462 - 00:28:14.122, Speaker A: I've still got my little ETH phone that I got recently, actually. I've got this ethos phone. It's a pixel seven that runs a custom kind of Android on it that has things like a light note on you can actually see. I don't know if it's actually mirrored. I was going to do a proper video on it, but it's got like a light note on. It's got like a wallet on it. But yeah, I still haven't had time to play around with that.
00:28:14.122 - 00:28:30.308, Speaker A: It's just sitting on my desk here. But I did play around with Nifty Island a little bit. It's pretty cool. It's pretty cool what you can do. You can like terraform your own island, add items to it. It runs quite smoothly and it's not too demanding on a, on a pc here, but you can play it in browser or desktop mode on windows and Mac. So you can go check that out for yourself.
00:28:30.308 - 00:28:49.164, Speaker A: And they've been teasing this kind of airdrop that they're doing as well. This play to play to airdrop thing that they're doing. They are going to do a token. So if you're into that, you can go check that out for yourself. But yeah, just wanted to remind you guys that it is now live, the open beta. And it is an open beta, which means that there are going to be bugs. So if there are bugs, be sure to report them to the team so that they know and they can fix them.
00:28:49.164 - 00:29:02.780, Speaker A: But yeah, go check that out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week.
00:29:02.780 - 00:29:04.524, Speaker A: Thanks everyone. Bye.
