00:00:04.400 - 00:00:47.584, Speaker A: Okay, so we talked about the past and the present of MeV. We said that everything is Mev, and we understand how we got there. But I'm thinking about what was even earlier. So a lot of us very idealistically came to blockchain space thinking that what we're creating is some kind of markets for the future, for very, very distant future. And the markets that will be very accessible, permissionless, efficient. So anyone in the world, and maybe in the future, outside of the world, will be able to participate in the market without any centralized players, right? And technology advances. And we're learning more and more how those future markets can look.
00:00:47.584 - 00:01:33.666, Speaker A: And that's what we'll talk about. We'll talk about a bit of like a near future, and also we'll experiment a bit with thinking about the very distant future. So my name is Thomas Tanczak. I work at Flashbots and undermined. So the question for everyone is, how would the market be in 3024? And it's a lot of thinking here, and I spend a lot of hours talking to chat GPT about it. And I'll mention to you later what we found together, but as a bonus, because we went so far that maybe this would be too hardcore for the stock. So I'll go back in time, not so far.
00:01:33.666 - 00:02:31.848, Speaker A: So when we realized electronic trading practically started in 1971, not that long time ago, if we think that from 1971 to 2000, this is when the electronic trading practically flourished and became ubiquitous and used for almost majority of the markets that had significant volumes, even just like maybe last year or so, some of the last outcry trading pits were closed in Chicago. So people are still going to trade floors and shelter prices, maybe even nowadays, but it's disappearing. So we're trading electronically. This is normal for us. And the transition happened over 30 years, and the blockchain started in 2009. So we can think of maybe the equally substantial transition over 20 or 30 years in the blockchain space. So expectation is the blockchain will become the future for the markets.
00:02:31.848 - 00:03:42.298, Speaker A: Well, we asked those questions as well, and the Flashboys was a book published in 2014. And then we also mentioned Flashboys 2.0 2019 as bringing some concepts from traditional markets to blockchain markets. We realize that we have the same problems on a different scale, maybe in slightly different technological environments, but similar problems. And if we start thinking about traditional markets, blockchain markets, and you look at the trading, we start to use more and more often the same language, solve the same problems, and there would be a suggestion, maybe there is some convergence that those markets will become one. And the on chain trading, even as we said at blockchain, started in 2009. We can think of history of Ethereum and through stablecoins and defi all the way to nowadays, talking about MEV a lot as this recent history of the on chain markets, what will happen next? We'll talk probably a lot about PBS, as we mentioned already, trusted execution environment, markets like Swav.
00:03:42.298 - 00:04:41.974, Speaker A: You've heard of Swav a few times in the previous presentations. And I think a lot of thinking about the future of markets is thinking about how do we build the markets for AI? Will we build the markets for AI or AI builds the markets for themselves? And that bonus thing will be interplanetary markets and GPT conversations. So when I say the same problems that we face in traditional financial markets and the blockchain market, so how many of them did we solve on blockchain? Because when we come to blockchain, we say blockchain is revolutionary. It provides this immutable ledger. It provides permissionless access. It provides like never stopping virtual machines that keep pushing things and nobody can stop them, right? They're decentralized, so we provide decentralization. We talk about cryptography in blockchain, giving us the ability to encrypt things and decrypt them conditionally.
00:04:41.974 - 00:05:18.670, Speaker A: But the problems of trading is like liquidity. Liquidity problem remains like the fragmentation of liquidity across different venues, different chains. Now we're talking about the bridging problems, the limited access problem of the markets. Like if the markets were, some of the most developed markets would be not available for the non developed countries. And I'll argue that much of those problems will just move to blockchain because they are not technical problems. They are very often the problems that exist outside of technology in the real world. The front running and latency problems.
00:05:18.670 - 00:05:49.578, Speaker A: Well, blockchain started with 15 seconds blocks on Ethereum, now 12 seconds. Obviously, front running and latency will both matter. Scalability will be probably the problem of any system that's tried to keep growing and giving more capacity for trading. Market manipulation problems. Well, this is not related to technology. Cybersecurity risks, they stay probably to some extent. Well, we have constant hacks of the smart contracts.
00:05:49.578 - 00:06:52.684, Speaker A: The systemic risks, I think very often we haven't seen yet, like the proper systemic risks on blockchain. And we may see them with some of the major stablecoins collapsing or the stake increase staking, leading to some major collapses around Ethereum and major protocols. So we've seen things like FTX happen I think they were just very, very small comparing to what is awaiting us and what we'll have to deal with. It'd be like the chain, major chain, like Ethereum stopping because of the major issue if they clients insider trading. Well, this exists outside of chain. Can you hard code on chain in smart contracts, the protection from insider trading, operational risks, well, again, like deploying of smart contracts, problems with executing the tech. So many problems stay and we'll have to solve them together, and we'll solve them either through some technology improvements or through regulation.
00:06:52.684 - 00:07:51.030, Speaker A: And probably AI systems will be helping us with that, both in the traditional markets and blockchain. So once again, blockchain solutions brought permissionlessness, notarization, decentralized encryption. I said decentralized encryption because when you think about things like trusted execution environment, SGX, any encryption models, well, you can use them in traditional markets. When we think about swap, could you deploy SGX system that would allow you to deploy algorithms, attestation to the algorithms used, and allow people to trade within that system on a centralized market? And you would have also a promise that nobody modified the program, because you have exactly the same promise of attestation. So well, you do that on blockchain in decentralized ways. There's some improvement, but it's worth always to come back and think which problems we really solve. Composability on blockchain.
00:07:51.030 - 00:09:25.116, Speaker A: For sure, this is a great improvement in a sense that we bring the layer that is common for everyone through Ethereum models, but at the same time we bring multiple different chain models and bridging, and solutions like Solana and Ethereum will be very much incompatible. So we're losing composability very often through the competition. So is the problem with technology or just the competition by itself causes composability trouble? Could we provide all of those without blockchains at the same time? Is the blockchain enough to ensure the problem solving? Coming back to a few things from the past and how they change nowadays. So I was reading how the open outcry model worked in a sense that when I started looking at those videos of people shouting prices and the signals that they would, that was shown to signal the trades they wanted to execute, it was showing prices and showing the quantity. And I thought like, well, so was frontrunning there, like, was it a public mempool? Practically, because you could just look at all of this and all transactions were in the open and the same intuitive, natural as the questions in my conversations with chat GPD, how would you avoid it? How would you protect. And there were regulators and there was monitoring and people were observing. And also the fact that everyone was trading in public was assuming that everyone was putting their reputation at stake.
00:09:25.116 - 00:10:40.324, Speaker A: So you didn't have the, you didn't hide your identity, right? So everyone was looking who is behaving not the way that they would like to, and it would block them from the market or invoke the regulatory action against it. In a way we like the blockchain community, like the MEV community, we started looking at a public mempool and started thinking of, well, who can we identify and call them out as their reputation is at stake? And very often when we look at the market makers, we think that. And Nathan mentioned that just be nice in a sense that they don't expect people to be nice, but that reputation systems work as the social consensus model to much extent. So once again, we didn't solve that by technology, but by the sheer nature of human interactions. So once again, a question. What will happen with the AI markets? Well, you have there the risk of reputation. Can we introduce the blockchains, AI, the concepts of reputation that will be strong enough so we can trade within the systems and regulate them efficiently.
00:10:40.324 - 00:11:55.422, Speaker A: Now, the dark pools, this is probably as well in Budapest, just less people. So dark pools were introduced. I mean, like they're operational in the traditional financial markets, right? So this was the answer of like how to ensure the protection, the privacy of trades for the large orders to be executed where they got bad reputation and then invoked regulation because, well, once again, don't expect everyone to play nice. If you create a dark pool and everyone believes that you'll be playing fair, because you provide, as a alternative trading system, you provide this opportunity to execute in private and algorithmically execute trades in chunks and so on and so on. Well, at some point, maybe because you are centralized entity, maybe not you, but the manager that comes after you, the next CEO or the next operator of the dark pool, maybe they'll start doing something bad just for the profit. Maybe they start front running you or reordering and whatever. Now this is once again like, can we solve it without blockchain? The same identity, the same entity can run SGX and can run the model that will allow you to trade.
00:11:55.422 - 00:13:42.292, Speaker A: And now you have attestation of the models and you have encryption. You don't need blockchain for encryption, but you lose the ability to decentralize it. And via blockchain, we have to ask a question, is decentralization absolutely beneficial to those systems? Like, is it enough to make them so much better than just moving SGX systems and those models to the traditional markets. So do they converge and say, like, how much of the centralization I need and how much of the latency of traditional markets and the experience of executing trades at volume, low latency processing we need? And then I ask about the censorship resistance of blockchain, right? So we look at blockchain as a whole, and we think that it should be censorship resistant. We should prevent blocks from excluding some of the transactions. If we think about the look at the market in general, then the questions that we ask that lead to censoring are like, who can really trade? So is that person, is that institution allowed to trade or are they banned by some regulator? What can be traded? Because whoever may be banned from trading some specific goods or services, we may want to obviously want to avoid human trafficking and so on, how can it be traded? So even if you trade something that is perfectly legal and you yourself as an entity, or you're not coming from the region or institution that is banned by the regulator, the way you trade might be banned. Like it can be front running and so on.
00:13:42.292 - 00:14:28.416, Speaker A: So all of this we want to regulate and permissionlessness doesn't really help that much with it. It makes it much harder, which means that the big volumes and big markets don't want to play that game because it's risky for them. So it's blockchain solving that problem for them and giving them best liquidity, best place for their liquidity. And there is a big chance that what will happen on blockchain will be stratification of the market that nowadays we look like on the left, right, we're just like a gray area. You join blockchain, you know that you're trading somewhere, somewhere around the shady things. Everything is mixed together. And that's why very often blockchain is targeted by the regulators.
00:14:28.416 - 00:15:13.496, Speaker A: They say, like, blockchain is bad place because you cannot avoid trading the dark market there or like being given commingling assets. And what we see from institutions now is that they want that second thing. They want to just put it in layers and say that for anything that I trade on this blockchain, I want to make sure that my assets will never touch that black market area. And in a way, this is good because you say that blockchain is technology in this format. It's a platform that is universal for both black and white markets. And there is somehow acceptance, probably from the institutions that we operate on the same market, as long as we separate it. Because if you accept this as technology.
00:15:13.496 - 00:16:02.216, Speaker A: It's unavoidable to use that any separation, that any other separation would look like this. You would have to build chains for the good things, chains for the bad things, and this wouldn't change much. It would be just a bit harder to operate with even more bridging and more pretending. And how to efficiently build this? Well, I think this will happen. Will it be efficient? Probably will be very, very tiring, but I don't think we can avoid kycing on blockchain. This does not necessarily have to introduce centralized regulators, but it will create the layers on chain of, just like locks of how you can transition between the layers. You will always be able to move your assets from the white market to black market.
00:16:02.216 - 00:17:15.694, Speaker A: Right? You can do that for some kind of burning bridges, but you will not necessarily be able to come back because some players will say, I don't want to trade with you, I want to exist in that space that is regulated by self regulated. Even so, you don't need to have centralized regulators to still arrive at the market that will be KYC than censoring. Because censorship in the end, is a natural function of our social interactions. Some things we accept, some things we don't. And with all of this and introduction of AI agents, I will ask, will we have a AI regulator, some AI systems that will deploy within those dark pools, that will act on behalf of deciding what is right and what is wrong. So definitely with the new technologies, we can say that not only we design this AI regulator, but we want to make sure that it always behaves in a predictable way, that it's not corrupted by someone, not having bias. So for sure, the technology around ZK ZKML, probably a verification of model execution, will be integrated into the dark pool.
00:17:15.694 - 00:18:26.082, Speaker A: So I'm saying, yes, everything probably will happen on blockchain, but not for the permissionlessness, not for the accessibility without KYC, not because of encryption, not even because of decentralization, but probably only and only because of the function of the general ledger and authorization. And sometimes we think that all of these other things are just intermittent. The fact that everyone can access it is just temporary. Because in the end, we simply separate always the world into layers and we decide who, who will be allowed to reach layer and temporary blockchain is just this mix that allows everyone, but it will not be probably forever. And even if you can access blockchain, but you cannot access 99% of the liquidity on the blockchain, can you really access anything? Not necessarily. So I think the blockchain will be there in 1000 years, probably looking very different. It will be there mixed with some crazy encryption models, with some AI, maybe without us anymore.
00:18:26.082 - 00:19:21.794, Speaker A: It feels like blockchain is very natural solution for AI to just talk to each other, to trade, to verify each other's actions, and to look at the history. So does it mean Adobe convergence? Yes, because it feels unimaginable that there will be no need for the centralized trusted ledger. And all the other functions can be built on top. And all the other functions already feel natural for the financial markets. So the blockchain itself will be lowering latency, we'll be introducing more and more scalability and capacity. We'll be stratifying the market into multiple layers of like how good the market is, and traditional finance will be tokenizing everything so it can be digitally traded because no other trading models will be efficient enough. And that bonus that I mentioned.
00:19:21.794 - 00:19:49.744, Speaker A: So what chat GPT told me, well, for 1000 years forward you have to start thinking about time relativity. So if you're running a hedge fund, maybe you want to run it on a very fast moving ship. And how do you really agree on time if your nodes are in different time systems? So that's interesting read. So try to have this conversation as well. Think about 1000 years ahead. Thank you so much.
