00:00:00.320 - 00:00:50.434, Speaker A: So what is Web three? Web three is essentially the next evolution of the Internet. In Web one, the Internet was read only. You can basically think of the Internet at this time as just being one big Wikipedia. There was no way to interact with or write data to these sites. With Web two, we started to see more interactive websites appear, giving people the ability to comment like and upload various forms of media to the Internet, much like this. Now, Web three is all about ownership. While Web two technologies focus on centralized services and servers, Web three is all about decentralization and the ownership of one's data and assets.
00:00:50.434 - 00:01:42.784, Speaker A: A simple way to think about this is web one is read only, web two is read and write, and web3 is read, write and own. So what makes this all possible is several key features. The first is decentralization. So instead of having centralized servers where a single owner or group controls all the data, Web three makes use of peer to peer solutions to create a vast network of computers which act as the servers. The next feature is interoperability, which is the ability for different applications and systems to be able to work and communicate with each other just out of the box. This is made possible because they all share the same underlying technology. And lastly is transparency.
00:01:42.784 - 00:02:34.062, Speaker A: Everything on the blockchain is open to the public to see, which makes it far more difficult for things like fraud and data manipulation to occur. It's important to note that while there is a high level of transparency, no personal information is involved in transactions. So people only know what you personally share with them. So how does this compare with how the web currently works with web two? Web two tends to be very centralized. Facebook is a fantastic example of this, as everything that is shared on Facebook is stored in some centralized server owned by Facebook. This gives Facebook total control over this data. And of course, if Facebook goes down, your access to all of your content goes down with it.
00:02:34.062 - 00:03:43.954, Speaker A: With web two, it's not as easy to transfer data from one website to another. For instance, if a new social media website appeared and you wanted to transfer all your posts and media from Facebook to this new platform, you would have to do it manually, one by one. In web3, though, since applications are open and compatible with one another, transferring all this could be done with the push of a button. Web two also makes use of a lot of middlemen to establish trust, especially when it comes to interactions. A bank transfer is a good example of this, as if you wanted to send some money to a family member or a friend, you would have to get the approval of the bank before the funds could be sent. Identity verification often makes use of third party companies as well. But with blockchain technology, because everything is transparent, you have trustless systems that don't rely on third parties to conduct transactions because everything can be very easily verified.
00:03:43.954 - 00:04:28.714, Speaker A: Privacy in web two is also a hot button issue right now. Privacy in web two is a hot button issue right now as well. We often hear about companies selling user information to marketing companies. They do this so they can do things such as ad targeting. It's also known that black box algorithms where no one knows how they work, except, for instance, Facebook, manipulate the posts and news each user sees on their walls. With web3, since you can perform interactions without revealing personal data, privacy is assured by design. Since most blockchain projects are also open source, there's no mystery to how they operate.
00:04:28.714 - 00:05:35.344, Speaker A: One example I like to use comparing web two and web3 is gaming. Most developers tend to also be gamers, so it's usually something most people can relate to. So in web two, if you play a game and you earned, say, a trophy or a nice piece of equipment, you wouldn't own it in the true sense. The item would continue to live in the centralized server, and what you can do with that item would be governed by whatever rules the game developers saw fit to impose. If the game was ever shut down, you would also lose access to this item because it only exists on the game's centralized server. In web3, however, you actually own these items, you not only have the ability to use it in game, but you can also showcase it around the Internet, trade it with other players, burn it, whatever you want, and even if the game were to shut down, you would still have your item. One cool example of a game like this is Armor X.
00:05:35.344 - 00:06:38.104, Speaker A: It's still in development, but it still works as a good example. Here you can see these hammers, which have several functions in the game. What's important to note here, though, is that you can not only use it in the game, but you have direct access to the image so you can share it online. You can clearly see you are able to sell the item as well and trade it with others. And as noted before, if this game were to ever shut down or fail to launch, you would still have this hammer because it's actually yours, which is pretty cool if you ask me. So what are some of the use cases for web3? One of the most popular use cases is decentralized finance, where you can exchange currency and obtain loans without any central banks being involved with all the privacy concerns at the moment, decentralized identities is another strong use case which empowers people to control and protect their personal information. Supply chain management.
00:06:38.104 - 00:07:32.684, Speaker A: This is one that has been growing in recent times as there are now a number of companies that use blockchain technology to tokenize their inventories. A good example of this is Prada, which is using the blockchain to essentially make their products nfts. So it's very easy to verify whether a luxury item is counterfeit or genuine. And of course social media, so people have more control over the content they share and create. Of course, all that said, there are still some challenges keeping web3 from mass adoption at the moment. The first is scalability, as a lot of blockchains are notoriously slow. Ethereum, for instance, processes about 30 transactions per second, which is far too slow for a lot of applications.
00:07:32.684 - 00:08:49.794, Speaker A: To put this into perspective, Visa can handle about 24,000 transactions per second, which is really fast. This is one challenge Solana was designed to tackle, as it is one of the fastest, if not the fastest, blockchains out there presently. So far, its highest transaction count was a little over 8000 /second but with the upcoming fire dancer update, Solana claims we will be able to process a staggering 600,000 transactions per second, which frankly is mind blowing. The second issue is usability. For most people, the process of setting up a wallet and interacting with web3 applications is just too technical compared to the ease of, say, swiping a credit card or using their bank app. Account abstraction is one way blockchains are addressing this challenge, which would allow users to create wallets with social logins like Facebook or Google. This also creates the ability to retrieve lost seed phrases, which would make the web3 space far more accessible than it currently is.
00:08:49.794 - 00:09:43.854, Speaker A: Lastly is a lack of standards. While blockchains internally have agreed upon standards for most things, the standards for different blockchains to communicate with one another is just not there yet. In recent years, bridges have been created which allow assets to flow between select blockchain networks, but a sort of universal standard for blockchain operation and development is just not there yet. That said, there are projects that are working to become sort of the Internet of blockchains which would network all blockchains together. But a single project has not yet come on top just yet. Overall, the future of web3 is bright. Every year we see more adoption by mainstream companies as the value of these systems becomes more acknowledged.
00:09:43.854 - 00:10:35.184, Speaker A: As a technology evolves in speed and ease, more adoption is sure to follow. Identity will almost certainly become decentralized eventually. A new project called worldcoin is already tackling this problem by creating a system that uses a piece of equipment called the orb that scans and captures a user's biometrics to verify identities. These scans being stored securely on the blockchain network. And of course, how can we forget artificial intelligence? These days, you can't go anywhere without hearing something about AI, and its incorporation into blockchains is already happening. Solana recently released a project to allow AI bots to be created that can read and write to the chain. So pretty cool stuff.
00:10:35.184 - 00:10:59.484, Speaker A: So I know that was a lot of information, but I hope it was informative. I normally try to keep these videos more brief, but as future web3 developers, it's important to understand the problems this technology is created to solve and the challenges that still remain. Well, challenges which perhaps one of you will be the ones to solve.
