00:00:00.440 - 00:00:33.632, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 31 March 2021. Right, everyone, let's get right into it. So I just wanted to kind of share here that there is a scaling Ethereum hackathon coming up that's being hosted by ETH Global. It's going to take place online, all virtual, from April 16 to May 14. And I guess another one of the reasons why I'm bringing this up is because I'm actually going to be one of the judges for this, this hackathon. So I am judging alongside a bunch of like really awesome people in the ecosystem, as you can see here.
00:00:33.632 - 00:01:11.354, Speaker A: Right, people from, from all the different kind of scaling solutions on Ethereum and more. And there, yeah, you know, there you go, there's me. But I'm really looking forward to this, you know, for many reasons, obviously, I'm a huge proponent of Ethereum L2, and just like scaling in general on Ethereum. So I'm really looking forward to what people build here. And if you are a builder, definitely go sign up to this because I think you can basically have such a big impact. Like, I mean, you can win a prize here, of course, but if you build something that's just like really cool and looks like it's going to scale and Ethereum in a really nice way, you know, you could get picked up by, you know, by an investor or something that wants to kind of like back your project and you might, may be able to take it to the next level. This happens a lot.
00:01:11.354 - 00:01:50.848, Speaker A: You know, outside of hackathons is plenty of projects on Ethereum that started as a hackathon project and went on to raise money, you know, issue a token and basically become like billion dollar protocols, essentially. So, yeah, I mean, but just outside of that, I think, you know, getting all the smartest people together and kind of hacking on something as important as scaling for Ethereum is pretty cool. And I just can't wait to see what everyone comes up with, you know, obviously, as I said, I'll be judging. So I'm just really excited to see all the, all the projects here. Everything will be open, I think, as well. Like you'll be able to see kind of the projects before the dead judging before the winners are announced and stuff like that. But yeah, really excited for this.
00:01:50.848 - 00:02:15.680, Speaker A: As I said, it runs from April 16 to May 14. So it's about a month long kind of hackathon here. And I'm looking forward to what people come up with once it's done. So I. Speaking of scaling, actually, I have a few things here today to talk about with regards to scaling, but, you know, I saw this as I was updating some apps on my iPhone just before. So Coinbase, mobile wallet, you know, it's not the Coinbase app, it's their mobile wallet app. So it's a separate app.
00:02:15.680 - 00:02:58.044, Speaker A: They have had support for optimism's ten testnet for quite a while, I think, you know, actually a very long time, probably like 2019 or something like that. They've had support for the Testnet, but I noticed today in that their latest version of the wallet, they actually introduced beta support for optimism on Mainnet. So not just the testnet, but their main net as well. Now, obviously, we all know optimism has been delayed, or at least their public mainnet has been delayed until July. But I think this is just being added as like, gearing up to basically be compatible with, you know, a bunch of different apps that are going to be going live on optimism before that July kind of public mainnet. You know, as I've said before, I think that Uniswap is going to be live in May on optimism. Synthetix is already there as part of their, you know, their first phase.
00:02:58.044 - 00:03:20.134, Speaker A: I'm sure there's a bunch of other apps as well. And I'm really curious to see if Coinbase is going to add a bridge into optimism here. You know, maybe. Maybe they won't do it to July, maybe they'll do it before that. Maybe they'll do it with the uniswap kind of release. But just thinking about it, it seems like a no brainer. I mean, I've spoken about it before, optimism and Coinbase and, you know, even uniswap, they all share the same kind of investors.
00:03:20.134 - 00:03:37.988, Speaker A: You know, they're the co founder of Paradigm, which is the biggest investor in uniswap and one of the biggest in optimism. They. They are basically. I mean, he's the co founder of Coinbase. Right, as well. So, you know, there's deep connections there. But outside of that, I just think it makes sense for Coinbase to support all of these L2s.
00:03:37.988 - 00:04:14.578, Speaker A: I'm sure they're going to add support for other L2s, like, you know, eventually. Like a lot of the stuff that starkware is doing, arbitrum hopefully as well, you know, loop ring and stuff like that, might come a little bit later, but I do expect them to kind of like, have bridges in and out here, which would be a huge boon. I mean, as I've said before, centralized exchanges are the port of entry for basically everyone. I mean, even, you know, even if we want to put new money into crypto, we have to go through a centralized exchange because the fiat on ramps are completely regulated. It's, you know, there's no real decentralized way to do that. And it's very hard to get, I guess, like buy crypto without going through a centralized exchange. I mean, you can go through peer to peer exchanges.
00:04:14.578 - 00:04:51.554, Speaker A: A lot of them still has KYC and things like that. The easiest way to get crypto without, I guess, going through that is just getting paid in it. But even that's kind of difficult unless you're working in crypto as well. So. And there's a paper trail, of course, as well. So, yeah, I mean, we all just enter through centralized exchanges and having an, I guess, like a solution to withdraw to a theory of Mainnet or withdraw to one of these L2 solutions is going to, I think that's what's going to get, I guess, like get this adoption going on L2 very quickly, especially from something like Coinbase. So excited to see how that plays out, but really cool to see that they've already added kind of the main net optimism to, to their mobile wallet here.
00:04:51.554 - 00:05:52.786, Speaker A: So speaking of L2, I put out this tweet today, and I actually expanded on it in my, in my newsletter today. But basically I said the L2 ecosystem on Ethereum is going to usher in a new age of innovation that's going to be crazier than the last six years combined. I can't wait to see what people build when they're unconstrained by the high gap, the high costs and scalability limits of layer one now, I guess, like the tweet speaks for itself. But what I really wanted to focus on was the fact that, you know, we're going from essentially 15 transactions per second on Ethereum layer one to thousands, if not tens of thousands of transactions per second on L2. And L2 is not only kind of like more scalable, cheaper because it's more scalable, but it is also offering near instant transactions. Now, obviously, we all know, or at least most of us would be aware, that, you know, you have to wait 15 seconds or more depending on the fees that you pay to get your transaction in a block on Ethereum, because block times are, on average 15 seconds in Ethereum. Now on L2 there, I mean, there are kind of like the concept of blocks and things like that, but it's, it's very different.
00:05:52.786 - 00:06:40.218, Speaker A: You can have near instant transactions on, on L2 depending on how it's constructed. Uh, you know, even 1 second kind of like transactions, which is obviously like a massive improvement. Like a 1 second transaction is a 15 x kind of improvement over layer one ethereum. And you know, not only is it fast, but it's also cheap and there's also capacity for many more transactions. I actually think, you know, if we're just looking at a pure transactions per second kind of metric, I think eventually we're going to get to a point where I guess there's going to be like demand for probably hundreds of thousands if not millions of transactions per second, and we're going to have like trillions of transactions per day on these kind of networks. So, you know, from that point of view, you know, that that would never happen on a layer one, especially a super decentralized layer one like Ethereum. But, you know, on L2, we be a lot more flexible about this.
00:06:40.218 - 00:07:16.774, Speaker A: And because of this, I think the innovation at L2 is going to blow us all away. I mean, there's a lot of things that we kind of see coming. We don't even know what's going to come here. But just think about like all the Defi apps on L2 and kind of like all the kind of innovations that they can now do without being constrained by these costs sort of things. And on top of that, think about all the things that have been priced out of Ethereum so far, like nfts. You know, there's a lot of nfts that haven't been priced out, I think like the art pieces and you know, that the higher value kind of works haven't been priced out. But if you think about the NFT ecosystem and think about, I guess like in game items, right? Like God's unchained cards, for example.
00:07:16.774 - 00:07:48.614, Speaker A: They were priced out a long time ago because a lot of the cards are only worth a few dollars and obviously it costs like 30 plus dollars to trade those things on, you know, on different markets and stuff like that and move them around. So from that point of view, it just didn't make economic sense. So they got priced out, but they're coming out with their immutable x decentralized exchange solution soon. Or basically, I mean, immutable X is a Dex, but it's also kind of like a whole NFT platform. And that's not only going to have gods unchained on there, it's going to have a bunch of different NFT projects on there. There's one called alluvium as well, which is going to be on there, which is. Which is getting a lot of hype right now.
00:07:48.614 - 00:08:35.474, Speaker A: So from that point of view, NFTs are going to have like a renaissance, or at least like in game kind of like collectibles and NFTs and stuff are going to have a renaissance on Ethereum, and that's just going to bring so much more innovation with it. And on top of that, I do think a lot of the existing NFT stuff will move to L2 as well. You know, eventually. I do think the layer one fees are just going to become so high that the only parties that can afford to pay them are the L2, you know, transactions, posting the roll up transactions, and also the, I guess, whales, right, the ones who can afford a $1000 transaction fees because it will probably get that bad at some point. And I mean, I wouldn't call it bad, but I would say that that's the kind of solution that we're going for and that's fine. You know, as an end user, you already don't want to be on layer one because of the gas fees. So why would you want to be on layer one when the fees are ten times higher than they are now? Right.
00:08:35.474 - 00:08:56.074, Speaker A: So if you can do everything on L2 that you can do on layer one with cheaper and faster, that's where you're going to go. So, yeah, the innovation there is going to be wild to see. I can't wait. Honestly, the next few months, we'll be seeing a lot of this stuff, stuff happen. I know I say it a lot, but it's coming. It's already in motion. I mean, we already have so much stuff live and it's just like being rolled out slowly for safe safety reasons and things like that.
00:08:56.074 - 00:09:27.016, Speaker A: But, yeah, keen to see kind of like one innovation we see at L2 here. So speaking of L2, again, Dy DX has, I guess, like up to their maximums on their L2 exchange here. So for those who don't know, Dy DX is perpetuals exchanges in L2. Perpetual exchanges in alpha right now. And there was an initial limit of like $150 that you could only deposit. They increased that to $1,000 recently, and now they've increased it to $10,000. So another ten times increase there.
00:09:27.016 - 00:10:16.898, Speaker A: So you can deposit up to $10,000, take 25 times leverage out, which gives you $250,000 worth of buying power, which is pretty cool, right? I mean, as I said some of these stuff is being rolled out on L2 in a very slow way for safety reasons because obviously you don't want people just kind of like putting on millions or tens of millions of dollars onto L2 and then kind of like something going wrong and for some reason they lose those kind of funds. So definitely like that. Dydx is taking this approach, and as I've said before, they're kind of like building on stockware as well. So very, very solid foundation here. Great to see that from, from Dydx. Next up on the L2 news, we have arbitrum that posted, I guess like their inside arbitrum bible, which is a top to bottom explanation of Arbitrum's technical design and rationale. I mean, their whole documentation kind of section here is insane.
00:10:16.898 - 00:10:42.252, Speaker A: This is definitely targeted towards developers. And, you know, this kind of like inside arbitrary does take a high level approach, but most of this stuff is for, is for developers. So if you're not a dev, you may not get a lot of stuff, a lot of out of the rest of the stuff here. But this kind of inside arbitrary post, I mean, I was reading through it kind of like skipping over the stuff that kind of looked very technical, but just like reading through it all, I mean, it is so detailed. Like look at this. Look how much I'm scrolling. I'm only halfway through the page if I like, go down like this.
00:10:42.252 - 00:10:59.168, Speaker A: This is just insane, right? And I've spoken about arbitrum a lot before. They're basically, I would consider them the optimism's main competitor. They're using optimistic roll ups for a generalized l two solution. They should be going live on Mainnet in April. Right? On Ethereum. Mainnet in April. And which means they beat optimism to the punch.
00:10:59.168 - 00:11:33.124, Speaker A: They're fully evm compatible. I'm pretty pumped for arbitrum, don't get me wrong. But like, I just think that documentation is incredibly important as well. Obviously for developers to kind of know what they're kind of building and kind of get help if they need it from here. But as I said, this kind of inside arbitram piece here is definitely, you know, at least somewhat high level. It's not like super, super technical. So if you, if you want to understand how, I guess, like arbitram and optimistic roll ups work in, in, you know, in lots of detail, I think you, you definitely should, you know, go, go give this a read and check it out.
00:11:33.124 - 00:12:03.668, Speaker A: So next up on the L2 news is loop ring, you know, our old favorite loop ring. They've done a couple of updates to their Amm pools, so it's now 30% cheaper to add and remove liquidity. At the time of writing, it is tendai to add assets. This is by far the most accessible place on Ethereum for users to put capital to work in. Amms, not whales only, and LP's now earn 0.2% on volume here. So yeah, just a couple of small but pretty impactful updates here from, from looping on their L2.
00:12:03.668 - 00:12:38.530, Speaker A: And you know, I mean, it's cool because like, I know I say a lot that L2 is going to like offer these kind of like instant or like near instant, like really cheap transactions. But we're not just going to stop there. We're going to keep improving this, we're going to get those costs down as much as we can and that scalability up as much as we can as well. And that's what loop rigs kind of doing with their own ZK roll up, which is really, really cool to see here. All right, that's it for L2 onto some Ethereum core protocol stuff. So Proto Lambda is a researcher at the Ethereum foundation, has been around for quite a while, does a lot of work on ETH two specifically. So he announced today that the Rayonism project is now live.
00:12:38.530 - 00:13:07.782, Speaker A: This is a project with ETH one and ETH two clients to build an Ethereum merge testnet during the ETH global scaling Ethereum hackathon and prototype sharding on top of it. This is obviously the dream, right? Getting the merge done and doing sharding on top of it. You know, getting the ETH one, ETH two merge done is obviously what we want to see. So really great to see that they've already spun up this project. They already have a website for it. They already have, you know, specs for it here, which you can kind of like jump into if it loads up here. I mean, they're pretty far along.
00:13:07.782 - 00:13:57.040, Speaker A: You know, if this is going to be their hackathon submission, then I think, I definitely think that they're going to at least win or be one of the finalists here. But don't let that discourage you. If you're thinking you're building something, I think, you know, there's, there's plenty of room, plenty of stuff to do here. But this is definitely one of the most critical and important things, right. I've spoken about it so many times, we need the merger done as soon as humanly possible. Like, I'm honestly like very scared that we're gonna get hit with I guess like a lot of maybe not regulation, but a lot of talking points towards proof of work over the next few months that are gonna affect Ethereum because a lot of people are waking up to it now and doesn't matter what side of the fence you sit on of proof of work versus proof of stake and the energy use or whatever, I'm not here to debate that. But I do think regardless of kind of like that, there's going to be a lot of kind of scrutiny on proof of work coming.
00:13:57.040 - 00:14:35.252, Speaker A: And I don't want a theorem caught in the crosshairs there. I don't want a theorem caught up in that at all. Obviously, a lot of it's just going to be targeted towards bitcoin. But if Ethereum can just like, instead of, you know, basically being bitcoin's little brother and just like copying a little bit of it from, you know, from, you know, daddy government or whatever, I would love it if Ethereum was just like in another house, right on proof of stake, and then doesn't, doesn't even have to worry about it, sort of thing. So, you know, and that's what the merger is. So as I said before, timeline still looks like, you know, very optimistically, end of year, more realistically, you know, q one next year. But I think, you know, pretty much everyone in the Ethereum kind of like ecosystem right now is in favor of it.
00:14:35.252 - 00:15:36.108, Speaker A: The Ethereum core developers are already starting work on it, as you can see here, and have started work on it from a while ago now. So yeah, I would expect to see it rather soon, but I'm curious to see how this rayonism project, you know, pans out at the scaling Ethereum hackathon. So stateful works, put out an update on their Beacon book. So for those of you who may not be aware of what this beacon book is, or don't remember, I think I've mentioned it once before. It came out a little while ago. But basically this is a book on ETH two, which kind of like goes through a bunch of different things, you know, with ETH two, basically they, they basically, they collected and edited and formatted contributions from 46 ETH two researchers and implementers, basically going through their experience, like why they were building ETH two, you know, what their experience was like building ETH two, you know, what they're going to be doing in the future and stuff like that. Now there's details of how this book is going to be distributed in this kind of post here, and because it's being published on the mirror platform as well.
00:15:36.108 - 00:16:11.524, Speaker A: You know, there's a lot of stuff that goes into this that you can read here. I'm not going to read through it all. It is a little bit, I mean, I wouldn't say it's complicated, but is a little bit detailed here where you can kind of like own this book, this book token and stuff like that. And you can kind of like own, you know, essay tokens as well. You can see here it's based on the essay experiment, as you can see. And there's also going to be a limited edition run of 100 Genesis edition books with basically you can make under donation to the project, and you'll be able to kind of like secure one of these books. I'm hoping I can secure one of them, of course, because I think it's gonna be really cool.
00:16:11.524 - 00:16:37.780, Speaker A: They're doing a bunch of nfts as well. I mean, as I said, there's a lot of detail here that you should read through yourself. But I'm really pumped for this book. I'm really excited to see kind of like, I guess like a firsthand of count of what? Of what it was like to research and implement and develop ETH two from the people who did it themselves. I mean, I followed along as mostly a third party observer of a lot of what went on. I followed it really closely. But, you know, I wasn't in the trenches talking to the teams every day.
00:16:37.780 - 00:17:02.702, Speaker A: I wasn't like, going on retreats with them. It wasn't like part of the core teams. So being able to kind of get the inside story of how it all happened over the years is pretty. Is pretty kind of like exciting for me. So I don't know about you, but I'm really excited to kind of read the full thing here. So definitely go check this out if you haven't already. So I missed this a couple of days ago, but Andre posted this new kind of, I guess, tool that has been built, and I don't think the, urn, ecosystem built it.
00:17:02.702 - 00:17:58.700, Speaker A: I think it's an outside community here, but it's called coordinate.com. And basically what it is, it's a social graph based contributor rewards system, so contributors can allocate points to other contributors, which builds up a contribution graph, and then at the end of each epic, allocation points equals budget paid out. So essentially, I mean, I'm not going to connect my wallet here, but basically what it is, is it's a way for people to signal who is contributing the most to an organization or to a dAo on Ethereum so you know, take the yearn ecosystem, for example. As Andre says here, yearn has a $20,000 monthly contributor budget and it's basically using the wisdom of the crowd to allocate that to contributors based on how much work they've been doing. So as you can see here in the screenshots, there's a bunch of core yo contributors. You know, obviously Banteg is, is probably the most well known outside of Andre. And then you have like a bunch of others here like, you know, Klim and doggy and things like that.
00:17:58.700 - 00:18:38.184, Speaker A: So if you're part of, I guess like the year ecosystem and you pay attention to the yearn forum and the governance and everything like that, then you would know, you know, kind of like, I guess, who deserves to be paid what for their contributions for that month or something like that. And then you can allocate your points towards this. So I think this is really cool. I think maybe, I mean, it reminds me of kind of like bitcoin grants where you could kind of, I guess like donate to a grant and then they'll be matching to kind of match that and then, you know, it'll quadratically match it. And the more people that give more kind of small donations to projects, the more kind of matching that project gets. So it's similar in a way where it works on kind of like, I guess, wisdom of the crowds here. There are drawbacks to that, of course.
00:18:38.184 - 00:19:23.194, Speaker A: But I think if, if you're someone who is actually paying attention to the, to the yearn forum, the yearn ecosystem in general or any ecosystem in general, then you are definitely the, probably the most well versed or kind of like most educated on where these points should be allocated. So I'm curious to see how this kind of thing plays out. There are other experiments like this that have played out before. As Awiki mentions here, it reminds him a lot of source cred, which is another very similar thing. And yeah, I just, I mean, as Awoki says here as well, the name coordinate is pretty cool too, if you've noticed the play on words there. But yeah, interesting tools here. I'm always for kind of like experimenting more with kind of these, I guess like open organization tools because a lot of the DeFi ecosystem is moving towards this and a lot of it is actually moving towards just being anonymous too.
00:19:23.194 - 00:20:07.522, Speaker A: I mean, I'm sure Bantaik is not anonymous to, you know, probably the core contributors here and a lot of people within the yearn ecosystem or people could probably find him in some way, but I haven't tried looking for him, and I have no idea who he is, so I don't even know if he's a he. It could be a she, for all I know. But I think, you know, this kind of, like, pattern of pseudonymous team members and founders and stuff like that is really cool. And, you know, I think that we need better tools to kind of organize these, these kind of like dows and stuff like that. And this is just one of those tools in that, in that kind of toolkit. So super Rare announced that they've raised a $9 million series a. So for those who don't know, super is basically a, you know, an on chain art house for artwork or NFT artwork on Ethereum.
00:20:07.522 - 00:20:30.936, Speaker A: So they raised $9 million, I guess, led by Velvet C Ventures. And one confirmation, I actually hadn't heard of Velvet sea Ventures before this, but one confirmation has been around for a while that they're crypto native here. And there's a bunch of angels on board as well, of course. You know, notable names here being Ashton Kutcher, which was a funny one to see there, of course. Mark Cuban. Right. Navarreva, Kant and chamath.
00:20:30.936 - 00:20:52.492, Speaker A: I don't know how to say certain I'm never gonna try, but he's basically, you know, pretty famous on Twitter. A lot of you would know who that is. But, yeah, I mean, congrats to super rare on the rays here. And it's really cool to see them kind of getting, you know, this much funding, I guess, for, for some Runway. You know, this, this will probably give them Runway for a little while here. I would assume that a token's coming soon. I don't know.
00:20:52.492 - 00:21:17.406, Speaker A: But, like, I mean, as I've said before, I just assume that every project is going to have a token these days. But what I do want to talk about is I just, I don't know how I feel about people like this getting into these kind of like, rounds. Right? Like, what has Ashton Kutcher really done within the Ethereum ecosystem? Right. Or in the crypto ecosystem? I haven't seen him do much. You know, Mark Cuban, I think, is fine because he's actually doing a lot for the ecosystem. But like, you know, Charmar as well. I mean, he's briefly spoken about things.
00:21:17.406 - 00:21:40.900, Speaker A: You know, he kind of made fun of defi. If you've seen that famous video, I mean, where he says he didn't even know what Defi was, you know, NFts is even more, and probably not, not now, but it was more niche than Defi. At the time. So I don't know. I don't really feel, I mean, I know that these people get into it because their network is huge, so maybe they're, you know, I don't know what they do behind the scenes. Maybe they are actually adding a lot of value. But I do hope super rare kind of, I guess, like air drop.
00:21:40.900 - 00:22:43.182, Speaker A: If they do do a token, I do hope they airdrop that token to their, you know, early contributors and kind of weighed it towards the early contributors, like what Uniswap did, because I think that's a good way to reward your community with it, you know, without having to kind of, I guess, like put a thousand people on your, on your kind of, like, cap sheet when you do a raise and. Yeah, I mean, you know, I guess, like, maybe I'm being a little bit hypocritical here. I'm definitely part of, you know, certain seed raises where I'm basically an angel in them and maybe, you know, maybe I'm not the best person to be an angel in them, but they, you know, I definitely want to support the projects and things like that. But, you know, from someone who, I guess, like, as I said, you know, I guess contributes or at least partakes in some of these raises as, you know, as an angel investor, a lot of the time, you know, you may not cut them like a big check or whatever because the funds cover most of that, but it's more about getting you on board for your network and, like, your alignment and kind of like, you know, tapping into to your kind of skills. So what I help a lot of teams with is, like, marketing community stuff. And, you know, obviously I have a big network, so I try to try to get, you know, try to help with, like, recruiting and things like that. You know.
00:22:43.182 - 00:23:23.382, Speaker A: You know, I personally don't like to be a passive investor, but, you know, for people like Ashton Kuchar and like, chamath and naval, I mean, they are doing so much other things outside of crypto. I just don't know if they actually, the kind of people who would, you know, I guess, sit down with these teams one on one regularly and kind of tell them how to do different things and kind of, like, help them with different things. Maybe they do. Maybe they will do something big. Maybe their connections matter a lot more because it's more about kind of like quality than quantity. Maybe the one connection that someone like chamath can make for this team is worth more than, like, 100 hours of marketing advisory or something like that. Right? Because of his network so if you think about it like that, it makes some sense.
00:23:23.382 - 00:23:46.904, Speaker A: But yeah, just a little bit of a rant there, I guess, on that sort of stuff. But I do think super rare is a great project, great team. You know, they definitely understand this space deeply. So I would expect them to take care of their early users on the platform if they do a token and, you know, if they do an airdrop. So yeah, I'm curious to see what happens here. But again, congrats to the team here on this. It's a pretty, pretty great race.
00:23:46.904 - 00:24:28.722, Speaker A: So in other NFT news, we had palm NFT announce themselves yesterday. Now this is being built by, I think, consensus and a bunch of other kind of groups here. Basically they're, they're teaming up with, for their first drop with Hearst, Damien Hirst, which is a british artist. And obviously I didn't really have any idea who this was, but you can see in his bio that he's a british artist here. Now, this isn't built on Ethereum, even though they say built efficiently with Ethereum, it is built on a proof of authority side chain. So, you know, it's essentially a different blockchain. Now that is okay, I guess, but I don't know if you would say it's built on Ethereum.
00:24:28.722 - 00:24:49.502, Speaker A: They're partnering with a lot of different Ethereum kind of like projects. Of course I. Consensus and infuria and stuff like that. But, you know, they aren't just, they aren't kind of building this on Ethereum layer one because of the fact that, you know, the high gas costs and all that and all that sort of stuff. And they're also going for the energy efficient kind of thing as well. But I think, I hope that they move to L2. Right.
00:24:49.502 - 00:25:14.706, Speaker A: I really, I mean, the project looks cool, but I really don't like the fact that they're just on a side chain because essentially that's just them on a different blockchain. And this is not me saying that, you know, different blockchain shouldn't exist. But we don't need a million blockchains. Right. We don't need another POA network. For those of you who don't know what POA is, it's basically proof of authority, which means there is a permission set of validators, like a very small set of permission validators. Maybe there's like ten that validate the network.
00:25:14.706 - 00:25:39.218, Speaker A: They're all known, they're all publicly kind of like verified. But you can't become a validator yourself. It's not a permissionless system. And these, because these people are known and verified, they can be compelled by, you know, nation states and governments to do certain things, to censor transactions, to take down the network, you know, whatever. So it is definitely not, you know, decentralized. I probably wouldn't call it decentralized at all, to be honest. So from that point of view, I hope that palm migrates to a L2 on Ethereum.
00:25:39.218 - 00:26:00.162, Speaker A: As I was talking about before, immutable X is the perfect solution here, I think, for them, but obviously that's not live yet. I'm curious to know if they even spoke to the immutable team about this. Maybe they didn't. Maybe the immutable team will contact them because I think this project was in stealth. I hadn't heard of it until kind of yesterday. So yeah, we'll see what happens there. But I think this is interesting, another NFT kind of solution going live here.
00:26:00.162 - 00:26:29.658, Speaker A: I mean, there's plenty of them now. And I think we all know, you know, the NFT ecosystem seems to be bigger than the Defi ecosystem at this point. I do think eventually, by sheer volume, you know, the Defi ecosystem will completely dwarf nfts. You know, right now it's, it's, it's pretty big compared to nfts. But you know, the, the collectible market, the art market, I mean this is a hundred billion dollar plus market here, I think. But I, but I think like Defi and finance is like trillions quadrillions in market kind of activity. So there's kind of no comparison there.
00:26:29.658 - 00:27:02.450, Speaker A: But, you know, we'll see what happens here. But, yeah. Cool, cool to see this, I guess, like there'll be further updates coming out. So if you want to kind of sign up for updates, you can on the website that'll be linked in the YouTube description for you to go check out. So perpetual protocol, a decentralized, I guess perpetual decentralized perpetual exchange on XDAi. So they're also on a side chain here, but they're definitely kind of like, I guess like very ethereum aligned and I think they're looking into a theorem layer, two solutions here. But yeah, I mean, I thought I'd kind of bring them up because they're a really cool project.
00:27:02.450 - 00:27:39.364, Speaker A: I've kind of like spoken to the team before, jumped on a call with them, kind of like saw what they were doing and they really care about kind of growing this kind of ecosystem here, you know, of I guess, like decentralized perpetual trading. Dy DX is obviously, I guess, like a pretty big name and then there's perpetual protocol and then there's a couple of others that I've forgetten the names of right now. But basically what they released was their perpetual staking. So you can stake your perp tokens that you've been kind of like holding and I guess like earn some fees for doing. So now this is, you know, a lot of her jokes already do this. Like sushi swap is, has been doing this for a while. Ave has been doing this for a while.
00:27:39.364 - 00:28:15.298, Speaker A: SNX does this right where you can just basically stake your, your, I guess, governance tokens and earn fees. So now that I guess they're more than a government governance token right there, they're a fee capture token too. I think initially, yeah, trading fees will not be shared with stakers and 100% of fees will be going to the insurance fund. But I think over time they're going to be putting to war, putting the fees towards stakers here. But there's also a rewards pool. So I guess like liquidity mining rewards for staking your perp as well, which is pretty cool. So yeah, I guess, like if you have perp tokens, definitely go check this out and stake your tokens if you're not doing anything else with them.
00:28:15.298 - 00:28:54.655, Speaker A: I think that makes a lot of sense. And if you haven't checked out perpetual protocol, definitely do. So as I said, it's on XDai right now, which has a pretty good bridge into a theorem, you know, in and out and stuff like that. And I'm curious to see if a petrol protocol is going to go to a L2 once it's ready, or if they're working with maybe starkware or something like that, like what DyDx is doing. But yeah, definitely go check this out if you're a perpetual, I guess, like trader. So the last thing to talk about here was an interesting tweet from Hazu today when he said, let's make one thing clear. You defend against malicious protocol changes by having a culture of users validating the blockchain, not by having proof of work or proof of stakeholder.
00:28:54.655 - 00:29:17.468, Speaker A: In the second tweet, he says it's absolutely correct that most proof of stake chains today don't have this culture. Their users don't validate. But this is a cultural thing, not a tech thing. And then in his last tweet, he says most other proof of work chains don't have this culture either, by the way, in case you weren't convinced before. Now let's, let's unpack this tweet a little bit. Here. So I want to unpack the second tweet where he says that most proof of stake chains today don't have this culture.
00:29:17.468 - 00:29:48.036, Speaker A: Well, I mean, and I know Haas is aware of this, but this is referring to pretty much like every proof of stake chain except Ethereum. I think pretty much all of them are a form of distributed proof of stake or deposit. As I've spoken about before on the refuel, where DPos is basically just a cartel, it is not something that everyone can get involved in. It's usually run on super nodes, which means that you can't kind of like run, I guess, like a node yourself. You can't validate the blockchain yourself. You have to delegate your tokens to someone that's been kind of elected or voted in. So to me, it's just not a decentralized system.
00:29:48.036 - 00:30:24.612, Speaker A: So I guess I just want to clarify that point. But let's take Azer's original tweet and apply it to proof of work, bitcoin and proof of stake Ethereum. Fundamentally, it doesn't matter if there's proof of work or proof of stake for defending against malicious protocol changes. What matters is the social layer, which is sometimes referred to as layer zero. So you obviously have layer zero being the social layer, layer one being the protocol, and L2 being, you know, the scalability on top of that. So if you think about it, at the end of the day, all this stuff is controlled by humans. If enough humans agreed to change the protocol rules, the protocol rules would change.
00:30:24.612 - 00:30:46.172, Speaker A: And this goes for every rule. This goes for the 21 million cap in bitcoin. This goes for bitcoin using proof of work. If enough users wanted them to switch to proof of stake, they would. This goes for basically every single protocol defined mechanism. It doesn't matter what you use. It doesn't matter, like what fancy tech you use, doesn't matter kind of what consensus mechanism you use.
00:30:46.172 - 00:31:30.512, Speaker A: At the end of the day, it is all humans. And I think that's a point that needs to be stressed, you know, again and again and again because there are so many people that think that, you know, I get confused that, oh, it's, you know, people. It's full nodes that kind of like, validate the network and secure it against attack. I'm like, yes, okay, full nodes do play a part, because you can validate the chain and you can know that it's playing by the rules and you can detect things. But at the end of the day, if enough full nodes said or enough people upgraded their full node and enough miners upgrade or enough stakers upgraded, and basically, if enough of the ecosystem upgraded to a protocol change, right, and typically more than 51%, then the network would upgrade and your full node would be on a fork. Now, it wouldn't be on the kind of like, you know, bitcoin or the ethereum. It would be on a fork of that.
00:31:30.512 - 00:32:00.536, Speaker A: And that is the social layer in action. That is not the technology layer. It doesn't matter if you. That it was proof of work or proof of stake that didn't defend against this change or didn't prevent this change. What, what, what would prevent this change is, is social coordination. So, for example, in the Ethereum ecosystem, a lot of you will remember prog power and the whole debate around that. Now, if enough people in the ecosystem were to upgrade all, you know, all of their kind of nodes and all of the infrastructure, and miners are upgrading all that sort of stuff to progpal, then we would fork to progpower.
00:32:00.536 - 00:32:24.502, Speaker A: Right? It doesn't matter. Kind of, I guess, like what the minority said, the majority wanted to fork, so we forked. Right? So we changed it to prog pal. But what happened is the social layer of Ethereum, it kind of never got to that point. The social layer of Ethereum, basically outright, you know, most people outright rejected prog pal, and we never, they never went in. And it was rejected for various reasons. But my point is, is that it was the social layer that kind of made it happen.
00:32:24.502 - 00:32:53.880, Speaker A: Same with 1559. Right. If most people didn't want it to. To go in, then it wouldn't have gone in. So if you think about, like, malicious protocol changes and kind of, like, resisting them, I mean, if I was to use an actual malicious change, or maybe not an actual malicious change, but something that I consider to be not a great change, you have the AIP 999. Now, a lot of you may not be aware of what this is. This was the EIP to basically unstuck the funds that were, that are kind of stuck in the parity multi seq wallet.
00:32:53.880 - 00:33:27.746, Speaker A: Now. Way back in, like, I think, late 2017, the parody multisig was kind of like, I guess, corrupted, where no one can withdraw the ETH from that multisig. And there's, like, a lot of ETH in there, over 300,000 ETH in there. Most of it belonged to parity and, like, the web3 foundation because it was from the, the Polkadot IcO. But yeah, on kind of that note there, that was rejected outright by the social layer. Right. And I think you could consider that a malicious protocol change, even if the intent wasn't to be malicious, because that would basically say, okay, well, you know, this is like a slippery slope.
00:33:27.746 - 00:34:16.830, Speaker A: If we rescue your funds, like, if we rescue these funds in the parity, well, then we have to rescue all the lost funds in Ethereum. And like, how do we kind of like arbitrate that? How do we say, okay, well, these were really lost funds, you know, and then it just breaks a lot of precedents and a lot of social contracts. So that's another kind of thing that didn't go in. So, yeah, I mean, I'm going a little bit overtime here, but I just did want to stress that when you see people saying, you know, bitcoin is better because it's better than, you know, proof of stake systems, because it's proof of work and it's more resistant to attack, that's. That's just bullshit. At the end of the day, it is all social layer, it is all social contract, it is all humans and always will be, you know, maybe far into the distant future, there's like sentient AI that controls us or whatever, but like, that's like Sci-Fi for now. What? The way it exists now in the foreseeable future is it is all humans running their nodes, kind of like, I guess, participating in the governance process at the end of the day.
00:34:16.830 - 00:34:48.530, Speaker A: And even with on chain governance processes where you have token holding, it is still humans. Right. It is not a machine saying, okay, well, I'm going to put towards these tokens, towards this proposal, and that's going to happen. No, it's a human saying, well, I think this proposal should go through, so I'm going to vote for that with my, with my tokens, essentially. So, yeah, at the end of the day, all humans always remember that. Whenever you see people kind of arguing about this on Twitter, I would highly suggest ignoring them. If they're saying that it's proof of work, that actually, you know, is better at resisting malicious protocol changes than proof of stake, I just, I wouldn't even entertain those kind of people.
00:34:48.530 - 00:35:20.054, Speaker A: But definitely, I mean, if you're not yet follow Hazu. He's one of the best followers in the space, I think, very good at kind of like thinking through these things that other people don't. Not afraid to rock the boat as well. So he puts out some controversial stuff sometimes. I guess that's pretty, you know, I mean, I wouldn't say it's easier to do, but it's easier to do when you're pseudonymous and you don't really have an identity attached to yourself, which I do really like. About the pseudonymous accounts on Twitter, they can just say things without kind of like fear of backlash or canceling and stuff like that. So, yeah, definitely go give, go give him a follow if you haven't yet.
00:35:20.054 - 00:35:31.314, Speaker A: All right, that's it for today, everyone. Thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
