00:00:00.360 - 00:01:09.438, Speaker A: So, okay. Other than to say that I was aiming for the longest title in this workshop, I'll just go on to the topic itself. And as you know, there's been. We know that recent human demography had a substantial impact on patterns of genetic variation. Specifically, recently, recent deep sequencing studies revealed a huge amount of rare variants, likely the result of recent explosive growth over the past 5000 years or so. And older studies and newer studies as well have revealed a substantial excess of common variants in Europeans and Asians compared to Africans, likely the result of a bottleneck or series of bottlenecks at the out of Africa split. And these dramatic effects on genetic diversity naturally lead to many questions.
00:01:09.438 - 00:02:33.334, Speaker A: A couple of these questions is whether this change in the attributes of genetic variation affected the burden of genetic disease or the genetic load in human populations, and perhaps it should be different to different human populations. And the second question is how that may have affected the architecture of complex disease or other quantitative traits. And specifically, you could think if, for example, due to growth, a lot of the risk of complex disease comes from rare variants. That could help explain the missing heritability that we see in many gwas, as well as suggest some that we will require strategies based on deep sequencing in order to map a lot of the underpinnings of these genetic diseases. And for these reasons and others, there's been lots of speculation about this topic recently. There's been claims that maybe the genetic load should be higher in non Africans compared to Africans, or vice versa. And maybe due to recent growth, there should be a major, some contribution of added contribution of rare variants to disease risk.
00:02:33.334 - 00:03:45.864, Speaker A: So I'll begin by giving away the punchline of my talk, which is what we found that at least our work suggests that the effects of these demographic events on genetic load were probably quite minor, if at all, and that the architecture, the effects on architecture strongly depend on how strongly a trait or a disease is coupled with fitness. So, having given away the punt line, I'll tell you a little bit about how we reach these conclusions. So what we do in order to study these questions, we use a very standard biallelic viability selection model with two way mutation. Well, I'll assume, just for simplicity, that the mutation rate is equal in both directions. We focus on the semi dominant and recessive cases, even though we show that our qualitative results are similar across the range of dominance coefficients. And we assume a linkage equilibrium and multiplicative fitness across sites. To make things as simple as possible.
00:03:45.864 - 00:04:59.636, Speaker A: And then we look at three demographic scenarios. One is a complex demographic scenario recently inferred by Tennyson in co authors, for African Americans including recent explosive growth, and for European Americans including the out of Africa split to bottlenecks and recent growth, as well as migration between these two populations. And the main features, the important thing is the main features of these, of this model are similar to other recent models where the estimates here were based on more data. Now in order to get better understanding of the main demographic effects then we also used two simpler models. One is a bottleneck model using european parameters and another is a growth exponential growth model using the african parameters from this model. So first I'll begin with genetic load. And I'll remind you that genetic load is defined as the relative reduction in fitness due to the deleterious alleles.
00:04:59.636 - 00:06:18.120, Speaker A: And specifically we focus on the genetic load at a given site, the expected genetic load at a given site, which means that given the parameters for this site, the dominance coefficient and the selection coefficients, we could simulate or run the many independent sites through the demographic scenario. And you get the distribution of deleterious allele frequencies. And then we want to know what's the expected load at the site given this distribution. And specifically this expectation would simply be the reduction in fitness due to heterozygote times, the expected number of heterozygotes, plus the reduction in the deleterious homozygote times, the expected frequency of deleterious homozygotes. And we focus on the single site and we note that at least with the multiplicative fitness scheme then the load, that many independent sites would be a simple function. This load. Now just as another reminder, when we have a constant population size, then genetic load exhibits three dynamic regimes.
00:06:18.120 - 00:07:16.774, Speaker A: One is the strong regime where essentially all the alleles are segregating at very low frequencies. And for the semi dominant case, from the classic mutation selection balance calculations we get that the load would be two times the mutation rate and for the recessive case it would be one times the mutation rate. And then there's the effectively neutral regime. Or by effectively neutral I mean that selection is not doing anything to allele frequencies and most of the load in that case would come from sites fixed for the deleterious alleles. And because those don't change as we increase the selection coefficient and the load just increases linearly. And then you have the region in between the weakly selected region and then the beginning it increases linearly just because of the increase in the selection coefficient and then starts decreasing because of the decrease in the frequency of the lateral subules. So we have these three dynamic regimes.
00:07:16.774 - 00:08:08.676, Speaker A: So now I'll give you a sense of how our results look like, how our simulation results look like. So I'll first focus on the simple case of growth. And because we're interested in changes of loads due to a recent demography, what we could do is we could look at the difference in load in our demographic scenario and subtract the load in a constant population size, and specifically the constant population size before the onset of the non equilibrium demographic scenario we're considering. And we look at that across a range of selection coefficients. I see you can't see this very well, but this goes from very weak ten to the minus seven to ten to the minus one. So we span the range. The important line here is the blue one, which is the total difference in load for the semi dominant and recessive cases.
00:08:08.676 - 00:09:10.774, Speaker A: And if you look at the y axis, you see that there's effectively a very small effect, in this case practically negligible effect. However, we could also break the load up to the contribution from segregating and fixed sites. And then you see that actually in terms of the dynamics we have the same three parameter regimes we had before, where this is the effectively neutral, weakly selected and strongly selected regime. And now if we look at the other demographic scenarios, I told you that we looked at the Tennyson complex model, the bottleneck model. Then we see that the important thing here is that in all cases the total difference in load that we see is very, very small. Even in the case where it's the largest, which corresponds to the bottleneck recessive scenario, then the blue line is still very small. If you look at the x axis in this case we actually have a fourth dynamic regime.
00:09:10.774 - 00:10:23.234, Speaker A: But this is the bottom line. But of course, in order to better understand why this is the case, then what you need to do, or at least what we needed to do, is to break this up into the different cases and the different dynamic regimes, because the explanation for what's going on here is different, different selection regimes and dominance coefficients. So just to show you this is in the paper more accurately in the supplement we go through all these cases and we use extensive simulations and analytic tools in order to understand what's going on in each of these regimes. And today I'm just going to try to give you a taste of two of these regimes. The first one is the strong selection dominant case. What happens there? And so what I'll assume in this case is by dominant I mean that the dominance coefficient is sufficiently large such that selection acts only on heterozygotes. So this would be true for any dominance coefficient which is sufficiently large.
00:10:23.234 - 00:11:25.486, Speaker A: And in this case, to give you the simple intuition, let's look at the case of constant and changing population size. So, in this case, I marked by black, just the total number of alleles. And in red, I marked the expected number of deleterious mutations that arose due to mutations that arose tau generation in the past. And what we see is that in a single generation, the expected number of deleterious alleles is just reduced by one minus hs due to selection on heterozygotes. Now, if we move to the case where to a changing population size case. So specifically here, for example, I assume the population grows by a factor of one plus a every generation. So you see that the total number of alleles grows then and now you could look at the expected change in the number of deleterious alleles in a single generation.
00:11:25.486 - 00:12:28.042, Speaker A: Then the expected change here is going to be one minus hs due to selection on heterozygous time, one plus a due to the increase in population size. However, if you look at the allele frequency, then the change due to the increase in population size is precisely balanced by the change in the total number of alleles. And, you know, you could write it down formally and you could show that for something that's sufficiently strongly selected and sufficiently dominant, this would be true. For an arbitrary change in population size, you expect no difference in load. So you just recover the classic mutation selection. You need to go through the branching process, but you just recover the classic mutation selection balance results for the deleterious allele frequency and for the expected load. To give you a little bit more intuition about what's going on, it's useful to think about allelic trajectory.
00:12:28.042 - 00:13:26.084, Speaker A: So let's consider two populations, one larger than the other. And here I'm showing you just a mutation that arises and goes through the population in this cartoon until it goes extinct. So these are the numbers. Now, because the selection and heterozygous is sufficiently strong, then we could assume that the deleterious alleles never reach substantial population frequencies at any point, which means that we could approximate this very well by a branching process. An implication of this is that if you just look at the trajectories of a single mutation in numbers, they should look, you know, the same, statistically speaking, in a smaller and larger population, the numbers just follow the same process. Okay. What will happen in a larger population, in this case, the blue one is you would just have more mutations arise.
00:13:26.084 - 00:14:11.886, Speaker A: Okay. But however, again, if we look at the frequency of deleterious alleles, then, because this red guy is in a smaller population, its frequency would be larger. So what happens is that the input of deleterious alleles is balanced by the increase in the population size. And from this you also see that actually the properties of genetic variation will change while the load will remain the same, because you see that you're going to have the larger population, you'll have more segregating sites, but they're going to be segregating at a lower frequency. Okay. And this would also be true for changing population size. This basic insight.
00:14:11.886 - 00:15:20.544, Speaker A: The last thing I'm going to tell you about this case of a strong selection, at least partial dominance, is that while the load remains the same and the properties of variation change, they change very quickly in this case. So here you see the bottleneck in the growth scenarios. And we're looking at various statistics of segregating sites at numbers per million strongly selected sites, in this case with a selection coefficient of 1%. And you see that the load, which is in this case just proportional to the number of deleterious alleles per individual, remains the same, same in all these cases. But if you look at other statistics, such as the number of segregating sites or the fraction of segregating sites that are rare, in this case below 0.1%, then these change very quickly after the bottleneck or after the onset of growth. And the reason they change very quickly is because the turnover of a strongly selected allele through a population is very quick.
00:15:20.544 - 00:16:46.784, Speaker A: The trajectories behave like one over the selection coefficient and therefore very quickly you equilibrate to the properties of the new population size. The next case I'll show you which is less interesting, but still, I think worth looking at is the case of growth with a weak selection. And in this case, what we saw from the simulations is the load. Again, it has a very little effect on load, but you do see in the weakly selected regime that the contribution from fixed sites goes down and is precisely compensated by the contribution from segregating sites. So what's going on here? So if we consider the feature of the weak selection regime is that is that many sites are fixed for the deleterious allele. And when you change the population size, at least at equilibrium, then if we look at the proportion of sites fixed for the deleterious allele as a function of the scaled selection coefficient to an s, then it obviously goes down very quickly in the weakly selected regime. So you would expect that if you change the population size, you're going to move from having more fixed for the deleterious allele to less fixed for the deleterious allele.
00:16:46.784 - 00:17:29.524, Speaker A: And, of course, you'd be right. The only problem is that this process happens extremely slowly because it's mutation limited. So here you see this same fraction of size as a function of time in units of million generations for the bottleneck and growth scenario. So it just takes a very, very long time because you're waiting for the mutations to come in to survive the initial period and then fix, and you have a long way to go. And then you could wonder, okay, so this is the. So we don't see almost any change in fixed. And you could say, okay, maybe we'll get a change from what's segregating in the population.
00:17:29.524 - 00:18:37.122, Speaker A: So, here you see the results of simulations for the constant population size and growth case. You see the frequency spectrum of deleterious alleles in focus. So here you can't see the gray very well, but this is a logarithmic region in the sides that I'll talk about in a moment, but in intermediate frequencies or most of the frequencies, you see no change at all. And the reason, again, is because weakly selected segregating sites take very long time to change their distribution. And the growth in humans was very, very recent compared to that timescale. So, practically, you have no notable difference. The one difference you do see is if you focus very closely to the boundaries of this frequency range, you see that you have a large increase in the growth case in the number of sites aggregating with very, very low frequencies.
00:18:37.122 - 00:19:20.784, Speaker A: And the reason is you increase the population size, you immediately increase the mutational input. So mutations enter, but they don't have time to go anywhere. And that's why. Okay, so this is just contrary to the strongly selected case. Weekly selected sites take a very long time to respond to demographic changes. And this effect at the boundaries is exactly what explains this shift from fixed load to segregating load. So, we go through these cases, and we see that there should be, it seems like there should be very little effect on genetic load.
00:19:20.784 - 00:20:11.262, Speaker A: And luckily, we could check a strongly related prediction. So we could take two human populations with very dramatic differences in their demographic history, like an african and european populations. And according to our predictions, individuals in these populations should, on average, carry the same number of deleterious alleles. And that should be true if we look at different classes of sites. We do that, and we do that using deep sequencing data from African Americans and European Americans and also using the central european and yoruba data. From the thousand genomes project. And then in order to classify.
00:20:11.262 - 00:21:02.164, Speaker A: So this is exome data. So in order to classify the amino acid variants that we have in our data set, we could use one of the tools that exists to, to classify variants according to their degree of severity. Like polyphen two, we used polyphen two, we used other methods of classification. And then once you have this data, what you could do is you could take equal size samples from both of the populations. And then within each class, you look at all the variants that segregate in the joint sample. So obviously what doesn't segregate in the joint sample would be the same in the two populations. But it's important to look at the joint sample.
00:21:02.164 - 00:22:05.674, Speaker A: And then what you could do is at all these segregating sites, you could look at the average derived allele frequencies in each of these classes, in each of these populations. So that's equivalent up to multiplicative factor to the average number carried by each individual. So we do that, and there's some nasty biases that we had to go over, which I won't go into, but be glad to tell you about when we get to the questions. And this is what we see. So here what you see is the mean derived allele, a frequency in different classes of sites, including non coding, synonymous, benign, unsynonymous, possibly damaging and probably damaging non synonymous variants, where if you want the numbers, they're down here. Now, the red corresponds to the African Americans and the blue to the European Americans. And the widgets correspond to two standard deviations around the mean.
00:22:05.674 - 00:23:01.500, Speaker A: And you look at this and say you take the synonymous as a proxy for neutrality. So that is reassuring to see that they're the same, because this just tells you that, you know, effects relating to differences in mutation rate per the time of the lineage, like Molly discussed today, are not, are not a big factor yesterday. So this is a useful control. And you also see that as you go to a more severe class, according to the classification, then indeed the frequencies go down. So the classification is definitely doing what it's supposed to do. But more interestingly, in our context, there's practically no difference between these estimates, okay? None of them is even remotely significant. And that remains the case if you look at different classification methods.
00:23:01.500 - 00:23:10.794, Speaker A: And I'll just note that huge amounts of data went into these estimates, so it's not the result of having very little data. Of course, having more would be good. Yeah.
00:23:10.914 - 00:23:16.794, Speaker B: So the frequency spectrum for the two populations is different, but, yeah. So what are you actually plotting here? The mean derived allele frequency.
00:23:16.834 - 00:23:21.234, Speaker A: The mean derived allele frequency. But also think about it as a, you know, up to this includes fixed sites.
00:23:21.274 - 00:23:25.058, Speaker B: Is that the idea? What does this include, fixed sites? It doesn't. Right.
00:23:25.146 - 00:23:44.068, Speaker A: Well, if sites are fixed for one allele in one population and another allele in the other population, they would be segregating in the joint sample, and therefore they would be counted here. Okay, so you could do this. We see that zeros is the question.
00:23:44.196 - 00:23:51.636, Speaker B: And so in one population, for, like, the European Americans, if there's more mutations in the african population, then you're including all those as zeros.
00:23:51.740 - 00:24:17.454, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. Because if you, if you're interested in the average number of derived alleles carried in the two populations, if you wouldn't count that, then. Then that would be pretty bad. Right? Because you could have a delta allele in one and not in the other, and you wouldn't count it. So you want to count that when you're considering the average number of deleterious alleles carried by an individual. So none of the. Yeah.
00:24:19.234 - 00:24:24.962, Speaker B: Why the synonymous ones are also the same? Because the audio results are about deleterious mutations. Right?
00:24:25.098 - 00:25:05.404, Speaker A: Right. Yeah. So if you're thinking about the. Let's see, is there a marker here? So if you're thinking about a neutral site and we're looking at the number of derived allele per individual and assuming that generation time and mutation is all the same, then you could think about it as a single sample from one generation and a single sample from the other generation. And you're asking how many derived alleles you're going to see here and here. And assuming all the standard assumptions, given that this lineage, these lineages are the same length, you expect the same number. Okay, so that's why you expect the neutral case to be the same.
00:25:05.404 - 00:25:42.554, Speaker A: So it's actually reassuring. It's kind of a control for things like differences in mutation rates affecting us and differences in generation time and so on. So, okay, so, yeah, so we do this. We're using different data sets, different methods of classification and so on. We get essentially the same results. Okay, so, so far, we've seen that, at least according to a theory and simulations, it should be the same. And as far as the data analysis says, it is the same as far as we could tell given our data.
00:25:42.554 - 00:27:27.704, Speaker A: But the fact that the law doesn't change doesn't mean that the genetic architecture of disease risk or other quantitative traits doesn't change, because we do see the properties of genetic diversity of polymorphisms changing a lot, specifically under growth the load remained the same because we had an increase in the number of segregating sites counterbalanced by reduction in frequency. And in the case of bottlenecks, we had the opposite. So this leads us to ask whether recent population growth, for example, led to a greater role of rare alleles in disease risk or other quantitative traits. Or conversely, did the out of Africa bottlenecks lead to common alleles contributing much more in non Africans compared to Africans? And the first step in, in addressing this is to note that the answer to this question usually depends on the selection acting on the variance that you're considering. So what we could do is we could, you know, we could look at different selection coefficients. In this case, we took a certain weak selection coefficient and a strong one, and we could run things through the demographic model and get a distribution of allele frequencies. And then we could calculate, under the simplifying assumption of an additive model in both the fitness and effect size, we could calculate the contribution of different frequencies to the variance in the trait.
00:27:27.704 - 00:28:54.562, Speaker A: So here you see the contribution of alleles below a certain minor allele frequency to the variance in a trait with two selection coefficients. And if we begin by looking at the strong selection case, and let's begin by looking at the constant population size case, then in that case, this is the line for the constant population size case, then what we see is with strong selection, then practically all the contribution to variance comes from rare alleles, in this case, below a frequency of one and a half percent. And. Okay, and that's pretty clear because they're strongly selected, so they don't get to very high frequencies. And now when we look at the lines for african and european, including the recent growth, then we see that the variance is contributed by alleles with a much lower allele layer frequency. And the reason for that is that these same strongly selected alleles, because their turnover is so fast, a lot of them arose after the onset of growth, and therefore you have more segregating sites, but segregating at lower frequencies. So therefore you have this shift towards rares if selection is very strong.
00:28:54.562 - 00:30:15.444, Speaker A: However, if you look at the weakly selected, in this case, most of the variants would be contributed by variants that reach high population frequencies. And the onset of growth did nothing effectively to the frequencies of these alleles. And therefore, comparing the constant population size to the african and european, we don't see any substantial change in the contribution of rare alleles. The one thing we do see here is in this green line corresponding to Europeans, is we see the effect of the out of Africa bottlenecks in the model. So due to the out of Africa bottlenecks, we have quite a substantially larger contribution due to common alleles, actually, in this case, however, and another thing we could do, just going to go through this quickly, is we could take our class of probably damaging variance, and we could assume our simplified modeling assumptions and throw them all together and see what we would get, assuming that they all contribute to some trait. And in this case, we also see it's much closer to the weakly selected case. So there is some amplification of rares, but it's relatively, quite minor.
00:30:15.444 - 00:31:01.484, Speaker A: And, however, demography could have a substantial effect. This effect will depend very strongly on the selection acting on the variance. However, in reality, for a quantitative trait, we're going to have a mixture of selection coefficients and effect sizes. So how should we think about that? And to think about that, first, we can think about two extremes. So you could think about one extreme where the selection coefficient on a variant and the effect size are essentially independent. So how that would happen. So it just means that our trait has very little effect on fitness, but the specific variant could have pleiotropic fitness effects.
00:31:01.484 - 00:31:25.420, Speaker A: That just comes from how it affects other phenotypes. Okay, so maybe examples for that are some anthropomorphic traits like height or maybe late onset disease, or that, you know, has little effect on fitness, would be an example of this pleiotropic extreme. And then you have the other extreme where actually the trait we're looking at.
00:31:25.492 - 00:31:26.104, Speaker B: Is.
00:31:29.244 - 00:32:36.014, Speaker A: What mediates the main fitness effect of our variance. So maybe examples closer, at least to this extreme, would be severe early onset diseases or diseases that have very severe effect on fertility. So it's very likely that most traits lie somewhere in between, perhaps most traits closer to this end. So just to understand how the difference between the two, so how the contribution of rare and common alleles will change within this range, take a very simple toy model. So, in this toy model, I'm assuming that mutations come in two flavors. There's mutations with a very strong effect and mutations with a very weak effect. But then, for those with a strong effect, I assume that they have a probability one plus p divided by two chance to have a large effect size on the trait we're considering, and otherwise they're going to have a small effect.
00:32:36.014 - 00:33:37.592, Speaker A: And for the weekly selected mutations, I'm going to assume that with probability one plus p over two, they will have actually a small effect on the trait and otherwise a larger effect. So, this is obviously a very simple model, but what you could see, looking at this model is if I assume that this peak is equal to zero, then what's going to happen is all the strong ones. So if p is equal to zero, then the effect size is going to be half large, half small in both of the cases. So essentially you'll have no correlation between selection coefficient and effect size. And if p is equal to one, then you'll have a perfect correlation because the strongly selected mutations will have a large effect and vice versa in the other case. More generally, the nice thing about this very simple model is that the marginal distributions of selection coefficients and effect sizes actually do not depend on this p. But the correlation between selection coefficient and effect size is precisely p.
00:33:37.592 - 00:34:40.924, Speaker A: So it gives us a way of not changing any of the marginal distributions, but changing how strongly the trait is coupled with fitness. So we could use this model, you know, again here, you know, you could simulate it and you could look at the contribution of rare alleles, in this case below 0.1% to the variance in the trait. Where first we look at the constant population size, and then at the african and european cases. And what you see when you look at the constant population size is that when the trait is, when the trait is not coupled with fitness, essentially most of our variants in the trait will come from weakly selected things that reach very high population frequencies and just happen to have a large effect size on our traits. Okay? That's where the variance is going to come from. And therefore rare alleles and the strongly selected ones, which are a subset of the rares, will have a very little contribution to variance in our trait.
00:34:40.924 - 00:36:11.144, Speaker A: On the other end, where most of the variance is going to come from, most of the variance is going to come from alleles that have a large effect on our trait, in this case they are strongly selected and they will therefore be rare. And therefore, in the strongly selected case, we have a much larger substantial contribution from rare alleles. Now let's think what happens through the non equilibrium demographic scenario. So if we have a recent growth, then obviously it's going to affect our strongly selected alleles throughout the range in the same way. But the contribution to variance is only going to be affected where our strongly selected alleles contributed substantially to the variance to begin with. So what growth does, it just amplifies the contribution of strongly selected and rare alleles in the case that the trait is strongly coupled with fitness. Now I'll just note in closing that a very similar argument suggests that if you consider cases where for a trait that's more weakly coupled with fitness, then in the out of Africa bottlenecks would have a large effect, generating, you know, increasing the contribution of common alleles in non Africans compared to Africans, by a very similar argument.
00:36:11.144 - 00:37:17.502, Speaker A: So, to sum up, our results suggest that the out of Africa bottleneck and recent population growth had little effect on the genetic load in our data analysis seems to be supportive of this notion. As for the architecture of complex disease and other quantitative traits, then it seems that by and large, there's reason to believe that most traits are closer to the. Are loosely coupled with fitness and closer to that end. In that case, we actually expect a strongly selected and strongly selected variants and rare variants to contribute little, and therefore growth would have a little amplifying effect. A possible exception are traits that are strongly coupled with fitness. And I didn't have time to show you, but it's exactly by the same arguments. The out of Africa bottleneck would have kind of like the double opposite effect.
00:37:17.502 - 00:38:18.134, Speaker A: It says that for traits that are loosely coupled with fitness will have a larger contribution of common alleles in non Africans compared to Africans. So to sum up, I'll use the version where there's pictures at the end and they say that it was a pleasure. This work was a collaboration between Jonathan Pritcher's lab, now at Stanford, formerly in my lab, and Michael Torchin, who's sitting right over there, did the heavy lifting with the data analysis, and Yuval Simmons from my lab did the bulk of the simulation and some of the theory on this. And I should also thank David Reich and Shamil Sunaev for many useful conversations about this bias in the site classifications and other issues during this work. So, thank you.
00:38:34.154 - 00:39:06.754, Speaker C: I was wondering, when you showed the comparison between Africa Africans for the average derived frequencies, you see no distances for different categories of emerging mutations. But somehow I would expect that the relevant comparison would rather to compare the relative frequencies of these different categories, including two computations. So basically, do Europeans or Cameron show more or less of these quality damaging patients?
00:39:07.054 - 00:39:10.350, Speaker A: I'm sorry, I didn't hear some of your questions. I'll move closer over here.
00:39:10.382 - 00:39:29.554, Speaker C: So instead of comparing these derived frequencies within each of these categories, shouldn't you rather compare the different proportions of these categories in a different regulation? Do we have more damaging mutations in Europeans or in Africa?
00:39:32.834 - 00:39:59.144, Speaker A: Well, I think I should double check this. I think this would actually give a. It's unclear to me. I think they should, you know, both go the same way. It's. So our thought behind comparing it this way is just. This is equivalent to just counting up how many derived alleles which is a proxy for the number of deleterious alleles individual in a given population.
00:39:59.144 - 00:40:24.794, Speaker A: And you want that according to our results, this should be very similar in each class. But I think that if we do what you're suggesting, given that they're the same across classes, that we're going to get the same answer. Yeah, I can't be, you know, because of this statistics. I can't be 100% sure, but I would be surprised if.
00:40:35.254 - 00:40:45.794, Speaker C: They show actually that you have larger portions of these dissertations in these french, canadian, computer French. So how does it cope with your rhythm?
00:40:46.724 - 00:41:34.504, Speaker A: So I'd say two things. One is that we were focusing on these european versus african parameters and you could imagine in founder populations that had a much more severe bottleneck that you may get slightly different results. I don't think that's the case in the paper you're talking about. I think that, you know, among other. Among other things in that paper. I think, for example, they don't account for. So when we did this data analysis, what happened in parallel? It happened in David Reich and Shamil Sunayev's groups, is that when you just do this using the standard classification methods, then you actually do get a difference.
00:41:34.504 - 00:42:14.274, Speaker A: But then you notice that practically all the benchmark classification of variance methods use the human reference. Most of the signal for the variance comes from phylogenetic conservations, but they include the human reference inside. And that generates a huge bias, because if the human reference just happens to be ancestral or derived at a particular position, it usually changes the. The conservation score. So this is something we had to deal with. And I think that could be a contributing factor. So I'd say.
00:42:14.274 - 00:42:58.032, Speaker A: I wouldn't go so far. We didn't look at that in enough detail to say that in strongly bottlenecked populations, you won't have some short term difference in load, say, due to very strongly delta successive alleles, for example. So that's one thing. But I also think that, you know, it's a bit tricky to do the. I should also note in this context, and maybe that's what Nix wants to say, is that David and Shamil actually looked at many more populations and they also see practically no difference across many more populations and saw similar results.
00:42:58.088 - 00:43:32.096, Speaker D: I just want to add a comment. The guy here just mentioned there was a parallel project with David Reich's lab. He was left to catch a plane, which I was not in fact involved with. So I was kind of a spectator in this project. And we get very parallel results, but with one mystery. And the mystery is the Denisova which appears to have quite similar demographic history to the Altai Neanderthal. And the actual samples shows no increase in deleterious mutations compared with modern humans.
00:43:32.096 - 00:43:46.072, Speaker D: But the Denisova does seem to. So this is a puzzle. Maybe there's some data problems, but the data seems very clean and that's really a bit of an unsolved conundrum for us.
00:43:46.168 - 00:43:59.194, Speaker A: Well, just to say, I don't have a specific opinion about the Denisovans, but. But there's no doubt that if you wait long enough and you have a demographic difference between two populations, you will get the difference due to weekly selection.
00:43:59.574 - 00:44:03.514, Speaker D: Like 5000 years of growth, but totally like 300,000 years.
00:44:03.934 - 00:44:08.354, Speaker A: Yeah. So I'm saying that's one possibility. Yeah.
00:44:09.614 - 00:44:43.634, Speaker B: So sitting here listening, I was thinking, it seems to me like with the bottleneck and with maybe with growth also, the age distribution of reproduction might change quite radically. And since we already saw very big differences associated with mutation rate, I'm just wondering whether you examine to see that these kind of effects in the same kind of scenario, when you consider the age distribution of reproduction, how that is, would that be detectable here and not so.
00:44:47.814 - 00:45:12.134, Speaker A: Yeah, so one thing, I'd say that to a certain extent, we have a control in the synonymous case here, right. Because to the extent that these synonymous differences are neutral, then, you know, we're just measuring the number of mutations that happened along the lineage leading to one population compared to another. So I think that.
00:45:18.594 - 00:45:21.554, Speaker B: Would be detectable. Should it be detectable?
00:45:21.674 - 00:46:27.424, Speaker A: Yeah. So I think that the answer, as far as I can tell, because we did some simulations along the iles and some simulations also when we changed the distribution of selection coefficients in each population. And the answer is that you would have to have. So I'd say you'd have to have quite an extreme effect in order, and this is the important part, in order to have any substantial difference in the number of deleterious alleles carried by individuals in the presence. So I'm saying it could not be detectable just because for this to actually have an effect on load, you would have to have a huge effect. So it's not necessarily a problem with our statistics so much as that it's not very easy because most of the genetic variation in, at least in some of these classes, comes for things that are just much older. So differences along the lineage could contribute only so much depending on the time since the split.
00:46:27.424 - 00:46:29.908, Speaker A: So hope that's a partial answer.
00:46:30.036 - 00:46:32.644, Speaker B: I think we better cut it off there. So let's thank our.
