00:00:00.280 - 00:00:21.494, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Dayway refuel, where I recap the latest news in Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is the 20 April 2024. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So apologies again for missing yesterday's episode, everyone. I know I have been terrible this week with the refuels. This will be the third, I guess, refuel of the week, but it's happening on a Saturday, so I did miss three days last week.
00:00:21.494 - 00:00:58.430, Speaker A: So once again, apologies for that, but I figured that this might be the perfect time to offer a bit of further explanation as to why I've been away and why maybe, I guess, there's been more refuels over the last couple of months than there usually has been. So for this week in particular, it was a bit worse because I just been feeling very, very rundown, very tired, a little bit sick. I don't, didn't really get sick like proper sick, but I felt a little bit sick at a sore throat. So I figured, you know, there was no point doing a refuel if I felt like that because I couldn't bring my a game, so to speak. But I did want to talk a bit more broadly about this. So just you can skip ahead. There's timestamps, obviously, on the video, so if you don't want to hear this little spiel, you can skip ahead.
00:00:58.430 - 00:01:39.094, Speaker A: I'm going to spend a couple of minutes just explaining kind of my, where I am at right now, my position, I guess, like with in crypto right now, I've been talking a little bit about it in daily way, Discord channel, but I wanted to expand on it a little bit. So I've been in crypto since early 2017, since I discovered Ethereum. I did do stuff with bitcoin in like 2013, 2014, but really it's been like nonstop since early 2017. I didn't work in the industry until 2019, but it was basically my side kind of gig outside of my normal job for those couple of years there. But really in that entire time, from early 2017 till today, which is a long time, right. It's like seven years, six, seven years there. I haven't really ever taken a proper break.
00:01:39.094 - 00:02:04.454, Speaker A: Like people say, oh, well, you know, going on a holiday is taking a break, or going, you know, going away is taking a break or going, you know, outside of the homes taking a break. But for me, like, it hasn't been because what happens is that, you know, I'll go away somewhere, I'll go on a holiday, but I'll still have my phone on me, right? I'll still have my laptop on me, and I'll still be doing crypto things. I'll still be thinking about crypto. I'll still be going on Twitter. I'll still be going on discord. I'll still be talking to people about crypto. You know, day in, day out, there wouldn't be a break.
00:02:04.454 - 00:02:36.206, Speaker A: And, you know, the funny thing is, for as long as I can remember, every single day since I have woken up, since probably as far back as I can remember, maybe 2017, maybe a bit later than that, I have the first thing I do in the morning, which is really bad. But the first thing I do when I wake up is I check my phone. And I don't just, like, check my phone for important notifications or anything. What I check my phone is for is I go on Twitter, I go on discord. I start reading all this stuff. So immediately, literally, just as I wake up, before I've even had breakfast or a coffee or anything, I'm straight into it. So I don't even give myself time to, like, kind of wake up there or a break from there.
00:02:36.206 - 00:02:56.630, Speaker A: It's like, I get up, I do crypto. I go, you know, until I go to bed, basically, I'm thinking about it all the time. Now. Of course, this doesn't, I guess, lend itself to being able to take breaks if you're just thinking about it. Twenty four seven. And anytime that I've traveled, most of the time it's been, you know, to a crypto conference, really over the last few years. Then, you know, I think there's been maybe two kind of trips that I've taken that had nothing to do with crypto.
00:02:56.630 - 00:03:09.962, Speaker A: But usually it's got to do with crypto. I mean, I'm going on a week long trip to Sydney in a couple of weeks for ETH Sydney, less than a couple of weeks. And that is a, you know, it's a crypto trip. It's not a holiday. It's not like an outside of, kind of like home holiday. It's. It's a crypto thing, right.
00:03:09.962 - 00:03:46.380, Speaker A: It's. It's a work thing, so to speak. Not that I think of crypto as work, but that's what it's kind of like there. So all this is to say is that, like, I think it's finally kind of caught up with me in a very real way where essentially my kind of, like, mental capacity and physical capacity to be involved with crypto as much as I have in the past, is finally at its breaking point. I think I really do need to start taking proper breaks, not just from crypto but from, like, the digital world generally, because I spend so much time at a computer, so much time in front of my phone, and I'm going to make a concerted effort to, to do that going forward now, I don't know when that's going to be. I feel like in the future. So that sometime in the future, I should say I'm going to take a hard break from crypto.
00:03:46.380 - 00:04:02.754, Speaker A: And I'm not talking about, like, taking a week off the refuel and still being on Twitter, still being on discord. I'm talking about, like a full cold turkey kind of, hey, like, I'm not going to be around for a week. No, I'm not dead. I'm just, like, not around. I'm not contactable for all my crypto kind of friends and all that. So that'll be something that happens in the future. I don't know when.
00:04:02.754 - 00:04:22.346, Speaker A: Sometime soon probably, because I think I feel like I need it. But, yeah, that's a big reason. I think over the last couple of months, especially, that I've been missing refills, just that I get burnt out pretty much like every day. And I feel like I'm running on fumes there. But enough on that. I don't want to spend the whole episode talking about that. But I figured it was worth explaining myself to you guys because you guys have been my loyal followers for such a long time now.
00:04:22.346 - 00:04:54.710, Speaker A: I mean, I've done over 750 refuel episodes, not to mention all the time I spend talking to you guys in discord and on Twitter and on Firecaster and everywhere else. You know, this really is my life. And I really do appreciate each and every one of you for tuning in every day, listening on the podcast, watching the video, talking in the Discord channel. Like, I love it. But at the same time, like, it doesn't matter how much you love something. If it becomes something that encapsulates your whole life and you feel like you need to take a break from, that's kind of what happens from, from that perspective there. So, yeah, I'll keep you guys updated on when I do take that kind of hard break there.
00:04:54.710 - 00:05:18.924, Speaker A: But, but, yeah, for now, I'm, I'm still around. I'm still going to be here. Hopefully no rug fuels next week. But as I said, I am heading to Sydney, so there will not be a refuel on May 1, 2nd or third, which is Wednesday, Thursday, Friday in, not next week, the week after. So yeah, there won't be refuels on those dates. And I'll be back that following Monday, which I believe is like the 8th or something, or the 9th. I'm just checking on my, my calendar here.
00:05:18.924 - 00:05:45.070, Speaker A: No, it's the, it's the 6th, actually. Yeah. Sorry, I was getting ahead of myself. So Monday the 6th is when I'll be back, but I'll be away. I won't, sorry, I won't be doing a refill on the first, second and 3 May there. But anyway, I am doing a refuel today and I just noticed I'm on the wrong first tab. So this is the first tab that I wanted to talk about, which was something, I don't know if I'd say this is related to the ETH, ETF, but I'm going to put my tinfoil hat on a little bit here and discuss a little bit about the, the SEC generally here.
00:05:45.070 - 00:06:21.070, Speaker A: So Eleanor Turet here, who is a journalist at Fox Business who I've talked about before on the refuel, she shared this kind of thing on twitter that one of the SEC's commissioners, so just a refresher here, there are five commissioners as part of the SEC with a chief commissioner. That is Gary Gensler. Three of them are Democrats, Gensler being one, the other two, the chief, Gensler obviously being a Democrat, the other two being Democrats as well. And then there are three, sorry, two Republicans. Now, of course, we know that this means that basically the Democrats have control of the SEC because they have the tiebreaker vote. Because anytime that this commissioners have to vote on anything, it is a three to two. Right.
00:06:21.070 - 00:06:56.582, Speaker A: Because obviously the Democrats are going to vote together and the Republicans are going to go vote together. That's just how us politics works, unfortunately. Like, it's so, you know, divided. It's so kind of binary. But in saying that, the reason I'm bringing up this today is because one of those commissioners and a Democrat commissioner, Caroline Crenshaw, her term is actually up on June 5. And Eleanor says here, scrolling through the White House statements on nominations, the White House has not yet put, put out a nomination for her or anyone else for that position. So of course, she, her term is up on June 5, but I believe that she can be re nominated here and then reappointed.
00:06:56.582 - 00:07:22.266, Speaker A: But there has been, there hasn't been another nomination put forward for her or anyone else for that position. And there isn't really that much time to go until June 5. Right. Like, we're already almost at the end of April here. So there really is six weeks, seven weeks left of her term. So if she isn't renominated and someone else isn't nominated, I don't know what happens then. Like, is there going to be four commissioners and then is everything just going to be a tie from there? Like, everything they vote on is just going to be a tie? I don't know what's going to happen there.
00:07:22.266 - 00:08:04.162, Speaker A: So we're going to keep tabs on that. But it's kind of funny, because if she doesn't get renominated, right, or if she isn't going to get renominated, if she's been told that she's not going to get renominated here and maybe she wants to stay on as one of the commissioners, does she get, like, disgruntled and then does she vote against the Democrats on the commission, the other two Democrats on things as kind of like an f you. Hey, you know, screw you for not re nominating me. I'm going to screw you guys on the way out sort of thing. And this is where the tinfoil hack comes in. Because as we know, the deadline for the ETH ETF's or the first deadline for, for one of the ETH ETF's is May 23, and that's what, twelve days before her, she's out. Basically, Caroline's out unless she gets renominated here.
00:08:04.162 - 00:08:52.486, Speaker A: So if she doesn't get renominated, does she break rank with the other Democrats and vote for the ETF's to get approved on May 23 just as, like an f you? And now I know, as I said, like, this is full tinfoil hat theory here, but that was something that kind of I thought about when I looked at this. I'm like, hmm. The timing here is suspect, but to bring us back to reality here and to take the tinfoil hat off, I think that, you know, even if she was to vote to approve these things, then it would still probably be a while for them to go live for trading if none of the paperwork had been done. So this is another angle that I don't think I've talked about before. And from my understanding, this is actually something that can happen. Basically, the ETH could get approved on, on May 23, but if none of the paperwork had been done, then they're not going to be going up for trading for, you know, for, for a while. Basically, they have to go through all the paperwork, go through everything else.
00:08:52.486 - 00:09:15.534, Speaker A: But from my understanding, they could get an approval on May 23 still, even if the paperwork hadn't been filed there. But again, wrapping this back to what I've been saying for the past few months, I hate how much speculation there is on this. I hate how we've heard absolutely nothing from the SEC, nothing from the issuers. All we're doing is speculating on things, and we're getting so close to the deadline now, guys. I mean, what is it? It's. It's May 20 here. Sorry, April 20? Yeah.
00:09:15.534 - 00:09:56.966, Speaker A: We're just over a month now from the deadline, and I know that everyone has basically priced the ETF as a full denial. I know that there is, there is like, no hope for lots of people, and that's fine. Like, I get that I'm still, you know, of the opinion that they're going to get approved, but as I've said before, I'm going to give it to the end of April and then, you know, maybe I'll say that I changed my stance there, but at the same time, I think that I'm just going to keep my stance. If I'm wrong, I'm wrong. I don't really care at this point if I'm wrong, because I'm going to be wrong based on bullshit reasons. And that's, I think that the reasoning is kind of the crux of it here. It's not whether they deny or approve the ETF's or I guess, like, it's not whether they deny the ETF's, it's the reasoning that they give to the deny the ETS because people are speculating that they're going to deny them based on saying that it is a security.
00:09:56.966 - 00:10:11.190, Speaker A: I don't think that's going to happen. I think they're going to. If they deny, it'll be based on the spot futures correlation. Because doing the security thing is just like a whole other can of worms doing the future spot thing. They know what they're getting into. They'll get sued again, and then that lawsuit will take a while to resolve. Probably won't resolve till next year.
00:10:11.190 - 00:10:24.326, Speaker A: And then they can kick the can down the road. If that's their goal, if that's what they want to do, they can kind of do that there. But yeah, enough for kind of talk on the ETF stuff there. I'll leave it at that. So this was something that I saw. I don't know when this was April 18. So this was a couple of days ago.
00:10:24.326 - 00:11:00.312, Speaker A: So token terminal posted this tweet thread all about Ethereum's profitability as a network. Now I'm just going to do a TLDR here, essentially what token terminal has posted about and what I've talked about a lot on the refuel is that Ethereum really is the only profitable blockchain out there, because Ethereum as a blockchain, obviously generates revenue, but it also has expenses. Now this is where a bit of the drama comes in around how to define expenses for a chain. But in terms of like, revenue and expenses, this is how, I guess, the general kind of definitions are made. So in terms of revenue, ethereum generates revenue via fees. Right? On Ethereum. This is ethereum l one.
00:11:00.312 - 00:11:19.216, Speaker A: I'm not talking about the l two, C. I'm just talking about the l one. So it generates revenue via fees. So every fee that's paid, some of it gets burnt, most of it gets burnt, and then some of it goes in as tips. And there's also mev, which is revenue for validators. So obviously all of that revenue goes to the validators. And anything that's burnt goes to all existing ETH holders.
00:11:19.216 - 00:11:52.926, Speaker A: Right? All current ETH holders, whether they be stakers or otherwise, if you hold ETH, you're getting a portion of that because of the fact that ETH is being burned. So it's basically like a stock buyback, so to speak, there. So that's, that's the revenue aspect of it. Now, expenses is where things get controversial and a bit tricky. So if you just take the very, I guess, like vanilla version of expenses, you could say that Ethereum's expenses is basically all of the new ETH that is being issued to secure the network. So all the new ETH that is issued to validators as consensus layer rewards. This is brand new ETH that's issued as inflation, essentially.
00:11:52.926 - 00:12:33.200, Speaker A: That is not coming from the existing pool of ETH. It is brand new ETH that didn't exist before. Now, the reason why this gets controversial is because people take issue with calling all of these issuance, like 100% of these issuance expenses. Because really, if you think about what the, what the issuance is being used for, it's being used to pay the validator. The validators don't have the amount of costs that they get from this expense, basically. So essentially, to break it down, let's just say as a validator, you earn one ETH per year or something like as a single validator, it's not that much, I think, from, from off the top of my head. But let's say you earn one ETH per year for running it as a solo staker.
00:12:33.200 - 00:13:10.032, Speaker A: Now that one ETH, let's just say it's worth $3,000. So your expenses every year is probably not going to be $3,000. Right? Because your electricity, your bandwidth expenses aren't going to be $3,000 for a validator, because running a validator is extremely lightweight. Maybe your initial expenses were, I guess, like, if you want to think about initially expensive, like $500 or something like that, but really ongoing expenses in terms of opex or operational expense, expenditure for the whole year is not $3,000. Like, that would be ridiculous. You would have to be doing something wrong for it to be $3,000. I know for a fact it's not $3,000, because I've done the calculations myself before.
00:13:10.032 - 00:13:25.412, Speaker A: It's nowhere near that, so. And you're not earning one ETH, I guess, like either for, for staking, because at the current staking rate, if you're earning 3.5%, actually, you are, like 1.18 a year. Okay. If you're earning 3.5% on a 32 ETH deposit, I believe it's 1.1
00:13:25.412 - 00:13:40.596, Speaker A: ETH. If I'm doing the math correctly here, 3.5% of 32 is 1.11.12, kind of ETH that you're earning there. So, yeah, my napkin math was right there. So, yeah, let's just say you're earning, just for argument's sake, one ETH yar per validator. Yeah.
00:13:40.596 - 00:14:12.652, Speaker A: Your expenses aren't that. So that's where the controversy comes in, where people say, okay, well, can it really be considered an expense if that person that's getting paid out, that ETH only needs to sell maybe 10% of that ETH, so 0.1 ETH to cover their expenses. And I would argue that, yes, it still counts because the network is effectively overpaying for security in that world. It's overpaying. It's basically paying out too much new ETH to validators when it doesn't need to be paying out that much. And this is actually going back to all of the discussions around issuance that I talked about on previous refuels.
00:14:12.652 - 00:14:39.630, Speaker A: But essentially, I would argue that it's still an expense because the network is still printing new ethics. It's still paying out this ETH to people who have the option to sell it. And now we're not even taking into account taxes or anything like that. Like, imagine if you're a staker based in the US, just for an example, here or anywhere that's charging you income tax on your staking rewards. That is an expense, guys. That is ETH that needs to be sold to cover those taxes. So now we have the real expenses of running the validator.
00:14:39.630 - 00:15:25.850, Speaker A: Now we have the tax expense and then we have the fact that the rest of the remaining ethnicity can still be sold, can still be sold into dollars, can still be sold into another asset. So to me it's still an expense, even if it isn't sold to cover a, I guess like tangible expense of the, of the validator, of running a validator. To me it's still an expense that the network is paying out. And this applies to every network that has inflationary rewards. Now, of course, it's different for proof of stake as it is for proof of work. So this is where the term structural sell pressure comes into things where essentially this is basically impossible to quantify. But you can make the argument that because something like a proof of work network, it uses, its, uses lots of energy, it uses a lot of mining machines.
00:15:25.850 - 00:15:48.502, Speaker A: It's very expensive to set up. It's got way higher expenses than proof of stake network does. You can make the argument that near 100% of all of the rewards paid out to proof of work miners. Let's just take bitcoin, for example. Near 100% of all BTC paid to miners is sold to cover those costs. And they inch out like a few percentage profit or something like that. Let's just say their profit margins on average over many years.
00:15:48.502 - 00:16:26.808, Speaker A: I'm not talking about like day to day. I'm talking about like averaged out over many years. Let's just say their profit margin is 5%, right? So 95% of the new BTC that's being issued is being sold to cover expenses, and then 5% is, is, is a profit there, which they need to realize anyway so they can keep it in BTC. But if they want to realize that profit, if they think, let's just say they think the market is too hot and BTC is at like one hundred fifty k, and they're thinking, okay, well, you know, this is going to be the top for BTC. I'm going to sell what I've got here, then that becomes structural sell pressure. Right? So the same is true for a proof of stake network. Just because you're paying out this stuff and only a little bit is being used to cover the expenses of the chain.
00:16:26.808 - 00:16:51.802, Speaker A: Right, sorry. To cover the expenses of running the validator doesn't mean that it's still not an expense to the network. I would argue that it is. Now, of course, this is not even talking about the fact that ETH is net deflationary due to the burn. I'm just talking about the pure expenses that are paid out, or the pure ETH inflation that is paid out to the validators to secure the network. And it is more than we need to right now. It is more than it costs to run the network.
00:16:51.802 - 00:17:46.546, Speaker A: And I guess like in the future, maybe it goes down, maybe it doesn't, we don't know, right, because there's ongoing discussions around this, but that's how I view it there. Now, the reason I bring up all of this, of course, is because of token terminals thread generally, which is a really great thread that goes over the fact that Ethereum is the only profitable blockchain in that, even if you use their definition of expenses, which is the one that I actually would use, where that 100% of new ETH that is issued is an expense, it's not just the structural sell pressure from running the validator, it is just all of the ETH being issued there. As I said, ETH is net deflationary, which means it is profitable. It is taking in more revenue than it is expanding in expenses in basically new ETH issuance. It is generating more in revenue via fees than it is issuing an expenses there. And that's why we say ETH isn't that deflationary and ethnic ethereum as a network is profitable, and it is the only profitable chain in crypto by far. Like nothing else even comes close to it.
00:17:46.546 - 00:18:22.974, Speaker A: I'm not talking about l two s, guys. I'm talking about l one chains because l two s have, are able to achieve profitability a lot easier than an l one, because they don't need to pay out a token to secure themselves, because they're just piggybacking off of l one, like, like the l two s do today. Like, and I should say roll ups generally. Now, if you're just looking at the from the l one perspective, nothing comes close. Not bitcoin, not any of the other kind of like Ethereum killers or whatever you want to call them, right? They don't come close. They're actually on the opposite side of the spectrum where they're issuing a lot more tokens than they're taking in, in fear revenue, especially something like bitcoin. I know bitcoin has short periods of time where it's generating a lot of fear revenue.
00:18:22.974 - 00:18:57.690, Speaker A: I think that over the last 24 hours, bitcoin will have generated $100 million of fear revenue, which is, I think, a record because of this new runes token protocol. But I'm talking about like sustainable, long term, multi year fear of a new year, nothing comes close to Ethereum. Nothing even like, especially since Erp 15 nine when we had the fee burn and since the merge where issuance was dropped. Nothing comes close to ethereum l one here. And it doesn't seem like anything is going to get close to ethereum l one anytime soon. In terms of like a long term sustainable thing. I'm not talking about like on the daily timeframe of the weekly timeframe, even the monthly or quarterly.
00:18:57.690 - 00:19:38.688, Speaker A: I'm talking multi year timeframes here because Ethereum is being built, or has been designed to be a sustainable chain, no matter the, you know, no matter what the fear of a new is. But generally we kind of make the assumption that Ethereum block space is going to be in demand from not just people using it on ethereum l one, but also the l two, settling down their data and proofs, which obviously we just kind of gave them more scalability with blobs. That's why their usage has gone down. Of ethereum l one, but it's going to go back up again when l two scale. So yeah, I just wanted to point out that ethereum is the only profitable chain out there. And this also, I guess, goes to what I was saying a bit earlier in the daily way discord channel. For those following along with those discussions about how I think is ETH is just like so stupidly undervalued right now.
00:19:38.688 - 00:20:37.980, Speaker A: Like if ETH was a company like, like and just valued based on kind of PE ratio here, it would be worth less than what it is today just based on pure pe ratios, but it would still be worth a lot more than, I guess, like so many other companies out there. And I think there was a metric that showed that Ethereum is more profitable than the vast majority of companies in the S P 500, for example, right? Except the top ones or the top ten or 20 or so there. So ethereum, as you know, as a network is just like stupidly profitable and has been for a very long time. But we all know that ETH is valued as more than just its PE ratio, right? Or more than just its revenue and its earnings. It is valued as a store of value and as money, and it is valued as a play on the ecosystem, the ethereum ecosystem. Now, if you value it like that, which I think it is being valued like that, it is stupidly undervalued today. And I think that is still like a ball being held underwater, where essentially the person holding the ball underwater, their muscles are getting real sore at this point.
00:20:37.980 - 00:21:10.880, Speaker A: Like, I know I've been saying this for a while, but I'm going to keep banging this drum. Their muscles have gotten real sore at this point and ETH is just reaching, I think is going to reach a breaking point some point soon where Ethel just rocket up. And this has happened relatively recently as well. I mean, Ethel stuck at like the two k level for quite a while and then within six weeks it went to know it's back at three k now. But this is what I mean by the fact that like ETH is just like a ball held underwater. And I think that as, you know, we get more clarity over the ETH ETF's, whether that be approval or denial, it doesn't matter at this point. It's just like a narrative that's overhanging on ETH.
00:21:10.880 - 00:21:54.996, Speaker A: Once, you know, more and more new money comes into the ecosystem, I believe that it's going to be going into ETH. So I believe it is going to do really, really well going forward there. But yeah, the fact that ethereum is the only profitable blockchain, guys like how do you think tradfi is going to position ETH to their investors even without an ETF, even if they want to get exposure in other ways, how do you think they're going to, they're going to present Ethereum as a network to them? How do you think they're going to present ETH as an asset to them? That's how they're going to present it to them as this. And it was also as a kind of like store of value money bet on the ethereum ecosystem as well, which continues to grow there. But you can go check out token terminals full thread, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But I just wanted to kind of have that little bit of a rant there about that one. All right, so there was an update from ETH Panda ops over, I guess, like the weekend.
00:21:54.996 - 00:22:35.430, Speaker A: Yes, this was yesterday. So they say here our newest blog post introduced some introduces something called Assertor, which is a new end to end cross client integration testing tool that operates at a higher abstraction level than Hive. So you can check it out how it works and how the ETH Panda DevOps team is using it to automate to do automated testing on full scale Ethereum test nets. So if you ever wanted to get more of a peek into how the Ethereum foundation specifically does, I guess, like, or the Ethereum core developers and researchers do DevOps, this kind of stuff is where you'll get that information from. Now this is one for, I guess, like the DevOps people out there and the developer, developer people out there. You can go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:22:35.430 - 00:23:13.106, Speaker A: But I just wanted to put it on your radar because I thought it was quite interesting and quite an interesting little bit technical read, but definitely a go. Give it a read if you haven't yet. All right, so puffer has their mainnet rush, which is now live. So you can dive in to earn five times puffer points and eigen layer points with your steth or wrapped steth deposits. You can keep that want to keep the momentum going for a decentralized Ethereum. And you can access this at quest, puffer fi. And I know you've got like, all these opportunities right now to kind of farm these points, whether they be like Eigen layer points or puffer points or etherfy or swell or renzo or other kind of ones.
00:23:13.106 - 00:23:51.638, Speaker A: There's so many out there right now, it's kind of hard to pick it, I think. But I think what people have been doing, at least from studying the airdrop hunting channel in the deadly way Discord channel, they've been, like, spreading out their ETH amongst these things, which I guess it makes sense because you never know what the token is going to be worth, obviously, like, you expect the points to be converted into tokens. You never know what the token is going to be worth. So you want to have exposure to all of them, but also maybe from a risk perspective as well, that, like, not all your money is in, like, one, one of these protocols. It's spread out amongst the other protocols. So I think it makes sense from that perspective. But, yeah, I just wanted to put this on your radar because obviously puffer is still doing their campaign here with their puffer points.
00:23:51.638 - 00:24:10.528, Speaker A: They're just one of the ones you can use. I mean, you guys know I'm an advisor to puff. I just. As a disclosure there, but I'm an advisor to the other ones as well, like swell and eat the fire. So, yeah, it's not me just trying to pump my bags or anything like that. And as you guys know, I don't actually farm any of these protocols myself. Like, I don't put any money into these protocols because of the fact that there are conflicts of interest there.
00:24:10.528 - 00:24:45.444, Speaker A: But I figured I'd just put it on your radar that there are more points you can earn with puffer here, if that is interesting to you. All right, so optimism has detailed their retro funding round for on chain builders. So you could sign up on May 23. That's a funny date for to be able to share in a allocation of up to 10 million op tokens that's going to reward super chain builders. So, essentially, this is just for builders. You guys will remember that I covered that. The fact that optimism has kind of pivoted away from doing just one round size fits all for their retro funding rounds.
00:24:45.444 - 00:25:30.044, Speaker A: They're doing it in four different rounds, I believe, for four different categories here for this year. So this is the first one, which is on chain builders, which has 10 million op up for grabs, which at its current time of recording, I think is like $22 million worth of op or something like that. So, essentially, if you are a builder, you can sign up for this, and it is only applying to builders that are part of the super chain ecosystem. So that includes, obviously, op mainnet, but, like other chains like base and mode and Zora and stuff like that. So, yeah, if that's someone, if that applies to you, if you're someone that's building in that ecosystem, you should go sign up to this. I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out there. All right, so, arbitrum stylus has been coming for quite a while now as part of the arbitrum ecosystem here.
00:25:30.044 - 00:26:41.758, Speaker A: I mean, I think I've been talking about it for a very long time now. But Rachel, who is the lead of building arbitram stylists, posted this tweet today where she shared that there is an arbitrum stylus PR that's currently in motion on the GitHub here, which basically, I believe, merges all of this into the arbitrum stack, which means that the, as I said here, this pr will enable the upgrade to go live as part of Arbos 30, which means that arbitrum stylus will finally be live on Mainnet here, which is great to see, because just refresher here, guys. Arbitrum stylus aims to substantially reduce gas costs on the arbitrum one chains, and, I believe, arbitrary Nova chains and really all orbit chains, I think, is the goal here, as well as making it more expressive so that people that want to code their smart contracts in things like Rust and C can do that and still compile it down to EVM. So a lot of really cool stuff for developers coming here, but also for users, because there's going to be huge cost reductions here for the arbitrary ecosystem based on that, because they're able to get more bang for your buck when it comes to gas by coding in languages other than solidity here. So, yeah, I just wanted to say that that's coming soon. Get excited. I know I am.
00:26:41.758 - 00:27:15.630, Speaker A: I really want to see this kind of ecosystem flourish and I really want to see what people do with arbitrum stylists. All right, last up here. So grow the pie. Heard me when I was complaining about the fact that on their new kind of fee tracker website for l two s, they basically had a display of the fee in a very confusing display where it said that the median fee was, you know, $0.10.06. But it didn't read like that. It read like $0.16. So now you can toggle between USD cents or full dollar denominations on the fee page here, which is great to see.
00:27:15.630 - 00:27:32.110, Speaker A: Now, I don't have the page up right now, but where is the page? Actually, no, they've only got screenshots of the page. They haven't linked the page in the, in any of the tweets that they've got here. But I believe if I go to the grow the pie website. No, actually it's here. I'm going to go to the page here. Just bear with me for a moment, guys. Sorry.
00:27:32.110 - 00:27:59.886, Speaker A: It's. Yeah, yeah. So essentially this is the new fee page that they've got at fees that grow the pie XYZ. So now instead of reading it, as you know, in this mode, you can basically toggle to full dollar, which is what I'm used to like watch looking at it in full dollar mode rather than USD cents mode. Because now if you denominate in full dollar mode, you can actually see that the median fee for something like, let's go to something like mantle is $0.01 here. So it's displayed as $0.01,
00:27:59.886 - 00:28:16.940, Speaker A: which is $0.01. But if you were to go to USD cents, it would be displayed as 1.0 cents. Right. Which to me, just like without reading the cents part, reads like a dollar. Right. So I'm glad that they've got this now because I prefer to denominate in full dollar, even though if you look at like Zora, it's like one 10th of a cent.
00:28:16.940 - 00:28:37.114, Speaker A: That still makes more sense to me than looking at it in us decent. So thank you to grow the pie for, you know, putting that setting in there. The grow the pie team is really, really great. I've been following them for quite a while now and I'm glad they heard my feedback on this. So you can go check that out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but I think that's going to be it. For today's episode, so thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:28:37.114 - 00:28:42.994, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all on Monday. Thanks everyone.
