00:00:08.970 - 00:00:57.246, Speaker A: Hi everyone. I'm very lucky to be joined by three of the co authors from the chain link 2.0 white paper today. These are three of the smartest people that I've ever had the pleasure and privilege of working with in our industry, and they're here with me to discuss some of the kind of deeper aspects of what Chainlink 2.0 and the white paper is about, just to provide some clarity and discuss the parts of the paper that they find interesting in different ways. We have limited time, so I want to make sure we fit in a lot of thoughtful discussion, and I'm just going to jump into the details. I think the first question that the paper covers very well is what are hybrid smart contracts? How they're going to enable something beyond what smart contracts do today.
00:00:57.246 - 00:01:02.670, Speaker A: And I'd be thrilled to hear everybody's point of view on that, maybe starting with Ari.
00:01:04.230 - 00:02:04.434, Speaker B: I think of hybrid smart contracts as a powerful generalization of a key observation in smart contract systems in general. And that observation is simply that it makes sense in smart contract design for a blockchain to function mainly as an anchor of trust and adjudication layer. There are very good reasons then for significant components of contract logic to run off chain. And a few of those reasons are first, performance off chain systems can help boost transaction throughput significantly the desire to connect to offchain systems. Blockchains, as we all know, don't have Internet connections, which is why we need decentralized oracle networks to begin with. Another reason is confidentiality. Blockchains are transparent by design, which in many settings is a good thing.
00:02:04.434 - 00:02:48.434, Speaker B: But transparency, of course, is at ODS with confidentiality. If we want both, we want to reconcile these two conflicting goals. Then we need off chain components in smart contracts. There are a whole bunch of other sort of subtle motivations, but those are the main ones. Need to source randomness securely, and so on and so forth. Hybrid smart contracts, as we define them in the paper are really a generalized design pattern in which very broad functionalities are available off chain, but are secured or synchronized using on chain logic. And we talk in the paper about various ways in which we're going to support them.
00:02:48.434 - 00:03:19.850, Speaker B: I'll let Andrew and Lorenz talk about what you can do with hybrid smart contracts. I'll just comment that it's equally important to recognize what you can't do without them. You can't really do much more than issue tokens, and even the token issuance process becomes fraught if you don't have secure random number generation. In some cases, especially with NFTs, which we may or may not get to discuss at some point in this panel. Andrew.
00:03:21.390 - 00:03:59.374, Speaker C: So yeah, I want to explain hybrid smart contracts this way. I think of it as a really natural generalization of what oracles already do. So oracles are mainly about reporting information. And the idea to me of hybrid smart contracts is to generalize that. So it's not just reporting on data, but also performing some computations relevant to data. And I think this is a really natural kind of design pattern that makes me think of like edge computing and hadoop, where the principle is to move computation near to where the data originates. And you get a lot of benefits in general from doing this performance.
00:03:59.374 - 00:05:24.162, Speaker C: You could imagine computations that compress data right at where the data feed originates so that whatever eventually gets placed on chain is in a smaller form, so it costs less. You also get benefits of simplicity by being able to essentially program what computations are going to happen on the data in exactly the same place that that data feed originates. So I see this as a really natural kind of generalization of the kind of computations that oracles already have to do. So every oracle is already doing some kind of data conversion, taking data from one source, converting it into some format that can be represented on chain in a smart contract. And so if you just think of generalizing that to doing other kinds of computations besides just a minimal data conversion, I think you get this idea of adding some programmability to oracles. And thinking of it as a hybrid smart contract is a really good way to think of that, because you bring along all of the desired qualities that you want with smart contracts like transparency, accountability, being certain that the computations run in a predictable way, a way that you can check after the fact you get the output that you want. So you imagine using a smart contract kind of framework in order to express what kind of application computation you want those oracles to run.
00:05:24.162 - 00:05:32.120, Speaker C: So to me, it's this kind of very nice generalization that kind of matches a design pattern, even that you see in other contexts as well.
00:05:32.810 - 00:05:36.200, Speaker A: Great. Thank you. Lorenz, how do you feel about it?
00:05:37.050 - 00:06:44.378, Speaker D: Yeah, I think Ari and Andrew already made some excellent points. So I would say, right. On the one hand, they can enable greater scalability. On the other hand, they can provide capabilities that are not available natively on a blockchain today, such as providing better ordering guarantees through fair sequencing services or providing secure randomness through VRF and so on. But I think yet another benefit of hybrid smart contracts that we haven't talked about yet is that as we're moving into a multi chain world where there's many different blockchains that coexist and have different technological foundations. Since Chainlink is blockchain agnostic, hybrid smart contracts allow you to keep a part of your DAP blockchain agnostic as well. And so in this multi chain world, you can then do less work porting your contract and your DAP over and over to different chains because you can keep a common core, or what would be an executable on a decentralized oracle network, in the terminology of the white paper of your DAP, that you can keep the same between different blockchains you're targeting with your DAP.
00:06:44.378 - 00:06:49.230, Speaker D: So I think that's yet another appealing quality of hybrid smart contracts.
00:06:50.690 - 00:07:53.122, Speaker A: Yeah, I completely agree. I think it's important to note that Oracles and decentralized oracle networks are really more a complement and an enabling technology for blockchains than some kind of full replacement. So the way that I see this is that the on chain contract holds value releases. That value creates transparency about the state of the contract, maybe defines key conditions that the contract needs to meet, possibly like what we put together with mixicles or other similar constructions of these kinds of hybrid smart contracts. But the oracle is responsible for all of these other basically decentralized services. And I think it is fascinating all the things that you can build with the additional decentralized services provided by decentralized oracle networks. But I think they're useful as far as there are smart contracts on various chains that need them.
00:07:53.122 - 00:09:04.730, Speaker A: And so I think there's this very important complementary relationship where the on chain code has its very well defined and clear and very important and irreplaceable role. And I think the addition of decentralized services to that core code kind of can help that core code actually go to the next level, secure more value, do more useful things for the world's users, which is what I think we're all excited about as co authors on this paper and as people working on decentralized oracles and Chainlink and so on. So I think the next question then is just to understand this a little bit more, is to consider how you folks see Chainlink already providing a certain form of hybrid smart contracts or some of the near term hybrid smart contracts designs where you see logic going into a decentralized oracle network that you find particularly attractive or useful. And it would be great to hear each of your points of view on which one or what collection of kind of decentralized oracle network computations you think are going to be particularly attractive or useful or interesting in your opinion.
00:09:08.270 - 00:10:06.746, Speaker B: I guess I'd like to talk about a functionality we've not yet realized, but are working on and discuss in the white paper. This is something called fair sequencing services, or FSS for short. People tend to think of, and in many cases rightly so, tend to think of on chain systems as being more trustworthy than off chain systems. But FSS is interesting in that it's meant to be an example of how off chain systems can actually improve the trustworthiness of on chain systems. So blockchains are designed to be decentralized systems, of course, and many of them achieve strong decentralization. But a limitation of standard designs is that they actually have a temporary form of centralization. A miner gets complete control over which transactions go in a block and how they're ordered.
00:10:06.746 - 00:11:01.470, Speaker B: Now, normally a miner orders transactions by descending gas price, but it's not actually required to do this. It can insert or delete transactions at will, or reorder them and order, as it turns out, matters tremendously. Just to give an example, say a user, Alice places an order for some token called XYZ token with an automated market maker. Her transaction, if she's buying the token, will cause the price of the token to rise. A miner then can take advantage of its observing Alice's transaction, having the right to sequence it by inserting its own two transactions in a block with Alice's. This is sometimes called sandwiching. One of its transactions buys XYZ token before Alice does, and the other sells after Alice.
00:11:01.470 - 00:11:40.982, Speaker B: Why does the miner do this? After the miner's buy transaction, Alice buys the token, and Alice's buy transaction bumps up the price. So when the miner then turns around sells, it makes a profit automatically. And it's making this profit. This is the important thing from Alice, right? By buying tokens before Alice, the miner also causes the price to rise. And that means Alice is going to pay more than she would have otherwise. Now this example, this is an example of a phenomenon called front running. This example isn't hypothetical.
00:11:40.982 - 00:12:23.210, Speaker B: Miners have recently started facilitating this kind of thing pretty aggressively, and even auctioning off the right to others to take advantage of a user like Alice in this way. And this practice is becoming increasingly popular. This is the type, or an example, the type of practice that FSS is designed to address. The idea is that instead of centralizing transaction ordering in the hands of a miner, let's decentralize it within an oracle network. I can talk about what we want to achieve in an intuitive sense. What we want to do is approximate first come, first serve service. Like the ticket system at Delhi.
00:12:23.210 - 00:12:56.470, Speaker B: Once Alice submits a transaction, it's like she's taken a ticket and determined her place in line and nobody's going to cut in front of her. We refer to this as fair ordering. This is something I personally care a lot about. I feel that if we're going to build a better financial system, one without the shenanigans of Wall street, we need to achieve fair ordering. And this is what FSS is trying to do. It's aiming to lower Alice's purchase price for her tokens because she's not handing money over to frontrunner, a miner. But FSS is a tool, and we think it'll make a big difference.
00:12:56.470 - 00:13:28.446, Speaker B: We hope it'll make a big difference. We're working to get into production now. Layer two systems take the power of ordering transactions away from miners and vest it in the hands of whoever's operating the L2 system. We see FSS, among other things, as a helpful way to build fair L2 systems. And I think that enthusiasm is shared by the designers of those systems and also by Defi projects concerned about their users losing money.
00:13:28.628 - 00:14:27.650, Speaker C: Okay, I can talk next. Answering this, this question is about the present and the near future of hybrid smart contracts. And so, kind of building on what I said for the previous question, I think that the most immediate uses of hybrid smart contracts are going to grow very gradually, incrementally from basic data conversion. So I gave very vaguely the example of compression. You can imagine getting a performance benefit by having an oracle effectively compress a data feed of some kind before putting a compressed version or an approximated version or an aggregated version on chain. One example where this could occur is essentially applying something like a median filter to a price feed in order to get a time averaged version of the data feed that gets placed on chain. That's really a computation, this filtering applied to the raw original data feed.
00:14:27.650 - 00:15:54.720, Speaker C: If you generalize that just a little bit, you have the idea of using the hybrid smart contract to define a custom index. So rather than just relying on existing indexes as feeds that you would import right, in the hybrid smart contract you're using to define the oracle, you could define your own index that applies various filtering and, say, outlier removal and combining input from different sources in order to provide a consolidated data feed that's smaller and more efficient than to put on chain, than just putting all of the original raw data feed directly on chain. So that's kind of the notion of using hybrid smart contracts for aggregation and combining. Almost the dual way of doing of that is to take a single data feed but replicate it to multiple different blockchain places where that data feed would go. So this is already something that you can do by having an oracle instance for each different blockchain. If you really care about having exactly the same data show up in mirrored form in each of the different blockchains where that data feed is going to go. That's a really natural thing to define, using hybrid smart contracts to describe all the necessary data conversions to get it placed on all of the different blockchains where it needs to go.
00:15:54.720 - 00:16:53.338, Speaker C: The last example that I would give of this is if you think about the application of insurance on chain, making use of an Oracle report about real world events like weather in order to determine the outcome of an insurance application. That's something where you can imagine there are plenty of existing data sources that are relevant to the weather, but they're maybe not in exactly the right format that you want to make the insurance pay out. So it's not just a matter of reporting the original data, it's really about distilling the relevant binary outcome. Like yes, it's good enough weather. No, it's not good enough weather. And you would want to use hybrid smart contracts as a way of defining how to take all of the raw inputs from several data feeds and combine it together just to get that kind of application level output. So I think altogether those kind of examples are what you could expect to see are the most near term, immediately useful applications of this hybrid smart contracts idea.
00:16:53.524 - 00:17:04.900, Speaker A: Great. Thank you. Lorenz. What are your views on the nearer term and how you're already seeing hybrid smart contracts enable things, and maybe the nearer term versions of that.
00:17:05.750 - 00:18:16.566, Speaker D: Thank you, Sergey. Yeah, I think Ari and Andrew gave some really cool near term use cases already. But one thing I'd also like to point out is that in some sense, we already have chainlink supporting hybrid smart contracts today, and that's effectively a lot of defi, right? A lot of Defi couldn't run and couldn't work without having reliable, secure price feeds that Chainlink serves. And so you could argue that even today, the big use case for hybrid smart contracts is DeFi. And beyond that, various contracts that require secure randomness through VRF. Another near term application that we haven't talked about yet are keepers, which are a new product that Chainlink is launching that allow a contract to effectively be called whenever it wishes to be called, which solves a problem you otherwise always have, which is that contracts cannot initiate transactions on their own, right. Contracts need to be called by an external account, and so you need to have some sort of supporting infrastructure off chain that takes care of initiating these transactions.
00:18:16.566 - 00:18:55.720, Speaker D: And so what keepers enables any contract author to do is to launch a contract specifying effectively an arbitrary predicate for when the contract wishes to be called and wishes to run logic, and then not have to worry about having any sort of off chain infrastructure initiating the contract when it wishes to be initiated, but instead relying on keepers to handle that. So I think that's an exciting, very general near term application for hybrid smart contracts, and I think we'll see a lot of interesting use cases come out of that, some of which we probably haven't even thought of yet, but it will be cool to see what people do with that and what they can think of.
00:18:56.730 - 00:20:50.906, Speaker A: Yeah, I completely agree. I think, I'm fascinated to see some of the things that people have even built at our recent hackathon and the kind of configurations of on chain code with the various decentralized services made possible by decentralized oracle networks. So the way I see it is really if we're at hundreds of Oracle networks now, if we're at hundreds of dons now that predominantly focus on price data, I think we're going to be eventually at thousands of different decentralized oracle networks that each make their own unique decentralized service, whether that's a piece of data or a randomness input or keeper function, or any number of other more advanced computations that you want to do in an oracle network rather than on chain in a contract. And then what we're actually seeing is, fascinatingly enough, what we're already seeing is that there are smart contracts now that use multiple dons providing different decentralized services, just like there are web applications that use multiple APIs to do different things. And the combination of what all those APIs do together with the core code of the web application allows it to provide this massive kind of advanced functionality. I think that as more types of decentralized services, and as the amount of decentralized services in terms of the types of data, or the types of keeper jobs, or the types of different methods of fair ordering, depending on the user's demands for this type of fair ordering or that type of fair ordering, I think all of this will just provide a massive amount of options to users and then how they combine those options, as you put it, Lorenzo's is really, I think, the fascinating thing that we all plan and hope to see redefine our industry the same way. The early stages of DFI have already come to mean what blockchains are about for many people.
00:20:50.906 - 00:21:49.374, Speaker A: And so I think that's what the outcome and the result of a lot of this will be, which is very exciting. There's a lot of other innovative ideas in the chain link 2.0 white paper around trust minimization and any number of ways that trust is injected into a decentralized oracle network. Everything from reputation to various guardrails to any number of other methods. One of the methods that was initially put forward in this paper, and I think is pretty novel and has a serious impact on what most people know as crypto economic security, is the superlinear staking model. And the role that that'll have in securing hybrid smart contracts by making these decentralized services highly reliable and quantifiably secure, I think will be quite interesting to see how that evolves. That's obviously its own complicated topic, and so I think it'd be great to get your feedback on how you feel.
00:21:49.374 - 00:21:56.050, Speaker A: Superlinear staking will play a role in the security and evolution of hybrid smart contracts.
00:21:58.630 - 00:23:03.030, Speaker B: Yeah, our staking mechanism is something we're quite excited about. Oracle nodes already have economic incentives to behave correctly today. For example, if an oracle node becomes unreliable, it's going to lose users, and that means it's going to jeopardize its future revenue. What we're looking to do with staking is bolster these kinds of existing implicit incentives in a staking system. Oracle nodes, of course, deposit funds to participate, and they get slashed for misbehavior. This can be for performing an incorrect computation or for creating incorrect reports or any of a variety of other things. With staking, nodes have an economic incentive to behave correctly, not to accept bribes for corrupting reports, for example, the scheme we've devised, thus the term superlinear, has some strong, and I would even say counterintuitive properties.
00:23:03.030 - 00:23:46.280, Speaker B: The most important of these is what we call superlinear staking impact. Specifically, we believe we have a practical design that gets us quadratic staking impact. Let me explain what I mean by this. Imagine you've got an oracle network with, say, ten nodes and each of them stakes a million dollars. You would think that an adversary could bribe all ten nodes and get them to emit an incorrect report with a total budget of just over $10 million. The idea is pay each node just over a million dollars to lie in its next report. Ten times $1 million is $10 million.
00:23:46.280 - 00:24:22.106, Speaker B: But in our staking mechanism, design, an adversary would actually instead need 100 million. As I said, we get quadratic staking impact. That's ten squared times 1 million. And with a bigger network, it gets even better. If there are, say, 35 nodes, an adversary would need not 35 million, but 35 squared times a million, which is a little over a billion. As I said, this is pretty counterintuitive. It's a result that surprised me, I think surprised all of us and has important implications.
00:24:22.106 - 00:24:56.970, Speaker B: It means that an oracle network can achieve more economic security than there are deposited funds. In other words, you get real bang for your buck in terms of economic security. It also means that the bigger an oracle network gets, the more the cost of economic security drops. There's a strong economy of scale. With five nodes, a dollar of economic security costs you $0.04. With ten nodes, it costs you just a penny. And it continues to drop as you add more nodes to the network.
00:24:56.970 - 00:25:18.210, Speaker B: There's been a lot of hard work by the research team and especially Dan Morotes, who might like to mention here to obtain this result. And superlinear staking is just one feature of the system. I'll let Andrew and Lorenz talk a bit more about how the mechanism works and about some of the other nifty features we managed to get in our mechanism.
00:25:18.630 - 00:26:05.022, Speaker C: Yeah, so I want to try to take a stab at giving, it's a bit of a tricky mechanism, but I want to try to take a stab at giving a high level explanation of how this works. Like Ari says, this is sort of a counterintuitive approach. It was surprising to me. There's nothing I like more than a counterintuitive mechanism that turns out to solve a big problem. So I'm too excited about this result. So I want to try to explain at least the simplest version of it that I think I can get across quickly here we discuss a couple of different approaches to it, but I'll discuss the simplest one, which is the sequential one. And again, the challenge here is that we want to take a fairly small security deposit that the contract has access to in order to pay out rewards for different behavior.
00:26:05.022 - 00:27:16.582, Speaker C: We want to stretch that small amount of capital in the security deposit in order to make a much larger amount of foregone reward that defecting nodes, lying nodes would need to be bribed by the briber in order to compensate them for the lying behavior that they would exhibit. So the simplest approach to explain how we achieve the stretching of a small security deposit is that we basically, in the sequential version, get each of the oracle nodes to make a decision. At this point in the mechanism, it's kind of distilled down to just a lie or don't lie option. And we force each of the nodes, if they lie, to have to do so in a sequential manner. So the decision that each node faces is either be honest, so report that a wrong value has taken place, which triggers the resolution handler for that. Anyway, their decision is either lie or don't lie. If they don't lie, then they would get this reward, the entire security deposit that's available for it.
00:27:16.582 - 00:28:13.542, Speaker C: If they do lie, they don't report the wrong value. Then the decision goes on to the next node in sequence. So at each step, if the node chooses to go along with the bribe to lie and not report the wrong value, they're foregoing that entire amount of the security deposit. But because they do so in sequence, the contract only has that one security deposit that it started with at the beginning. The same deposit kind of moves along the sequence as each node has to make their decision to lie or not. The end result of this is that the smart contract only needs one unit of this security deposit, but all n nodes. If the lie gets all the way through the end and the briber was successful, all n of those nodes would have had to individually make the decision to lie, which is why the adversary then would have to bribe them that total amount of foregone reward in order to reach the end of a successful bribe.
00:28:13.542 - 00:28:42.980, Speaker C: So it's very broad strokes, and that's only one of the variants of this mechanism that we discuss, but it gets across the basic idea of what the challenge in this mechanism design is, which is coming up with a way of stretching a very small pool of reward into a very large amount that a briber would have to offer. And I think it's a really excellent mechanism. And so I'm excited about it. And hopefully that explanation is an appropriate level of detail to get kind of the idea across.
00:28:43.830 - 00:28:53.446, Speaker A: Yeah, Andrew, I think what you mean is that if one of them is honest, they're all screwed is what it comes down to, right?
00:28:53.548 - 00:28:54.198, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:28:54.364 - 00:29:50.330, Speaker A: And everyone that was dishonest loses a very significant sum in the form of their deposit, and then the one person that was honest gets the aggregate reward. Right? So everybody who's dishonest is penalized, and it only requires one person and an entire network to be honest. And let's say that network is not ten nodes, but 30 nodes or 100 nodes. You now have to make sure that every single participant in that network goes along with the fabrication. And if you even have one of them, they have a massive, massive incentive that is going to be given to them because they were honest. And so this creates this really difficult property for an adversary to convince everybody to be dishonest, because even one person being honest would make the whole scheme immediately collapse in short order, with an immediate consequence for all the dishonest actors.
00:29:52.030 - 00:30:13.360, Speaker C: That is really well said. A successful bribe would have to hit all of the nodes, even one of them. Reporting the honest value would lead to a good conclusion for the system, and each one of them is kind of exposed to the full amount of the incentive. So it'd be a very larger capital cost for a successful briber. That's well said.
00:30:13.750 - 00:30:41.918, Speaker A: It's great. I think it makes a lot of sense, and it replicates how I think everything should actually work. The person who's honest gets the reward, and the person who creates a fabrication suffers a consequence. And that's immediate and immutable, and everybody knows that it's very easily detectable. So I think in that sense, it's amazing work that's been done there. Lorenz, what are your views on this more advanced form of staking?
00:30:42.114 - 00:31:02.800, Speaker D: Yeah, I think it's a very exciting mechanism. I think one thing I want to tie into that you mentioned. Right. As long as any one of them is honest, the system works. Yes. And what's even cooler, any one of them is incentivized to be honest. So we're not relying on the fact that one out of all of these nodes is just honest because they're a good person.
00:31:02.800 - 00:32:17.510, Speaker D: In fact, they have a strong economic incentive to be the honest one. And that's, I think, a particularly interesting aspect of this mechanism. I think another cool aspect of the mechanism is that it's modeled in a very broad threat model that covers a lot of real world attacks one could imagine. In particular, it deals with prospective bribery. So with an attacker that is able to condition the payout of the bribe on whether the attack was actually successful or not. And this is stronger than what's been done a lot of the prior work. And finally, I think, I want to point out that the mechanism allows us to amplify the security of a first tier mechanism to the security of a very secure second tier mechanism, but without having to pay the cost of the second tier mechanism on every report that's being made, because the mere existence of this mechanism and a trustworthy second tier layer that can adjudicate alerts raised by the first tier presents a credible threat.
00:32:17.510 - 00:33:02.390, Speaker D: And the existence of that credible threat means that anybody that engages in any kind of malfeasance has to worry about losing their stake. And so the nice thing is that due to all of that and the happy path, you actually never have to pay the cost of the very secure second tier system. It's enough that it looms over you as this mechanism that will reward the honest parties and to punish the dishonest ones. So I think that's appealing from a cost perspective as well, and makes it quite feasible and realistic to run this in practice on every report, even if you have very high volumes and rates of reports being sent to a contract.
00:33:03.050 - 00:34:30.686, Speaker A: Yeah, I completely agree. I think it's fascinating. There's two properties of all this that I think are really next level in addition to this kind of superlinear property, which increases over time. I think one of them is the ability for the second tier to use technologies like Deco or town crier to verify the accuracy of a report and therefore very efficiently arrive at a dispute resolution kind of result and outcome for resolving something for the first tier. So I actually think that once you layer on something like deco or town cry or something that retains very clear proofs about misbehavior, you can have some level of misbehavior. But I think the question has sometimes been, how does that get resolved? How does that misbehavior dispute get resolved? What are the proofs that people rely on to do that? And I think with Deco and Ortowncryer, the efficiency with which people in the second tier, or nodes in the second tier, can understand what happened in the first tier and accurately resolve a dispute becomes very efficient. So not only does the second tier exist as this critical threat, but it's following through on figuring out what actually happened can be made much more efficient than other second tier systems that I've seen, which is something that I found very attractive.
00:34:30.686 - 00:35:59.898, Speaker A: And then the second property, in my opinion, is this superlinear staking kind of economies of scale gain that is, I think, going to be more and more important as more and more value flows into different DeFi smart contracts. For example, because we already see that there are certain Chainlink oracle networks that are growing in the amount of nodes based on the value that they secure. And so I think that eventually you're going to get to a place where you're going to have a large multitude of nodes that don't need to provide an overly large security deposit individually, but they provide it in order to gain access to the fees from the user base of that widely used data feed. And then the size of the network and the efficiency of the superlinear staking model provides a very kind of wide ranging and high amount of security to more and more valuable contracts, which I think we are going to see. We are going to see more and more valuable, more and more value secured in contracts like Defi. So in the paper, there's also a fascinating longer term vision. So some of the things we've discussed are the nearer term configurations of how decentralized oracle network computations in the form of keepers or FSS or data feeds, combined with today's contracts create more advanced hybrid smart contracts.
00:35:59.898 - 00:36:32.140, Speaker A: And then there's this medium term approach of superlinear staking that's going to provide this crypto economic security. But I think there's also a longer term vision for what we define in the paper briefly as the chainlink meta layer. And this meta layer, I think is an even more advanced longer term version of what's going on here in a kind of more scalable, usable, accelerated development type of format. And I think I, and a lot of people would be thrilled to hear your thoughts on it.
00:36:33.630 - 00:37:49.330, Speaker B: Well, hybrid contracts are a generalization of something we're already doing today, which is combining on chain and off chain logic. And we try to make the process of bridging the onchain and off chain worlds as seamless as possible for developers, but it's not invisible to them. The ultimate goal, and we're talking about something to aspire to over the course of years, is to enable developers and users not to have to think about the distinction to make this thing invisible to them. This on chain, off chain distinction. And that's what the chainlink meta layer is really all about. A developer can write a DAP, what we're calling a meta contract, in the paper, in a unified machine model, and it gets compiled down automatically into its constituent parts. So this developer's lending app goes and, say, fetches credit reports or some other form of financial data in a privacy preserving way, does some privacy preserving machine learning on it, and then emits a score and sends some money to users on chain.
00:37:49.330 - 00:38:19.610, Speaker B: The developer doesn't have to think about what components of this contract are resident on chain and what components are resident off chain. The mechanics of all the privacy preserving tools here should be under the covers. None of the details should be exposed. That's the vision, at any rate. Again, it's just a vision, but it's a helpful one, I think, to keep in mind as people reflect on Chainlink's long term technical goals.
00:38:21.470 - 00:39:16.270, Speaker C: Yeah, I'd love to build on this a mean, I think this is know, almost past due really important and necessary idea. Trying to unify the way that you write the on chain and off chain components to the point that they're in the future ideal version of this, invisible. Like Gari says, invisible to the programmer. You can really work out the need for this just by kind of observing the way the programming tools for blockchain applications are today, where there's a pretty clear lack of unity between the way that you write smart contracts, which is in a custom language, where the point of the contract is to be an object of study like you tend to very closely scrutinize the interface of those. Apply a static program analysis to them. They're kind of immutable once they're posted on a blockchain. So everyone knows you need to do your verification and get your smart contract really carefully audited and study it carefully.
00:39:16.270 - 00:40:24.100, Speaker C: If you look at the off chain component of a smart contract application that has an off chain component, which so many interesting ones do, the off chain portion of it is just written in a general purpose language, like go or node Js or something else. And the blockchain specific part it has is maybe a binding to a library to interact with the blockchain, like a web3 kind of interface, but the code is still just written in your general purpose language. And so your application spans these two languages. Anytime you're spanning an interface between two different programming languages, it's ripe for hazards and programming mistakes. So there's a ton of potential benefit even from gradual steps towards this on the path to this unified, completely transparent language, where, for example, you may be able to use the same kind of program analysis tools that you apply to your smart contract. Now, you can also apply them to the off chain component of your DAP. So working towards building a unified way to write all of the components of a smart contract application, both the on chain and off chain components in a common language, is, I think, a really important idea.
00:40:24.710 - 00:41:07.278, Speaker D: Yeah. And to tie into what you said there, Andrew, I really like this idea of having a unified program analysis. Right. Because as we all know, in security, the risks frequently emerge when you compose different systems together that on their own seem perfectly secure. But when put together in aggregate, suddenly things fall through the cracks and there are vulnerabilities. And so having a unified model and having unified analysis tools would be super exciting, I think. Another thing I'd like to point out there is that there is precedent already in some sense, for things like a meta layer that allows generalist programmers to target heterogeneous architectures of all sorts.
00:41:07.278 - 00:42:36.910, Speaker D: So if we think about things like GPUs or SGX, trusted hardware, we have such technologies to some extent already. So for GPUs we have CuDA, where as a sort of regular CC developer, you can write basically CC with a few extensions on top, and that can help you to target GPUs much more easily than if you had to use more specialized languages and tooling. Similarly for SGX, there's now actually a whole bunch of different SDKs, compilers, whatnot that also have this goal that you can seamlessly split your application into a high trust kernel that runs inside the trusted execution environment, and some sort of externally connected component that runs outside the trusted execution environment just in your regular operating system. So I think there is some precedent for this being a very appealing and successful model. And I think what we observe is also that technologies that are able to allow generalist programmers to easily target these heterogeneous architectures emerge as the industry standards. And so I think this is also an exciting long term vision for Chainlink and the meta layer for hybrid smart contracts there to really become the industry standard that people use when they want to build hybrid contracts.
00:42:38.690 - 00:43:38.958, Speaker A: Yeah, I completely agree with everything you guys said. I mean, I think it's fascinating to me where all of this could go as far as usability and the speed of iteration that a developer could participate in. Because the consistent thought that I have in my mind is that if you look at the web 2.0 world and you look at the speed at which developers there can both build entirely new advanced web applications, and the speed at which they can then change those web applications and iterate on them, and the degree to which a lot of security concerns and other scalability concerns and privacy concerns are abstracted away from them, right? And so they're able to basically compose a large set of services or libraries with more and more advanced configurations. And if that advanced configuration doesn't work, they just pop something out and pop something else in. Right. I think that's really the thing that's missing from the blockchain industry and the smart contract industry.
00:43:38.958 - 00:45:04.426, Speaker A: And part of the reason that people have built so many tokens is because they can, right? There is a very robust set of functionalities. There is a standard in the ERC 20 standard. There is a lot of tools and a lot of templates, and it is something immediately doable and replicable by developers with certain features being added and removed which are already also being standardized. I think the fascinating thing about this meta layer and the compiler that would turn whatever form this definition of a hybrid smart contract had, I think the fascinating thing is that it would actually really orchestrate the use of a blockchain. So I think it's very important to keep in mind that the blockchains and the L2s and all of these systems will have a very critical place as the places where the primary kind of smart contract code will continue to live. And what we're trying to do is we're trying to accelerate the amount of contracts and the advanced usefulness of those contracts, right? So I think at the end of the day, this meta layer and the ability for people to have all these services and to configure them around a primary piece of core on chain code more and more efficiently is really a win win situation for everybody. It makes the developers much more productive and able to achieve their goals.
00:45:04.426 - 00:46:15.380, Speaker A: It enables more smart contracts with more useful functionality to make their way onto various blockchains and L2s. And it also creates a virtuous cycle where there is more demand for decentralized services because more people are building these smart contracts because they can build them. And so I think it's this kind of change in our industry that I'm very excited about and I think we're all looking forward to as a result of this body of work. But I know that we work on this not only to see that technical impact on our industry and how developers build things, but I think we're all also here working on this because we genuinely believe that smart contracts, and in this conversation kind of hybrid smart contracts will have some kind of impact on society and the world in general. So I think everyone would be thrilled and fascinated to hear what each of your individual views are on how you think. If this vision is achieved or even partly achieved, what do you think will be the impact on the world for the better, and how do you see that?
00:46:16.490 - 00:47:15.782, Speaker B: As I view it, historically, many of the great improvements in quality of life and prosperity of the human race have been pretty banal on the face of it. Stuff like hand washing and other hygienic measures, or advances in material science, improved steel production or double entry bookkeeping. Ben, all seeming things, but they've had a transformative effect. Smart contracts are really a kind of business logic automation when you get down to it, a way to make that automation more efficient, more trustworthy. And that really doesn't sound like much, but it can have sweeping ramifications. I don't claim to know what those are like the NFT craze shows that nobody can predict how a technology is going to shake up the world. But smart contracts are making a difference clearly and will continue to.
00:47:15.782 - 00:48:00.040, Speaker B: And to reach their full potential, I think they'll need to be hybridized. Personally, what I would like to see, as I alluded to earlier, is a better, more equitable and more inclusive financial system. And I'd like to see better financial instruments, in particular to incentivize good stewardship of natural resources and in particular help combat climate change. This is something that I'm working on in my separate academic role. To put it another way, the best thing we can do to make the world better is to prevent extinction. And ideally, this is something that smart contracts, hybrid smart contracts in particular, I guess, can help with.
00:48:00.650 - 00:48:03.320, Speaker A: Sounds pretty important to me.
00:48:06.970 - 00:49:42.838, Speaker C: Okay, let me take a turn at this. I want to try to convey my wildest, fanciful vision of where all of this is headed so very broadly, I think that we will ultimately see the use of blockchains and smart contracts to essentially completely reshape the way that societies work. And to be slightly more concrete. Where I think you'll start to see this kick in at some point in the future is the ability to make really effective ad hoc groups that can do a better job of collective decision making and a better job of allocating resources within a group. I think you're already seeing portions of these kind of experiments with the various dowels that we've seen work today, but I think we're going to see more of these that work at all sorts of different scales. Like essentially you'll have Dao family units with small numbers of friends that come from anywhere on the Internet to essentially building larger communities and tiny civilizations that are able to function because of their effective use of smart contracts. One way of conveying where I think you can see there might be some value here is that I think that in the future, through the use of dowels and smart contracts, essentially anytime you go shopping, it'll be like you have a really powerful corporate purchasing negotiator working with you and you'll see yourself get really great deals and essentially bulk discounts because you're not just making purchasing decisions on your own, you're making them as part of a Dow that you're participating in.
00:49:42.838 - 00:50:08.830, Speaker C: And of course, the details of actually making those work and not fall apart from having management and person to person issues, I think will come through the effective use of smart contracts to coordinate and the effective use of oracles to bring in real world information to help with that coordination. So that's kind of where I see an interesting direction going that I think will have pretty transformative effects.
00:50:10.610 - 00:51:08.354, Speaker D: Yeah, very, very much agree with both Ari and Andrew there, and maybe to talk about it a little more generally in some sense. So on the one hand, you have a more equitable financial system. On the other hand, you have this ability for people to more easily form groups centered around whatever common interest or activity they like. I would maybe regard blockchain smart contracts as a sort of general, trustworthy coordination mechanism or system that allows people to coordinate around whatever activity it really is that they want to coordinate around in a trustless manner. But the thing that's in some sense holding this back today, and I think why we aren't seeing as much adoption yet as we could, is partly just that they're expensive to run. Right. Scalability is not so great yet.
00:51:08.354 - 00:52:09.160, Speaker D: And I think hybrid contracts, by being able to put more of the logic off chain, will be able to improve that scalability. And I think that will remain a fundamentally appealing proposition even in a world where we get next generation layer one blockchains that have higher throughput. Because at the end of the day, there's this thing called Jevon's paradox, where if you double the number of lanes on a highway, there will be twice as many cars and the highway will be congested again. And I think a similar concern will apply to these higher throughput future layer ones. And so by having a general mechanism that allows you to improve scalability and move more logic off chain on an application by application level will be very appealing to make these coordination systems successful and to allow them to be used in many different domains of life.
00:52:10.730 - 00:54:06.970, Speaker A: Yeah, makes perfect sense. I think we covered everything from saving the human race from extinction to shopping, to all the scalability issues of covering both of those, from my point of view, I really think it'll have, like most technologies, a different type of impact in different parts of the world. So I think in the developed market, what will happen is that there will be a lot of transparency created from blockchain systems, and that transparency will lead to actually, at the end of the day, much softer boom and bust cycles. Because fascinatingly enough, it is the extreme nature of the global casino that actually creates problems, because the booms get to be too large and then the busts get to be too large. And unfortunately, society needs to pay for the busts, but doesn't always get to participate in the booms. And I think as I've studied the booms and busts in at least the developed markets, a lot of them really just have to do with market participants not understanding when the boom has went way past the real underlying value of what's going on. And so with blockchains create transparencies, the booms get softer, the busts get software, and kind of the world just gets a little bit less hectic and volatile for everybody as far as just how high everything goes and just how low everything goes when it comes down because of the disconnection from reality in emerging markets as the other part of the world, I'm very eager and I'm thrilled to already be seeing people in places that don't have a functioning legal system, don't have insurance contracts against weather events for their farm, don't have a bank account, because the legal framework of the country doesn't really enable banks to do anything but charge user amounts of interest or even just steal people's money.
00:54:06.970 - 00:55:18.094, Speaker A: And I think, like Ari put it, the way that Ari put it, about a lot of these things being banal, I actually don't think that they're that inconsequential. I think a lot of people in the developed world are just very used to these things, or they're used to assuming that they work the right way. But I think in emerging markets, what you see is that when people go from zero to one with not having any books, no paper books, to having access to Wikipedia through a $50 Android phone, their life completely changes. And what I really think will happen is that all this technology will get polished and the infrastructure will get built out by projects like ours. And then the eventual impact on the emerging markets will be absolutely massive, right? Because people will be able to participate in the global market through a smart contract. They'll be able to get insurance, they'll be able to have a bank account, they'll be able to have all these things that are really the foundation of why economic activity is so efficient and productive and has raised so many people into a new standard of living in the developed markets. It's really the ability for people to do contracts well, in my opinion.
00:55:18.094 - 00:56:20.520, Speaker A: And so if we as a group of people and as an industry, can achieve that shift in how the rest of the world transacts and interacts with each other and allows them to kind of collaborate in maybe not as advanced ways as Andrew described, but advanced enough that they went from no bank account to a bank account, or no insurance to some kind of insurance. I think that in and of itself is a very worthwhile body of work that I'm really thrilled about and grateful to be working on with amazing people like you, Ari, Andrew, and Lorenz. Thank you so much for working on this with me and with us, and for making such a great 2.0 white paper with the other amazing co authors. I think we're really going to an interesting place where blockchains and oracles combine to create an entire new definition of what our industry is about, and I'm thrilled that we're somehow contributing to that. So thank you very much and excited to be building the future together. Thank you.
