00:00:00.250 - 00:00:00.800, Speaker A: You.
00:00:03.010 - 00:00:20.906, Speaker B: All right? Hello, guys. I know you're hungry. I'll try to make it quick. We'll cover all the meaty parts, and then we can talk about the bits afterwards. So, my name is Darren Camus. I'm the co founder of IPor Labs. As was mentioned, I've been building in crypto since 2011.
00:00:20.906 - 00:01:03.706, Speaker B: At that time, we ran the number two exchange to empty Gox back in the day, and we had to shut down a couple months before a small startup got funded. That's called Coinbase. So a little piece of history, always opportunity cost in doing a lot of things very early, but we look for ambitious products, and so that's why we're looking at ipore. So, iPore, we consider a base of the Defi credit market. So we take some of the best of traditional finance, we take some of the best of decentralized finance, and we marry them together. And so how do we do that? So, for example, what is iPor? We call it ipor interprtocol overblock rate. So, if you're familiar with traditional credit markets, you might know of the Libor.
00:01:03.706 - 00:01:43.074, Speaker B: The Libor London interbank offered rate. It's a survey from the different London banks that says, okay, what's the risk free cost of capital from one bank to another today? And so that's a benchmark rate. And a benchmark rate is really useful for structuring different deals, deals, debt derivatives, maybe a car loan, maybe a home mortgage. And it's extremely important. But the problem with the Libor is that it was actually being manipulated by bankers to profit. So this whole idea of self reporting is a little bit problematic. But we took this concept and we said, okay, we can apply it to DeFi.
00:01:43.074 - 00:02:09.058, Speaker B: The market needs a risk free rate. But instead of going with colluding bankers that are doing self reporting, we can actually just go smart contract to smart contract. So, had a little hat tip to the Libor. We call it the iPor interpretocol overblock rate. And overblock is like our best kind of moniker to real time in DFI. Block over block over block. So you get a better construct because it's more transparent.
00:02:09.058 - 00:02:49.454, Speaker B: It's real time. It runs 24/7 as opposed to the library, which was published once a day, 11:00 a.m., BST, excluding weekends and holidays. Right? So we get a much better construct in DFI. And then on the other side, we build a suite of interest rate derivatives. Interest rate derivatives are the most important market and one of the largest markets in traditional finance that nobody knows about. But if we look at a couple of recent cases, right? So the uk pension system almost went bankrupt at the end of last year because of their bond portfolio exposure.
00:02:49.454 - 00:03:34.206, Speaker B: Silicon Valley Bank, Silvergate bank, they both went bust because of their bond portfolio. Bond portfolio has an inverse relationship to interest rates, right? So as the central banks hike the rates up, the bond portfolio drops, they have this massive hole. And it turns out, actually, a lot of the US banks weren't sufficiently hedged. And the uk pension system, it didn't have the money to top up the derivatives. So it's a $450,000,000,000,000 market in traditional finance, and it's something that's actually nonexistent in DFI. In DFI, we go crazy about building these levered speculative instruments, and these, like the perps, are an exotic derivative. Exotic derivatives in traditional finance are really a tiny subset of the pie.
00:03:34.206 - 00:04:28.458, Speaker B: The cash markets are king, and interest rate derivatives are the second largest financial market, second only to forex. So we think it's a really big opportunity, but it really has a good stabilizing function under the credit markets. And that's why we consider ipor kind of the base layer of the DeFi credit markets. We also call it the heartbeat of DeFi, because it's keeping the beating pulse of the market block over block. So if we go back to the know, let's say you get a home loan, or now really, the Sofor has taken over the benchmark rate. You may not know it, but your mortgage is quoted at, let's say, so four plus 50 basis points, right? That means they're taking a benchmark rate, they're quoting some spread on top of it, and they're using an interest rate derivative in the back. This contract is pen and paper, and it really underwrites, for example, this loan.
00:04:28.458 - 00:05:14.142, Speaker B: But in the DFI space, we get something that's fundamentally better. We get this rate that's transparent, it's published block over block over block. And instead of having this kind of pen and paper, you have one smart contract that calls to another smart contract for the rates. So the iPor index is actually a public good. So, for example, if today you guys are getting up a lending platform, you can reference the iPor to set your deal terms. Another couple of interesting conversations I've had at eTc is you see a lot of options protocols, a lot of decentralized options protocols popping up, or VIX a volatility index. Both of these models actually require an input for a risk free rate.
00:05:14.142 - 00:05:58.410, Speaker B: So I'm asking these guys, I'm like, where do you get your risk free rate? So how you can actually put this, for example, into a black Scholes formula is you can reference the ipor rate on chain as your risk free rate input. And we believe that the value of the iPor index will grow over time by the velocity, the volume, and the value of the deals that are pegged for it. So if we look at the Libor, it was being manipulated, the story broke around 2013 or so. It was being manipulated for a decade or more before that, but it took nearly a decade to unwind it. Why? Because you had a lot of long dated instruments that needed to be unwound. Right. So, of course, we see this as problematic.
00:05:58.410 - 00:06:28.706, Speaker B: But if you have something that's transparent and on chain, we actually want to recreate that. We want to aggregate volume around this transparent on chain rate. So I really love the iPore index. This is my long term bet as know. This ipor can be a really fundamental piece of the defi puzzle. And also, I'll get into a little bit here, we're also launching the stake rate swap. So the derivatives are the other side of it.
00:06:28.706 - 00:07:04.878, Speaker B: But why the eth staking rate? Because ETH staking rate is essentially monetary policy for anything built on Ethereum. And if you guys are aware, of course, central bank policy, bonds or what the credit markets happen, they have a very tight relationship. So these are all things that work for a very healthy, functioning credit economy. Okay, so the derivatives is kind of a different beast. So we also took the best of Defi. So why you've also probably never heard of interest rate derivatives is it's inaccessible to you. Interest rate derivative.
00:07:04.878 - 00:07:59.538, Speaker B: You have two parties that want to exchange cash flows, right? So let's say one's a lender, one's a borrower. Obviously, a borrower doesn't want the rate to go up because they have to pay more. A lender doesn't want the rate to go down because they'll earn less, right? So they say, okay, I'll match this party with this party, and we'll exchange cash flows. So essentially, as the cost of capital goes up or down, they'll get really the kind of the same fixed rate, and that's the function of an interest rate derivative. We don't have people trading interest rates in defi yet, so it's really hard to bootstrap this two sided market. So we said, okay, let's take the idea of a peer to pool swap. So on one side you have people that have you have passive, essentially, market makers, right? So you can be a USDC provider, USDT or DAi, you put that in the smart contract and it becomes the balance sheet of a decentralized investment bank.
00:07:59.538 - 00:08:32.890, Speaker B: And what that investment bank does is it goes out to yield from the money markets. Its most important function is to actually underwrite these interest rate derivatives. Okay? So one side, you have the passive depositor, and they're earning yield from money markets, and they're earning yield from underwriting the instruments. You have the amm in the middle, which is doing the pricing. You can't do a simple x times y equals k pricing because it's not two assets in rates. You're trading the absolute rate at the time. You're trading volatility, and you're also trading risk exposure.
00:08:32.890 - 00:09:21.950, Speaker B: So the Amm has to understand what is the exposure of the pool at this time, right? It's net long or short, or pay fixed and receive fixed over a number of positions over a number of different maturities. What we can do in blockchain, though, is we have this thing called soap. Soap is sum of all payoffs. So you can think of it like a big synthetic master swap. What's the unrealized p l of the pool at this time? And so the iPor labs team, we spend a lot of time thinking about how making these crazily complex things simple enough to calculate on chain to be able to manage risk. And on the other side, you have the buyer. The buyer is the person who wants to either take the pay or receive fixed position to kind of offset their risk versus the interest rates.
00:09:21.950 - 00:09:48.658, Speaker B: The really nice thing about DeFi is that you can do some amazing things with transparency. So if you talk about, let's say, this decentralized investment bank, this is a screen that we have built. We just haven't launched yet. It's coming with the v two, which is launching q three. So you can see where the money goes into the liquidity pool. You can see it go out to the asset manager. You can understand what kind of derivative value it's underwriting.
00:09:48.658 - 00:10:40.510, Speaker B: And you can understand also where it's yielding from. And so this is a field called asset liability management, right? And this is the thing that actually broke a lot of companies. Like if we talk about three ac, or if we talk about Genesis, all of them had asset exposure, asset and liability mismanagement, and issues with where's the money in the puzzle? Right? So we took this graphic. Have you guys ever seen a graphic from a hybrid motor? A hybrid vehicle, right? You can see at one point it's using the gas motor and it's feeding the electric motor. At some point it's using the electric motor and you can see the flow of energy between these. So this is what was really the inspiration for this. And they say we have transparent financial systems.
00:10:40.510 - 00:11:25.970, Speaker B: Why don't we just build a nice interface to tell you where is the money at in real time? And this is a beautiful innovation that I think it's amazing in DeFi, because you will never get this from traditional finance. Okay, this current state of the iPor protocol, it's actually a little bit over this. So we're the number top ten derivative protocol by TVL. We have around 19 million in the protocol right now. And that's facilitated right now over 4 billion in notional value traded. And that's in about eleven months. On the other side, the passive liquidity participants have been earning anywhere between three and 7% real yield that's stable, unstable from underwriting the derivatives.
00:11:25.970 - 00:12:25.050, Speaker B: And we have a unique liquidity mining called power tokens, which is, let's say, ipor labs answer to something like a boat escrow model. And this is something we're trying to kind of iterate and innovate across the spectrum in. So, okay, so what is the purpose of this? Right, so we build these kind of low level financial primitives, a benchmark rate, an interest rate derivative, and you have this thing. So this is a nice screener from Delphi Digital. They wrote an article comparing the different interest rate derivative protocols. And if you can see this, they're tracking what was the ipore rates of the different assets and what was the different behavior during something like the Silicon Valley bank weekend, where everyone was freaked out about the state of USDC. And so you saw kind of different credit movements and these different ipore rate variations.
00:12:25.050 - 00:12:57.010, Speaker B: They were very present in that weekend because people were freaking out about USDC. But we actually had some ipor depositors that were doing the big brained approach. They were maxing out their USDT exposure. They were swapping it at a 6% premium, buying USDC at an 8% discount, and they were paying this 14% repeg event. And it was really cool, but you can see it play out in the rates. So interest rate derivatives, they're kind of like insurance. You don't really need them until you really do.
00:12:57.010 - 00:13:40.514, Speaker B: And so this is kind of a really cool visualization. And also if you see this kind of bonding curve, when the rate gets really high, it goes sky high. So you have this really strong volatility that you need to hedge against in DFI. Okay, let's look at DFI yield. So with the V two, we'll launch something called the srs or the stake rate swap. So again, if Ethereum is like monetary policy in DFI, then we also want the actors to be able to hedge their exposure, right? And so the first thing we'll do is launch a fixed for floating stake rate swap. And so if I take you through this graphic, some of the different players in the swap markets, of course, you can see kiln the host up there.
00:13:40.514 - 00:14:41.122, Speaker B: You have the different kind of institutionalized players, you have the decentralized players, but these products and these instruments are really useful to facilitate these kind of complex financial transactions. But actually, our V two is really focusing on simplifying the interface. So imagine you're an eth whale, your eth whale, you don't want to take a lot of risks, but you want to get the risk free rate on both sides. So on the risk free rate, you might take a receive fix because you don't want your stake rate to go down. You're going to take that, you're going to capture this defi Cfi arbitrage from the cheap defi credit and the nice T bill yield. So we just announced yesterday that we have an integration with flux token, which is the permissionless side of the Ondo protocol, which is tokenizing t bills. But the whole idea is to build this into very simple vaults where you can do one click and multi call into these very low risk strategies.
00:14:41.122 - 00:15:23.970, Speaker B: And ipor is all about low risk. It's about what's the risk free rate? How can we create nice fixed rate products and make this all simple to the end user? Okay, and this is an example of some of the profitability. If you're doing like this kind of leverage looping, borrowing Ethereum, and you're staking it and borrowing and this leverage looping. And so this is the payoff without swaps and with swaps. So you really have to be able to get a predictable yield. You have to understand what's your cost of credit, and you have to be able to fix it. And that's the whole purpose of having these swap instruments.
00:15:23.970 - 00:16:22.322, Speaker B: Okay, the question is, right now everyone is going crazy about t bills. I say I love t bills, I love this juicy government debt, and it's great. But two years ago, everyone was getting like 1020 percent stable on stable yield at the risk free rate. And you can go more dgen, right? But what happens when the cycle reverts, right? Right now, we see a lot of banks breaking, and the central banks understand that they can't keep forcing this or more things will break. So what happens if we return dovish? What happens? We have a risk free rally. What happens if you have this nice readjustment inside of DeFi that says, okay, we can get this risk premium. First of all, for being in DeFi, where you actually have these really nice kind of risk adjusted yields, you should get some risk premium for holding the smart contract risk.
00:16:22.322 - 00:17:03.474, Speaker B: So what happens in case we have this kind of reinversion of rates? Well, Ipor is trying to build a yield bridge between Tradfi and DfI. We understand that actually, it's really inefficient. Right now, the iPore rates went from something like 10% to actually sub 1% in this bear market. So that tells me that capital is just not efficient, it's not flowing over these bridges. And what really shows that you have an efficient market is the ability to arbitrage, no matter what market's leading. And so this is what we're really focusing on, is building this kind of two way yield bridge between traditional finance and decentralized finance. IPor V two, it's going to be launching in Q three.
00:17:03.474 - 00:17:34.554, Speaker B: We have the code under audit. We get it. Hopefully at the end of this month, then we'll be working on the stake rate swap, which is the last thing to go in for the launch. It'll be a rolling launch. So after that, we're launching the iPor credit markets, which is not taking credit from the liquidity pools of iPor, but it's going back to the decentralized bank analogy. It's going to be sourcing liquidity from protocols like Morpho, for example, which gives a better rate dynamic for borrowers, it gives a better rate dynamic for lenders. And it's a massive capital pool.
00:17:34.554 - 00:18:14.410, Speaker B: You compare that and you combine it with an efficient interest rate swap on iPore, and all of a sudden you have this simple composed product that gives you the largest fixed rate instruments at the best rate on the market. If we're looking at the staking rates, then you have kind of the same composability. So this is what we're really focusing on for the v two. If you want to check out the app, it's right here. You can follow us on socials. All of the links are there. We have one of our team members back here, Slevin, and he actually came out of our community.
00:18:14.410 - 00:18:35.220, Speaker B: He worked up the ranks from citizen of Ipor to Iporian. In the discord and just joined ipor labs. So the community is really building. If you guys are interested in governance around the iPOr index, if you're interested around different products to build on chain, please speak with us afterwards. Contact us here. And thank you very much.
00:18:42.390 - 00:19:10.490, Speaker A: Do we have questions for Darren? I actually had one. So could you explain a little bit of the benchmark rate needs to be decentralized, right, in order to avoid the issues you described, for instance, Libor, where it was small set of parties fixing it. How does that work in practice? Is it sort of like an oracle network or what's the setup?
00:19:11.150 - 00:19:45.410, Speaker B: So right now, the iPOr index, we built this thing called the iPor facade, which is actually a smart contract, a smart contract call that prints it on chain. There's one potential kind of attack on this, which is you can just keep looping a flash loan to flush the rate up. So right now it's actually a back end construction that's pulling from different indexers and printing to chain every so often. A couple of reasons for that. One for gas fees. So it's a time and volatility function to wind a print. We just don't want to subsidize eth miners.
00:19:45.410 - 00:20:04.894, Speaker B: But it sits there and it's published. Each asset publishes, on average, five times a day. So you get much better granularity. And when other protocols are actually referencing the iPor, they'll be able to send Eth to the smart contract or trigger a publication. Right. It gets harder when you go cross chain. Right.
00:20:04.894 - 00:20:59.946, Speaker B: So this is when we're working on figuring out what's a good roadmap for decentralization of the index, because it's more difficult when you're going cross chain, you're dealing with different protocols, you're dealing with different block tempos, you're dealing with different kind of shades of centralization, decentralization, when you're on the ethereum, l one, it's quite easier to do because since the start, it was, and still is, ave and compound v two. Now Ave and compound v three, they're starting to get liquidity up. We're starting to see new entrants, maybe morpho, given their track record, their liquidity, and also some new announcements, maybe it could be a next rate input, for example. But this is a good example of decentralized governance where you need it. And actually, I think ipore is one of the few places that governance is absolutely essential. Right. So for example, so the LIbor was a survey of banks.
00:20:59.946 - 00:22:00.238, Speaker B: It says these are the financial institutions that report the risk free rate and the smaller ones reference it, but they're not statistically significant in the rate dynamics. Other mechanisms they take the market volume. Actually, ipore is the best of both worlds because it's taking protocols as a subset of now financial institutions, and it volume weights them on chain. But in the future, for example, what happens if one of these protocols gets hacked? How do you remove a rate from the index? How do you enter a new protocol in? How do you start taking rates from a different chain? These are all questions that are a bit open. We have a lot of thinking about it, but it's also someplace that we're looking for really smart people to get in, wanting to solve these in the governance side. And then if you think like from a protocol side, let's imagine you're an up and coming protocol. You want to be able to affect some of the governance in your favor.
00:22:00.238 - 00:22:13.880, Speaker B: So this is one of the kind of values of the governance token. And so I think all of these answers are not set in stone. We have a good idea about some of them, but it's very much in process.
00:22:14.570 - 00:22:15.570, Speaker A: Thank you so much, Darren.
