00:00:00.240 - 00:00:36.376, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 15 February 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So, bit of drama and fud around Ethereum's proof of stake today, or just proof of stake generally from Lynn Olden. Now, a lot of you will know who Lynn Olden is. She basically is very active in the traditional finance system, particularly in the macro environment. She, you know, has done a lot of, I guess, like writings on various things within the crypto ecosystem at this point, with a heavy focus on bitcoin, to be honest, not so much ethereum.
00:00:36.376 - 00:01:09.264, Speaker A: But today she put out a thread on Twitter, pretty, pretty misinformed thread, about proof of stake. And she basically led by saying proof of stake is legacy tech. It's what corporations and banks have run on for centuries. It's outdated and oligolo polistic. I always mess up that word. And yet still useful for centralized systems, proof of work is the new innovation, especially when combined, combined with difficulty adjustments. And then she goes on to, you know, a few more things in the thread here, but I, quote, tweeted this and said, as the proof of stake merge for ethereum draws ever closer, expect the fight around pause to ramp up exponential, exponentially.
00:01:09.264 - 00:02:20.284, Speaker A: So, I mean, I don't even know where to start with, with tweets like this, right? I'm not going to spend like the whole episode debunking this and, you know, saying my proof of stake is good and you know, what proof of stake is not, you know, rich get rich, all that sort of stuff people kind of like, like to bring up all the time. But what I want to like kind of focus on for a second here is Lynn saying that proof of stake is outdated and proof of work is a new innovation. I mean, in the context of crypto, it's the other way around, right? Like proof of work is the kind of quote unquote legacy tech because it's been around since day one, since bitcoin. And proof of stake, especially Ethereum's proof of stake, is, is much newer and kind of like a much newer innovation here. But I think what Lyn is doing is equating proof of stake with what we have currently have with corporations and banks, which it doesn't really make any sense to me at all, to be honest. I, you know, her calling it oligopolistic is God, I'm never going to say that word, right. But her calling it that just doesn't make much sense to me either, because, I mean, if you take it at its literal definition, what the word means is that you can only procure what you need to, I guess, like stake, or what you need to mine from a small group of actors or from even just one actor, whereas you can buy ETH from hundreds, if not thousands of different places all around the world.
00:02:20.284 - 00:02:53.972, Speaker A: There is not a monopoly on selling ETH. I mean, when, whether that's on chain or, you know, on chain, on Dexs or off chain, on centralized exchanges or any other number of ways to acquire ETH, you can obviously mine ETH directly, if you want, by buying a GPU or like a bunch of GPU's to mine ETH these days. Or you can buy it directly from a mine. I mean, there's plenty of ways to acquire ETH. There's plenty of ways to acquire ASIC miners as well on bitcoin. Not as, like, nowhere near as many ways as there are to buy Ethan, obviously bitcoin as well. But that isn't that kind of system either.
00:02:53.972 - 00:03:35.738, Speaker A: But I think, you know, what I really kind of disagree with here is Lynn. I mean, she said something else here with Tim Baiko replied to where she said, where someone said, I don't know why people say proof of stake equals centralized. If you have a ton of money, you can easily buy millions of ASiCs, easily access to easy access to a cheap energy source, and then dominate the system. Power and Poz is centralized, you know, following her logic here. And then she responded to this by saying, now, if someone spent billions to obtain 51% of bitcoin hash rate and started censoring transactions, it could cause an uproar and raise capital to make new asics and regain control. And then she continues on by saying, if someone gains 50% control of a proof of stake system, it's checkmate. Done.
00:03:35.738 - 00:04:07.082, Speaker A: Now, this is literally, completely and utterly wrong. Like completely wrong. This is not a matter of opinion, this is a matter of fact. And for her to state this with such confidence just very much shows to me that she hasn't done any research on proof of stake, especially Ethereum's proof of stake. And that's what, you know, kind of like that. That's where Tim Baika jumped in and said it would take orders of magnitude more time to manufacture enough asics to regain control than it would to slash offending validators in proof of stake. Only credible move for BTC in that case is to switch to a GPU algorithm.
00:04:07.082 - 00:04:30.314, Speaker A: But that's basically a two iteration game. Polls could slash over and over. Now there's a lot more, I guess, like to it than what Tim says here. But basically what he's saying is that from a social consensus perspective, if you're going the social consensus route of raising money to. To get make new asics to regain control, that is a long and arduous process. That is not an easy thing to do, and that doesn't guarantee you anything. Right.
00:04:30.314 - 00:05:09.732, Speaker A: There's a kind of like a term that Vitalik came up with for this thing called a spawn camp attack, where with, with proof of work, there's no way to remove the miners from the active, kind of like, I guess, mining set, or there's no way to kind of like delete their ASIC miners. Whereas in Ethereum you can both remove the offending stakers and slash them, like burn their ETH, essentially, for, I guess like attempting to attack the network or attempting to censor transactions and stuff like that. And that's, you know, what Tim is basically saying here is that it's just orders of magnitude easier and proof of stake to punish bad actors. That is not a matter of opinion. It is a matter of fact. You can verify this. This is coded into Ethereum protocol.
00:05:09.732 - 00:05:29.556, Speaker A: It's coded into the bitcoin protocol. It's how both of them work. Now, I'm not going to sit here and tell you that proof of stake is better than proof of work. Like, I mean, I personally think it is, but that's a belief. I don't think there's actually an objective measure of that just yet. I think if you're in, proof of stake has not been around long enough and it has not even been securing an actual network yet. I mean, the beacon chain, you know, is all well and good.
00:05:29.556 - 00:06:00.462, Speaker A: We all love the beacon chain, but it's not securing the trillions of dollars of value that is settled on Ethereum every year. That's still proof of work. So until we've got a few years of that under our belt, I'm not going to sit here and say that we can objectively say that Ethereum proof of stake is better than, I don't know, bitcoin proof of work, and I don't even know if we can ever objectively say that. But I truly do believe that a theorem proof of stake is better than bitcoin proof of work. And I. I say ethereum proof of stake, not just proof of stake generally, because not all proof of stake is created equal, just like not all proof of work is created equal. There are different things going on with them, and especially with proof of stake.
00:06:00.462 - 00:06:47.758, Speaker A: Most other networks are what's called delegated proof of stake, or dpos, which is much less secure than Ethereum's version of proof of stake or implementation of proof of stake. So I think what, what ended up happening is that a lot of bitcoin has got stuck in the 2017 era of proof of stake, and they're bringing up arguments from back then and narratives from back then, and they're trying to apply it to today. And it just doesn't make much sense to me at all and doesn't make much sense generally. I think that's what Lynn is doing here, and the fact that they keep attacking proof of stake. And obviously, I mean, she didn't specifically say ethereum in this first tweet. I wonder if she said it in any of the others here. I don't think she did, but yeah, I mean, she's not specifically saying ethereum, but I think you need to make, I guess, like a separation between Ethereum, proof of stake and other implementations, because, as I said, they actually vary quite, quite wildly here.
00:06:47.758 - 00:07:19.306, Speaker A: And there's another tweet she put together here where she was talking about governance and where she said, you know, consensus mechanisms that don't involve work instead involve governance, which again, is wrong because, I mean, everyone uses these terms wrong. But anyway, I'll continue with the tweet. She goes on to say, work is the only thing that can reduce or eliminate governance. Proof of work systems can be a commodity. Proof of stake is inherent inherently in equity. I like equities, but equities aren't commodities. Now, again, this is really silly because you don't eliminate governance with a consensus mechanism.
00:07:19.306 - 00:07:41.266, Speaker A: Both bitcoin and ethereum run on social consensus. Social governance. Just because there are miners and stakers doesn't mean that the social layer can't come together and override that. If the majority of the ethereum network wants to upgrade, right, and we do have scheduled network upgrades, then the network upgrades it. Hard forks, the rules of the protocol change. That is the same for bitcoin. It's just that bitcoin doesn't want to do that.
00:07:41.266 - 00:08:07.224, Speaker A: Like the bitcoin community doesn't want to hard fork, and that's fine, but that's what they want right now. Maybe in the future they do want to hard fork. They do want to kind of, I guess, upgrade the system or do something which requires a hard fork. And you better believe that if there was a bug, a critical bug, in bitcoin, say an inflation bug, they would come together and say, okay, well, we have to fix this with a hard fork. That's the social consensus at play. That is the governance process of both bitcoin and ethereum. They're exactly the same thing.
00:08:07.224 - 00:08:31.658, Speaker A: It's just that ethereum embraces hard forks for network upgrades. Bitcoin does not. But the thing is, when there is an issue, if there's, it's the same result. There's an inflation bug on ethereum. If there's an inflation bug on bitcoin, the result would be exactly the same. The community would come together, they would fix the bug. It would require a hard fork to fix pretty much like 99% of the time, and then the chain would continue on, and that's the social layer coming in to do that there.
00:08:31.658 - 00:09:13.456, Speaker A: So when you kind of like take all that into consideration, it doesn't matter that bitcoin is proof of work and that ethereum is, you know, and ethereum is going to be proof of stake in the future, or what matters is the social layer and the consensus around that here. And then you can kind of extrapolate that and say, okay, well, what social, you know, consensus is better in the, in the event of an attack, not just a bug. Well then that's what matters, because if you improve, a stake allows us to have more things that are disposable, it's still at the social layer. Like you would still socially decide if there was a, you know, a large state taking over the network to fork them off and slash them and continue on with the actual chain. That's, that hasn't been attacked. But again, it's the same as with bitcoin's proof of work here. So anyway, I've spent about ten minutes on this, almost ten minutes on this topic so far.
00:09:13.456 - 00:09:45.358, Speaker A: But I did want to highlight it. And you know, literally I could go on about this for a very long time. There are so many bad arguments against proof of stake. I didn't even touch on the rich get richer argument, which I can basically summarize into to be a profitable industrial, not even an industrial size miner, just like a profitable, my profitable miner in general. On bitcoin today, you would need to spend a lot of money. Just like to be an Ethereum staker, you need to spend, you know, a solar staker, so to speak. You need to have 32 ETH and some computing power, you know, to kind of like run your validators or to run your validator on.
00:09:45.358 - 00:10:07.792, Speaker A: But the thing, it's the same thing. It's economies of scale. Right. As the network gets bigger, you know that it gets more expensive to be profitable because there's more people involved in it. Just, I mean, I could go on forever, but I'm not going to because I spend enough time on this now. But I suggest reading through kind of like Lynn's tweets, the replies to her tweets, because a lot of good replies for a lot of people. Sorry, a lot from a lot of people in the, in both ecosystems.
00:10:07.792 - 00:10:47.720, Speaker A: And I just think that either she fundamentally doesn't actually want to understand because from what I've noticed, she's become a bit of a bitcoin maximalist, or she just kind of like, doesn't believe or, sorry, she actually believes what she is saying. Like, I think Lynn's a smart person, but at the end of the day, if you're not willing to do the research before having such strong beliefs about something, and then you don't even change your mind when faced with new information or with Facebook information, you didn't have any, you kind of didn't read before. Well, that to me is peak, Dunning, Kruger. You shouldn't be a pining on things that you don't understand. And this is just typical of the bitcoin maximalist camp when it comes to ethereum. They always, always, always do this. They opine on things in Ethereum that they simply do not understand.
00:10:47.720 - 00:11:14.572, Speaker A: They haven't done their research. It's very obvious they haven't done their research, but they opine on it like they have. And they, they have such confidence in the way they say things, which really, really annoys me. And I, you know, I fought this for years, years and years I fought against this. I debunked all this sort of stuff. I still do it today, not really on Twitter, but, you know, I do it on the, on the refill and my newsletter and things like that, but it's just never ending. And at this point it's kind of like, well, it doesn't matter what these people say, ethereum is going to transition to proof of stake.
00:11:14.572 - 00:11:45.022, Speaker A: It's going to work just fine because it's been working just fine. If, you know, if there are critical bugs, we're going to fix them. And if it turns out it was a bad idea and it actually turns out that, that, um, that the whole system is, is inferior and doesn't actually work as we intended, well, then, you know, so be it. But the thing is, is that I strongly believe that's not going to be the case. Everything points to that not being the case. And the thing is, is that, like, you can't say with confidence today that that is going to be the case. So anyway, I'm going to end the rant there for now, but definitely go check out Lynn's tweets because.
00:11:45.022 - 00:12:21.236, Speaker A: And the replies to her tweets because it's really great and there's a lot more education to be had there as well. So a pretty, pretty big news, I guess, like outside of crypto today, which obviously has a direct relation to crypto. So a bit of, I guess, like this comes out of Canada. So Canada's deputy prime minister said today that under the Emergencies Acts act, banks can immediately freeze or suspend bank accounts without court order and be protected from civil liability. Now this is being used to freeze the bank accounts of people that are donating to the truckers convoy or the protest in Canada. I haven't followed it that closely, but I'm aware of it. I'm not going to give you my opinion on it.
00:12:21.236 - 00:13:07.294, Speaker A: All I'm going to say is that what I quote, twitted here was that ethereum is trying to fix this, not that ethereum fixes this, because ethereum does not fix this today. There's a lot of problems with ethereum that we need to solve. Obviously, scale is a big one. A lot of the systems aren't actually truly decentralized, all that sort of stuff, but ethereum is trying to fix it. This is exactly why we're building decentralized systems, because no matter what, a centralized body, especially the government, shouldn't be able to just unilaterally freeze your bank account for doing things that they deem to be, you know, not, I guess, like healthy for society or not in the best interest of society because they may use it for things that legitimately are, you know, would negatively affect society today. But in the future, this power corrupts, and it corrupts absolutely because it can be used to silence anyone they want. Right.
00:13:07.294 - 00:13:32.816, Speaker A: And I mean, at the end of the day, pretty much everything we do in life is a financial transaction, really. I mean, when we really break it down, finance, I guess, like, is such an important part of each and every one of our lives. Obviously, it's not everything, but it is such a structural part of our lives. Without the access to a modern financial system in a modern country, you're pretty much locked out of most things. You're pretty much going to end up homeless. Right. But Ethereum and systems like it are offering an alternative.
00:13:32.816 - 00:13:58.826, Speaker A: You can truly go bankless I mean, today you can actually go bankless with Ethereum. It's difficult. As I said, there's still a lot of problems with scale. You know, obviously a lot of Ethereum based tokens ETH or stable coins aren't accepted to pay things like bills and to pay your mortgage and to pay other things, blah blah blah. Uh, you actually have to still go through banks and other centralized intermediaries to do that. Um, and you know, I mean there's uh, there's so there's a lot of issues, right. But the thing is, is that we're building towards this better future.
00:13:58.826 - 00:14:33.014, Speaker A: This is the whole point when someone says to you, decentralization doesn't matter, point them to shit like this. Because if you're happy with the centralized system, you're basically saying that you're happy with uh, I guess like governments being able to do this and, and as I said, like they're doing this to people that you may not disagree with. So you may not agree with today. Maybe you think that the, the trucker protests are ridiculous and you know, they should be punished to the fullest extent of the law and everything like that, blah blah. But that's not the point I'm trying to make. The point I'm making is that it doesn't matter if you don't agree with them today. There, you know, in the future there may be something you do agree with but the government doesn't.
00:14:33.014 - 00:15:10.190, Speaker A: And they kind of like take the, freeze their bank accounts or something like that. And then you know, you start getting, you start having an issue with, you're like oh my God, I can't believe they've done, they've done this right. So I think that's what you, we're building these decentralized systems for. It's definitely what Ethereum is being built for. And this is what I talk about when I say kind of like credible neutrality and a neutral kind of like settlement layer in Ethereum and a decentralized settlement layout. Because Ethereum is not supposed to, I mean as a protocol and as a system is not supposed to make a values judgment on anyone. It's literally supposed to just be a dumb, and I don't mean dumb in a bad way, but just like a very dumb and simple settlement layer that allows anything to settle on as long as you play by the rules of the protocol.
00:15:10.190 - 00:15:40.842, Speaker A: And playing by the rules of the protocol is basically just submitting a transaction like you, you know, submitting a transaction as the protocol expects it to be submitted and paying the fee to do. So that's, that's really it at the end of the day, right, you can do anything. I can send money to anyone I want around the world as long as they have another, have an Ethereum address. And the Ethereum network is not going to stop me from doing that. Now, of course, these networks aren't fully censorship proof. They're censorship resistant, which means that if mine is banded together, they could technically censor me if they wanted to. But the incentive isn't there to do that.
00:15:40.842 - 00:16:07.716, Speaker A: The miners are basically autonomous machines and, you know, but the possibility still exists there. But, and same with stakers. I mean, it doesn't matter. Anyone that's producing blocks can still do this. That's why we call it censorship resistant and not censorship proof because you can definitely still be censored on these networks. It's just that the larger the network is, the more economic security there is, whether that be under proof of work or proof of stake. The higher, the higher the cost of centering becomes and the lower chance that you'll be censored on there.
00:16:07.716 - 00:16:53.516, Speaker A: And there's no, it's not a centralized thing either, because obviously it's a decentralized network. Things need to band together. It's not like some one centralized body, like a government choosing to censor you. So, yeah, next time someone says to you that decentralization doesn't matter, point them to stuff like this, literally tell them like, okay, well, and even if they say, oh, well, I don't agree with the, you know, the protest here, I'm like, well, say to them, that's not, that's not the point. The point is, is that do you believe that the government should be able to freeze anyone's bank account anytime for any reason? And if they still say yes, well, I mean, can't help them then. But, you know, I think a normal, rational and logical person should always say no to that question. Like, you don't want anyone, not, not the government, not anyone to be able to do that to you, because by shutting you out of the financial system, they shut you out of basically everything.
00:16:53.516 - 00:17:11.406, Speaker A: And there's not much you can do after that, especially if it's the government doing it. So, so, yeah, anyway, I thought that was important. And as I said, ethereum is trying to fix this. Does not fix it today. Bitcoin does not fix this either. Today, guys, like, I just, whenever someone says that this fixes this or that fixes that, we're still so early that none of this fixes anything. I mean, we're obviously trying to do that.
00:17:11.406 - 00:17:32.858, Speaker A: And this brings more awareness to the technologies that we're building. But you can't claim victory yet. You can't claim that this is ready for any sort of kind of like mainstream adoption, because it's not. And we will get there, but it's not ready for that today. All right, onto some, I guess, like lesser drama now and some project updates. So urbit, which is, I mean, I've looked into urbit before. It's been around for quite a while.
00:17:32.858 - 00:18:03.342, Speaker A: They build themselves as a clean slate operating system and network for the 21st century. I think a lot of people find that pretty difficult to understand exactly what orbit is. I'm not an expert on it, but I don't really want to talk about what orbit is today. What I wanted to talk about is that they announced that they're deploying their own L2 roll up on Ethereum. This is really cool. This basically speaks to what I've been saying about how I expect the error of spinning up layer one to be over and the error of spinning up your own L2 to be just beginning. And that's exactly what urban is doing here.
00:18:03.342 - 00:18:35.546, Speaker A: So they've called these a technical triumph and they've managed to cut gas costs by almost 200 x, making planets, which is a part of their system, more affordable, and transaction fees nearly trivial. So there's a thread here about, with more about it. There's also a blog post and things like that, or a couple of blog posts about this. I think this is really, really, really cool. Um, I, I really do, as I said, do believe that the era of, um, I guess like the monolithic chain, the layer one, you know, to do everything at layer one chains is completely like over. It's, I mean, it's not even near over. It is over.
00:18:35.546 - 00:19:25.558, Speaker A: The only monolithic chains that exist today are the ones that, that kind of like existed, you know, over the last few years that are kind of just like coasting along. But the smartest, I guess, like protocol designers are pivoting to the modular stack, which as I've mentioned before, is separating concerns between settlement consensus, settlement slash consensus, data availability and execution. Now L2 is where we do the execution. Layer one is where we do the settlement consensus, and it's also can possibly be where we do the data availability. Now the layer terminology is actually being phased out by researchers because they think it doesn't really make sense to describe this. But I'm going to keep using it because obviously I don't want to keep changing terminology on you guys because you're probably just getting up to speed with this now. But essentially what it means is that on L2s or on the execution layout, we do all the heavy lifting, we do the processing of the transactions and basically that's it.
00:19:25.558 - 00:20:19.394, Speaker A: Then with a roll up, you post proof of those trend that you've run those transactions with the data to the layer one or to the settlement consensus layer that secures it, because that is coming to consensus on those transactions just like it would any other transaction. And then that L2 has that security. So that's what we mean by you always be able to exit out of L2 to layer one because the layer one is now securing that, that I guess, like those transactions and that data there. And then when we talk about data availability, I mean, that's another thing you can split off. Like right now, Ethereum does data availability and consensus settlement at the same layer with, you know, with the current kind of like ETH one. But in the future, we're hoping that we can separate this, obviously with, with sharding and then make the current kind of like chain that we all know and love today enshrined on the beacon chain, so that, you know, everything can kind of like talk to each other, everything can be interoperable with each other. And this is kind of like the future that we're barreling down towards.
00:20:19.394 - 00:20:54.536, Speaker A: So I'm super excited to see a big project like Urbit, you know, spinning up their own L2 roll up. I don't think they're going to be the last one. I think we're going to see like a thousand, you know, roll ups and all L2s bloom. And then there's going to be not just roll ups, right? Like technically, things like validiums and validity and kind of these off chain things aren't roll ups, but they could be considered L2 constructions as well, you know, and they're going to bloom, too. I mean, there's already really popular ones like immutable x, right? And then we're going to just get more and more of these kind of like instructions as time goes on. But I really do think that the era of doing everything at layer one is completely over. There are going to be chains that try to do this.
00:20:54.536 - 00:21:14.810, Speaker A: I mean, of the most obvious example is Solana. That's what they're trying to do. I mean, I think into the future, sometime in the future, Solana will also pivot and say, oh, okay, you know, maybe we won't do everything at layer one. Maybe we'll do, you know, L2s as well, all this sort of stuff, because they already pivoted on the fee market stuff. They said that they weren't going to have a fee market. Now they're going to have a fee market. Right.
00:21:14.810 - 00:21:54.424, Speaker A: So I do think that eventually things change and things come around to the best technical designs because there's a, there's a matter of opinion, there's a matter of technical fact, and at the end of the day, like, there are certain different design decisions you can make, but there is always going to be a tech that is vastly better than what you've come up with and doesn't matter about opinion. The tech speaks for itself sort of thing. So. So, yeah. Anyway, cool to see urbit do this today. I'm excited to see their L2 roll up grow. All right, so I got pinged about this, I think, yesterday about polygons multi sig that they have on their bridge, which is a five of eight multi sig, I believe, which means five people have to sign.
00:21:54.424 - 00:22:33.238, Speaker A: And there's a bunch of functions that can be caught on that multi sig. And this is the main bridge multi sig that secures the funds that go from Ethereum to the Polygon Pos chain. Now, Mihailo put together a great thread, kind of like addressing, I guess, Justin Bonds thread, which started all of this. I've talked about this countless times on the refuel, so I'm not going to rehash all of it today. But the TLDR, as Mahalo points out here, is that the multi sigs are used to increase security, not decrease that polygon is responsibly using them, and they are working towards removing them. Now, the reason why he says this, and he goes into the thread about this as well, basically, while it's still in the early stages, while upgrades still need to be done to, to these systems. Right.
00:22:33.238 - 00:23:06.956, Speaker A: You can't decentralize, you can't give control over this over to like a dao, to over to like, Matic token holders just yet. It's, it's still too early for them to do, do that. They don't feel comfortable doing it. They want to be able to respond to critical bugs, which actually was a critical bug recently in the bridge contract where a lot of money could have been stolen, and that was kind of like reported and patched and all that sort of stuff. And that's why this kind of, like, exists. Is it centralized? I mean, pretty much, yeah. Like, I mean, a five of eight multi seq is not decentralized, is it? Is it like a practical and realistic solution for the short to medium term while we get these systems to maturity.
00:23:06.956 - 00:23:41.620, Speaker A: Yes, it definitely is. Now, I'm not defending centralization here, but I'm saying you have to be pragmatic about this. You can't just say all the bridges need to be 100% decentralized from day one because you say that now and then when there's a hack or a bug or an exploit and all the funds get drained, there's no recourse about that. And there's no kind of like centralized, kind of like benefactor to help you. You're going to be angry about that, right, as a user. So I think while these things are still young and immature, we need to take the practical and pragmatic approaches and not get bogged down with, oh, it's not decentralized. It means that it's super insecure and super centralized and they're going to rug at any second.
00:23:41.620 - 00:24:08.040, Speaker A: No, guys, like, come on. Like seriously. I know I say I'm a decentralization maximalist, but I'm also a pragmatist where I say, okay, I want us to get to decentralization, decentralizer, just decentralizing everything. But I know that you can't do that from day one. You can't just have something decentralized from day one. And there's also a spectrum here where it's like there are certain things that are much harder to decentralize. There are certain things that have systems in place that make mean that they're never going to be decentralized.
00:24:08.040 - 00:24:39.454, Speaker A: Like I believe the monolithic chains, especially the ones that require beefy hardware to run, are never going to be truly decentralized because it's an inherent design fault in, or fault or feature, depending on who you ask. But for me it's like for me, I look at it as a fault. Same is true. I'm sorry. Whereas for a multi seq, it's very different because the multi sig can be taken over. So don't inherit design flaw. You can literally hand over control of that contract to a dow which has a bunch of members in it, and you can have token holder voting, all that sort of stuff there.
00:24:39.454 - 00:25:00.776, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean, for the meantime, it's going to be like this. And I'm, you know, at this point I'm done addressing this kind of like fight. I don't know why Justin brought this up again. I mean, it's good to make people aware of this. I'm not saying that we should hide this sort of stuff. But Justin's thread was, was, was, was very hyperbolic, was very kind of like, I guess, like bombastic and out there. But I'm glad Mahalo replied here.
00:25:00.776 - 00:25:22.878, Speaker A: And, you know, people have tagged me in and say you have a bias because you're a polygon advisor. I mean, guys like, everyone has a bias, right? Well, I have a bias towards Ethereum because I'm an ETH holder. Like, I don't get that kind of like line of argumentation here. As I said, I've spoken about this multi sig and this bridge stuff plenty of times before. I've given the same answer every single time where I've said this is the pragmatic approach. It will get removed sometime in the future. But we're still so early.
00:25:22.878 - 00:25:47.518, Speaker A: Everyone thinks that we're like so late stage in crypto adoption that everything's going to be decentralized or else, you know, it's always going to be centralized. It's not how it works. It's time to stop thinking in absolutes and start thinking more practically about things. Guys. Anyway, moving on from that one to an exciting update from arbitrum. Another centralized exchange has added support for arbitrum. So OKX has enabled deposits and withdrawals on the arbitrum network for both ETH and magic.
00:25:47.518 - 00:26:35.726, Speaker A: Now this is a pretty weird, not weird selection, but like interesting selection with, I mean, obviously ETH is the obvious choice here, but magic, I mean, I've talked about magic before, how it's part of the Treasure DaO ecosystem, which is a very popular NFT ecosystem slash marketplace on arbitrum. But it's curious that OKX supports Ethan magic and not like Ethan stablecoins. So I think magic is actually a big part of the treasure dow kind of, sorry, the big part of the arbitrary ecosystem right now. So that makes sense. And maybe OKX is an investor or something like that as an exchange, I'm not sure, but really great to see another centralized exchange supporting arbitrary here with deposits and withdrawals being enabled. So if you use OKX, you can definitely go check this out. All right, so a new post dropped today from Zero X Park, which is called stealth drop anonymous airdrops using ZK proofs.
00:26:35.726 - 00:27:12.830, Speaker A: Now, I'm pretty sure I covered something similar to this a little while ago. I think it was from the same account they were talking about this, but essentially there is now a GitHub repository for it with kind of like a demo of doing this. So being able to kind of like Airdrop ERC 20 tokens that can be claimed by completely anonymous accounts, which is really cool. You can read all about this. I mean, there's a lot of kind of technical stuff going on here, but you can read all about it on the GitHub. I'll link it in the YouTube description, but I just wanted to put it on your guys radar because I remember speaking about it maybe a month or two ago, and I just wanted to follow up that there was a demo now and there is more kind of like, explanation about how this works. So definitely go check that out.
00:27:12.830 - 00:27:42.738, Speaker A: It'll be linked in the YouTube description. All right, finally here we have an update out of Zappa. So their latest update allows you to follow your favorite wallets on the Zappa dashboard. This update is the first in a series of features that aim to make using Zappa more social, including an activity feed. Read on for some alpha and follow up feature highlights. So, I mean, I checked this just before. I am apparently number two behind Vitaliki, huh? In terms of the most followers, and Seb Auday being number three here, is actually one of the founders of Zappa, so I'm ahead of him on his own platform.
00:27:42.738 - 00:28:15.630, Speaker A: That's pretty funny. Um, but I mean, I don't know if people are following my public address. It's very, it's a very boring address. I don't do anything on there for various different reasons, but if you want to follow me, you can follow me, that's fine. But I think this is cool. I really do like these kind of, like, social features. I think these are, these social features are only going to get more important as time goes on, especially as more of these decentralized social networks, like lens protocol starts spinning up and you, you're able to kind of like, take your identity with you, take your, your profiles with you, follow everyone on different kind of, like, places, all that sorts of stuff, right? It's all going to be portable, it's all going to be interoperable.
00:28:15.630 - 00:28:33.102, Speaker A: I'm very excited for all of that. But yeah, definitely go check this out. If you're a user of Zappa, and if you're not a user of Zappa, you should be. It is the best dashboard out there, I believe, for tracking all of your positions and things like that. But yeah, cool little feature here. Definitely check out the thread for some more alpha. But on that note, I think that's going to be it for today.
00:28:33.102 - 00:28:41.134, Speaker A: So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter. Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
