00:00:00.200 - 00:00:19.094, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 25 March 2022. Alright everyone, let's get back into it after a few days of no refuel. Actually, just only a couple of days. Right. And I know today's episode is coming at you a bit later than usual. I'm actually recording it a bit later.
00:00:19.094 - 00:00:42.420, Speaker A: It's a 12:15 right now for me. Am I usually put them out at 12:30 a.m. But this probably won't go out until later there. But yeah. So where have I been the last couple of days? Well, as you guys know, was at Blockchain Australia. I did this day in Sydney on Tuesday and the day in Melbourne on Wednesday. In Sydney I had a panel with, with Mehdi from Sigma prime that went really, really well.
00:00:42.420 - 00:01:12.604, Speaker A: I had a lot of people coming up to me saying it was their favorite panel of the day. They learned a lot. Mehdi and I obviously talked a lot about kind of like ETH two consensus layer merge stuff, and we bounced really well off of each other, which was, which was awesome. I mean, we both super passionate, obviously, about Ethereum and especially all the kind of like Ethereum core development going on and things like that. So that was a really great chat. I'm not sure where to find the recordings yet of all these sorts of things. I'm sure they'll be on YouTube eventually, but if you guys were able to kind of catch the live stream or actually at the event, you would have, you would have kind of like seen, seen that talk.
00:01:12.604 - 00:02:01.730, Speaker A: But hopefully when I find the links to it, I'll be able to kind of like link it to you. And on the second day, on the Wednesday, I closed out the day with Kane from Synthetix. We talked Defi, we talked kind of like, kind of like L2s, talked alternative layer ones, all that sort of stuff there as well, which was very, very fun conversation that we had there, too. So yeah, the days themselves were really fine. I mean, I met a lot of people, met a lot of new people that didn't even know who, they didn't know who I was as well, which is, which was cool because I think people came up to me after my talk on the Tuesday and they really wanted to kind of like, you know, know who I was, know what I was doing, you know, how they could get my, my help on things like, especially in the education space, which is really exciting and this wasn't like your typical crypto conference. There are a lot of people there who are very new to crypto. A lot of people from government, from regular, like a lot of lawyers, from, you know, a lot of people from the regulatory side.
00:02:01.730 - 00:02:43.458, Speaker A: And it was interesting getting their perspectives on the different things going on, you know, from kind of, you know, in crypto and them kind of like wanting to learn more about it so they can kind of go back to other people and kind of educate them. And as I said, I got approached from, by a fair few people who wanted my help with educating. So I'm going to see where those kind of leads lead me, essentially. But yeah, I mean, it's funny because when I was giving the, I guess, like panel with, with Mehdi around ETH two and stuff like that, uh, I think, you know, as I've, as I've always said to you guys, I think most of the industry is perpetually behind by at least like a year on what's happening within the ethereum ecosystem. And that goes for absolutely everything. And it goes for at most the core protocol stuff. Right.
00:02:43.458 - 00:03:13.566, Speaker A: Because a lot of it is very technical. A lot of it is very esoteric. You don't really care to know about it if it doesn't have a direct impact on its value. Right. And even when it does have a direct impact on its value, a lot of people still don't know about it. Obviously, the merge has a massive impact and a lot of people don't know that. So I think for me, what really opened my eyes is people were really interested in the technical stuff, but they needed explained to them in such a way where it's kind of from a high level, because I think a lot of the technical explanations tend to go very deep very quickly and they lose people.
00:03:13.566 - 00:03:48.312, Speaker A: And I think also the delivery of the education is really important. Like, for me, I try to give the delivery on the refuel as passionate as I can so that you guys can, like, you know, feel the passion I have for this sort of stuff and kind of like, keep you guys engaged with this. But I know sometimes, you know, some of the stuff I talk about can be, can be a little boring. But I think when you're trying to read about this stuff, when you're listening to a lot of other people talk, talk about this, it can be way less engaging. So I think that's what I've always prided myself on, the fact that I can give, like, education in a really passionate way. And that actually came across, it seems, for a lot of people as well. So I mean, all in all, I had a ton of fun at this event, like the last couple days.
00:03:48.312 - 00:04:09.670, Speaker A: I'm very much looking forward to Amsterdam now. I think, as I said, this was like, I guess less of a kind of, it wasn't really an 8th conference, it was a crypto conference. But also there's a lot of new, new people there. I'm looking forward to getting to going to Amsterdam because there's obviously going to be a lot of ethereum people there and it's going to be really cool. I'm getting a few different talks there and things like that as well. So that's going to be very exciting, too. So hopefully some of you were able to make it to the event.
00:04:09.670 - 00:04:29.034, Speaker A: And then I saw you there. I met a lot of people, so I don't remember everyone I met. And if you didn't make it, hopefully you're able to kind of like watch the streams as well. Everything was kind of like live streamed. And if I find the links to the videos or if anyone else has them, please share them in the discord. I know there's a lot of people kind of looking for them right right now. All right, onto all the updates from the last few days that I've missed for you guys.
00:04:29.034 - 00:05:12.770, Speaker A: So Danny Ryan, put out the latest edition of the finalized blog post series is number 34 going over, I guess, the kiln test nets and basically, you know, everything that's happening on the merge side. So, I mean, I summarized for this for you guys last week. There were obviously a couple of bugs in the kiln test net, the biggest one being the prism bug client, which caused prism to kind of like stop producing or start to produce invalid blocks and things like that. Now because of that, there is a lot of testing that needs to happen. Right? There's a ton of testing that still needs to happen. And as I mentioned on the last refuel, which I've seen a few people kind of like talk about this, but I don't think I said I didn't think that the June merge kind of like would still happen. I think maybe, you know, July still on the table, but June was kind of like off the table.
00:05:12.770 - 00:05:28.996, Speaker A: I still think that, but there are certain other people saying that they could still see a June merge. We'll have to see. As I've said to you guys before, it was just the target window. I'm just giving my personal opinion based on kind of like the information that I'm seeing. And if it happens in June still, then good. I'm glad to be wrong. Like, I'm not trying to be right about this sort of stuff.
00:05:28.996 - 00:06:01.236, Speaker A: I'm just trying to, you know, get you guys the most direct, up to date information that I can. But as I've said before, I still think it's more likely to be July than June. And just because of the fact that the kiln testnet didn't go, you know, as flawless as possible, even though it went really, really well, it didn't go as flawless as possible. And there's still a lot of testing that needs to be done. So I wouldn't be surprised to see it in July or even, I mean, even August sort of thing. And as I said last time, I don't think these things are delays because there never was a kind of like date given. But I also think that no one's going to really care if it comes two to three months later than the projected kind of like date here.
00:06:01.236 - 00:06:21.802, Speaker A: I really think that people underestimate, like, how much, you know, crypto moves fast, but at the same time, there are periods where crypto moves really slow, you know, in sort of in certain areas. And I don't think it's going to matter too much at the end of the day. So I guess go read this blog post. It's very, very short. It's got links to a bunch of other kind of like things as well to read. But definitely go read it. It'll be in the YouTube description and on the merge as well.
00:06:21.802 - 00:07:08.712, Speaker A: Terrence from the Prior labs team has kind of like shared a screenshot of what happens when proof of stake gets activated on the prism client. So you can see here, or the prism validator client, you can see here that there are a couple of pandas, kind of like made an ASCII code here and proof of stake activated on this, on the screenshot here and there. I think the different validator clients will have different ways of displaying this information, which I'm really looking forward to each of them and seeing what they do because, yeah, I mean, this is only gonna happen once, right? And this is a very, very big deal. And I'm very much looking forward to seeing my validators kind of like spit these, this ASCII out, you know, depending on what they, what they kind of do with it here. So very much looking forward to seeing that. Go forward there. Next up, we had an EF ecosystem support program allocation update for Q three and Q 420 21.
00:07:08.712 - 00:07:48.142, Speaker A: This was a reminder about this. I think I covered it on the refill when this came out on February 15 last month there. But the reason why I wanted to talk about this is because it's topical. Right? There's been a lot, a lot of talk, I guess, over the last few days, especially about funding of things and core dev funding and all that sort of stuff. Now, what I wanted to talk about here is the Ethereum foundation specifically. There was a bunch of discussions that we're having in the Discord channel today about what the Ethereum Foundation's burn rate is like. How much money are they spending each year out of their treasury? And there was a kind of, like, tweet that was brought up, I think, from 2019, or a comment from 2019 where someone gave the ballpark figure.
00:07:48.142 - 00:08:33.592, Speaker A: I think it was Vitalik that the F in 2019 was going to spend $25 million or something like that. Right? Or $30 million in that. Yeah, I can't remember the exact figures. Now, if they were spending that much in 2019, which was obviously the depths of the bear market, there was a lot less going on in core developer land, then how much would they be spending in 2022? I projected that they would be spending anywhere from 50 to 100 million in 2022. Now, the EF treasury, at least the public version of public treasury that we can see, is about a billion dollars worth of ETH. So let's just say, and I actually think it's more accurate to say that the EF is spending about $100 million in 2022, given the fact that they have a lot of grants programs going, like the EF ecosystem grants program. They have a lot of other initiatives that they're doing, like the client incentive program.
00:08:33.592 - 00:08:57.390, Speaker A: They have a lot of people on their payroll. So let's say the EF has a $100 million run rate for just this year. Now, they're, they have, they have, they have fiat reserves, obviously, from cashing out ETH, but the ETH that they have left in their public treasury is worth about a billion dollars. Now, let's say they keep ramping that up and they spend 150 million next year and 200 million the next year. Right. It's gonna, it's probably gonna keep ramping up. That doesn't leave them with that much money.
00:08:57.390 - 00:09:42.292, Speaker A: Like, the treasury may seem large because you, you know, you see it there. Okay, a billion dollars is a lot of money. But then when you kind of, like, map out the run rate of the Ethereum foundation, you kind of see that. Okay, well, to manage that treasury well and to make sure it lasts, especially with all the stuff happening in the, you know, and all the stuff that needs to be paid for in the ethereum ecosystem, it can kind of run out relatively quickly. Now, then you dive deeper into that. You say, okay, what's this money being spent on individually? Is enough money going to core developers? All this sort of stuff? There's been a lot of discussions around this about this recently. And as I said in Discord Channel, I think it's kind of common knowledge that the Ethereum foundation doesn't pay market rate and kind of, like, won't probably ever pay market rate for people like core developers or otherwise, and they could probably make more money working in somewhere else in the ecosystem.
00:09:42.292 - 00:10:34.222, Speaker A: But as I said in the Discord Channel, I think for a lot of these people, like, money is important. But the reason they stay at the Ethereum foundation instead of just going somewhere else is because the work that they're doing to them at least feels much more impactful, much more important to them than work that they could be doing elsewhere. And I think for people who don't have a passion and don't kind of, like, really care about the work that they do, they struggle to understand this because a lot of people at the end of the day, like, out, you know, inside and outside of crypto, they're just going to work a job for the money, and that's totally fine. Like, there's nothing wrong with that. But unless you actually work for more than money, you won't understand why people would take a pay cut or take, like, less money than they could get otherwise, you know, elsewhere to work on more impactful stuff. I did this when I joined a crypto job in 2019 at Set Protocol, I took a pay cut from my previous job. That's because at my previous job, I kind of, like, hated it.
00:10:34.222 - 00:10:51.886, Speaker A: I wasn't doing the work that I wanted to be doing at all. It wasn't a crypto job or anything like that. And then I joined set, and it was amazing. Like, I would have worked for even less than what I was on because it was just so good. I didn't even care about the money at that point, and that was a point where I wasn't, I didn't have a large crypto portfolio. This was 2019, guys. Like, I definitely did not have a large crypto portfolio.
00:10:51.886 - 00:11:11.812, Speaker A: But for me personally, I was very, very happy at that point. Like, I was, I was just as happy as I am now, to be honest. Right. And that's because I was doing the work that I felt had a lot of impact. I was very interested in the work. It was very exciting for me. Now I stayed there for about 18 months and then I kind of like left because I'm like, I want to focus on doing more stuff with the Daily Gwei.
00:11:11.812 - 00:11:42.498, Speaker A: I want to focus on doing more kind of like angel investing, helping teams out in the early stages, doing advising, all that sort of stuff. And I, you know, I still do that to this day. Right. It's been over a year since I kind of like left set. And I, um, I'm still doing this to this day because that's what I find to be the most impactful work that I can do. And I do all the data great stuff for free because I'm able to do that, but also because like I just love doing the refuel, I love doing the newsletter, I love kind of talking in the Discord channel with you guys. And I think that translates to a lot of people, like a lot of the core developers in a theory, they love what they do.
00:11:42.498 - 00:12:14.530, Speaker A: They feel like they're making so much impact. Like how often in technology, in, in the world in your life are you going to be, be able to work directly on something as impactful as the Ethereum core protocol? Not very often. Right. And I think a lot of these people are just concerned with making sure that they can cover their bills and they're kind of like getting paid, you know, what they consider to be a fair compensation even if it's not market rate. And they're fine with that. They're just going to do all their work and they're having fun with that and that's totally on them. Like, no one's forcing them to work for less pay.
00:12:14.530 - 00:12:42.542, Speaker A: Like, I'm telling you right now, guys, every single ethereum core developer could easily get a job anywhere else they wanted in this ecosystem and for probably for more pay. But there's a reason that they're not doing that. Obviously, there's more than just like them working on impactful stuff. They have a loyalty to, to ethereum and that, that plays into it, of course, and stuff like that. But, you know, there's, there's a reason there. And I know, you know, Peter's been very loud from the Geth team recently and he recently and kind of like people are thinking that he might jump ship over to, to avalanche. Maybe he will.
00:12:42.542 - 00:13:09.344, Speaker A: Right. But I think in Peter's case, as I said last time, it's, you know, money's one, one side of it, but it's also the side of like burnout. Right? Like a lot of these people have been working on this stuff for a very long time, and they just want to change. They just burnt out, and that's totally fine, too. Like, we shouldn't expect someone to stay in the same role for bloody, you know, 20 years of their life. Like, there's a lot of people who just, especially the ones who are passionate about their work and want to do impactful work, they just get burnt out and they want to change. And that's totally, totally fine as well.
00:13:09.344 - 00:13:37.508, Speaker A: So I guess that's kind of like, my perspective on this whole kind of, like, funding debate and things like that. I really do think people need to see the other side of this and see that at the end of the day, you know, maybe you want to just do stuff for money. Maybe money is everything to you at this stage in your life, and that's totally fine. But for a lot of other people, there are things that matter to them way more than money. And money is really just a tool. And if they. They've got enough money coming in that they can pay their bills, they can live their life in kind of like, comfort wherever they are.
00:13:37.508 - 00:14:03.762, Speaker A: Uh, they're happy doing that. Not everyone wants to buy a lambo. Not everyone wants to buy luxury, you know, items. Not everyone wants to live in a fancy house. A lot of people just want to be able to live comfortably. And by live comfortably, I mean pay their bills without worrying about them and kind of like, be able to kind of afford some luxuries here and there, of course, obviously, but most people don't want to and help their families, too, right? But most people don't want to kind of like go and buy lambos and luxury items and stuff like that. They.
00:14:03.762 - 00:14:37.934, Speaker A: They would rather do much more impactful work than that there. So. So, yeah, anyway, going to move on from that to the next update, which came Chloe White here, who I actually met at Blockchain Australia in real life. She shared something today about ANZ, the australian New Zealand kind of like bank in Australia. Here, one of the top four banks has issued the first Australia dollar stablecoin called the eight dollar DC, which is a weird ticker for a stable coin. I thought initially it was a play on AC DC, which is obviously a very popular rock band that came out of Australia, but I'm not sure. It might be that.
00:14:37.934 - 00:14:58.988, Speaker A: But, yeah, it's called a dollar DC. And he here, Chloe lists, like, how did ANZ do it? Well, they have a counterparty with zero cap with Australia's only full service crypto platform. They have custody via fire blocks. They have order. They did an audit with Open Zeppelin they doing AML with chain analysis and they used the Ethereum blockchain. That's why I'm talking about it. Right.
00:14:58.988 - 00:15:20.486, Speaker A: This is pretty cool. I mean, obviously, we're all about going bankless and trying to disrupt banks and all that sort of stuff. I'll be honest, guys, I don't think banks are really going anywhere. I think banks will adapt pretty quickly to a crypto world. I have always said that. I think that the real innovation of Defi and of crypto is that it gives users a choice. We no longer have to use a bank, right, to do these sorts of things.
00:15:20.486 - 00:15:47.950, Speaker A: We can do it on our own, but the banks are still going to be there. People are going to want to use banks. There's plenty of people who don't want to manage their own finances, and they shouldn't have to if they don't want to. And there's always going to be services available for them, whether they be banks or other kind of financial services. So that's why it's really cool to see that, you know, there's a bank here like ANZ getting involved with this. And as I've said before, like other banks, like Comm bank, our Commonwealth bank in Australia, have been very progressive with crypto. They announced that they were going to enable crypto trading on their platform.
00:15:47.950 - 00:16:34.736, Speaker A: That was supposed to happen in Q one this year. I mean, we're at the tail end of Q on now, and I haven't heard anything about that. Obviously, banks move slower than, than anything, so that's still probably coming. But I don't, you know, I don't think it's going to, um, it's going to be, to be in Q one. But I also heard a stat that I think 900,000 of the Commonwealth banks kind of like customers had sent money from their bank accounts to a crypto exchange. And just to contextualize it here, guys, Australia's population is only 25 million, and only the people over 18 really have a bank account, right? So you can discount, like, all the, all the children, all the babies, all that sort of stuff, and, and a lot of the teenagers and just count the adult population. And this was just Commonwealth bank, as I said, there's four major banks in Australia, and there's a bunch of other banks as well.
00:16:34.736 - 00:16:51.284, Speaker A: So that's not 900,000. That's a lot of people when you, when you kind of, like, contextualize it like that. So I think that that stuff's coming. And I think, you know, Anz doing these kind of, like, stable coins and australian dollar stable coins as well is really cool. Uh, it just shows that they're really looking at this sort of stuff and they're dabbling in it. So. So cool to see that from, from ANZ.
00:16:51.284 - 00:17:19.530, Speaker A: All right, so element finance announced, uh, the first step toward decentralization by opening up applications for delegates and members of the governance steering council. So there's a thread here about this, and there's also a blog post. Very cool to see this. I mean, this does mean that. I mean, I assume this means a token is coming. Disclosure, I'm an angel investor in element finance, but I haven't heard anything about a token or anything like that. But to actually decentralize and to have like a delegate governance system and all that sort of stuff, you need it.
00:17:19.530 - 00:17:36.378, Speaker A: You need a token, right? I mean, it's pretty obvious. So just some, I guess, like some, some alpha to pay attention to. Maybe there's going to be an airdrop. I'm not sure. As I said, like, I am an angel investor, but I have no access to information about this sort of stuff. Like, I don't know what's happening there. I'm just assuming that since they're trying to decentralize, there is going to be a token.
00:17:36.378 - 00:18:16.496, Speaker A: But I think it's really cool when I see something trying to create like a Dao for itself, but also doing something different to the traditional daos. Like, there's actually a lot of discussions at the blockchain week about daos, and I talked to a lot of people about how I think that daos have a massive issue in that. A lot of them try to be like, super decentralized from day one, and they have like a leadership void that usually gets filled by the wrong people. Some of them are really just multisigs, you know, decentralization theater. Some of them don't put any effort into actually decentralizing, and it ends up just being a complete mess and the project fails because of that. But I think element finance has actually put a lot of effort and a lot of work into this. They're doing it the right way.
00:18:16.496 - 00:18:42.916, Speaker A: They're doing it relatively slowly. They're not just trying to go way into it. You know, they haven't even issued or announced the token yet, but they're already doing kind of like delegate call for delegates and members of the, of kind of like the governance steering council, which is the GSC here. So. So, yeah, I mean, I highly recommend giving this blog post to read to learn more about this, but I thought this is really cool. And they're kind of like one of the better, I guess, structures that I've seen in the Dow space recently. All right, so Sudo Theos is back with another banger thread.
00:18:42.916 - 00:19:08.420, Speaker A: This is all about ZK evms and why it is a massive breakthrough for ethereum scaling. Now, if you're not following sudo Theos, be sure to do so. This is an up and coming kind of like person that I've spoken about a lot recently on the refuel. You know, I kind of like always look for these kind of like people. Napoleon, I was one, obviously pseudo this is another. And I love seeing them because they just put together such amazing information in really digestible formats. And this is just another kind of like one.
00:19:08.420 - 00:19:21.834, Speaker A: And this thread isn't actually very long here. This is actually just a few tweets. So definitely gonna give this a read. I just wanted to highlight it for you guys. It'll be linked in the YouTube description for you to do so. But yeah, pseudo Theos is a banger follow. So definitely go give, give them a follow there.
00:19:21.834 - 00:19:52.246, Speaker A: All right, so Jerry sun here, who works in research at Massari, put together a thread on Polygon. So he starts off the thread by saying many, no polygon for its side chain or the Pos chain as I like to call it. Cheap gas fees, fast transaction through port, all the good stuff. But beyond that sidechain, the company is building a suite of L2 and infrastructure products as well. And you'll be, and you'll 100% be hearing more about it over the coming months. Then he goes on to explain why over twelve tweet threads here. Now, obviously, you guys know I'm an advisor to Polygon, so I talk about them a lot on the refuel, but they're doing a lot of great work.
00:19:52.246 - 00:20:08.118, Speaker A: I mean, sorry, has a whole thing here. And then I have an image here. You can see polygons kind of like product stack and all the products that they're building. So much going on, like just on the l two side alone. It's just, just plenty going on here. You know, poke on Hermes might and night fall and zero. So much going on.
00:20:08.118 - 00:20:46.880, Speaker A: And then you can kind of like scroll down and he kind of explains all this, explains each of these solutions. But what he also goes on about, talks about is kind of like the, the matic token as well. In the, in the report here, you can see on Masari. I don't want to talk about the token too much because obviously I have a lot of conflict of interest here being an advisor obviously hold Matic tokens, just super disclosure there. But in this report they talk about the Matic token, which doesn't get talked about that much. And I highly recommend giving it a read because it's actually pretty interesting about how the Matic token will be, you know, will go beyond the POS chain and what it's actually going to evolve into, revamping the tokenomics, all that sort of stuff there. But I won't talk about too much about that because of my conflicts of interest there.
00:20:46.880 - 00:21:37.718, Speaker A: I want you to go read this blog post if you want to get that alpha and read this thread from Jerry sun. Of course this will be linked in the YouTube description below for you to do so. So optimism has a blog post out today called Ethers Phoenix, which is taking a step back from the optimizations and protocol minute a to ruminate on coordination public goods funding and where optimism fits in. Now, you guys will know, or some of you will know, that about optimism is retroactive public goods funding initiative, where they basically give all of the profits from their centralized sequencer to public goods in a retroactive way. And they're talking about kind of like summoning, you know, the ether's Phoenix here, the angel who reward you for summoning it, a kind of reverse Rocco's basilics. And I mean, this is all about, you know, I was talking about funding before, but all about doing public goods funding in a more efficient and effective way. I highly recommend reading this blog post.
00:21:37.718 - 00:22:23.822, Speaker A: It's pretty short here, but I, the reason I wanted to bring it up is because I've been talking a lot about funding recently and about how we need more public goods funding. There's obviously the protocol guild, which all of you should have donated to on, on Gitcoin grants. I think Gitcoin grants matching around is pretty much ended now by the time you will have watched this. But there's so much going on in the, in the funding space right now, guys, and just a refresher on what the protocol guild is. They're trying to get projects to kind of like donate to this kind of protocol protocol guild, like a portion of their treasury in order to kind of like give back to the core developers and other kind of like interested parties in that time, in that arena there. And they're aiming to raise a lot of money. They're trying to get this protocol guild to like, you know, seven, eight, nine figures, potentially ten figures one day, right.
00:22:23.822 - 00:23:03.938, Speaker A: And kind of give a portion of that, sorry, trying to kind of give all of that to public goods and then you have optimism doing this with the retroactive public goods funding. There's just a lot going on, and I recommend getting reading this blog post for more context around that as well. All right, so there's been a bit of confusion lately about GameStop and what they're doing in the NFT space. They've obviously announced partnerships with two l, two s, immutable X and loop ring here. But immutable X put out a thread today about how their partnership is going to go with, with GameStop, basically building a marketplace, all that sort of stuff. And they also mentioned, like, how loopring is working with GameStop as well. But it's not kind of, I guess, a zero sum thing here.
00:23:03.938 - 00:23:46.556, Speaker A: GameStop is working with both of these solutions. There's going to be things happening on both of them, and I think that's why immutable has put out this thread, because they seem there was a bit of confusion around this, I think so, yeah. Definitely give this thread a read if you were confused about, you know, why, why gamestop is working with both immutable and loop ring. There are reasons for both, and there are things being done on both ends there as well. All right, so Arbitrum shared a tweet a few a couple of days ago about the arbitrary sequencer being a top spender on a theorem over the past 24 hours. You can see here that they spent in the last 24 hours at home of the screenshot was $64,000, or 21.6, which is, I think, 0.6%
00:23:46.556 - 00:24:32.996, Speaker A: of the total ethereum network. Now, as I said to you guys before, L2s are eventually going to take over pretty much all of the Ethereum layer one block space. Probably won't happen for a little while still, but we're going to replace all of a theorem l one kind of like transactions with just l two proofs and, and call data, which will take up all the block space and, and basically be responsible for all the fee revenue being generated on Ethereum l one. So I just wanted to kind of highlight this, this tweet here, because I've been talking about this a lot on the, on the refuel over the past. God, it's been a while now. You know, it's been probably a year at this point where I've been talking about this kind of like phenomenon that's going to happen, but to see it kind of like happening in such a big way, and to see kind of like the arbitrary sequencer and other l two sequences paying l one and actually doing what we said it was going to do is really, really cool. So.
00:24:32.996 - 00:24:59.344, Speaker A: So I kind of just wanted to highlight that for you guys there. All right, speaking of optimism and their optimizations that are coming to their network, their core data compression is actually going live on mainnet this Thursday, guys. Which is today. Yeah, it is. It's his Thursday today. Right. So if this is going live today, may or may not be live by the time you watch this video, but this means that fees on optimism are coming down pretty, pretty quickly, I think.
00:24:59.344 - 00:25:17.466, Speaker A: Sorry. Pretty significantly because of core data compression. I remember they got about 40% less, 40% reduction in fees here. So that's actually huge, I think. I don't know what the fees are right now. If I bring up l two fees dot in fo right now, and I check, like, the optimism swap fee is at $0.51. So if they're gonna.
00:25:17.466 - 00:25:45.628, Speaker A: Let's, let's say they actually do reduce it by 40%, right? That's, that's coming down to $0.30, guys. So we're going from fifty one cents to thirty cents just from, from this optimization alone for, for a swap. And it's gonna even keep coming down even further than that due to more optimizations coming and also the, the future ERP, that are coming as well. So, like, layo two transactions are just so cheap, right? And this is a. Gray is at 40 right now. So when Gray was at 20, it would have been even cheaper than that.
00:25:45.628 - 00:26:18.600, Speaker A: Oh, God. It's just, it's amazing to see, like, how quickly the l two s are getting cheaper and cheaper. And the l one's are actually the alternative. L1's are actually getting more expensive. The cheap ones that have been kind of, like, talking about how they, like super cheap, they have super cheap fees. They're actually getting more expensive because of the fact that they don't have what the l two s have, which is the magic of basically being much more scalable, being able to kind of, like, do all these optimizations without kind of, like, sacrificing security of decentralization because they inherit all of that from Ethereum. Layer one really is just the beauty of l two s coming, coming to fruition here.
00:26:18.600 - 00:26:54.568, Speaker A: I am super excited to see this continuing to evolve and continuing to see more optimizations come to the network here. All right, finally here we have Gitpo op, which is an announcement here from them saying that they're going to be launching on April 7. So open source contributors get ready to claim some of your po apps here. You can go to, to check out this blog post and kind of like, sorry. Explains what git pop is here. So the one liner is git pop exists to memorize, memorialize software contributors as contributions as pops. We're beginning by building a platform for minting parts based on GitHub activity.
00:26:54.568 - 00:27:21.072, Speaker A: Our inspiration for building gitpop comes from wanting to solve challenges of recognition, reputation building that we've experienced firsthand as open source developers and maintainers. So go and I guess, like, read this blog post for more information about this. I think this is a really, really cool, kind of, like, project. I love anything got to do with pop, to be honest. Like, it's such an awesome project. There's such an awesome community. There's such an awesome community as part of the pop community, and there's so much going on on this front, and there's so much going on in the identity space.
00:27:21.072 - 00:27:50.572, Speaker A: Just in general, it's just cool. And, and they're also kind of like hiring here. So if you're interested in being any of these people, community and social strategy and operations, design or engineering, you can definitely check out these blog posts for links to all of that as well. As I said, plenty of, plenty of times to you guys. Like, everyone in crypto is hiring, but I think you shouldn't take a shotgun approach. I think you should take a targeted approach as well and kind of look for teams that you actually want to work for. Because, as I said earlier, like, working on something that you love is way more important than anything else, unless you're just in something for the money.
00:27:50.572 - 00:28:14.560, Speaker A: If you're just inside for the money, then you wouldn't probably care where you work. But, uh, if you do, if you want to have impact, if you want to do something that's really, really cool, you know, Gitpop is definitely a cool team to work for. So definitely go, uh, go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description for you. I think that's it. I know I had a couple of days to cover here. I think I covered most of the things that kind of, like, happened over the past couple of days, and I may sound more tired than usual.
00:28:14.560 - 00:28:48.272, Speaker A: That's because, as I said, I'm recording this later than usual, and I'm still recovering from the conference. It's funny because, like, the flight was only like an hour or so to Sydney and then an hour or so back to Melbourne, but it was the first time I'd been on a plane since COVID and it's the first time I'd properly traveled since kind of, like, COVID happened. So basically over two years, and it's just for some reason, made me, like, super tired, super rundown. So hopefully I wasn't, I didn't sound too tired on, on the refill today, but, and hopefully I'll be back into the swing of things tomorrow properly there. But on that note, I'm going to end it today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:28:48.272 - 00:28:53.544, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
