00:00:06.570 - 00:00:53.390, Speaker A: Awesome. Thanks so much for having me. It's great to see the smart contract summit, which I think is one of the best, if not the best summits in all of crypto, continue to evolve. There's been some great chats and talks, and what I hope to address today is building on what I chatted about last year at the smart contract summit, which is this smart contract stack, and not thinking about it in the context of just and Chainlink in the context of things like stablecoins or some of the other areas that have been focused on but daos. And I think that that's a big category that's coming to fruition. So in our mind, and I think in many folks minds, the notion of a smart contract isn't one set of technology. It's a whole bunch of different technology.
00:00:53.390 - 00:01:56.062, Speaker A: It's smart contracts that are running on Ethereum. It's this notion of a ricardian contract, which I'll unpack in a couple of minutes. And then obviously there's an oracle component, which Chainlink is really capitalizing on and also kind of rolling up into its ecosystem. These smart contracts are amazing, right? We're seeing more and more as DFI is beginning to flower and as nfts are beginning to expand, we're beginning to see this technology create digital assets, whether that's governance tokens, erc 20s, nfts, and those tokens define rights and help manage an asset's movement. We're seeing the emergence through Openlaw of the power of ricardian contracts, which is a concept that's been floating around the cypherpunk community for a number of years. And really the core reason why ricardian contracts are powerful, it's to manage this kind of meat space risk, so the risk that still exists in the real world. And then there's obviously the Oracle component.
00:01:56.062 - 00:02:55.426, Speaker A: So this smart contract stack, in our minds, looks like this, with Ethereum kind of at the base, openlaw in the middle, and Chainlink providing kind of the piping to the real world and data from other parts of the crypto and defi ecosystem. And this really is the future of commercial infrastructure. This is what we're building these three kind of core components, and this is what's needed to kind of evolve the current state of the financial world. And I think what we're seeing with nfts, it's also going to be other worlds as well, the creative worlds, and possibly also the metaverse and other digital worlds. And so over the past year, we've kind of taken the stack as it's begun to mature through the work of all the great folks in the Ethereum ecosystem, through our work with our team, and also the work from the amazing chainlink ecosystem. And we've applied it to use, and the first major use case in our minds, and we're seeing this begin to blossom, is dows. Dows have exploded over the past year.
00:02:55.426 - 00:03:43.230, Speaker A: This is some data from deep Dow. If you haven't looked into it, if you go back to July of last year, there was about 2200 people in dows and there was about $190,000 worth of assets in these dows today. And this is a low ball estimate, there's about $55 million, or $870,000,000, up from 55 million a year ago in dows. According to some estimates. It's even more than that multiple billions of dollars if you include some of the DFI and other protocol layer dows on our end, we've applied the stack to string up a network of dows, and I'll spend a little bit more about it or spend a little bit more time talking about it. At this point, we have six dows. They're managing $90 million in assets.
00:03:43.230 - 00:04:06.060, Speaker A: It's made 60 plus investments. It's acquired 1300 nfts. It's deploying capital into DFI in different ways. It's been a tremendous amount of growth that we're beginning to see in kind of the Dow ecosystem. And in our opinion, this is really just the beginning. Our network of dows, this is, some of them, is growing rapidly. These six dows are quickly going to metastasize into 1215.
00:04:06.060 - 00:05:01.750, Speaker A: Even more than that, it's going to manage more and more capital. And it all works because of the smart contract stack that I described before. You have Ethereum, which is really kind of at the base, which is creating and helping us transfer around assets in a more communal way. You have OpenLaw, which is providing these real world connection points so you can create dows that can interact with institutional capital, that can interact with crypto capital, and can begin to kind of provide a bit of safety and security for folks to begin to participate in daos. And what's happening kind of through Openlaw and Ethereum is that we're able to create hive minds. These groups of people that can work together. They can all input their thoughts and ideas to make investment decisions in different ways, and they know that they can do that and not put all their assets at risk.
00:05:01.750 - 00:05:42.422, Speaker A: And at the core of this, we're also using Chainlink to kind of automate a number of the transactions that are getting implemented through these daos. We can't just do it all in crypto. We need to do things like understand conversion rates. We need chainlink to begin to pull in data from the outside so we can streamline and operationalize the things that the members of our daos really want to press on. And one way to think about it is with this kind of schemata where you have kind of ethereum at the base, you have a kind of smart contract systems that are sitting on top of it. Oracles like Chainlink kind of putting in outside data into that so you can have more complex transactions. And that's propping up a dow.
00:05:42.422 - 00:06:23.154, Speaker A: And that Dao is kind of wrapped in a recording contract, like what we provide with Openlaw. And some daos have tokens, some dows don't. I think over time we'll increasingly see daos all have native tokens and hopefully native tokens that are able to be traded above board in the US. And this is the future. This is a big category. And in many ways, this is just the beginning. I think what we're seeing, and over the past year, we haven't just seen kind of growth in Defi and growth in nfts, we're beginning to see the threads and kind of the early shoots with this vision of dows kind of continuing to take over the world, growth in dows is accelerating.
00:06:23.154 - 00:06:54.462, Speaker A: I think it's going to be a big story through the rest of this year and into next year and the years following. And Chainlink is going to be at the heart of it all. It's a critical component. It's a critical piece of infrastructure that we need and that we feel in a very real way in order to do the things that the members of our daos want. And this matters in many ways. We need these dows to accelerate growth. In Ethereum, our belief is that we're at a bit of an inflection point.
00:06:54.462 - 00:07:32.380, Speaker A: The last time we saw this was back in the 1980s when we saw the birth of an entity called an LLC in the state of Wyoming. Wyoming has now recognized Dows as a legal entity. We believe that they are superior to existing traditional funds and fund like structures. There's going to be millions of dows over time. Those dows are going to pull in capital from traditional finance. Those dows are going to increasingly support different flows of capital from defi protocols. And this is going to be an incredibly large driver for the entire ecosystem over the next couple of years.
00:07:32.380 - 00:08:31.802, Speaker A: And daos at the end of the day will manage billions, if not trillions of dollars in value. And we need this smart contract stack. We need the ability to kind of cobble together in a composable way all these different components in order to kind of push things forward in a way that actually is superior. So these dows, and with the smart contract stack, we can begin to pull in traditional assets. So it doesn't matter if you are running or have assets that are in fiat dollars, you can feel comfortable putting assets in our dows due to the way that we structured it and due to the fact that we use kind of this ricardian contracting approach. This same approach also gives kind of an endpoint for DeFi protocols so that they can interact with the real world. And as we see major defi protocols begin to become more prominent in terms of their footprint, as they begin to move around more and more digital assets.
00:08:31.802 - 00:09:55.210, Speaker A: And as more and more of the world becomes digital assets, dows may become kind of the point of connection with the real world in order to bring them into fruition and possibly also help some of these protocols begin to diversify the types of returns that are possible. And overall, this is going to increase the adoption of Ethereum. Ethereum will sit at the core of this entire movement. It will continue to do what it does best, which is enable the creation of assets, the transfer of these assets, the management of these assets in different ways through smart contract based systems, and at the same know this is going to increase the adoption of Chainlink. Chainlink is going to be an essential component of what's to come as dows begin to interact with other DeFi protocols, with other daos, with a whole host of other systems. So the demand for oracle data, it's going to happen, in my estimation, not just from traditional enterprises beginning to explore blockchain technology and the great tools that we have at our disposal. It's also going to come internally as we begin to move up the stack and up to more complex forms of commercial relationships and the pooling of capital together into a dow, the ability of a group of folks to begin to enter into various different transactions.
00:09:55.210 - 00:10:42.842, Speaker A: That is going to be a major driver of all this. The more complexity that we begin to be able to create here, the more and more of a need we're going to have for oracle based data. And I think what's pretty amazing about this is that it's all on a permissionless, decentralized system. Different teams are kind of taking on different pieces of this puzzle. They're doing amazing jobs in supporting and building up systems that don't necessarily need to have and rely on one centralized party. And at the end of the day, we're going to be able to rebuild this financial system, a financial system that I think many of us for a long period of time thinks needs some improvement. In part, I got into bitcoin and then subsequent ethereum because it felt like something was amiss, something was wrong.
00:10:42.842 - 00:11:29.894, Speaker A: After the 2008 financial crisis, we could do things better than how we were doing them in the past. And that really roots on this notion of having permissionless, decentralized systems. And kind of at the core of what we're beginning to explore with Daos is the more complex angle and edge of that. So over the past couple of years, we've come a long way. The chainlink ecosystem has come a long way. Seeing the tremendous amounts of integrations that ChainLink has been able to implement, seeing how just the addition of an oracle into something like DeFi can build more complicated systems is incredible, but that's just the beginning. So looking across the landscape of Defi, you're just seeing a glimmer of the complexity that we're going to be able to begin to bring.
00:11:29.894 - 00:12:03.170, Speaker A: And it's not just going to be listed or limited to certain financial instruments or financial products. It's going to move and continue to move up the value chain to groups and organizations. And that's incredibly important. And that's something that I think is really going to be a lever to change not only the way people invest and investing together, but also how people work, how people create things. And that's a really exciting process. But there's still a lot of work to do. We're just at the beginning of this curve.
00:12:03.170 - 00:12:29.578, Speaker A: It's going to be a very long slog. It's probably going to take 20 or so years till we see this new world emerge. And so, to use a baseball analogy, I happen to be a huge baseball fan. We're really only in the second inning here. Things are just coming out of the woodwork. All this hard work that's been done across a number of different teams is just beginning. And now we can continue to build.
00:12:29.578 - 00:13:01.240, Speaker A: And because of all these different composable pieces, because of the patterns that we're beginning to explore, we're going to just see a whole, whole bunch of really interesting and innovative approaches to how to rebuild this commercial world. ChainLink is going to be a big piece of that, Ethereum is going to be a big piece of that, and dows are going to be a big piece of that. So it's really been a pleasure and honor to kind of push that forward. So the message, I think is pretty simple role. The marines are all here. I know many of you are tuned in. We need to keep on building.
00:13:01.240 - 00:13:29.280, Speaker A: We're still there. I know many people are feeling pretty excited about the state of blockchain technology, but there's a lot of work to be done. We got to keep our heads down. We need to keep kind of the boots on the ground and we need to continue to push here. So it's really been an honor and a pleasure to be part of the chainlink ecosystem for quite some time. And I really appreciate the opportunity to chat with everybody about this today. So thanks.
00:13:30.130 - 00:13:30.874, Speaker B: Fantastic.
00:13:30.922 - 00:13:31.498, Speaker A: Aaron.
00:13:31.594 - 00:14:03.180, Speaker B: Well, it was a real pleasure seeing what has been created over those last, I don't know. I think I've watched this evolve over the last five years, since your days on Bogot street when open law was still an idea. So how far you've taken it in such a short time has been amazing to watch. Is there any other things that you would like to part with and just how can people get a hold of you? Where do you might need help on building yourself?
00:14:06.030 - 00:14:35.762, Speaker A: Yeah, one thing, we just released a new Dow smart contract framework called the Tribute Dow framework. We, of course, embedded into that the ability to interact with Chainlink related oracles. If folks are interested in kind of this intersection between dows, oracles, ricardian contracts or legal contracts, we need the help. We know that we can't do this alone. We know that we have to do it as a community and ecosystem. And there's lots of different ways to kind of hop in. It's a fully open source project.
00:14:35.762 - 00:14:49.320, Speaker A: We've been working closely with the folks at snapshot. We've also been working closely with the folks at collabland, and there's a lot of work that needs to be done. So if you find this interesting, please hit me up. And I saw we just hit time. Awesome.
00:14:49.690 - 00:15:04.218, Speaker B: Thanks again, Aaron. Definitely appreciate it. Keep up the great work. And I'm excited to know a year from now to see what is actually captured by dows and total value and that they get to control. It's going to be fascinating.
00:15:04.394 - 00:15:06.220, Speaker A: Billions. Bye, guys.
