00:00:00.240 - 00:01:00.040, Speaker A: It is obviously, I think, a good thing that these things are cash flowing and are returning some cash flow to stakeholders of these systems. However, I think it's useful to look to tradfi markets to kind of get a comp for what investors have traditionally thought about these events. So if like, I think it was like 2012 when Apple first started discussing a dividend and it was very bearish for the company. Now, obviously, like, Apple is fine I today, but it was a signal for investors that they had more cash than they needed, which could be a signal that management is looking at the market and doesn't see that rich of an opportunity set for Apple's products. Same thing happened with Cisco around the same timeframe, which actually sent the stock into a secular bear. I think from 2010 to 2014, the stock was down only when it started issuing a dividend. Basically signaled to investors, like, our days of growth are behind us.
00:01:03.030 - 00:01:19.934, Speaker B: Nothing said on Xerox research is a recommendation to buy or sell securities or tokens. This podcast is for informational purposes only, and any views expressed by anyone on the show are solely our opinions, not financial advice. Boccaccio, Ryan and our guests may hold positions in the company's funds or projects discussed.
00:01:20.062 - 00:01:34.938, Speaker C: What's up, guys? Welcome back to another episode of Ox Research. I'm joined by Luke Ryan and Nikhil today. Unfortunately, our fearless leader bach is out, so we're gonna have to make do without him. But we're here to talk about all that's happening in the markets and across crypto. What are you guys looking at today?
00:01:35.114 - 00:02:18.626, Speaker D: Yeah, so top of my watch list today is Kamino Finance, trading up 9%. It's interesting that we see, despite the approval of the Ethereum ETF, the Solana Ethereum cross pair is trading up towards its all time high, and Solana continues to outperform. I bucket Kamino as beta to Solana. It's currently the largest money market on Solana, with deposits pushing 1.4 billion in TVL. And that's more in deposits than its next two competitors, Marginfi and Solend, combined. So it's only 10% diluted right now.
00:02:18.626 - 00:02:47.866, Speaker D: So there's certainly a large supply overhang. And I think within the next two weeks, we'll see the season two airdrop announcement. But I think given their incumbent position in Solana money markets, their reserve addresses account for. They're generally the top holders of Solana native stablecoins and Solana native lsts. They've certainly cemented themselves as the incumbent money market and liquidity venue on Solana.
00:02:48.058 - 00:02:56.790, Speaker C: Do you think that there's maybe been a lack of growth or performance for the token itself due to supply overhang issues there?
00:02:57.810 - 00:03:46.720, Speaker D: Yeah, so I think throughout a lot of Q two, we saw most majors and altcoins in consolidation, and they'd be trading beneath their highs. Many alts got taken out to the woodshed as well. So Camino's TGE was at about a $40 million market cap launched at. In the first three days of trading, it traded up to about nine cents, and then during that overall market pullback, it traded all the way back down to about 3.5 cents. So I think there is some strong correlation to the overall market conditions. I'm personally interested to see how much of these deposits are just farming the airdrop.
00:03:46.720 - 00:04:05.636, Speaker D: That being said, there are major network effects and benefits to having the deepest liquidity in a lend borrow market. And given the ground that they've gained against their competitors, I have a hard time seeing the other ones being able to catch up.
00:04:05.828 - 00:04:40.254, Speaker A: Yeah, I think Camino is a very interesting small cap play. Like you said, the beta exposure makes a lot of sense to me, and I think that every month that goes by without further Solana downtime, like high frequency traders, liquid funds get more and more comfortable with this space, and it's like a very obvious protocol where you're going to want to get leverage from. So as people get comfortable with managing risk. Yeah, that's definitely like a levered beta play on the space.
00:04:40.422 - 00:05:47.272, Speaker C: Yeah, I like your comment there as well, Luke, around incentivization of users and liquidity. I mean, we'll get into it more later, but I think there's a note here on PayPal USD and it being incentivized, liquidity being incentivized there. So there's certainly a question as to whether the longevity of these deposits, what's the true math look like there in the long term? Certainly it seems there's something to be said for just Camino's rampant growth in the space and against its competitors who have kind of been lackluster. It seems going on from there, though, what I wanted to touch more into today is if we could talk about AavE governance. There was a recent proposal related to abenomics and a change or a path forward. It seems like really in regards to returning fees in some means back to Aave token holders, it seems like is really the ultimate goal here. There's some different kind of changes and specifics being discussed right now in governance forums.
00:05:47.272 - 00:05:52.980, Speaker C: So I guess, Luke, if you want to give us some background on this topic and where you think this is headed.
00:05:53.400 - 00:07:53.282, Speaker D: Yeah, so, to recap these two proposals that entered AavE governance last week, the first one was the proposed umbrella upgrade. So, to provide some context, AAVE has previously had a safety module where users could stake their AAVE and go tokens to effectively backstop the protocol in the event of bad debt, which is debt balances that aren't covered through normal liquidation processes. So this presented this tail risk on the AAVE token. Where should there be bad debt incurred by the protocol? The AAVE protocol would need to slash balances of AAVE stakers from the safety module and then auction those tokens into the secondary market to raise funds to cover the outstanding debt balance. And the issue is both the AAVE and go tokens are of relatively illiquid, so needing to auction those tokens onto the market would likely result in a high degree of price impact and slippage, which would then also subsequently lower the capitalization of the safety module reserves. So what the umbrella proposal suggests instead is to deprecate this legacy safety module framework and introduce a new slashing asset which would come in the form of AAVE, a tokens which are effectively tokens that represent a lender's supplied position to AAVE money markets. So under this new umbrella framework, in the event that bad debt is occurred, those staked a tokens would be slashed from the safety module and effectively burnt to cover the outstanding debt balance.
00:07:53.282 - 00:09:40.892, Speaker D: And I think this is a pretty interesting improvement to the mechanism design of the protocol, primarily because it's a much more deterministic way of covering balances in the event of bad debt, because there's no need to auction off a token, there's no price impact or slippage, and it's effectively deterministic in the protocol's ability to cover bad debt. I will say bad debt on AAVE is certainly a tail risk, and it hasn't been an issue in the past, as the protocol has only incurred about two to 3 million in bad debt. But that being said, reducing this tail risk of large slashing and selling pressure on the AAVE token, I think removes a lot of risk for holding that amongst AAVE holders. So that was the first proposal that entered AAVE governance. Then to follow up on that, Mark Zeller introduced the Aavenomics update, which perhaps most significantly suggested the implementation of a buy and distribute program wherever I excess revenues or basically operating profits generated by the protocol would be used to buy AAVE tokens off the secondary market and return those tokens to staked. It would ultimately be up to AAVE governance to basically manually manage this buy and distribute program in accordance with however much excess revenue the protocol has occurred. But I think this is really interesting.
00:09:40.892 - 00:10:15.080, Speaker D: First step in being able to return some of the value generated by the protocol back to governance token holders, particularly right now, AAVEs key metrics and fundamentals are basically all pushing all time highs. Tvl is up and to the right. Total borrows revenues, earnings go supply. By all metrics, AAVE is firing on all cylinders and well positioned to return that value to protocol token holders.
00:10:16.420 - 00:10:44.028, Speaker C: Yeah, I'm curious you guys thoughts. Obviously, you know, the discussion of a fee switch for like uni for example, has been a hotly desired and debated topic in the community. I'm curious what your guys thoughts are on Aave as well. This is sort of like their kind of shareholder dividend moment. In the same way as the uni fee switch has been chased after positive negative thoughts around returning fees to the.
00:10:44.044 - 00:11:31.078, Speaker E: Token holders, my main initial thought has to be around taking sushi as an example. When it comes to returning revenue to token holders, is it a good idea for in the early stages for a protocol, for example? I mean, debatably though, Aave is one of the blue chips in the defi ecosystem as a whole. Defi is still quite young. Does it make sense to return revenue to the token holders as opposed to keeping the revenue for future growth of the protocol for R and D, for other things like that? The opportunity cost still exists there. And so that's my initial thought, despite it being very exciting that Aave's fundamentals look great and potentially allowing for people to gain exposure to that. That's my main thought is what's the opportunity cost there? Is it worth it this early on in Defi?
00:11:31.254 - 00:12:39.710, Speaker A: So yeah, it is. Obviously, I think a good thing that these things are cash flowing and are returning some cash flow to stakeholders of these systems. However, I think it's useful to look to tradfi markets, particularly technology equities, to kind of get a comp for what investors have traditionally thought about these events. So if like, I think it was like 2012 when Apple first started discussing a dividend and it was very bearish for the company. Now, obviously, like Apple is fine today, but it was a signal for investors that they had more cash than they needed, which could be a signal that management is looking at the market and doesn't see that rich of an opportunity set for Apple's products. Same thing happened with Cisco around the same timeframe, which actually sent the stock into a secular bear. I think from 2010 to 2014, the stock was down only when it started issuing a dividend and basically signaled to investors our days of growth are behind us.
00:12:39.710 - 00:13:33.430, Speaker A: If you look at Google's dividend today, it's less than 1%. So it's like returning cash to shareholders is great and that's why, or stakeholders, and that's why certain assets have value. But you also want to use that cash flow to grow. And a lot of these projects are really early stage. And look, it's great that they want, it's great that they want to return cash, but I think it would be a strong signal to the market and potentially like create like a secular shift in the industry where these defi protocols, they don't just build once, create token, sell it, get rich, but they move into more products and actually like build a like lasting, durable moat for their, their business and their token holders.
00:13:35.130 - 00:14:30.150, Speaker D: Yeah, I agree with a lot of those points, Ryan. I'm currently seeing that Aave's treasury balance is about $60 million net of protocol native tokens and that should be adequate to fund their product roadmap for both v four and the features outlined in the 2030 proposal. And I think one benefit of how this buy and distribute program is implemented is it is ultimately going to be up to governance as to how much of protocol generated revenues do get distributed through the buy and distribute program back to token holders. So it's ultimately going to be, I guess dividend by dividend up to governance discretion. How much of that profit to basically pocket for the treasury versus buy and distribute throughout time.
00:14:31.690 - 00:14:50.196, Speaker A: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. I think Aave has been one of the good ones. Right? Like they're pushing new products, they're innovating on risk management. They launched go like they're clearly in it to win it. Yeah, we'll see how the market responds, but I think it'll obviously be net.
00:14:50.228 - 00:15:33.510, Speaker D: Bullish now, constructive, positive, and I think asymmetric to the upside. But that being said, I think a lot of these like DeFi 1.0 tokens that have incredible products product market fit their incumbents within their own verticals. I'm curious to what extent their protocol tokens might produce any alpha to Ethereum or Solana outright that I have yet to see. I, for example, has underperformed Ethereum since the start of the bull. So I wonder really if there's going to be any risk adjusted alpha for these tokens.
00:15:34.440 - 00:16:02.010, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that's the difficulty there is. There's certainly market participants who are always playing these events, but are they really playing and holding an AavE position for the long term relative to maybe ETH like you're saying, right? It's the kind of the relative bet there is always in question. And we've seen over longer time periods that often it doesn't really play out the way that you'd want. So that's a longer ongoing concern.
00:16:02.630 - 00:16:38.972, Speaker E: The other thing I'm thinking about is that how does this serve as a case study for other DeFi protocols as to when it is opportune to switch on the fee switch? Because we've seen negative case studies like with Sushi, does this mean that Aave setting like a general time period that okay, you hit this level of traction, this general time period of operating now makes sense. When does Camino switch on their fee switch, if at all? When does other lending protocols do the same thing? That's the thing I'm thinking about as well is based on how this performs, are we going to see kind of like a pattern where that's going to be a lot of other different protocols following suit?
00:16:39.156 - 00:17:23.270, Speaker D: One thing that I think is interesting about Aave's positioning for, I guess, turning on this v switch is it would really be financed through the reserve factor, which is about a 15% take rate on interest revenues generated by AaVE borrows. So they're already taking this fee and really it wouldn't reduce the expected value of lenders because they don't need to hike their take rate at all. Whereas in the case of Uniswap, should they turn on the fee switch, basically all Uniswap LP's will have a lower expected value on their liquidity, provided.
00:17:23.600 - 00:18:48.700, Speaker C: I will say one other piece to this that I think is an interesting consideration is the trade off here between growth and returning a fee to or basically buying and distributing aave in this case is, we've seen some of the growth incentives used by DeFi protocols in the past and in the present have been questionable at best. I think just unloading tokens onto communities for providing liquidity or engaging with something is not always the best case for a token or even a platform and its growth. So this does, I think if they're leaning in the direction of returning a fee revenue to the token, it might be a little bit safer, I guess, in the eyes of maybe existing token holders today, versus the open ended question of what does growth look like by incentivizing up token rewards, essentially in the future, we've seen how arbitrum has done their large gaming play and all the new projects with airdrops for incentivizing based on incentivized usage of the platforms. Oftentimes in the short and maybe even the long term, it's questionable how beneficial this is to the token itself. That's probably something else that people are weighing here. Is the trade off there.
00:18:50.320 - 00:19:27.698, Speaker E: Does it make sense for AAve to hold some of those tokens and the additional revenue to incentivize tradfi activity on top of AAVE, similar to what Makerdao is doing, for example, where not sure entirely how they're exactly incentivizing activity from more institutional participants, but if AAVE wants to be more competitive there, does it make sense for them to hold on revenue to, you know, subsidize lending and borrowing activity amongst institutional participants? That's the only thing I can think of that might make sense for a growth strategy rather than like traditional. Just, you know, let's drop on the new l one or l two, and let's just drop another AAVE implementation incentivize there.
00:19:27.834 - 00:19:50.986, Speaker C: Yeah, great points. Well, speaking of let's just drop another implementation, I think our next topic is maybe in that bucket a little bit. Jitto just recently announced Jitto restaking. So they're getting into the restaking game as well among all the other players in this space today. So I know, Nikhil, you got some background here if you want to dive into this announcement and what judo is thinking here.
00:19:51.138 - 00:20:49.656, Speaker E: Yeah, of course, Jitto is a fan favorite by a lot of folks, especially folks in the Solana ecosystem. And in general, there was just announcement of two main products. One is their vault program and the other is their restaking program that everyone basically heard of, more or less. There's limited information in terms of the actual intricacies of how it works, but what we do know is more or less that enables the ability for managing staked assets, having multiple different assets to be restaked, namely Jito Soul. But there's mention of other liquid staking tokens as well that can be utilized. And so it'll be interesting to see how this is utilized for like fine tuned slashing and how do they allow for nuance for restaking? Are they going to take the symbiotic approach? Are they going to take the eigen layer approach? That's still yet to kind of be mentioned there. Now, the main thing that a lot of folks are interested in here is that Jito has been known to be the sort of lido flashbots of Solana, but now suddenly there's this sort of like trifecta that they're trying to go after, which is cool.
00:20:49.656 - 00:21:39.972, Speaker E: But something to kind of highlight here is that judo is obviously not the only restaking participant in Solana. We've got a variety of folks ranging from Solaire, we've got Picasso, we've got Cambrian, several other people that are trying to play around in this race. I think why people are especially excited about Jitto is that they've already amassed this TVL, they already have this liquid staking token. They're really positioned to be really strong participant in this area. So that's the main high overview for that. The main thing that I'm interested in discussing is what does Jitto have an opportunity for that eigen layer or Babylon or korok or symbiotic could never do. And what are they going to play a role in the actual Solana ecosystem? Some people have talked about the bull case being that, hey, if Solana takes off and starts to eclipse ethereum, Gino is basically the Eigen layer of theory of Solana, more or less.
00:21:39.972 - 00:22:06.280, Speaker E: So then what can we do there? Seeing other folks take the other approach, which is that Solana is constantly undergoing various different protocol upgrades to keep up with the ongoing demand. Is Jito a good way of basically internalizing some of these different additional upgrades without having to actually enshrine into the protocol? So curious on everyone's thoughts on what do we think Cheeto could do for the Solana ecosystem, and how does it sit amongst all the different other restaking protocols.
00:22:06.440 - 00:22:53.500, Speaker A: It's not clear to me how useful restaking is, though crypto does seem to love it. So I think objectively, you just want to launch a product there if you're well positioned to. I think Jito is obviously very well positioned to do so. They also are, frankly, they sit at a very, very interesting place in the market where this isn't going to be the only product that they launch. Like, if, you know, if they're concerned with driving value to the JTO token, like, I can think of a list of five or six things that are like, they're like new markets to dive into. They have the brand and they have the positioning. And I think that restaking is kind of like just the first of kind of many things to come.
00:22:53.500 - 00:23:34.834, Speaker A: They've shown. They've shown a bias towards shipping, and it's really awesome to see how big of an impact restaking is going to have on the Solana ecosystem, I think is yet to be seen. I think objectively, just because of how big Solana is like, it's not modular explicitly, so, and it just has less of a need for restaked things. So it'll be interesting. It'll be interesting to see what people come up with. It's gonna, it's probably gonna get a little wild, but I'm here for it.
00:23:35.002 - 00:24:37.310, Speaker C: Yeah, I think Ryan and Nikhil, to echo some of your comments there, I'd put myself in the camp as well around being a little bit of a restaking bear at the moment. Not because I don't think it's valuable, but I think it's become a little bit over indexed just as a category relative to maybe the value that's really there today. Maybe investors are really excited about the future, but it does seem like it's gotten a little bit out of hand. But at the same time, I also think this is really positive for Jito. We've seen just continued development and deployment from them, and they've really just been continually expanding their product offerings and we've seen that grow their fee revenues as a protocol. So as a product, as a protocol, as a token, it's looking incredibly strong on many fronts and they really just continue to ship. So in the category as a whole, I'd say it's questionable, but maybe to eke a couple of percent out for themselves in this marketplace, I think it makes sense for them as a team.
00:24:38.120 - 00:25:13.882, Speaker E: Yeah, I definitely agree there. I think there's two main use cases for restaking. At least that's been proven out in limited capacities as of right now. One is external shared security, and the other is internal. With external, it's more or less okay, we're Babylon, we're Eigen layer. We're going to export this relatively cheaper economic security to other different protocols, like take different app chains, l two s rather than issuing your own token to bootstrap. A validator set or shared sequencer set would be expensive, and you have to pay out a large inflation rate of like 15%, again, depending on who wants to look at it.
00:25:13.882 - 00:25:48.142, Speaker E: Some people see issuance as a cost, some don't. The fact of the matter is that it's still something that's going to add sell pressure to your token. So with shared security, that's the benefit there. But when thinking about how Jito sits in the landscape, there's a lower demand for sole, the asset compared to obviously BTC and ETH, like BTC for example, has a lower interest rate premium rather than Ethereum. Ethereum has a lower interest rate premium than Sol. So you can afford to have cheaper economic security from other sources. So I don't see people going to Jito and saying, hey, I'm going to launch my app chain and I'm going to use Jito soul for that source.
00:25:48.142 - 00:26:53.736, Speaker E: But where I do see Jito playing a really interesting role is in internal shared security, where there are these different protocol upgrades or different services that would be useful to the Solana ecosystem but require some level of economic incentives. Fast lanes like we saw with stake weighted cubaos, for instance. That's the sort of thing that a lot of folks in the Solana ecosystem are talking about. So I see that Jito cell can play a large role where different applications want to have effectively these fast lanes for their user base. They go to Geto, they use restaking for that purpose to provide a better experience for their end user. My only question, and this is what I'm interested in hearing other people's thoughts on, is what if people skip geedo and don't use jitto directly or jitto stake Sol, and they use their own LST for that? And my main thought here is with sanctum, is there a universe where Jupiter marginfy all these different protocols, list their own LST, and they use stake weighted QoS basically in their own LST to provide this additional experience to their end user. And rather than paying fees to Guito, they pay fees to their own LST.
00:26:53.736 - 00:27:08.218, Speaker E: Then I'm not necessarily sure if this is mutually exclusive to Jito, because according to their announcement, it looks like they can support multiple assets outside of just Jito soul. They can support other lsts. But I wonder if there's other people that are positioned better for this sanctum.
00:27:08.354 - 00:28:26.930, Speaker C: I do think there's a question there as well. I'm not entirely positive of the full interplay here in terms of product experience, but Helios Labs, for example, and their RPC services and the fact that I think they're now number one in terms of stake as a validator for Solana, it brings up the question of whether you wouldn't just like offshore all of this need to someone like Helios, have them be your RPC provider rather than all of these protocols, standing up their own LST, standing up their own validator and trying to acquire a stake to it. I could also see the scenario where they just pay whatever fee is required to then make use of who is essentially the largest provider and who would have the greatest benefit from stakeholder QoS today for the best product offering. I think that's a dynamic that we're seeing is, I think stakewood at QoS kind of incentivizes this race to the top a little bit for these top, top validators for that QoS piece. To that point, it's like why, as a protocol, why bother doing all that work yourself, gathering all that stake, when you could just go to the number one guy and ask for their benefits, basically.
00:28:27.990 - 00:28:59.980, Speaker E: Yeah, that definitely makes sense. My only thought against why somebody might choose an alternative would be if a large enough DaP that feels like they can assume a large chunk of fees, like take a Jupyter, for example, they could probably offer some incentive program to their user base to use their own LST, their own implementation, rather than paying a larger provider. But I definitely agree that it doesn't make sense for a small DaP to probably do that because they'd probably not be able to amass enough capital to create enough of a benefit for their end user.
00:29:00.720 - 00:29:24.514, Speaker C: Yeah, I think that makes a lot of sense, and that's where I was feeling and where I was going a little bit with the sanctum. Point is, we've seen a lot, there's a lot of lsts on there today for lots of smaller purposes. And so I think it really brings it into question. It's like, are you really going to get the benefit stake weighted Qos if you're going to end up being a much smaller LST than just going to, like, an existing provider for services, basically is the point there.
00:29:24.602 - 00:30:13.920, Speaker B: Hey guys. Permissionless, the event for crypto natives, is heading west to Salt Lake City, and we're bringing the biggest names in crypto together for an incredible canvas event. Join me and the rest of blockworks on October 9 to hear from more than 200 industry titans, including Nick White from Celestia, Firam from Eigen Lair, and Keone from Monad. The conversations at permissionless will be covering the hottest themes in crypto, including modularity, restaking the bitcoin and solon ecosystems, AI and crypto roll ups, l two s institutional adoption, and of course, the November election that will be right around the world. We couldn't be more excited about this event, and it's happening in one of the most beautiful places in the US. Ticket prices will be increasing towards the end of June, so get your ticket today. Make sure to use their code so I get some credit and bragging rights from the rest of the team.
00:30:13.920 - 00:30:38.190, Speaker B: Use Xerox, ten for 10% off on your ticket. One more thing. We're also hosting the permissionless free hackathon in collaboration with Biddlebox. The theme this year is a multi chain feature to build a better cross chain experience so I don't have to have a heart attack every time I bridge to a new chain. All hackathon participants will receive a free ticket to attend permissions. So if you're a developer, come join us in Salt Lake City, team up with fellow devs and build the multi chain future.
00:30:38.310 - 00:31:13.966, Speaker C: Let's stay in Soland, but talk a little bit about something else. Paypal. They have been incentivizing their stablecoin on Solana recently. It's been on ethereum since last year, but recently in May they launched PayPal USD on Solana, and that came along with incentives on both Camino at the beginning of July as well as marginfi last week. They just announced some incentives there. So there's a few interesting tidbits going on here with PayPal USD on Solana. One, they're making use of the token 2022 extension in standard standard for the token itself.
00:31:13.966 - 00:31:35.610, Speaker C: So that allows one that they've mentioned. One feature they've mentioned is confidential transfers. I don't know if this is being used or fully implemented yet today, or if that's something that will come in the future. And then the other piece of this is that obviously PayPal has control over the token itself.
00:31:36.190 - 00:31:39.502, Speaker D: Whitelisting addresses managing the token itself from.
00:31:39.526 - 00:33:14.190, Speaker C: Sort of like a regulatory compliance perspective, and I imagine that was part of the reasoning in using this token standard in managing the token itself. Big question here for them is, and probably part of the interesting story is they're currently incentivizing deposits and liquidity for PYUSD to the tune of like anywhere from 15% to 20% based on the amount of rewards that they've offered up to the pools on Camino today. If you look there for them as a business, I think there's a question mark on how long they'll be willing to offer up this basically free money to people, to basically deposit stables and earn cash. I think we all know that people within the space, there's a lot of mercenary activity in the space, and if you can earn 15% on what is largely just basically a free return with relatively low risk, it's unlikely that PayPal will rug their users. That would come with some serious action. I think for them, it's questionable how meaningful these deposits are going to be looking to the future if it's entirely based on liquidity incentives, similar to what we saw with a lot of activity in 2021, with liquidity farming being a massive interest back then as well, to gain users and TVL growth. Ultimately, though, I think there's a question here of we're seeing PayPal go after this vertical and wanting to use it, wanting to use PayPal USD as a back end for Venmo or PayPal to serve their users on the front end of those applications.
00:33:14.190 - 00:33:55.600, Speaker C: Does this open up further growth and expansion for other tradfi firms to get into the space? It seems like it's been pretty simple for them to onboard several hundred million in TVL of the tokens. So clearly it hasn't been that big of a lift to get into the space. But I guess there's a question mark here, like could we see visa, could we see other big payment giants want to get into this space? Maybe from their operating cost perspective, is this something that they're just going to save money on as a business? Are there other interesting things there? Is it worth going this route despite maybe the added complexity upfront here?
00:33:56.740 - 00:35:11.630, Speaker E: The last point that you mentioned, one thing I'm interested in that I was taking a look at before, was PayPal's main client base for different merchants are primarily in the US, Canada and Europe. And there are a few, like on the longer tails, a few other nations, but primarily first world countries. And what we've seen in terms of stable coin adoption in crypto are either amongst institutional parties that want to deploy a lot of capital onto different chains, or different nation states that do not have maybe a more stable currency and want access to stable coins for more stable value. Take Tron, for example, where they have explosive stablecoin activity, primarily in a lot of different other nations, like Turkey, for example, where the Lyra is relatively less stable compared to the us dollar. And so one thing that I'm thinking about that initially I thought this was very bullish for Solana, that potentially we could see Solana as a big payments platform. But if stablecoins are basically bifurcated between institutional folks and retail folks that are in nations with less stable currencies, is PayPal going to be that much of a catalyst for stablecoin activity on Solana, considering that they're the client base is primarily in nations that would not need external access to the us dollar, they already probably have access to a pretty stable currency.
00:35:12.210 - 00:36:00.336, Speaker D: Yeah, I think tether kind of showed the world just how good a stablecoin business model can be from a free cash flow perspective. I think a lot of that ultimately, though, is still downstream of macroeconomic conditions and monetary policy. And the current interest rate paradigm, where you could have this business model where you give users a stablecoin token. And on the back end you hold the cash reserves in short term money markets or 210 year treasuries clipping five to 5.5% yield. Certainly incredibly attractive from a business model perspective. PayPal has seen remarkable growth in its foray into the stablecoin market.
00:36:00.336 - 00:37:26.270, Speaker D: I know when they first launched, they kind of had this meme about them where they were the boomer tradfi firm entering crypto markets, but they're now just short of 600 million in stablecoin supply. 330 million of that is on ethereum, 240 million of that is on Solana, and of PI USD's supply on Solana, 66% of that is held in the Camino reserve farming this incentives program, which has been clipping about 22% APY. So to Danny's point, you know, I'm unsure how much of this is actual, you know, user interest in this new stablecoin, as opposed to just profit maximizing their yield on a stablecoin supply position. But ultimately, like it goes to show, stablecoins are. They're pretty boring, they're not too flashy, but ultimately they're an incredibly profitable business model. So, I mean, looking at DeFi Llama, I see Blackrock's biddle at 53 on the Defi Llama ranks with 508 million in deposits. I see Franklin Templeton at 62 with 420 million in deposits.
00:37:26.270 - 00:37:38.650, Speaker D: And with PayPal in those ranks as well. I think it goes to show it's a totally different cycle with the extent we have these large tradfi firms entering the market.
00:37:39.670 - 00:38:56.620, Speaker C: Yeah, I think you make a good point there, Luke. The question mark here for PayPal is if they're truly interested in making use of piusd for the sake of operating their applications on the front end, basically facilitating transfers for people who are using Venmo or PayPal or other products using these tokens, as that means ultimately they do need to incentivize liquidity, because if you can't swap in and out of it, then that's going to be a terrible experience. The slippage, potentially the fees associated with that could be quite high if they weren't at this point of hundreds of millions in deposits, or if the liquidity was really weren't there. So I think it makes sense directionally where they're going. But ultimately, if these aren't long term users, or if these people are all going to dump their PI USD when incentives go away, then they might need to figure out another way to go about that. Unless everyone, unless people using PayPal and Venmo can somehow be via the front end. They're unaware of what's going on in the back end, but can be like their activities can make use of on chain liquidity in that fashion, maybe without realizing it.
00:38:56.780 - 00:39:19.180, Speaker D: Yeah, I think PayPal has a really unique positioning, at least within web two firms, to, I guess, propagate use of a crypto native stablecoin, whereas circle or tether simply didn't have the legacy merchant rails to get distribution of their stablecoin the way PayPal might.
00:39:19.920 - 00:40:01.410, Speaker A: Yeah, it's interesting that they have that distribution. They also have an incentive to have people use this. If you're going to enable like immediate with Orlando, if you're going to enable immediate withdrawals for like, PayPal users, you're going to have to cover that because of the time associated with actually moving money on trad five rail. So there's like a degree of capital inefficiency in PayPal's business. They actually have an incentive to push, like, users to use this thing. It's not obvious to me that they're doing that within the apps yet, but I don't know, maybe that changes as this regulatory environment improves.
00:40:02.030 - 00:40:55.146, Speaker C: I'm curious, next topic. I'm curious your guys, any thoughts on this compound, what's being labeled as a governance attack on Twitter? It seems like to the compound treasury, there's a large wallet or a large holder of comp tokens or accumulator of tokens, who it seems like has reached the threshold of being able to put forward and get past a vote to basically allocate themselves a certain amount of comp tokens from the treasury or from the Dow treasury. So the question here is, I think there's a lot of sort of factors at play. There's lots of talk around economic security being a meme for blockchains, for defi protocols. I think it's a little bit different of a discussion. There's clear incentives here at play. If you can gain enough votes to raid a treasury, then that leaves actors in the space with an opportunity to go and do that.
00:40:55.146 - 00:41:23.710, Speaker C: Like in this case, there's been some comments around whether this would be illegal or not in normal corporate law. I can't speak to the veracity there, but I'm curious, any thoughts you guys have around just governance of these large and legacy protocols has comp just been ignored for too long and it's just left this opportunity wide open. Our governance parameters a little too loose? Would this be illegal? Is, you know, is that something that we should dive into? Any thoughts?
00:41:24.370 - 00:42:41.690, Speaker A: Yeah, I think the legality thing is not something that like, I can personally speak to. I do know, like as a rule of thumb, there's a big difference between a hostile takeover and I believe what's called stripping, where a hostile takeover, you basically like push management out and like, the thing is still a going concern and you want it to be more valuable over time. Whereas stripping in corporate law involves like hostile takeover dynamics, but then aggressively selling assets and leaving behind a much less valuable or bankrupt entity. I don't know what's going to happen in the compound scenario. Um, I'm definitely going to be watching to see how it unfolds. But I think it's interesting that it like, has happened to these, I guess, like legacy DeFi projects that aren't exactly in growth mode. I'm not, I'm not an expert on compound, but I think that the prevailing narrative is, is that like, who's using this thing like it's a shell of its former self.
00:42:41.690 - 00:43:37.930, Speaker A: The token is mostly down, only it doesn't seem to be as much of a going concern as other, like, lending protocols in the space. And like that when you have like hostile takeovers in tradfi, like, it's very much a result of like management doing something incorrect, investors being fed up and then like forcing change. So it's like, it's kind of no surprise that you're seeing these kind of takeover actions happening in these corners of the market where projects aren't exactly on their front feet in regards to, like, growth and like, structure and like a go forward plan, but you need these things to happen so that it forces other teams to like, get on their front feet and, you know, ultimately it'll be an experience that the space learns from.
00:43:38.510 - 00:44:43.810, Speaker C: Yeah, I think there's an interesting point here in that we've seen similar cases of this, though maybe not quite by, you know, individuals or, you know, a single individual or entity, but like RFV, like risk free value attacks, if you want to call them that. But in cases where a token relative to its treasury, if the governance process and then the value of the treasury of a certain protocol are out of whack, there's an incentive there for existing holders to kind of align behind a mission to basically just return that value to themselves and dissolve the project. Essentially. This has played out in a few cases, I think particularly Aragon. Dow might be an example in the past, and I know there's definitely others, but would need to go and pull those up either way. I think when you've got incentives that are sort of misaligned here. And if a treasury grows a little bit too big for its britches, and the token is way out of whack with that kind of.
00:44:43.810 - 00:45:02.894, Speaker C: I think in regards to what you're saying here, Ryan, if a protocol is really not doing much and hasn't been developing, and there's not growth on the forefront, and holders don't want to believe in that, and they think there's more value in just taking hold of what's left in their treasury for themselves, then they'll be incentivized to do so if that's how the risk reward looks.
00:45:03.022 - 00:45:53.984, Speaker E: Yeah, makes sense. There's also some additional tidbits here that came out that looks like the compound DAO is trying to respond to fight the actual proposal itself, which is interesting to see in real time. Two of the things that they had announced was, one, adding some sort of time lock towards like the community multisig when it comes to paying things out, and there was like a risk parameter update for the actual comp token. But it looks like both of these things will likely only pass, if at all, after the actual governance attack per se. And so that's interesting to see that, like how, how can daos combat, like attacks in real time, if at all? And what are like proactive measures that can be taken as well. But I think it was mentioned by both Eudani and Ryan as well, that for a lot of these larger protocols, take Aave, for example. Take makerdao.
00:45:53.984 - 00:46:25.026, Speaker E: Token prices are higher, they've got larger token holder accounts, and so it's going to be a lot more difficult to orchestrate some sort of attack to begin with. But curious to see if people start to think about this when structuring daos, we already see that the arbitrum dao is experimenting with new types of things, you know, adding all these different safeguards, adding these different operational sort of strategies. And so it's cool to see how daos are basically becoming much more mature and thinking about all these things that traditional businesses have had to think about for quite some time.
00:46:25.218 - 00:46:39.100, Speaker A: Yeah, like Luke pointed out earlier, like Aave shipping and they're returning value and Aave token is, is doing well. Like their financials are firing on all cylinders, like no one's vampire attacking Aave. I think that's a great point.
00:46:39.260 - 00:47:23.370, Speaker D: I think this almost lends an argument to having these accretive mechanisms for the governance token. To the extent you can bolster the value of a token through returning fees, this should decrease the incentive for people to dump the token on the market, subsequently reducing the market value and making it easier and easier for external market actors to acquire a necessary stake to put through a hostile governance proposal. So, yeah, the more attractive it is to actually hold the governance token, the harder it is to put through one of these attacks.
00:47:23.750 - 00:47:25.950, Speaker E: Compound should have switched on their fee switch.
00:47:26.110 - 00:48:17.270, Speaker C: Yeah, great points again all around. I think there'll be ongoing concerns and probably people looking out now that we've seen events like this take place, I'm sure we'll have individuals and entities looking for similar opportunities in the future. And this is going to be a more kind of open topic for daos to consider going forward. One last topic to touch on today, Luke, I'll be curious to get your insight into the details here, but the or project, basically the token mining project being built on top of Solana has a V two update coming out soon. And a bunch of the details were just released over this past weekend, it looks like. So, Luke, if you want to fill us in on kind of the rundown on the update and what's to come there.
00:48:18.130 - 00:49:40.450, Speaker D: Yeah, so. Or is a highly experimental fringe project on the Solana blockchain. When it launched in April, it was effectively a proof of work algorithm implemented as a smart contract on the Solana blockchain. And when it first launched, it saw incredible demand where calling the program effectively accounted for ten to 14% of all of Solana network activity, which is absolutely bonkers. The way V one was implemented was there's very much a strong incentive to Sibyl or spam the program and submit as many hashes as possible within a given timeframe. So this, of course, led to a lot of the network, I guess, congestion or bandwidth issues we saw during that point in time, and even got to the point where Tolle was on Twitter, basically begging the founder, Hardhat Chad, to move the program to devnet instead. So what we saw was Chad burnt the admin keys for V one and moved away to basically build the v two program.
00:49:40.450 - 00:50:57.610, Speaker D: He recently announced what V two would entail with a number of upgrades to both make it more attractive for the network to reduce spam, but also increase incentives for holding the token itself. So this includes part of the proof of work logic, is that you can only submit one hash per minute. So this disincentivizes the spam risk that we saw in v one. And then another mechanism is miners can receive a multiple of up to two x for basically staking their ore and mining. So it basically seems like with this v two redesign, whichever miner has the most stake is going to be the most competitive. So of course it's a fringe and experimental project, but it certainly saw remarkable traction when it first shipped. And for that reason, I'm certainly paying close attention and looking forward to the v two launch and seeing what sort of demand there is to mine once that goes live.
00:50:57.730 - 00:51:46.936, Speaker E: I think, Danny, you mentioned this offline before, but one of the things that I've also been thinking about, especially after you mentioned it, is the dilutive factor of it being a proof of work token. Right now, obviously, there's not a ton of circulating supply that's out there. And funny enough, there's a similar experiment that was run in end of 2021, beginning of 2022, on Avalanche, something called X Power mine. That was similar idea, cpu mining, meme coin token. Effectively, there's a ton of demand for it, but because of the lack of liquidity, the main way that people would basically actually gain the token was just to actually mine it, which made sense. And very, very quickly, the supply exploded and just basically eclipsed the demand, and the price was obviously down only. So obviously just a different story.
00:51:46.936 - 00:51:59.780, Speaker E: Because with Solana, with the meme coin frenzy and whatnot, there is a world where maybe demand could actually outpace the supply, which could be really interesting, but I'm curious to see how that dynamic is as we go into seeing more miners come out.
00:52:00.180 - 00:52:43.180, Speaker C: Yeah, I think it's a great point. I think if you look today for or there's like 20,000 tokens in the circulating supply today, with the kind of active, once the mining goes live again, it's intended to be around like one or per minute. So obviously we're looking at quite a few tokens coming onto the market per day. Like, if you do the math there, and if you guys know that famous song, that's 525,600 tokens in a year. So looking ahead, you're looking at multiples expansion in the supply in a very short period of time upcoming. So to your point, Nikhil, 100% agree. There's a big question here.
00:52:43.180 - 00:52:58.260, Speaker C: How does this supply face the niche excited demand about a mining project built on top of a proof of state network? Which is interesting, but that's quite a few tokens to contend with, I think.
00:52:58.420 - 00:53:13.840, Speaker E: Yeah, I wonder if there's going to be some copies that pop up on all the different high throughput chains. Are we going to see like a suite or an aptos? Or maybe when eclipse launches, we'll see an eclipse or so. It'll be interesting to see that if there's any success, I'm sure that there'll be copies.
00:53:15.100 - 00:54:12.670, Speaker D: Yeah. Part of Hardhat Chad's mission is that he didn't like seeing the evolution of bitcoin mining to be eventually run by those most sophisticated institutions with huge balance sheet and huge capex required to actually be like a competitive miner on the network. And one aspect of bitcoin mining is mining the block. The rewards are exclusive to one miner. So what Chad has implemented is basically users can outsource these hardware requirements to Solana validators, which have amongst the most performative hardware already. And also mining rewards are non exclusive. So if you submitted any hash, regardless of the difficulty, regardless of the ore you have staked, you have some claim on the one or per minute.
00:54:12.670 - 00:54:28.450, Speaker D: So really for users, the value proposition here is you can basically run the web application with $20 of Solana to fund for gas, and depending on the price of ore, earn some degree of passive income on that.
00:54:28.910 - 00:54:38.650, Speaker A: If this thing is successful to any degree, the bitcoin people are going to be so angry. Like cypherpunk crypto is going to be up in arms.
00:54:39.030 - 00:55:24.632, Speaker C: Yeah, I think to your point, Brian, it, when you think of it from the lens of anything, if the goal is to really have anything, mine it, and then you earn proportionally relative to your kind of ownership stake percentage. Right. There's sort of like. It's like an interesting combo dynamic of proof of stake and proof of work, which really hasn't been implemented to this point in time. But certainly, you know, if someone starts modeling out the value transfer from bitcoin to ore, we're going to see some wild craziness on the timeline if people are that bullish. Any last thoughts for you guys before we head off for today? It was great having to chat with you all.
00:55:24.776 - 00:55:28.100, Speaker A: Just looking out for who the Michael Saylor of ore is going to be.
00:55:29.120 - 00:55:31.816, Speaker C: Looks like we got a good candidate here in Luke starting out.
00:55:32.008 - 00:55:35.700, Speaker E: Yeah. There you go. Hardhat Chad. He's a man of the people.
00:55:37.480 - 00:55:41.836, Speaker C: Awesome. Well, great chat today, guys, and thanks for coming on, as always.
00:55:42.028 - 00:55:43.092, Speaker E: Thanks everyone. See ya.
00:55:43.156 - 00:55:43.620, Speaker A: Been pleasure.
