00:00:00.240 - 00:00:22.486, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cesano, and today's the 9 december 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So first update today comes out of the l two beat team. You guys know this team? I've talked about them a lot. The L2 kind of like information website. They track TVL, they have a bunch of information and educational materials on there.
00:00:22.486 - 00:00:57.870, Speaker A: Today they announced that they are going to be building a state explorer for DydX, in collaboration with DydX, of course, and Starkware. So this tool will show decoder call data stored in Ethereum l one by the Dy DX roll up. And it will also allow users to perform force exits and trades by sending an l one transaction. So let's break this down to kind of like plain English. It's basically like a block explorer, right? Like you, I mean, we all used Etherscan. There's other kind of like ones out there that we've used before. But essentially what happens with ZK rollups is that they post kind of like their transaction proof and they post their call data on layer one.
00:00:57.870 - 00:01:51.766, Speaker A: But there's no way to kind of like extract that unless you're kind of like a developer, unless you know what you're doing. So what l two b is trying to do is build an interface that allows end users to kind of like extract that data and be able to kind of like see stuff like what trades they did on the, on the roll up and kind of like their balances in different points of time and all that sort of good stuff, the same stuff you can see on Etherscan. Right. And in addition to that, they're also going to be building features that allow users to perform force exits and trades by sending an l one transaction. So, you guys know, I've explained it to you before how these l two s work, where essentially if they go offline, if they're a true l two and they're posted, you know, call data to layer one along with the transaction proofs, you can interact with the contracts by using l one. Yes, the gas fees are going to be really high compared to the l two. Like in dy Dex's case, they actually give you free kind of trading because they cover the gas cost for you through the trading fees.
00:01:51.766 - 00:02:17.814, Speaker A: If you do it, to do it on layer one, it's going to cost you a lot. Like I don't know how much it would cost, but it probably cost you, like, probably hundreds of dollars to interact with it. But the thing is, you can still do it. That's the whole kind of like, point, right? You can still do it at layer one, which I think is really, really cool. So awesome to see that l two b is kind of like building his infrastructure out. They've been on fire lately, both on their official Twitter and kind of like their team members Twitter. There's been a bunch of kind of like, stuff that they've been putting together.
00:02:17.814 - 00:03:04.786, Speaker A: I mean, they wrote a blog post today as well, called it titled, is the $6 billion locked in l two secure by one of their team members, Bartech here, one of the founders, I think. And it was a really great post. I really enjoyed it. It basically went through kind of like how secure each of the l two s are and kind of like all the, I guess, like, I mean, I wouldn't call them like backdoors, but all the kind of like centralized controls that they have around them right now, which I've warned about, like, plenty of times before. And then if I go to bartech here, he actually put out a tweet thread just before what? Not this one. Let me just bring it up here. So this tweet thread here, where he started off by saying, surprised to see a lot of take, trying to argue superiority of ZK roll ups over optimistic roll ups or otherwise we might end up in a multi role up ecosystem where both play slightly different roles and will coexist.
00:03:04.786 - 00:03:39.818, Speaker A: And then he goes through a thread about, here's why I've said to this to you guys before, as much as like, I'm super bullish on ZK roll ups, I think they're going to be amazing. I think that ZK tech in general is amazing. Optimistic roll ups are not obsolete and won't be for quite a while, because doing EVM compatibility and kind of like EVM equivalents on with kind of like ZK roll ups is, is really hard. And I know there's multiple efforts kind of like working towards that, but it's hard. It's more expensive, and it's going to take just much longer than people think to, to get to a point where we want it to be. But optimistic roll ups are ready. Today they work.
00:03:39.818 - 00:04:04.530, Speaker A: Today they're EVM compatible. Today they're live. You can go use them right now. Yes, they're in the early stages. You have to wait for things like core data compression for cost to come down, um, and, you know, a bunch of other kind of like, mechanisms there but they work and they work really well. And it's such an awesome experience going to arbitrary optimism and having like an instant transaction confirmation. Obviously it's not instant finality, but just kind of like that feedback that you get not having to, you know, and obviously the costs are cheaper.
00:04:04.530 - 00:05:09.222, Speaker A: But, you know, the funny thing is I actually think the speed of the transaction, um, to me is maybe for most people it's probably not as important as the fees, but for me, like, seriously, after using Ethereum for years and having to wait at minimum, kind of like for one ethereum block, which could, you know, range depending on where you do your transaction, can range from a couple of seconds up to like 13, 14 seconds. Or if you, um, you know, before 1559, if you had to kind of like speed up your transaction, it could take you minutes to get, uh, to get into a kind of like a block because of some demand spike or something like that. It happens less so with 1559, of course. But, you know, for those of, who have been doing ethereum transactions at layer one for years, the fact that we're getting like instant confirmation at L2, yet, yes, it's not instant finality, which comes later, but that kind of like instant confirmation feedback just feels absolutely amazing. And, uh, you know, you, you kind of like, uh, relatively safe and secure as well because it is a layer too. Like, I know some other kind of like layer one blockchains offer this, but, but obviously they're not inheriting Ethereum's scalability and decentralization as well. So a little bit of a tangent there, but I think the point I'm trying to make here is that I hate when people say optimistic roll ups are obsolete because.
00:05:09.222 - 00:05:24.998, Speaker A: What do you mean obsolete? Like show me a zk evm that I can use today. Right now. No one can do it. Like I've said this to multiple people on Twitter, no one can do it because one does not exist. The closest we have right now is probably stocknet. But Stocknet isn't evm compatible. It's using Cairo, their own language.
00:05:24.998 - 00:05:50.146, Speaker A: It's using their own, uh, execution engine at, uh, at L2 there. Um, and it's in a very early alpha stage. They do have a transpiler, but that again is also in a very early alpha stage, transpiling from solidity code to Cairo. Uh, from solidity to Cairo. So the ZkvM, I would say, like maybe polygon. Hermes is one of the closest teams I know. ZK sync is pretty close.
00:05:50.146 - 00:06:12.564, Speaker A: Uh, and then there's hybrid solutions like ZK Porter and things like that. But we're still gonna be waiting a little while for them to even get to where optimistic roll ups are today. I believe so, yeah. Optimistic roll ups, definitely not obsolete. Let's stop saying that. I know probably none of you guys are saying it, but I've been seeing it out in the wild. So if you see it, definitely just call it out and say they're not obsolete, right? Like they're, they're live and working today.
00:06:12.564 - 00:06:47.164, Speaker A: ZK's tech is awesome, but there's still a long road ahead for it to get to where we want it to be. Probably not as long as people originally thought, but still, still, it's not coming tomorrow or next month or anything like that. It's going to be a longer journey there. But definitely recommend giving Bartex thread a read here about this. He goes into a bunch more detail, bunch more technical detail, which I found really illuminating. And also, if you're not kind of like, I guess following l two beat yet, I mean, it's one of the best followers on Twitter right now, especially for keeping up with l two stuff. And you can join their Discord channel as well and go check out their website too for all the cool stuff that they're working on.
00:06:47.164 - 00:07:37.462, Speaker A: So it's keeping on the topic of altoo news. Zigzag exchange, which is a really, which has become a really popular exchange on ZK sync, have announced that they now have a bridge. So they, they have a bridge between Ethereum and ZK sync that they operate where you can bridge over ETH Dai, USDC, USDT or WBTC with instant deposits and 30 minutes to seven hour withdrawals, 0% bridge tax only transaction fees depending on ETH L1 gas. Now I really love zigzag exchange because with gitcoin grants, matching rounds, obviously I have the deli Gwei gitcoin grant on there and I have the ETH hub gitcoin grant on there. For the daily gwei one. I would kind of like see all these funds coming in on L2. And there would be not just like one asset, it would be multiple assets, it would be USDT, USDC dai ETH.
00:07:37.462 - 00:08:24.674, Speaker A: And then I'd have to have to withdraw each of those to go back to layer one. If I wanted to, you know, sell the stable coins for ETH or if I wanted to kind of like, um, uh, kind of like convert it or send it to a centralized exchange, for example, to, to cash out some because there's taxes owed on it. It was just a super annoying process super expensive because I had to do the trades at L1. But now with zigzag exchange, I can actually just like trade the stable coins for ETH or trade everything for a stable coin on L2 and then just withdraw that one kind of like stable coin or that ethnic to layer one and then go to an exchange, which is just so much better. It saves me so much money doing that. And it's not just me, obviously, it's everyone with a kit coin grant, but like that's, that's what I've been using it for. But also, I mean, it's a proper exchange, not an amm, it's an order book or club exchange.
00:08:24.674 - 00:08:57.014, Speaker A: Right now, maybe they're going to do an amm. I would, I would say that they're going to do an amm eventually because amms are awesome. But it's just, it feels so good not having to go to layer one to do all these swaps. Like, let me tell you the fact that it's just so stupidly cheap at L2 and this is on a ZK roll up as well, which is awesome. And yeah, I mean, they've got like a bridge live now and everything. These guys kind of came out of nowhere as well. I know I've been covering it for a little bit, but they kind of came out of nowhere and I've just exploded onto the scene, so really, really awesome to see that as well, for sure.
00:08:57.014 - 00:09:22.486, Speaker A: But it just makes my life so much easier. But definitely go check them out. You can now bridge directly into Zksync using zigzag instant deposits, which is awesome. I mean, instant being like one ethereum block, I guess, which is pretty much, you know, just I guess like a maximum of about 13 seconds, depending on your gas fee that you've selected as well. But yeah, this will get you in and you can do like lots of trading on there. The liquidity is decent from what I've seen it. It's building up over time, obviously.
00:09:22.486 - 00:09:49.094, Speaker A: Still early days for zigzag here. Liquidity is pretty decent. It's probably not enough to service like really large orders just yet, but if you're a whale, you're pretty much going to just be on layer one anyway. You don't really care. But I'm sure as time goes on, their liquidity is going to get much better. And it's just like such a better experience than having to, having to essentially do what I did before when I was cashing out some gitcoin stuff. So yeah, really, really cool to see that and see this feature from zigzag here.
00:09:49.094 - 00:10:44.482, Speaker A: So influence, which is this kind of strategy space MMO that is building on starkware, shared a link today that there's a link on notion with listing the projects currently building on stocknet. So you can see here they're split into three main categories, Defi projects, games and nfts, and governance and community apps. So there's not too much just yet, but it's definitely, it's definitely making progress here. So right now, Acropolis, which is an amm, is heading to Starknet, maker of course, is heading there. Stark Finn, which again is another Amm zigzag, which is the order book based exchange that I was just talking about. A bunch of games and nfts, including influence, of course, dope wars I've seen talked about before and a few others on this list, and then some governance tools like Stark vote, which is trustless voting, and Zorro. Now, obviously this list is pretty bare right now, but the thing is, as I said to you guys, Stockinette is still so, so real.
00:10:44.482 - 00:11:24.542, Speaker A: Sorry, I should say so, so early in its life cycle that we're gonna have to wait for this sort of stuff to happen. It's not like the projects on layer one, Ethereum can just clone themselves over to stocknet right now. There is that transpiler. But from what I understand, the transpiler is not kind of like up to the point where it can just like take the EVM code from layer one, Aave, for example, and port it over to Stockinette, L2, and everything be well and dandy and everything work. And also these teams are going to want to audit that code again. Like, it's not as simple as just translating it over. You want to have certainty that it hasn't introduced any kind of like new bugs or anything like that.
00:11:24.542 - 00:11:59.822, Speaker A: Maybe I, you know, maybe I'm wrong here and it doesn't do that, but I doubt it. So the teams would also want to kind of, I guess, kind of like get another audit done as well. So it's going to be slow for those projects to move across, much faster for them to move across to arbitrum and optimism. I'm hoping Aave three goes live on arbitrum soon because we kind of like need Aave on arbitrary and one of the only key missing things there and obviously on optimism as well. But I think, you know, Ave had already committed to deploying to arbitrary and, but, you know, I think they've, I think they've committed to deploying to optimism as well. So would love to see that there. But anyway, um, definitely go check out these leads.
00:11:59.822 - 00:12:31.434, Speaker A: Maybe bookmark it, and you can watch it keep getting populated over time, which I'm sure it will be. So, an update out of Polygon here today. They've introduced something called ZK Verse, which is a new blog series dedicated to all things zero knowledge. So Polygon has really gone, like, more than all in on ZK at this point. You know when I kind of mentioned this, when they announced their $1 billion ZK fund a few months ago, they've just, like, gone fully into it. They have Polygon, my den, Polygon, nightfall Polygon, Hermes. And there's another announcement coming today, like, a big announcement that they've been teasing.
00:12:31.434 - 00:12:47.778, Speaker A: I think it's today or tomorrow at ZK day. Pretty sure it's today that they're teasing as well. So who knows? Maybe it's another ZK roll up or another ZK team that they've acquired. I don't know. I'm just speculating here. It could be some breakthrough on the tech side. We'll have to see what happens there.
00:12:47.778 - 00:13:13.236, Speaker A: But this is really cool because I think there needs to be a lot more education around ZK stuff because it's really become a main theme now. A lot of people are talking about it, but if I had to say, most people still have no idea how any of it works. Most people have no idea in what part of the lifecycle we're in for ZK tech. I'm not going to say I'm an expert on it. Far from it. Zero knowledge, kind of like technology in general, is very early. Not just the crypto context, but just in general.
00:13:13.236 - 00:13:36.894, Speaker A: The applied technology is very early. It's existed in kind of like, theory land for a while, I believe. But in terms of kind of applying it practically to things, it's. It's very, very new. So great to see more education coming out of polygon here around this. And again, you should bookmark this blog and definitely keep kind of, like, periodically checking back. Cause you'll be able to read a kind of different post about zero knowledge stuff.
00:13:36.894 - 00:13:57.492, Speaker A: But the first post is basically an introduction, which I gave it a read earlier. It's a short, just a short introduction, which I thought was just. Was really cool. It has a few links to other kind of, like, things you can read and check out as well. So definitely go check this out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description for you. So pods announced today that they're now live on Arbitrum.
00:13:57.492 - 00:14:25.000, Speaker A: So pods is an options kind of like protocol, and their first deployed option on Arbitrum is a put option on ETH USDC with a strike price of $3,500 expiring on December 23 with a cap of $1 million. So they're doing a guarded launch here with just like, I guess one product right now that obviously add more products over time. But great to see another options protocol live on. Arbitrary. I spoke about Premier or premier the other day. They're on there. I think there's a few others.
00:14:25.000 - 00:14:59.704, Speaker A: There's obviously open, sorry, not open. Lyra on optimism. So these options protocols are definitely kind of making the kind of like migration here because I believe pods was on ethereum layer one and then polygon Pos chain now on Arbitrum. I'm sure they're going to deploy to optimism if they haven't already. I can't remember if they're on there or not, but yeah, I mean, the strategy seems to be to kind of like deploy to all these EVM compatible slash equivalent chains, which makes a lot of sense. So if you're into options trading and you want to go check out pods, it's live on arbitrum for you to do. So just another thing for you guys to do on Arbitrum.
00:14:59.704 - 00:15:40.984, Speaker A: So Rainbow Mobile wallet has teased a new feature today. So it's a sneak peek of their upgraded gas features and a new gas UI, which obviously includes support for ERP 1559. So you can see in this video here how you can kind of, I guess like change your gas and see all the information about it. So it'll show you the current base fee, which is kind of like the current standard network fee that everyone pays. Then it shows you your settings for like, okay, what do you want your max base fee to be? And then what do you want your minor tip to be, which is the kind of like the tip that metamask displays, which you've, which you've all seen before. And then you continue on here. They have like, I mean, you can set custom amounts there or you can do normal, fast, or urgent.
00:15:40.984 - 00:16:22.596, Speaker A: Obviously, we're used to all seeing those different speed settings that we can choose. And then once that's kind of like done, you know, it'll give you kind of like prompt you with warnings, like, you know, this miner tip is higher than necessary, and then it kind of gives you information saying that the miner tip goes directly to the miner, and, you know, the higher tip makes your transaction more likely to confirm. And there you go. They're just kind of like finishing up the transaction here, editing all the kind of like gas related settings. And there you go. I think the rest of the video is just kind of like that, kind of confirming there, which is really cool. So great to see, I guess, more experimentation around how to show gas settings to end users because I think there's been a lot of flack given to metamask about how they do it.
00:16:22.596 - 00:17:34.006, Speaker A: Saying that it's confusing, it makes little sense. The tooltips that they have are just like really not up to scratch. So it's great to see other wallets kind of like doing something different, because if everyone just copied metamask and did what metamask did, we wouldn't actually improve, wouldn't actually get kind of like better ways to do it. And I think rainbows way of doing it right now is my, my favorite that I've seen so far, to be honest, because of the fact that they just like, plainly tell you what these things are like, you know, current base fee, max base fee and minor tip, and then it gives you an estimated max transaction fee in dollars, which is obviously what, you know, that's what most people care about, right? It's like, how much is this transaction going to cost me in dollars? But at the same time, you know, I think this is good for the short to medium term, but long term, I just really don't think there's going to be any, like, I mean, users on layer one that doesn't understand this kind of, like, this kind of stuff on like a deeper level because the newer users just are just so totally priced out. They're just going to be at L2 and they're not going to have to worry about this sort of stuff unless the L2 maybe implements an ERP 1559 style transaction method, which, I mean, I think, I'm pretty sure arbitram has it right now. If not, they plan to have it. I can't remember exactly.
00:17:34.006 - 00:18:09.098, Speaker A: They've gone blank there. But, yeah, but just like on layer one, I mean, I think it still makes sense for sure. But when you see that max transaction fee of dollar 70, imagine you're a new user and you see that you're definitely going to be like, no, like, what the hell am I going to pay this? So, you know, they're going to go to L2 and they're going to have a much better experience there. Which rainbow is working on L2 integrations as well, by the way. I've talked about that before, but yeah, really, really cool to see this out of rainbow here. All right, next up, we have index co op that announced it has raised $2.5 million in a round led by Sequoia India, blockchain.com
00:18:09.098 - 00:18:57.764, Speaker A: Ventures, and White Star Capital here. This brings the total funding to about $10 million since launch in October of 2020, led by a $7.75 million earlier round from Mike Novogratz's Galaxy Digital and one KX network. So I guess congrats to index co op on this raise. Really cool to see that they've got more capital under their belt to keep building out the best index products in, in deFi, in crypto, really, because they're not just deFi, they have the MVI and a bunch of other products now as well. And just as disclosure here, I'm an advisor to set, which is, you know, pretty, kind of like, um, pretty involved with, with index co op here. But I mean, it's just been amazing to see index co op's journey over the last year or so because, I mean, but every year now, because I was involved in the initial launch, it was kind of like a wild experiment for us to do at set, and it turned into something amazing.
00:18:57.764 - 00:19:45.064, Speaker A: I mean, it's outgrown set, that's for sure. It's its own kind of like beast now, where there's a lot of kind of contributors on there, a lot of really cool people kind of contributing to it. And the Dow works really well. And yeah, they're building a lot of great products people love to use. But what I love about Index Cobb's journey the most is that there's been a lot of other kind of like index, I guess, product ecosystems or competitors, you could say, over the last year. And I think index cop is the only one left standing, because I think what they did right is they focused on being like a product first, I guess, not a company like a Dow, instead of just wasting time on the frivolous stuff. Right? And they also kind of, like, not just, not only focused on their products, but also focused on the Dao itself and getting working groups spun up, getting the right people in the right positions, making sure that things got done.
00:19:45.064 - 00:20:45.014, Speaker A: And, you know, things were kind of like running like a well old machine because as we've seen, I guess, like, over the last few years, dows are really difficult to get right. And I think a lot of them are just going to fail long term because there are kind of like things that happen where within daos, if you have someone that's kind of like in a leadership position at the start, like a core team, not even just like an individual, but like a core team. And then that core team kind of like leaves or kind of like, tries to remove itself from the project, uh, to kind of like, further decentralize it without kind of like, stewarding in the next people to take over. What ends up happening is you have a leadership void, and then the people who usually fill that leadership void are the wrong people. They're the people who should never be in positions of leadership. So for me, uh, I guess, like, my opinion on this is that the best daos are the ones that have contributors that come in after the core team has set it up and everything. And the core team kind of like, guides these contributors, guides them and stewards them into positions of leadership.
00:20:45.014 - 00:20:57.134, Speaker A: If they're the right person for the job. They don't just pick anyone. They don't just, okay, you're cool. You know, you're in the discord. You're talking a lot. You're the new leader of this kind of working group. That shouldn't be the way it happens at all because most people suck at being a leader.
00:20:57.134 - 00:21:29.030, Speaker A: Like, I personally, for myself, I am not a great leader. I don't think, like, I have a, the community with the Daily Gwei and everything, but I don't consider myself a quote unquote leader of the community. I'm just, like, part of it, like the rest of you. But a big reason why I haven't started my own kind of like defi company or Dow or whatever you want to call it or something like that is because I don't think I'd be a good leader because most people aren't. Most people can't hack being a leader for a number of reasons. I mean, being a leader requires a lot of people skills, a lot of. A lot of being able to kind of like, keep your cool, mediate disputes, all these sorts of stuff.
00:21:29.030 - 00:21:50.708, Speaker A: And in the world, there's really not many people who can do this. That's why CEO's are paid so much money. That's why CEO's are so hard to find. Because CEO's of major companies, I mean, they have to, for them to do their job well, they have to be a really good leader. They have to have, like, all types of, like, skills across, like, many different domains. But, like, I'm not just talking about the top level leaders, but just leaders in general. Like, doesn't matter.
00:21:50.708 - 00:22:21.396, Speaker A: Small or big, most people just can't do that. And a lot of people who want to do it aren't suited for it. But if you leave a leadership void in kind of like organization, whatever it may be, it's going to get filled with those kinds of opportunistic people, especially if there's money to be made. Like, for example, if there's a leadership void in a project and there's a treasury that has like, say, $100 million in it, and the, the Dow has control over that treasury. Well, which they do, of course. Obviously. Well, you're gonna get these opportunists that come in and say, hmm, maybe I can get some of that for myself.
00:22:21.396 - 00:22:50.158, Speaker A: Maybe I can do like, the bare minimum and get some money. It's happened plenty of times across projects before, so I think that's what the index co op has done right over the last kind of like year or so. The two major things being a product for product first, focused organization, and also focusing on making sure that the Dow functions properly because, you know, if the DAos doesn't function properly, everything else falls apart. Right. So really, really great to see that. But also, you know, again, congrats to them for this raise. It's great, great names on board.
00:22:50.158 - 00:23:08.830, Speaker A: Sequoia, obviously, massive Web two, VC and Blockchain ventures, part of Blockchain.com that has been around for a very long time in crypto. Very, very long time. Like one of the earliest kind of companies in crypto. Crypto. So great to see that. All right, announcement out of Vaults protocol today.
00:23:08.830 - 00:23:35.050, Speaker A: They have raised $6 million in a seed round led by, I think, framework Ventures. Yep, that's right. Led by framework ventures here with participation from a bunch of other kind of like funds and VC's. Fabric ventures, Coinbase Ventures, winter mute, and then some angels as well. Stani from Ave David and Ryan from bankless, a bunch of others. My name's not on here, but I did participate in this, in this, in this as a seed investor. Just a disclosure there.
00:23:35.050 - 00:24:25.074, Speaker A: But you're probably wondering, what is vaults like? What is this thing that Anthony is invested in and all these other people are invested in? So what vaults is, you know, in terms of kind of like the, the most basic explanation is pretty much in this graphic here. And at the top it says, vault is a non custodial amm for interest rate swap. So basically an interest rate swap protocol. Now these, uh, this is another exotic product that I've spoken, spoken to you guys about, like another exotic financial product like options and futures and derivatives, stuff like that. Um, interest rate swaps, they're very, very popular, especially with kind of like banks and financial institutions and obviously banks with mortgages, things like that. There's a, there's. These are kind of like the ways that they can offer like fixed rate mortgages, variable, and they kind of like swap the interest rates on them, trade them to kind of like, you know, hedge risk or kind of like take on more risk, get yield.
00:24:25.074 - 00:24:52.864, Speaker A: I mean, there's a lot of stuff that goes on. It's very complex and exotic. But what vaults is trying to do is bring this to Defi, right? Bring this to defi in a route in a big way. And they've got some great backers to do it. Like framework ventures is awesome, obviously, Coinbase ventures huge, and a bunch of others here and great angels on board as well. But they're trying to do it with using the Amm model, which I don't believe has been done in DeFi before. And if it has, I've probably just forgotten about it right now.
00:24:52.864 - 00:25:13.796, Speaker A: Um, but yeah, I mean, they describe it here. You know, interest rate swaps are a key pillar of any financial system. So, you know, by bringing the interest rate swaps to DeFi, they've abbreviated interest rate swaps with IR's yards. An unfortunate abbreviation because IR's. I read that and I think Internal Revenue Service, I think tax. Right, in the US. Um, yeah, but, but essentially, uh, kind of like they're right.
00:25:13.796 - 00:26:03.536, Speaker A: It's a key pillar of any financial system. It is one of the, I mean, as I said, it's an exotic product, but it's also a product that needs to exist in a deep, in a financial ecosystem for more of the bigger institutional players to want to actually play here and for more of the kind of bigger banks and stuff to ever, you know, if they ever to adopt something like DeFi, they definitely want to use something like this. So go give this blog post a read for more details about it. They break down kind of like what makes them special, how their kind of like product works and everything like that. Um, I was excited to participate in this because I'm always looking to back, you know, new kind of like stuff coming to deFi. There's a lot of kind of like reuse stuff in defi these days, but you know, when you kind of like find something new, you get excited about it, and that's exactly what happened here. So definitely go check this out.
00:26:03.536 - 00:26:33.910, Speaker A: I don't want to shoot too hard to you guys, but if you're looking for something new, here it is. You definitely go check it out. All right, so to wrap today's episode up, I did want to quickly talk about a tweet I put out today, which I wrote about in the newsletter as well. And it's a simple tweet. I said, the hardest part of crypto investing is not making money, it's keeping it. And this is because over the course of the last few years when I've been in crypto, I've had a bunch of friends I've spoken to. You know, I've seen them kind of, like, do various things within crypto.
00:26:33.910 - 00:27:28.580, Speaker A: And I kind of got to thinking today, wow, surviving in crypto is hard because, and I think it's due to kind of, like, one major reason with a bunch of other reasons that fall off of it. But the major reason is because crypto tricks you into thinking you're a good investor, when in reality you just wrote up a wave and then you're. And then if you're not kind of like someone who's used to taking profits, or if you get too greedy, you end up just holding those kind of like, paper profits down and you end up with much less than you started with, or much less than you kind of, kind of gained it originally. And if you're benchmarking, get something like ETH, you end up get, you know, getting obliterated there as well. So what ends up happening is that when the market is super, super hot, you can literally throw money at anything and make money measured against USD. But the problem is, is that most people won't take profits. They'll get greedy.
00:27:28.580 - 00:28:04.716, Speaker A: They'll kind of look at that and be like, oh, if only it went to this amount, I'll have this much more money. Or, you know, once it gets there to be cool, oh, I'll just wait until kind of like, it's a year. I've held it for at least a year because then I get a tax discount if you're in like, the US or Australia. I mean, I've done this before, right? I've made these mistakes. Guys, I'm talking from experience here. And then they weren't, they also weren't benchmark against, like, ETH, which I think is not a great way to go about it, because if you're not outperforming ETH, then why did you buy something else to begin with? Like, you took on lots more risk, especially within the Ethereum ecosystem. But, you know, even if you're just benchmarking against USD, it still ends up in the same kind of place there.
00:28:04.716 - 00:28:33.510, Speaker A: And the clearest example of this is over the last twelve months or so, or I guess a bit longer. Than that. Now, what happened with Defi? For those of you who are new to the ecosystem, you may not be aware of this, but Defi in the last six months of 2020 was the absolute hottest thing ever. Everyone was saying, buy Defi tokens, you don't need ETH. There were people saying, oh, all you need to do is buy BTC and Defi tokens and you'll be fine. You can skip ETH. Like, this was a popular narrative.
00:28:33.510 - 00:29:12.978, Speaker A: This was consensus back then, and there were a few of us pushing back against that, saying, this is you're insane. Like, how does it make sense to only buy Defi, not ETH? And the reason why this was a common kind of, like, belief was because Defi had performed really, really well. Because we had Defi summer, a lot of Defi had gone bananas, like, absolutely insane, led by a lot of the popular tokens, like Wi fi, that went insane. You know, you had, like, Aave, which was a fan favorite. A bunch of others, like SNX, there was heaps of them out there. They went crazy, right? But then they crashed really, really hard, because obviously, you know, what goes up must come down. But, I mean, I don't really think that applies to crypto, but.
00:29:12.978 - 00:29:47.884, Speaker A: Because it's like a physics metaphor, but. But essentially kind of like, what. What ended up happening with kind of with Defi is it crashed really hard, and then ETH went on a run. So not only did Defi get crushed against USD, it got even more crushed against ETH, because at the time when Defi crashed, I think ETH was around dollar 400. Right? And since then, ETH has gone ten x over ten x, whereas Defi against USD has gone back up a little bit, but not really. And it hasn't. It definitely hasn't gone up ten x from where it was at its peak last year.
00:29:47.884 - 00:30:05.392, Speaker A: So from that perspective, a lot of people got wrecked on defi against. Especially against ETH. Some of these things are down, like 90% against Ethan. These aren't just, like, the random shit coins. This is like, I think WFi is down 90% against ETH. I think aave is down like 80%. Like, these are the fan favorites.
00:30:05.392 - 00:30:45.440, Speaker A: So just taking that as the example here, hardest part of crypto investing is not making money, because everyone was making money last six months of last year on these defi things, but it's keeping it. How many people took profits? I would say very little amount of people took profits. How many people took profits and rolled them into ETH? Which was an even better way to kind of play it even, even less so not many people at all, because the popular narrative at the time was that you don't buy ETH. And then ETH proceeded to go on an insane run. Ten x by May, right? 4.4k. So over ten x by May, and it's still over 4k today, where Defi hasn't really done anything. It's just kept bleeding against ETH even more because Defi itself is going down, and ETH is just kind of like staying flat.
00:30:45.440 - 00:31:49.110, Speaker A: So even, you know, Defi prices are going down in USD, which means they're going down in ETH as well. So that's just one example. But I think the next kind of, like, big thing and the next mistake people make is that they marry a bag. And what I mean by this is that they buy something, they get really attached to it, and then they kind of, like, convince themselves that just because it's going down now, if I hold it for long enough, it's going to be fine, it'll pump eventually, I'll be okay. And it leads to kind of like a really bad frame of thinking where you hold something for a very long time and you watch all these other things outperform it, but you somehow convince yourself that it's fine, but when in reality it isn't, you should have cut your losses, or at least kind of like, taken profits, because instead of writing it down, and there's this famous quote from, can't remember his name now, but like a famous investor, I think Paul Tudor Jones, where it's behind him in a picture and it says, losers, average losers. And what that means is that if you're kind of, like, holding down something that is just, like, underperforming the whole market, and then, and then some people, what they do is they double down. They'll, they'll buy more of it.
00:31:49.110 - 00:32:20.884, Speaker A: Most of the time, that's not going to work out for you. And people will kind of, like, hit back and say, well, that's what happened with ETH. Like, ETH obviously came down 94% since it's all time high in 2018. And then it came back. You know, buying ETH at the bottom was the best, best decision ever. It's like, yes, there are exceptions to the rule, and ETH is a completely different asset to a defi token or some other kind of token out there. And, guys, I'm not saying that eventually these things can't go up in value again, but the point is, is that over the long term, because all of these emotions are at play all these biases are at play.
00:32:20.884 - 00:32:59.504, Speaker A: All these kind of, like, different, different kind of, like, things are playing out. It just becomes a thing where most people, especially if they're newer to the ecosystem, end up kind of like, over trading, getting blown up on leverage, just like holding something for way too long, and just like, you know, basically giving it all back, essentially, like they, they don't keep the money that they've made. So, I mean, in saying all this, none of what I'm saying is investment advice. It's not advice at all. I just, it's kind of, like, just my view of everything and how I kind of, like, see the markets, because I've seen in the Discord channel as well, the daily grade Discord channel over the last few months, a lot of people saying, damn, I should have just held ETH. Like, why did I buy this thing? I've underperformed ETH. I should have just bought and held ethics.
00:32:59.504 - 00:33:24.660, Speaker A: And I don't say anything. I don't say, oh, yeah, you should have done that, or you should just buy ETH. I always give my opinion where I say that. I don't think most things are going to outperform ETH, especially in a 1559 world, especially leading up to the merge, which is going to drop issuance by a lot, and also increase staking APR, which will lock up more ETH. But that doesn't mean that things can't go up in the short term. But the problem is, is that most people do not take profits in the short term. Do not roll those profits into ETH.
00:33:24.660 - 00:33:51.116, Speaker A: Do not roll them into kind of, like, stable coins and then buy ETH later. What they do is they hold it for too long. So, yeah, and as I've said, as I said before, I've done this, too, guys, I am not innocent here at all. This is all me speaking from experience. I mean, my first foray into crypto was 2013 with bitcoin. I fell for every pump and dump I bought into, like, literally borderline scams. I lost, like, probably over 50% of my portfolio, as measured in bitcoin at the time.
00:33:51.116 - 00:34:21.398, Speaker A: And then I sold the near bottom in 2014 and didn't look at crypto again till early 2017, when I bought my first ETH. So I've learned these, and, you know, I've still learned lessons since then as well. I held some Defi tokens way longer than I should have, and I just broke even against ETH on some of them because of the fact that I had held them from really early on. But it wasn't even worth it. Like, I should have just kept it in ETH. I lost, actually, I think I lost against Ethan on one or two of them by a little bit. It was, I mean, it's just a mess, guys.
00:34:21.398 - 00:34:48.526, Speaker A: Like, seriously. And the problem is most people don't buy really early. They buy like going, you know, as it's going up, and then it just becomes very messy. So this isn't to say that don't buy other things and you know that you can't make money other things and you can't outperform Ethan other things, but know what you're buying for. Are you buying for the long term? If so, you've got to be really, really confident that it can outperform ETH. And you have to kind of articulate a thesis as to why. Because the long term is ruled by fundamentals and thesis driven investing.
00:34:48.526 - 00:35:14.358, Speaker A: The short term is ruled by traders and speculation and momentum. If you're doing a short term flip, well, you better know when to flip that. If you're, if you kind of like, have to make that decision before you even buy something. You can't buy something and be like, oh, well, this is going to be a short term position. But then like halfway through, because it's going up a lot, you say, I'm going to hold this because it's a long term position. Now, I love this. I mean, that works sometimes, very rarely, but I mean, it works sometimes, but most of the time that's not going to work out for you.
00:35:14.358 - 00:35:42.478, Speaker A: And what's going to end up happening is that you're going to convince yourself that holding it and keep holding it, it's going to come back. And then you kind of come back into it in a few months or a year and you'll see that you've drastically underperformed something like ETH and then USD, you may be flat and you'll feel really shitty. Like, trust me, you'll feel really, really shitty anyway. That's just some kind of like commentary. Again, not advice, not investment advice. Please do not take it as that, but just kind of like, be wary of these things. These are questions you should be asking yourself.
00:35:42.478 - 00:36:04.030, Speaker A: These are things that you should be conscious of. Do not let your emotions rule your investing or trading, because when you do that, you get wrecked and do not. Guys, like, again, this isn't me telling you what not not to do, but leverage. Be careful because it's very easy to get blown up. You've seen it time and time again. When the markets come down really quickly, those are. Those are liquidation cascades.
00:36:04.030 - 00:36:22.328, Speaker A: That's people getting liquidated. That's billions of dollars getting liquidated. The drop to 3600 the other day, billions of dollars worth of positions got liquidated. They're wrecked. Like, absolutely, you don't want that happening to you. Because I've seen people blow up their entire positions on leverage and then leave crypto. They made a lot of money and they blew themselves up completely.
00:36:22.328 - 00:36:38.026, Speaker A: It's your mental health as well. It'd be really damaging. But anyway, I'm gonna. I'm gonna leave it at that for now. Last thing to mention here is just from Patrick McCrory. He has started a. Always launching a free eight week course on cryptocurrencies with a special focus on L2 protocols.
00:36:38.026 - 00:37:03.358, Speaker A: It'll start in q one of next year, so if you want to sign up, you can the links here. I'll link this in the YouTube description for you. Patrick McQuarrie is one of the smartest people in the crypto Ethereum ecosystem. I can, like, I've spoken to him before, he's great. He works, he's worked with Infuria. He's where, he's part of a fund called Limna Scap here. And he's also worked as a BD here as well, which is kind of like a virtual worlds thing.
00:37:03.358 - 00:37:24.246, Speaker A: But he's been part of like, I guess the L2 stuff for a while, like even in bitcoin land and stuff like that. So. Yeah, definitely would recommend signing up to this. I'll leave a link to it in the YouTube description, but I've gone over time, so I think that's it for today. Thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:37:24.246 - 00:37:24.774, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone.
