00:00:00.200 - 00:00:29.694, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 20 June 2022. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So a interesting weekend, that's for sure. A lot of news to get through. But I figured the first thing I would kind of like, touch on was ETH going to triple digits now, you know, at time of recording, the price is back up to around 1135. But yeah, we went to triple digits, went to, I think, eight, seven or 875 before.
00:00:29.694 - 00:01:05.592, Speaker A: We kind of like, seem to have bottomed there. Not like a kind of low macro bottom, more like a local bottom. Not sure if that will be, like, where it ends, you know, where the pain ends, so to speak. But I, you know, I think, like, doesn't matter how much I kind of, like, thought about what the next bear market would look like. It didn't look like this. You know, thinking back to previous bear markets that I've kind of experienced, especially in 2018, it was a much slower of bleed and, you know, it was, it was very different in how it kind of, like, went down. But the last, like, you know, three months, like, I guess, what, eleven weeks? So almost three months has just been down only for ETH.
00:01:05.592 - 00:01:33.804, Speaker A: And it just felt like it just wasn't stopping. And that kind of was what it was like the end of 2018 during November and December. But for most of 2018, or pretty much the whole, whole thing, it was, it was kind of, like much slower than what we've seen. So I think the speed at which things kind of collapse caught everyone off guard. And I think Ethan, BTC going below their old all time highs kind of killed some precedents around the fact that, you know, they couldn't go below their old all time high. You know, it's impossible. Well, I mean, it's possible, right? Anything's possible.
00:01:33.804 - 00:02:03.536, Speaker A: And I think that when you kind of, like, look back in hindsight and look at how the bull market played out, it played out very differently to how previous bull markets have played out as well because we obviously had the top in May and then we went and set a new all time high in November. But I think that it wasn't really that much of an all time high. Right. It was only, I mean, ETH went from 4400 to 4900. Right. It just wasn't much there. So I think when you kind of, like, take all that into consideration, the bull market was also very different compared to previous ones.
00:02:03.536 - 00:02:40.002, Speaker A: So I think just the fact that markets are always evolving, the crypto markets, especially as they kind of continue on, as they get more robot robust in terms of more kind of players, more liquidity, it seems like the cycles are just changing them and changing in a really big way. So I don't think we can rely too much on historical precedent going forward. I think that, you know, this is good that a lot of things getting washed out. I like bear markets because it washes out a lot of the excess, but at the same time it's, you know, bear markets. I think the most scary for people is when it keeps just dropping. You don't know where the bottom is going to be, right. Because there are a lot of people I know that want to buy ETH, but they don't want to buy too early.
00:02:40.002 - 00:03:09.980, Speaker A: But, but at the same time, trying to spot the bottom is like near impossible for most people. So I, you know, that my strategy has been to DCA in as I, as I've gone down. I managed to get some buys in around $900. I didn't snipe the absolute bottom, but I was asleep when that happened. So I just had some resting orders to kind of like get some orders in. And I've been buying around $1,000, you know, for the time that we've been there. But I'm not buying with the expectation that it's just going to go straight back to like three k or something or that it can't go lower than that 870 that we've gone to.
00:03:09.980 - 00:03:34.476, Speaker A: I'm buying with the expectation of, well, I'm, you know, I like stacking validators. I want to be able to hold this, you know, with my perma ETH stack. I want to be able to validate with this. And it's not really of concern to me how long it's going to take for that to, you know, have like an ROI return on investment. The fact that I can even buy ETH at around $1,000 again is astonishing to me. I honestly never thought that I would get that opportunity again. Not even close to it, honestly.
00:03:34.476 - 00:03:57.410, Speaker A: Like the $1,700, like, when you really think about it, you know, seventeen hundred to two thousand dollars. Like $1,000 is 50% off 2000. Like, I don't think many people realize the percentage difference in these things. It's the same percentage difference as $100 to $200. Like it's 50%. So you literally can buy, buy so much more ETH if you bought at 1000 rather than 2000, which is just crazy. To me.
00:03:57.410 - 00:04:21.388, Speaker A: So I've definitely taken that opportunity to buy as much as I can. But at the same time, I still have some money left to, to see if we go lower than that 870, I can buy even more down there. But again, it's, it's kind of like hard. Like, it's not something that you can time. There are very, very, very few people who can actually pick tops and bottoms. And they're usually people who've been around for a long time. So they already have a lot of money and they don't actually care they about it.
00:04:21.388 - 00:04:49.590, Speaker A: They're doing it as kind of like a, just for fun. They're not actually doing it to make money because to actually get to that point where you can spot these things and you can kind of like read all the signals and relative confidence in a top or a bottom, you have to be around for a while. And I think for me, like, this was the first cycle where I actually took any profits, really. And I was able to take a lot near the top because I just, I saw all the signs. Like, I didn't sell any of my ETH, but there were a lot of other things. And I was like, come on. Like, these things are not worth what they are like here.
00:04:49.590 - 00:05:17.810, Speaker A: And a lot of the things that I sold are down 80, 90% now. And that's simply because I saw the signs. I'm like, this is just so much froth right now. And, you know, at the same time I saw ETH and I was like, okay, well, I'm really, really bullish on ETH, but like, if everything else crashes, ETH is not going to be spared. But I don't want to kind of like try and trade my ETH or anything like that, so. And I also was taking profits to buy things with, you guys know, I bought a house and I kind of, um, uh, uh, kind of I bought by figurines and things like that. But, you know, I didn't cash out any of my 8th.
00:05:17.810 - 00:06:12.232, Speaker A: But I think that the longer you spend this industry, uh, and the more cycles you experience, you get better at it. I don't know of many people who have actually been able to make substantial money during their first cycle unless they got, like really lucky, because at the end of the day, a lot of people will just hold it down because they don't know. I mean, they know that the, that I guess, like things can go down 80% to 90%, but they've not felt it themselves. And they typically buy into the bull market narratives which basically kind of like, things like this bull market narrative is like super cycle, right? And the institutions are here and, you know, we're never going to go down 80, 90% again or anything like that. Well, ETH went down 80%, guys, like, you know what I mean? So there's always those narratives that persist in the bull market, and even the veterans can kind of, like, get tricked into it. Even the veterans can start to believe the longer the bull market goes on. Especially when we had that new all time high set in November after crashing in May so hard, I think people started really to believe in the super cycle.
00:06:12.232 - 00:06:41.524, Speaker A: And that was when it was the perfect time for the market just to be like, nope, there's no super cycle guys. You know, and even the champion of the super cycle, Suzu, got blown up. So I think taking all that into consideration, you know, every cycle is different. There are different. Sorry, there are similar signs just because humans don't really change. I mean, humans are always going to be greedy and fearful and all that sort of stuff that I've spoken about a bunch of times, but, yeah, personally, I didn't think. I didn't see it going to triple digits, but I will definitely take advantage of that.
00:06:41.524 - 00:07:05.080, Speaker A: And I'm sure a lot of you are as well. And as I said, I don't know if 870 is the bottom of this cycle. Just, you know, it's kind of funny how the last cycle bottom was $80 and 870 is, you know, just over ten x. That could you may. Could you imagine if that was kind of like. That was kind of like the bottom and then that's kind of like how bottoms form from now on. So the, you know, the next kind of like bull market bottom or.
00:07:05.080 - 00:07:18.360, Speaker A: Sorry, the next cycle bottom would be like 8008th or something. I don't know. I don't think it works like that. It's just kind of, like, funny when you look at these numbers and sometimes kind of, like, draw conclusions. That's another thing people do as well. They kind of, like, look for patterns where there aren't any patterns. It's just coincidence.
00:07:18.360 - 00:07:45.520, Speaker A: And there's actually a. There's actually books written about this where there's all these kind of, like, things that people do in markets to kind of rationalize stuff. And that's how they get themselves a little bit wrecked from time to time. But yeah, guys, like, if you've got, you know, if you are kind of like scaling into Ethan, you have got the capital to do so, you know, then I guess, like, that's your strategy, right? That's the thing that you want to keep doing, and you can stick to it. I never give investment advice on. On the refuel, but I have been, you know, pretty clear the fact that I'm buying ETH. Yeah.
00:07:45.520 - 00:08:00.880, Speaker A: Like, I'm buying a lot of ethio. I'm buying more ETH than I've bought in a very long time. Like, for me, buying now feels like buying back at the kind of, like, depths of the last bear market. As I said, it can go lower. I bought a lot of ETH at $200, and it went to $80 after I did that, just, like. And long term, it was fine. Right.
00:08:00.880 - 00:08:23.362, Speaker A: So that's kind of, like, my logic when playing these things. And it won't work for every asset. Of course, it won't work for probably a lot of the most popular assets of this. This cycle, but I'm only buying ETH right now. I may buy other things as I kind of, like, see them as opportunity presents itself, but, yeah, I just can't. Like, for me, I just can't look at triple digit Ethan be like, no, I'm not going to buy that. Especially after we've gone down, like, so, so much for, like, almost three months now.
00:08:23.362 - 00:08:51.578, Speaker A: I don't know. For me, it was kind of, like something that I need to take advantage of, and I'm sure you guys did as well. But anyway, enough about the markets. There's a bunch of updates to get through here, so I'm going to continue on with them. So, I think the biggest thing over the last couple days has been two decisions that protocols have made, which have been kind of, like, pretty wild to see play out. So there's this protocol called Soul End on Solana, which is basically the aave of Solana. And then there's bancor, which a lot of people will be familiar with.
00:08:51.578 - 00:09:29.546, Speaker A: And I put out a tweet where I said Solend is a joke and bancor is a joke, and for a different reason. So let's start with what Soul end did. There's a kind of tweet here from fat man terra referencing this governance vote that Solend put out. This is the first governance vote, which is basically to kind of, like, gracefully liquidate a really large position on Solendarity by taking control of the kind of, like, positions account. So taking control of their. Their position, essentially, which, I mean, is just insane when I say it out loud, as insane as it sounds in my head, like, that's not DeFi at all. Like, that is the very opposite of Defi.
00:09:29.546 - 00:10:06.564, Speaker A: And that is exactly what Tradfi does, right? Like where they have the possibility of freezing your account or taking over your account. I mean, this is even worse. Like, normally you hear about accounts getting frozen in tradfi, you don't that you don't really hear about accounts getting taken over and the money being kind of like taken unless it's seized as part of some criminal case or something like that. But this was just someone using the protocol as it was intended to be used. And then the Solen team got scared because this position was going to get liquidated at, I think at about dollar 20 sol or something like that. And then the whale was uncomtactable. They weren't paying their debt back because they had over $100 million of debt and the position was $170 million worth of soul.
00:10:06.564 - 00:11:01.886, Speaker A: And I think for the whale was kind of like, well, there's no point paying this back because I, why would I have, why would I take the soul? Because liquidating $170 million worth of soul wouldn't net them $170 million because the books aren't that thick. So for them it's like, well, I have all these stable coins, I'm just going to keep them. Like, it's actually worth, ironically, taking that $70 million paper loss or realized loss, I guess, because of the fact that they're selling that much soul just wouldn't work out for them, kind of like at this point in time. So that's pretty funny to see play out. But the fact that this was even proposed should basically mean that soul and completely fails because why would you ever trust your capital with soul and ever again, like, if they are willing to do this right? So there's that aspect and then there was kind of like a second vote. So this first vote passed. Of course it did, because, like the team voted for it to pass and then there was a second vote that got spun up because the sole price went up saying, oh, well, as actually, that was a mistake.
00:11:01.886 - 00:11:41.454, Speaker A: Let's reverse the decision there and let's kind of like invalidate the first vote. So it really was a complete joke, as I said, like in my tweet, complete joke. And if this happened to, it doesn't matter if that these protocols on Solana, if this happened to a protocol on a theorem, I'd be calling it out just the same and I would personally never use that protocol ever again. Like, the thing about these, these protocols guys, if you want to be a DeFi protocol, you have to build up something called credible neutrality. Now, credible neutrality I've spoken about a bunch of times before, but it basically describes the concept of, you see this kind of like protocol. Let's, let's take a theorem, for example. Ethereum, the network, right? It doesn't have on chain governance or anything like that, but it still has a governance process.
00:11:41.454 - 00:12:33.418, Speaker A: Like if all the nodes agree to do something and all the kind of like ecosystem agreed to do something and community and everything, it would happen. And we do this from time to time through hard forks. Like, it's not an alien thing to ethereum. So, for example, if the whole Ethereum community decided to take someone's funds, which actually did happen in 2016 during the Dow hack, but like, because that happened very early on with Ethereum, because that was like, happened when there wasn't really any people around a theorem kind of like continued on from there. And the people who disagree with that decision went to ethereum. Classic. But if you're didn't really suffer any long term damage, but if something like the Dow hack happened today, or something happened today where the Ethereum network confiscated someone's funds, well, that would very quickly kill the credible neutrality that ethereum has been able to build up, because you could not trust ethereum, the network, again, not to do, sorry, the network, not to do that to someone else and not to do that to you or not to do that to another person.
00:12:33.418 - 00:13:15.206, Speaker A: So the credible neutrality kind of like fades away there. And as I said, I was defining credible neutrality. It basically describes the concept of being able to trust that kind of like ethereum as a network can't censor, you, can't take away your funds, can't do anything funky with your funds, and will kind of stick to the rules that has coded, coded into the protocol. So there's more to it than that. But that's kind of like the high level view of it. But yeah, I mean, and then there's like the application layer, which is different to kind of, I guess, like the protocol itself. So that's ethereum, the protocol, then the applications themselves that they want to actually be defi applications, they have their own credible neutrality and their own things that they have to stick to.
00:13:15.206 - 00:14:09.970, Speaker A: Well, you know, if the solar team is basically saying, well, look, we need to kind of like take over this whales account because they present a threat to the protocol itself that is just not on at all, and that's not defi at all. So that was kind of like the, I guess the TLDR of what happened there. And then when it comes to Bancor, what they did today, again, killed the credible neutrality of Bancor, where they basically paused their impermanent loss protection because of, I think, Celsius and three arrows capital. They paused the employment loss protection because they didn't want 3 hours capital. And Celsius dumping the b and t tokens that they were getting paid out for the liquidity provider positions. And for those of you who don't know how Bancor's impermanent loss protection works, it basically, as Hazu describes here, the protocol prints new b and t to compensate underwater lp's, and they call it impermanent loss protection. It's basically a ponzi for liquidity providers.
00:14:09.970 - 00:14:56.090, Speaker A: And Bancor has always rubbed me the wrong way. I've been bearish on Bancorp for a very long time. They, they very often obfuscate away the truth of what they're doing here. And at the end of the day, all they're doing is printing new BNT to cover impermanent loss for people providing liquidity. And the fact that they paused that today, and they, and, and just to kind of, like, make sure that, that b and T couldn't be dumped by three lc, three ac in Celsius is just killing the credible neutrality of the protocol because they didn't just pause it for those addresses, they also paused. They did a global pause until they could identify those addresses and then kind of like, isolate them, which still, it still kills the credible neutrality as well. So, yeah, it's just, it's so bad guys, like, this sort of stuff is not defi, this sort of stuff is going to invite a lot of regulators into, into the space as well.
00:14:56.090 - 00:15:22.014, Speaker A: And they're going to get so confused by this. They're going to be like, okay, well, you know, let's say the regulators got to a point where they understood the difference between c five and defi. So let's say they understood the difference between Celsius and, and kind of like uniswap, for an example. Right. Well, then they have, they take a look at other, other apps here, and they kind of look at Bancor and they look at Sol and they're like, okay, well, these things are on chain. They don't, you know, they don't look like Celsius. They look more like uniswap.
00:15:22.014 - 00:16:03.944, Speaker A: And then they kind of like, see that? Well, okay, Bancor, they kind of, like, do this global pause on these tokens that they were paying out to people that doesn't seem very decentralized. And then look at Soland and they're like, oh, wow, this protocol wanted to take over the account of this person that doesn't look very decentralized at all. And then from there, their mind goes to, well, why can't this happen on uniswap? Or why can't this happen on rv and compound, things like that? And then they just bucket them all together and we have blanket regulation across everything that, that harms the industry. Now, of course, truly decentralized protocols cannot be regulated. You know, I guess, like regulated themselves, but everything around them can be regulated, which, which would really suck. That's such as kind of like the. The centralized front ends, the.
00:16:03.944 - 00:16:37.112, Speaker A: Any kind of like, on ramps, any protocols integrating with them. Any protocols that. Sorry, any front ends integrating with them. So any wallets and things like that as well, that can all be regulated and stable coins and stuff like that, too. So it's not just the fact that the protocol itself is decentralized, that's not enough. It has to be everything around it as well, and to resist, like, regulations that have for sure coming. I mean, guys, like, people are kidding themselves if they don't think the regulators right now are taking a very hard look at this ecosystem and picking out things that have happened over the past few months, especially the terrors of the world.
00:16:37.112 - 00:17:14.382, Speaker A: Celsius three, three ac blockfi, which I'll talk about in a sec as well. You know, Bancor Soland, like, all this stuff together, they're gonna look at that, they're gonna build a very strong case to present whoever they need to present it to, to push these regulations through in order to stifle some of this stuff. And it's gonna look pretty bad for some. For some kind of, like, protocols. Now, that might be a bleak kind of, I guess, view of this, but I'm just being really real realistic here, guys. Like, if I was a regulator looking at this stuff, especially stuff that has collapsed and taken retail investors with them, I would be looking at it being like, okay, well, you know, this is, this is fucked up. Like, we need regulations right now.
00:17:14.382 - 00:17:44.586, Speaker A: This is really bad, blah, blah, blah. Right? If I was putting myself in their shoes, do I expect regulations to hit CFI harder than defi? Yeah, I actually do. I think places like Celsius are going to get hit very, very hard. They're going to be regulated out of existence pretty much. Like, there's no way Celsius would be able to do what they did with user funds if they were regulated like a normal entity, like a normal financial entity, which they will be. So you can say goodbye to a lot of those kind of products out there. And if they do happen, they'll be happening offshore.
00:17:44.586 - 00:18:14.346, Speaker A: They won't be happening in any of the first world countries like the US or kind of like the UK or much, much of Europe. They're going to be happening in kind of like tax havens and maybe, you know, the countries where you can do regulatory arbitrage and stuff like that. And then there's even less reason to trust these platforms. I mean, you shouldn't trust these platforms at all. But that's even dodgier, right, from, from that perspective. So that's the kind of like TLDR on sold and Bancor and how I feel about it. Again, I will keep beating the defi drum, but these protocols are not defi.
00:18:14.346 - 00:18:47.950, Speaker A: If they do this, like, the furthest thing from Defi, they're not even c five, they're tradfi, which is even freaking worse to me because it's just extremely bad behavior on, on the part here. And I hope we don't see more of that going on. But at the end of the day, you need to just be aware of what protocols you're using, what, you know, what the actual thing is. Like, at the end of the day, Bancor is not going to tell you that the impermanent loss protection is just them minting new b and t to cover it. They're going to obfuscate it with marketing and with fancy words and everything like that. So it's going on you to kind of like dive deeper into it and ask questions. Always be asking questions.
00:18:47.950 - 00:19:20.898, Speaker A: Guys like, especially, you can ask them in the daily great Discord channel. People will reply to you there. Don't just blindly ape things because that's how you get yourself wrecked. It's worse than probably get being on leverage. I know you guys know that I don't like leverage, but I think just blindly throwing your money into things is worse than leverage because at least with leverage, you probably have some understanding of what you're doing, I hope. But with these kind of like c five things, you just, you know, if you just threw money into Celsius, they hid what they did from you, you didn't know what they were doing with your money. So I think that's actually worse than, than something like leverage, which I consider to be really bad to begin with.
00:19:20.898 - 00:19:59.778, Speaker A: So, yeah, I'm going to leave it at that. Bunch more stuff to get through today before we wrap up here. I'm already at 20 minutes, Mark. Wow. Okay, just quickly here, just on the note with Blockfi, which is a kind of like similar platform to Celsius. Frank Shaparo from the block shared an excerpt here that said crypto lender Blockfi is struggling to raise cash despite offering to take a steep discount on its valuation, raising the risk that it could be forced into a financial restructuring. The Jersey City, NJ based startup, which lasts fall, raised 500 million in a funding round that valued the company at 5 billion, has for at least a month been trying to raise 100 million at a valuation of just 1 billion, a haircut that amounts to 80% over half a year, according to sources briefed on the situation.
00:19:59.778 - 00:20:26.028, Speaker A: This is obviously because of the fallout from places like Celsius and also obviously the crypto price is coming down generally. But blockfi is another one that I thought has been dodgy for a while. I wouldn't put any of my funds there. This is the one that bitcoin maximus maximalists love, which is just ironic. But I just, yeah, these kind of things is not great. And when I saw their last raise, at their last valuation, I thought to myself, that's fucking insane. Like, it doesn't make any sense to me.
00:20:26.028 - 00:20:44.432, Speaker A: These companies, all they do is repackage yield, and Blockfi actually dropped their yield. They weren't as bad as Celsius, and they actually dropped their, their yield. They were paying out because of the fact that it was unsustainable. But a lot of these platforms, guys, like, they just, they're not great. They're very much not great. They're not where I'd park my money. But I just wanted to kind of, like, highlight that here.
00:20:44.432 - 00:21:15.390, Speaker A: That's a very, very steep decline in valuation there, which I guess I expected it, but I don't think a lot of people did. I think a lot of people looked at Blockfi and thought that was some really super strong business. But at the end of the day, they're affected by the crypto fallout as much as anyone, I think. All right, so Daniel Hong here, a user on Twitter posted something interesting before where he said, stop asking me why I couldn't make it to NYC friends. This is why the korean government imposed an exit ban for all x terror employees today. Holy shit, guys. That's.
00:21:15.390 - 00:21:47.628, Speaker A: That's actually quite crazy. An exit ban on the country so people who live in South Korea can't leave the country if they worked for terror or still work for terror. So I guess, like, terraform labs. That's insane. Like, like, how is do Kwon not gonna end up in jail from this? Like, seriously, the guy has destroyed so many lives and not, and not just kind of, like, people who invested in. In, I guess, like, Luna and Ust and everything surrounding it, but also the people who worked for him, like, they can't leave the country now. I meant, like, that's just.
00:21:47.628 - 00:22:13.996, Speaker A: That's crazy. That's overreach for sure. Like, the fact that, you know, people who worked there and ex employees especially, because a lot of them probably were working on different parts of the protocol and of the ecosystem, probably a lot of them had absolutely no idea just. Just how fragile the protocol was. They're now caught up in the fallout of it because of. Of what doe and kind of, I guess, like, the higher ups that terror did. Now, I really, really hope Doe lands in prison, guys.
00:22:13.996 - 00:22:32.572, Speaker A: Like, I think he needs to be made an example of. Like, I know people go on about the fact that, oh, we need to self regulate, oh, you know, calling on the government to throw someone in jail is kind of against the crypto ideals. No, I think that's against bitcoin ideals. Well, at least the original bitcoin ideals. I'm not about that. I'm actually not anti government. Like, I think people get the wrong idea.
00:22:32.572 - 00:23:21.064, Speaker A: They think all the crypto people are anarchists or libertarian. I'm actually not in that camp at all and not anti government. I actually think that, you know, I think there's a much more nuanced view to the view on governments that people keep people kind of, like, muster, especially within the crypto ecosystem. But I definitely do think that if we're going to hopefully recover from what happened with terror and rebuild trust, there needs to be consequences for the people that were heavily involved in it, especially the founder himself, especially because he was just kind of like, you know, gallivanting around calling people poor, doing all this. I mean, we all know what he did, right? So I just thought that was kind of, like, a very scary thing here that Daniel posted was that he's barred from leaving the country because he worked at terror. I guess, like, that means South Korea is taking this extremely seriously. So we're going to have.
00:23:21.064 - 00:24:22.364, Speaker A: We're going to probably see more fallout from this as time goes on. All right, so Liam, from the op labs team or from the optimism team here, shared, I guess, kind of like a screenshot of a call that they were doing with Coinbase on demoing a working end to end the upload download test of blob transactions on a post merge 4844 Devnet, aka a proto dank sharding Devnet here. Now, Tim Bico, I guess, like, quote, retweeted this and said if you're fomoing because you weren't on the call. The recording is now live here on the ETH Cat Herders YouTube channel. There is also some work in progress notes available here. Now for those of you who don't know what EIP 48 44 is and pro dang shotting is and all that good stuff there, it's basically a way to make L2 transactions dirt cheap and I'm talking like a cent or less for L2 transactions for swapping and things like that especially on optimistic roll ups. Now the really really cool thing about this is that this is coming after the merge.
00:24:22.364 - 00:24:48.340, Speaker A: So this is I think going to be the biggest upgrade after the merge, the one I'm looking forward to the most. And it's already being actively developed on Testnet. It's already kind of like being actively developed with a bunch of different people working on it and it's going really really well from, from what I can see here. So very very cool to see this. I love this sort of stuff guys. Like honestly the merge is cool but I think at this point we're all just kind of like in waiting mode. There's nothing kind of like new about the merge that we're going to need to kind of I guess go over.
00:24:48.340 - 00:25:11.896, Speaker A: We all know what it looks like, we all know what it's bringing. We all know kind of like what's happening there. So now you know I've personally still monitoring the merge but I personally moved a lot of my kind of like I guess what I'm paying attention to to stuff like 48 44 which is proto dank sharding. So go read this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. Going to power through the rest of these updates as I've got five minutes left here. So the so polio beacon chain is launching today.
00:25:11.896 - 00:25:36.894, Speaker A: Obviously the sepolia testnet will kind of like be being merged hopefully by the end of this month, early July I'll be hosting a call for that. For that like the Ropsten call. I'll be hosting it with ETH staker as part of the daily way. Look out for more information on that one there. But just wanted to kind of like shout out here that Sepolia Beacon chain is launching today. So if you want to I guess get involved with this you can. I haven't got the links handy right now but I'm sure you can google it and find the links for that one there.
00:25:36.894 - 00:26:20.094, Speaker A: Another another kind of I guess update here or a reminder I should say the great Glacier hard fork is happening on June 29 on the I guess, like ETH one chain in order to delay the difficulty bomb by about two to three months. If you haven't upgraded your ETH one execution layer full node yet, be sure to do so. If you aren't running one, you should definitely run one. I updated mine just before. You know you need to be ready for the fork, because if not, you'll be set on a minority chain and your I guess, like execution layer client will either freeze up or break. So definitely go update that if you haven't yet. An interesting tweet from antiprosynthesis today that I wrote a newsletter about where he says it's easy to build a frail, centralized protocol on a robust, decentralized blockchain like Ethereum.
00:26:20.094 - 00:27:06.338, Speaker A: However, it's impossible to build a robust, decentralized protocol on a frail centralized blockchain. I guess, like putting it another way, if the foundation is fragile and centralized, then nothing built on top can be decentralized. So for example, Terra, the blockchain was frail and centralized and very, very fragile due to its relationship with the UST stablecoin. So the terra blockchain actually collapsed in three days, along with everything on it, right? So it doesn't matter how decentralized the protocols were on top of it. They all went with Terra because Terra was a centralized, very, very weak protocol. Whereas on Ethereum there have been countless protocols that have either blown up, zombified, failed, whatever you name it, that hasn't affected Ethereum at all. Because Ethereum is robust.
00:27:06.338 - 00:27:55.780, Speaker A: Ethereum is decentralized. Ethereum is built in a sustainable way, and there is no ust kind of like Ponzi stablecoin, I guess like on the protocol layer of Ethereum. So I thought that was just a really great way of putting it, is that it's kind of like when you build a skyscraper, you make sure the foundations are extremely solid, because if the foundations aren't solid, the whole building can collapse if the foundation collapses. Whereas let's say the building has 50 floors, if the 40th floor sets on fire, or kind of like it's completely destroyed by something, it's not going to take the whole building with it. It may take the 39th floor and the 41st floor a little bit with it, but. But it's not going to take the whole building down. Sort of like how a defi app on Ethereum may take some other apps with it because of some kind of like dependencies, but it's not going to take Ethereum down with it because it's just not the way Ethereum is built.
00:27:55.780 - 00:28:16.038, Speaker A: So that was really great. I just wanted to hide that from antiprosynthesis. Arbitrum Odyssey is going to be officially starting tomorrow, June 21, at 01:00 p.m.. EST. So obviously a lot of you have been waiting for this for quite a while, and it's finally here. I think this is going to be great for arbitrum. I think it's going to lead to a lot of nice growth for them, and I'm hoping a lot of you are going to get involved with it.
00:28:16.038 - 00:28:58.854, Speaker A: You can get more details here of what this is all about in the Twitter thread on this kind of, I guess like the Discord server as well, that you can join too. So just wanted to highlight that that's going live tomorrow. Immutable has announced a 500 million dollar developer and venture fund to accelerate the adoption of web3 games and projects. It's funny, I was actually talking to a friend about crypto gaming recently, I think it was yesterday or the day before, and I was saying to him that I'm very, very bearish on crypto gaming as it exists today in general, you guys know that. But I think if any team is going to make me bullish on crypto gaming is going to actually change my mind on it. It's going to be immutable. And I'm not just saying that because I'm an investor in immutable, you guys know that.
00:28:58.854 - 00:29:35.292, Speaker A: I'm saying that because everything that I've seen from immutable has been good. Like, I think that they're doing it the right way. They're, they're building the solutions that need to be built in terms of the scaling solutions. They're building actual games first, and then they're kind of like doing it in such a way that the crypto primitives are sprinkled in there rather than the whole game revolving around these crypto primitives. So I think if any team and any product is going to convince me that crypto gaming can be more than just Ponzi, it's immutable. And that's pretty much exactly why I invested in them, because I was like, okay, well, this team is very strong. This team kind of like has their head screwed on.
00:29:35.292 - 00:29:57.150, Speaker A: They know what they're doing and they can probably prove me wrong. So I hope they do. Obviously, not just for my investment sake, but just because I want crypto gaming to work, because I'm a gamer as well. But I'm not going to bury my head in the sand and look at the current state of crypto games and be like, okay, well, they're not all Ponzi's, because they are. Or even if they're not Ponzi's, a lot of them are pay to win. And I don't like pay to win games. I really, really hate pay to win games.
00:29:57.150 - 00:30:22.054, Speaker A: I haven't, like, I used to play some of them on my phone and I was like, wow, these things are super predatory. Like, then they're just not fun. They're literally like. It's basically like a casino with like a video game paint on it. Like, it's the same kind of like concept, right? So I'm hoping they can prove me wrong here. But I guess congrats to them all. Good to see them launching this fun, because that's gonna help them towards their mission of making a more sustainable crypto gaming ecosystem.
00:30:22.054 - 00:31:01.030, Speaker A: All right, finally, I'm sure a lot of you have noticed lately that synthetix has been growing and they've been doing 100 million plus volume of daily, kind of like volume here. And the merge ETH has put together a great twitter thread on why this is happening and why the increase in volume. It's a thread on synthetix as atomic swaps. Now, this is a great little thread here, and I do want to add that I think synthetix is seeing a lot of traction lately because of the optimism ecosystem that's being built out around synthetix and because optimism has allowed them to scale. Whereas layer one ethereum actually hampered synthetix a lot. And they've been an early adopter of optimism and they've just been grinding out, building, and it's paying off. They're seeing record volumes, huge volumes.
00:31:01.030 - 00:31:25.158, Speaker A: They're seeing record usage. It's really, really great to see. So I love it. I don't hold any SNX right now. I was actually going to buy some the other day, but I didn't because I'm an idiot. Have you seen the price action recently? That's not investment advice there, but I often talk about the tokens that I'm looking at and looking to scale in at, and I haven't talked about which ones individually, so maybe that's a little bit of an alpha leak there. But SNX was definitely one that I'm looking at and still looking at.
00:31:25.158 - 00:31:57.428, Speaker A: But again, non investment advice, guys, I don't hold any right now, but I was looking at it because of this fact that I had noticed synthetix growing. I had been very impressed by the ecosystem that they had built out on optimism. And I figured, I looked at it all and I'm like, well, defi 1.0 projects, if anything, they're the ones that are probably going to do well going forward because they're still around. They've built up a very robust ecosystem and their tokens have been slaughtered. Like Synthetix is still down 90% from its all time high, even though it's gone up a little bit the past few days. So, yeah, that's kind of like my thinking around that, but no more on that.
00:31:57.428 - 00:32:32.624, Speaker A: Last thing to talk about was someone wanted me to talk about what's happening with the fear of when you're being generated by Uniswap over the last few days, they're generating more fear. Renew or Uniswap is generating more fear revenue than the Ethereum blockchain. Now, you can see synthetix on here as well, and Arva and stuff like that, but they're not ahead of Ethereum. First thing I want to say here, guys, is that I don't think it makes sense to compare fee revenue of Ethereum to Uniswap. And the clearest example of the. Sorry, the clearest reason of this is because they sell different products. Uniswap is a liquidity pool provider, right? It provides liquidity pools.
00:32:32.624 - 00:32:52.354, Speaker A: You can put money into it and you can earn fees off the trades, right? It's a decentralized exchange at the end of the day, right? It provides a very different service to what Ethereum provides. Ethereum, the blockchain, sells block space. It doesn't matter who, it doesn't care who it sells it to. Doesn't care, you know, who's using it. It sells block space. That's all it is. That's the only product Ethereum sells.
00:32:52.354 - 00:33:20.646, Speaker A: So a Uniswap doesn't sell block space. Uniswap doesn't do anything like the Ethereum protocol does, and a theorem doesn't do anything like Uniswap does. So those compare, it's comparing apples to oranges. It just doesn't make any sense to compare the two. But why is this happening? Why is Uniswap doing more fear revenue? Well, because Uniswap is one of the most used, if not the most used applications on Ethereum and beyond. I mean, you can, you see the breakdown here. It's not just being used on Ethereum, it's being used on polygon, arbitrum, optimism, and all the other places that it's being deployed to.
00:33:20.646 - 00:34:11.170, Speaker A: Now, obviously, the vast majority of volume is on layer one, Ethereum. And it actually, ironically enough, when Ethereum gas fees are lower, more people are going to be using Uniswap because they're probably going to clear dust out of their accounts or they're going to clear low value tokens out of their accounts that they couldn't afford to swap into other assets before on layer one because of the high gas fees. So in my mind, doesn't really mean anything. And at the end of the day, I would actually expect a lot of these protocols, especially as they move to L2, even to kind of like vastly, I guess like generate more fear of revenue than the ethereum, kind of like layer one blockchain would. Now, the reason why is because uniswap on L2 is still charging the 0.3%, right, for liquidity pools as an example. That doesn't change between layer one and L2, but on L2, you're paying a lot less in fees.
00:34:11.170 - 00:34:43.112, Speaker A: I think the fees right now, if I go to l two fees dot in fo on optimism, it's $0.18 for a swap, whereas on layer one, ethereum, it's still, you know, a few dollars for a swap. But the thing is, the fee is exactly the same on, on the liquidity pool, whether it's on layer one or L2. So because of that, there's going to be more activity on L2 eventually. And then I do real, I do reckon that these applications are going to be generating at times more fear renew than Ethereum. Layer one would. Is that bearish for Ethereum layer, layer one or for ETH? Of course it's not because they're selling different products.
00:34:43.112 - 00:35:09.320, Speaker A: Ethereum has ETH tied to it, Uniswap has uni tied to it. But at the end of the day, uni token holders don't get any of this right now because there's no fee take for them. The only place that those fees are going is to liquidity providers on Uniswap. Whereas with Ethereum, about 20% to 30% of the fee goes to miners and their future validators. Yeah. The other 70, 80% is getting burned, which is like a pseudo dividend to all ETH holders. So they're very, very different things, guys.
00:35:09.320 - 00:35:29.258, Speaker A: So I don't think comparing the two makes, makes any sense. And I, and, you know, crypto fees, you can actually just kind of filter this out. You can go, okay, layer one, L2, let's look at how that breaks down. Obviously it filters out all the apps. Obviously Ethereum is still leading by a wide margin here. And the reason why I would say layer one and L2 is, is because L2s do the same thing. They sell block space.
00:35:29.258 - 00:36:00.572, Speaker A: It's the exact same thing as layer one. So that's how you should filter it out. And then you can kind of get rid of these and go, okay, well, let's look at decentralized exchanges, right? Let's look at lending cross chain. Let's look kind of like, look at all the apps and see how the apps are faring as well. But again, it's not really right to compare different apps to each other. Like, you don't really compare uniswap to maker because Makerdao, the fees are completely different, right. They earn fees off people taking out positions, leverage positions or, sorry, taking, taking out Dai from the vaults and not necessarily for leverage, but just in general.
00:36:00.572 - 00:36:28.914, Speaker A: And it's just a kind of like a whole different thing there. And that's maker, the protocol, actually making those fees. It's not the liquidity providers because no one provides liquidity, I guess, like to make, they provide collateral. So again, it's different. So when comparing fear revenue, you have to compare the things kind of to like, for like, you can't compare them to other ads because it's all to other kind of like things that are not like for like, because it's very, very different. So that's my comments about that. Hopefully that clears it up for a lot of you guys there.
00:36:28.914 - 00:36:41.434, Speaker A: But I've gone way over time here, so I'm going to end it there for today. Thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
