00:00:00.640 - 00:00:56.898, Speaker A: Welcome to master the Coding interview, a course that helps you take your programming career to the next level. Whether you are a self taught programmer looking for your first developer job, a computer science student, or even a career veteran and engineer, the course is designed to get you through an interview at some of the top tech companies while making you a better programmer. Hi, I'm Andre, a senior software developer that has consulted and worked for some of the biggest tech firms both in Toronto and Silicon Valley. I've worked with and managed numerous engineering teams and have been part of numerous interviews as an educator. Over 60,000 programmers have taken my courses last year alone. The goal in this course is not to teach you what 90% of the population does. The goal is to teach you to stand out and be an exceptional programmer during the coding interview.
00:00:56.898 - 00:02:04.660, Speaker A: And unlike most courses that just list a ton of problems and give you a solution, I take you from lessons that teach you the principles and fundamental ideas to doing exercises and problems together step by step coding along so you understand how we do things and most importantly, why we do things. This course is actually two courses built into one. The first part is computer science theory and technical coding interview problems. You're going to learn algorithms and data structures in big o notation from scratch. In each section, you're going to be solving real life interview problems that I've selected based on importance from Google, Netflix, Microsoft, Facebook and Amazon. The second part of the course is the non technical interview preparation. There are sections that take you from how to get more interviews, how to format your resume portfolio, LinkedIn, even GitHub, how to answer common non technical question, how to handle offers, as well as negotiating a raise specifically for engineers.
00:02:04.660 - 00:03:01.868, Speaker A: With this course, you will get a lifetime access to over 200 videos as well as cheat sheets on resumes, interview problems and step by step instructions on what to do during a whiteboard coding interview. You will also get access to our online community that has thousands of developers chatting online, solving interview problems together, and doing monthly coding challenges while helping you get through the course. I'm proud to say that we have the most active developer community on udemy. The beauty is that everything you learn in this course is nothing. Programming language specific although I use JavaScript to demonstrate code, all the questions and principles you learn can be done in all types of programming languages. You also find my solution files and interactive exercises using RePL, which can be written in different languages. You won't have to go around buying different books, different tutorials and seeing which is up to date and which is not.
00:03:01.868 - 00:03:39.710, Speaker A: This course is complete and and will be updated as the industry evolves so that you can always come back to it whenever you are looking to interview in the future. Although we spend most of our lives working, the actual time preparing and studying for an interview is very small. Let's gain that extra edge because once you learn it, you have it for life. By the way, if this course does not do what it promises, we have a 30 day money back guarantee, no questions asked. I look forward to helping you succeed in this journey. Have a look at the next video to see the course breakdown. See you inside.
