00:00:51.130 - 00:01:42.580, Speaker A: Sadeena. Sadeena.
00:03:43.990 - 00:03:46.330, Speaker B: All right, how's it going, guys?
00:03:47.390 - 00:03:48.290, Speaker C: Good morning.
00:03:50.240 - 00:04:00.688, Speaker B: 36 36 episode 36 we got on Matt, head of comms, an ambassador at Synthetix. Thanks for coming on, man.
00:04:00.864 - 00:04:03.860, Speaker A: Thanks for having me on. It's fantastic to be here, guys.
00:04:04.720 - 00:04:32.072, Speaker B: So we'll start. For people who don't know, synthetix is the decentralized liquidity layer for ethereum and optimism. Right now. Before we jump into that, can you give us a background on yourself, kind of how you got into the ecosystem? I've seen your pin tweet of kind of your journey from, like, wanting to work in the space and then finally getting a great gig. And I feel like a lot of people can relate to that.
00:04:32.256 - 00:05:21.110, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, definitely. So I'll start from when I first got involved in the world of Defi, because that probably gives, like, a better, a little bit of a better background than just that tweet. Because that tweet is like years of the making, right? But anyway, I've been in the world of crypto for a very long time, but the worlds of defi, I like to say, since probably like six months to a year before Defi summer, like, before there was tokens, before there was, like, so many protocols. I know Kane and others like to say that that was the world of Defi, when you could track everything from following, like, like ten Twitter accounts and like, five telegram channels like that. Like, you keep up with everything at that point. Now it's impossible. But anyway, so I got involved in Defi.
00:05:21.110 - 00:05:59.020, Speaker A: Then I saw it as a interesting place to, like, park a little bit of money and earn a little bit of yield. I didn't really know what was going on, but I was like, oh, wow, like, this is really interesting. Like, we can earn. These were yields from, like, early lending protocols, like, before governance tokens or anything, but you could still earn, you know, five, six, 7%. And I was like, wow, this is really cool. And what happened from that point is protocols like synthetix caught my eye because synthetix had been doing, like, yield farming on curve. This is like very early days of synthetix and very early days of curve.
00:05:59.020 - 00:06:36.140, Speaker A: I like to say that the most interesting thing that we could do back then in DeFi was use yearn and curve at the same time. And that was revolutionary. Like, oh, my God, we can use a yield aggregator and we can lp. And that just blew my mind. I was like, I'm hooked on this. We can build composable apps and so on. So really what happens to me is I get hooked into the world of synthetics, right, because the early versions of synthetics, and we'll get into this soon, was based on being able to swap synthetic assets one to one at a fixed fee.
00:06:36.140 - 00:07:40.848, Speaker A: Now, in the early days of DeFi, that pitch is really amazing because there's like no liquidity anywhere, and when you're swapping, you're just getting hit with slippage all over the place. So I get hooked on this idea of synthetics and I'm just a community member for a long amount of time, like probably years before I really even got involved. And then my official getting involved in synthetix was I just started a Twitter account with my real name, with my real full name, and I started tweeting about synthetics related topics, whether it was the synthetics ecosystem, whether it was like complicated things within synthetics, because it's such a complicated protocol. And I just started doing that. I had a ton of free time and I would just do it in my free time. And then it caught the eye of folks like Kane and other members of Synthetix and, you know, high, like people from the synthetics councils and so on. So from that point on, you know, they, they had reached out and said, hey, you know, do you want to help out with some of the comms effort? And it's, it's been a wild ride from there.
00:07:40.848 - 00:08:34.772, Speaker A: I now I help out with comms, I do some comms marketing, I help out with governance for the ambassadors. And the, the funny thing is that I was during the time of having my Twitter account and doing all this, I was going to school, I was full time in uni. So in the early stages of me working for Synthetix, I was still finishing up a class or two, which was hysterical, having to tell people, hey, yeah, I can't make this scheduled meeting because I'm in a class. Like, I have to go to this class. Like, oh, what class? I'm like, oh, you know, I just have like, you know, eight credits to finish up. But, you know, don't, don't worry about that. But to anyone in the realm that is interested in getting involved in Defi, I think my story is a good template for anyone.
00:08:34.772 - 00:09:09.040, Speaker A: I think that you, if you are interested in particular protocols or a particular niche or anything, just try to find places where you can provide value. If you have the free time to do it, great. And you'll get noticed. Like, there's, these daos are very small and there's not that many super active people, and I was one of them. Right. And by some luck, and by and by a good amount of volunteer hard work, I was able to jump into the space. So, yeah, that's a bit about me.
00:09:09.040 - 00:09:10.980, Speaker A: Happy to go from there.
00:09:11.710 - 00:09:38.090, Speaker B: That's a great story. I think a lot of people underestimate just putting yourself out there, putting your thoughts out there, and kind of just seeing what the messes think and opening yourself up to that kind of criticism. It's kind of how we got started, obviously. The show is called exit liquidity. We like to dabble into your journey a bit. Some of the most memorable moments where you might have been ex liquidity yourself.
00:09:39.020 - 00:10:29.306, Speaker A: Wow, that's a. That's a very good one. You know, guys, I was gonna say the name of the name of the podcast has me a little bit shook, but I'll. Anyway, when have I ever been exit liquidity? Oh, probably tons of times. I have a bad habit of, like, I'll get hooked on this, like, new idea, this new project where I'm like, oh, my God, like, this is so cool. Think of random lighting protocols on polygon or arbitrum or avalanche, and then you just buy a little bit of their governance token, and after a year or so, the project just goes to zero. Probably one of the more interesting ones is I got probably a small airdrop from Uniswap.
00:10:29.306 - 00:10:51.240, Speaker A: And I mean, I don't know if you could call me exit liquidity. I mean, I just didn't, I didn't know about the wallet until, like, years later, you know, and kind of missed, like, the initial sale of writing that pump out. So if you want to call it that one, you can. There's countless other examples. If I were to check my. Check my wallet.
00:10:51.540 - 00:11:08.732, Speaker B: Yeah, that's awesome. Can you give us. We're going to touch, like you said, into the history of synthetix, kind of like, where you guys are at right now. But for people who are unaware, just give, like, the high level overview of what synthetix is currently, what it does, what it's trying to accomplish.
00:11:08.916 - 00:11:46.454, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, definitely. So synthetix right now is this back end liquidity provider. And pretty much what that means is synthetix is a liquidity layer for protocols that want to build on chain derivatives and on chain financial instruments. And that comes forth through two main synthetic assets. You have spot synthetic assets, you have spot since, like, s, bitcoin, SESD and so on. Those trade one to one at the, you know, the current oracle price of those, you know, of those crypto assets. And then the more interesting one in my opinion is synthetix perps.
00:11:46.454 - 00:12:23.510, Speaker A: Now, synthetix perps is a fully decentralized, permissionless on chain, perpetual futures protocol. But the synthetic side is really served in the backend. Now, synthetix provides the liquidity, the infrastructure, and so on. And then you have integrators, permissionless degree, like quenta, like polynomial, they build on top of synthetix, and then from there, they deliver the trading experience to users. Now, that's like the long and short of synthetix. We go so much deeper. But really, if a person is thinking about how they could use synthetix, there's really three ways.
00:12:23.510 - 00:13:09.534, Speaker A: One is as a trader, you trade in one of the many synthetix integrators that use the deep synthetics liquidity to power things like spot synthetic asset trading. You have perpetual futures, you have options trading, you have options vaults. There's one inch in curve integrated for things like atomic swaps, like people who are trading size on chain. If you're trading in the millions, a decentralized exchange, like a regular traditional Dex, might not have the liquidity to support that, and it'll route through synthetic sense. So that's how a trader would interact. The second person is liquidity provider. Now, as of right now, those liquidity providers are just SNX stakers.
00:13:09.534 - 00:13:54.626, Speaker A: You have the SNX token, you stake it into a contract, and you pretty much serve as the counterparty to the trades that are happening with the system. You earn inflationary rewards, you earn 100% of the trading fees for LP ing the market, like someone would do for a uniswap or something similar to that. Now, the third, which is a little bit like, it's a little bit more of an abstract thing to think about. But the third person who uses synthetics are developers. You have people that are building on top of synthetix, liquidity and infrastructure. Like Quenta is a user of synthetix. They have, obviously, they build on top of the synthetix purpose contracts.
00:13:54.626 - 00:14:52.690, Speaker A: But then from there, they've built, and Quenta and polynomial have both built so many great, amazing tools that have really helped the user experience. They've built things like smart margin. That smart margin. They built like limit order support, stop loss support, quick and easy deposits. They've built more of this front end user facing side that taps into the liquidity, but then also makes the user experience so much easier. Then, if you look for something like Lyra, Lyra integrates in a little bit more of a complicated way because they're hedging their options exposure, because they're an options protocol that people can trade options for ETH, bitcoin, op, arbitrum and so on. And they hedge their Amm or their LP exposure to different options using synthetix perks because it's a very capital efficient way to hedge.
00:14:52.690 - 00:15:20.140, Speaker A: So, yeah, the best three ways to think about it is synthetix is this liquidity layer that enables developers to build derivatives and on chain financial instruments. And then there's the three people. Are the three types of people that are integrating or three types of people that are using the system. You have traders, you have builders, and then you have the stakers, otherwise known as the LP's in the system.
00:15:20.880 - 00:15:50.636, Speaker B: Awesome. And you touched a little bit about history and governance. Those are two things I want to touch on a bit. I don't know if you were a part of Synthetix or you were probably paying attention at that time, but can you touch on haven at all? Because I hadn't heard about that before. So I want to hear a bit about that transition. And then alongside that, kind of like the. You guys are one of, you guys have like a very strong decentralization ethos.
00:15:50.636 - 00:16:03.384, Speaker B: So I kind of want to hear more about your governance structure and kind of how that plays a role into the transition that happened between Haven and going to synthetic. How governance would play a role in that.
00:16:03.552 - 00:16:32.654, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, definitely. So I'll touch on the governance in like, the second part. So just like, quick history on synthetix synthetics was not the name of the protocol. The name early on was Haven, like you just said. Now, Haven, compare it to something like Makerdao. Right? It was Haven was a CDP protocol that was very similar to Makerdao, but not the makerdao of today. It was really the maker dao in the early stages of Defi, where you only had one collateral type.
00:16:32.654 - 00:17:16.658, Speaker A: So what the idea behind Haven was, was a CDP protocol that used Haven tokens, tokens that were generated within the system. So you used Haven tokens as your collateral, and then you would create NUSD, the stablecoin within the system. Right. And now you had this, this fully decentralized CDP. The only, like, you know, obviously the core issue here is that you're not using a collateral type like, you know, like an eth that has shown to have like this, this very long term value. And that's why someone like Makerdao did a fantastic job in that realm. And Makerdao has expanded further.
00:17:16.658 - 00:18:01.342, Speaker A: But the idea behind synthetix at first, or New Haven was to be a CDP protocol in the early stages of DeFi, as there really was none of this stablecoin infrastructure. These things didn't exist yet. Now at some point the haven team decides, okay, this isn't getting the adoption that we want. Let's pivot into something that we know has a use case right now. And what they pivot into is being, this is obviously transferring to the synthetix name. But then they go into this idea where they're going to allow people to trade spot synthetic assets at a fixed oracle price, at an oracle price for chainlink. This is revolutionary at the time.
00:18:01.342 - 00:19:18.566, Speaker A: I mean, you're using oracles for a decentralized exchange and you're allowing people to trade at size from S USD, which is a synthetic stablecoin. You could trade from S USD to S bitcoin sedan and so on, right? Like there was commodities in there at some point there's forex and so on, right? So like, as I said earlier, this use case doesn't sound amazing right now, right? Because we have so many decentralized exchanges and amp liquidity and Uniswap V three. And like there's so much going on on chain now. But in the early stages of Defi, this wasn't the case. Like in the early stages, if you were making a trade of any size, really, and size is a term that changes as Defi has went on, right? Like size could have been 50,000, $100,000, maybe $150,000, right? If you're trying to trade, obviously that's still like size, right? But you can trade that now with no problem. But in the early stages of Defi, if you're trading that and maybe your aggregator isn't that good, right? Like we have things like amazing tools like one inch and so on, right? Cowswap and whatever. But when you tried to make these trades, you got caught with slippage.
00:19:18.566 - 00:20:11.652, Speaker A: So the idea for synthetix was be this user facing synthetic asset swapping protocol where you swap from one to the other. Now as time went on, synthetix had noticed, hey, we have this large basket of liquidity and yes, it's being used for spot trading. There was ample usage for that. And there was ample novel usage for things like atomic swaps through like aggregators that needed to seek out size. But what they then noticed is, hey, we can use this liquidity for much more complex use cases. And that pushes this era into where synthetix takes a step back and is, instead of being user facing, steps back and says, hey, we're going to be this back end liquidity provider with our pool of liquidity and enable any sort of derivative to be built on top of synthetics. So that's really where the protocol is now.
00:20:11.652 - 00:21:22.270, Speaker A: And you've seen things like perpetual futures at Synthetix recently crossed $26 billion in trading volume, about 20 something million in fees returned to stakers. We're looking at hundreds of thousands of trades that have been done and tens of thousands of unique users that have used a use case like this. So as time went on, Synthetix has really continued to push towards more of this, like, modular approach to enabling developers to build financial instruments instead of being the protocol that interacts with them directly. So that's quick history on synthetix. When it comes to the governance side, I was not around for this Heben to synthetics switchover. I'm not that old in the world of Defi, but the early days of synthetix, like many protocols, starts as a foundation. And if you look at many protocols, I'm thinking Makerdao was a foundation at one point, but don't quote me on that.
00:21:22.270 - 00:22:21.620, Speaker A: So synthetix, or like Haven, starts off as a foundation, and then you start to notice this real need for decentralization. And the funniest part about decentralization in the early days of DeFi is that we didn't really have all the tools yet and tokens weren't super abundant. So my early stage of rough consensus and governance was we voted on discord polls to decide the fate of sips at synthetics. Now that is hysterical. Now, it's so funny because given someone has to give you the ability to vote, like, you then have to, we have to trust that people are voting. But anyway, that was fun in the beginning, right? Like, it was this great idea of like, you know, we can still get like, community consensus on things, but like, we don't know, you know, there's obviously no real, like, governance setup. But now Synthetix subscribes.
00:22:21.620 - 00:23:19.170, Speaker A: And as time went on, obviously we went from discord polls and we've evolved from there. Now, Synthetix uses this representative council model where you have four councils and they serve varying purposes and they're all elected by the token holders. So every four months, which we just wrapped up an election like a week ago or so, and Synthetix token holders elect their representatives on different councils. So you have the spartan council, which is the council that everyone knows and loves, they vote on any proposals to alter the system in any sort of way. So, like, an example of that is I actually just wrote a proposal to deploy SNX contracts on base, on base network by coinbase to enable the ability to wrap and unwrap the SNX token from Ethereum mainnet to base. And then they also vote on, like, proposal changes. Like, if you're changing like, configurable variables, they vote on that as well.
00:23:19.170 - 00:23:57.610, Speaker A: Then you have the spartan council, you have the ambassador council, which works on governance integrators and like, some, like, soft marketing things like that. Grants, pretty self explanatory, but, you know, they, they provide, you know, grants to tooling grants to projects that are building in synthetix, things along those lines. And then the Synthetix treasury council manages a large pool of SNX and s USD to pay various people, set up strategic plans and so on from there. So that's the whole governance system and a bit of history.
00:23:58.790 - 00:24:48.330, Speaker B: Awesome. And you mentioned the reaching into base. And quite honestly, I don't have a full grasp on why this is the case, but from how it's worked or from what I've seen as I've been in the ecosystem, arbitrum has been the home for a lot of Defi. And from what I've heard, it has something to do with the technicalities on some level of why DeFi works better on arbitrum. And I could be totally off base there, but that's kind of like the consensus, I feel. What. What is the relationship between Ethereum, like, synthetics going from Ethereum to optimism and why it hasn't reached out into something like arbitrum? Why it picked optimism and.
00:24:49.990 - 00:25:43.152, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, yeah, definitely. So synthetix has like a very rich history with optimism as well. So, like, before arbitrum even existed, or I'm not going to go further and say, before it was an idea, but before arbitrum even existed, synthetix had this issue where transactions are very gas intensive because you're relying on these oracles that you have to pull data from and you have to compute them. There's a lot that's going on within this system and it's very complicated and so on. So you had the early stages of, once gas prices start to go out of control, synthetix had noticed, hey, we have to go to a scaling platform of some sort. Now, there was conversations to go to things like EOS, right? And like the early stages of synthetix and, like, you know, other alt chains and things of that nature. But as time went on, you know, optimism had been.
00:25:43.152 - 00:26:50.926, Speaker A: This had been an option for Synthetix to go to. And before optimism was even, like, live to like many projects, synthetic staking was there, and synthetic staking pretty much allowed smaller stakers to still receive a part of inflation and things along those lines for staking on optimism because they were pressed out of doing this on Ethereum Mainnet, who's going to claim dollar 60 in rewards on Ethereum Mainnet when the transaction cost dollar 120 in gas fees? It's insane to think of, it just doesn't work right. So that's the reasoning that synthetix really goes with optimism at first. And really we've seen a host of benefits of building on optimism. Like, really, you wouldn't be able to build the sort of protocol that Synthetix has now, where you're supporting things like perpetual futures and options option vaults. And like, all these things can exist on Mainnet. I mean, they can, but they can exist in a very, like, the performance is extremely different.
00:26:50.926 - 00:27:38.924, Speaker A: Like you, you have to build it for Mainnet instead. And you can't have small traders, you know, doing these sorts of perps trades all the time. Like when we have, when I say we have 360,000 or, you know, like 300 something thousand trades going on perps, imagine doing all that on Mainnet. I mean, like, you're looking at probably ten x the gas cost or much higher at crazier points. Now, when it comes to, like, why base is the second place to go for synthetix, that is rooted in the fact that Synthetix's goals is really building to be this like multi chain protocol. But the first place to go will most likely be base, depending on how governance shakes up this conversation. But I expect it'll be base because base relies on the same code base as optimism.
00:27:38.924 - 00:28:24.168, Speaker A: Right? You don't have developers that need to make sure that the code doesn't have to be, doesn't have to be changed or any new infrastructure requirements or any, anything. There's, there's nothing different between these two code bases, between optimism and base. They're the same exact thing, and that'll be the same exact for every super chain enabled protocol. So that's really the reasoning when it comes to this thought of like arbitrum has done, like defy better or that they have some sort of code that makes defi better. That's really not the case. There's no differences, or at least no massive differences that would change why a protocol would go to one or the other. And at the end of the day, the arbitrum folks are great.
00:28:24.168 - 00:28:48.730, Speaker A: I know that in the future, and Cain, just leave this out in a blog post, maybe it's like 10 hours, 11 hours ago that synthetics, once they go to base, we'll want to go to arbitrum and, you know, polygon other places as well. But, you know, for the foreseeable future, I would, I would say that, you know, going to base is the easiest next step and the best next step for the protocol.
00:28:50.830 - 00:29:07.678, Speaker B: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. I think base is probably a good choice. And although I just don't really touch optimism defi too often, I do find myself gravitating towards it to use synthetics sometimes.
00:29:07.814 - 00:29:34.400, Speaker C: Yeah, I was just gonna say, for what worth? I feel like, I feel like the whole, like, arbitrum being the hub of defi thing isn't really true anymore, at least, like, not as much as it was, like, a year ago. Like, the scales definitely have shifted and optimism's favor in the past, like, month to month at this point, really, it's a very continuous process that we're seeing happen.
00:29:34.940 - 00:30:31.646, Speaker A: Yeah. I mean, even, even for, like, last month, right? Like, for last month, like the month of August, synthetix ecosystem projects, like projects that are built on top of Synthetix perps, you know, quentin polynomial, they captured a majority of the on chain perps trading volume that happened across all of Defi. Right? So, so this thought that optimism isn't the defi hub. There's a lot going on in the world of optimism. We have an ecosystem project Lyra, that is building their own chain on the optimism stack. There is so much going on, and really, I always like to say there's always this continued semi Twitter beef with synthetics, folks. GMX, youll see gains trade, sometimes DYDX, theres always this beef every now and again.
00:30:31.646 - 00:31:39.750, Speaker A: But its like guys were fighting over the smallest of the smallest ponds right now, the worlds of centralized finance, perpetual futures trading and spot trading, options trading, and everything else is massive. Were fighting and were arguing over peanuts to these protocols. If you told, like, binance or any of these protocols, hey, we're arguing over a couple hundred million dollars in trading volume per day, or a billion dollars in trading volume a day, they would laugh at you because that's nothing to these companies. So at the end of the day, if we all just continue to innovate for the sake of Defi and continue to build the best protocol and try to emulate, the centralized experience will bring people on chain. And I think that someone like Coinbase is doing a ton of good in that sense. Right. Coinbase could just continue to innovate in their own little centralized exchange hub and nobody would say anything because they've done a good enough job of working towards proper regulations and things of that nature.
00:31:39.750 - 00:32:34.930, Speaker A: But to take a step forward and to enable fully permissionless chain within the optimism stack and to really be able to support that, and then I know they're going to do so much around education and innovation, having their developers innovating on the opstack for chain interoperability and things like that. There's so much good that will come out of this and it's great to see people like them stepping up to the plate and putting their money where their mouth is. It's one thing to talk the talk on decentralized finance like a Sam Bankman freed. There's another to like, walk the walk, right? To like, legitimately, to have like Brian Armstrong and, you know, Jesse from base come out and legitimately say like, no, we want large amounts of decentralized protocols on here and this isn't a permission system and we're not going to limit activity. Like, that's the most amazing thing that we all could have heard.
00:32:37.590 - 00:33:25.500, Speaker C: Yeah, yeah, definitely an agreement with you there. I think. I. I think especially now more than ever, we see more like infighting, I think, between similar protocols. And now more than ever, it's also the least relevant it's been. So it's refreshing to hear when projects are not on that side of the fed, I think, and are more focused on growing the pie. I want to get into synthetix v three a little bit, but before we do, I also want to better understand the process of, like, staking, or I guess like broadly providing liquidity because you alluded to it a couple of times, how that's like one of your core user groups.
00:33:25.500 - 00:33:40.402, Speaker C: Can you talk a little bit about the flow between, like, let's say I want to go and provide liquidity for synthetix. What exactly do my, like, tokens due from start to finish? Is my liquidity due from start to finish?
00:33:40.546 - 00:34:08.146, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely. So let's run through it completely. So if you have SNX tokens in your wallet, you can stake on Mainnet or on optimism. So let's just say you're on optimism for simplicity here. So you're on optimism. You head to the synthetic staking daP, and what you'll do is you'll take your tokens and you'll stake them. Now what does that mean? Because synthetix uses the term stake in a very different way than other protocols do.
00:34:08.146 - 00:35:00.930, Speaker A: Because the idea of staking within synthetix is this active process. It's not like stake your tokens and forget about them, because you are this liquidity provider. What you do is you take your tokens and they get put into a contract. And what then gets done is you receive a certain amount of SUSD debt based on the current target c ratio. So let's say for simplicity sake, let's say this target c ratio is, I'm just going to say, 500%, right? So for every $5 of SNX that you put up, you receive a dollar in SUSD debt. Now, this s USD debt is pretty much the overall collection of synths in the system, like the overall collection of synthetic assets. The debt that you have been given to resembles a piece of that.
00:35:00.930 - 00:35:25.002, Speaker A: So that debt that now exists, you have to hedge this debt because this debt can fluctuate as traders profit on spot, since as they profit on perpetual futures without another trader losing at the same time. But that's a little bit. That's a conversation for a different moment. So really you've staked, you received SUSD debt.
00:35:25.066 - 00:35:25.268, Speaker B: I.
00:35:25.314 - 00:36:07.310, Speaker A: And then what you do with that s USD is you can put it right into an automated hedging tool that is enabled by a protocol called dhedge and Tauros within the statics ecosystem. You dump it in there and then you're relatively done. Now, I say relatively done because as the value of s and x moves up and down, and as the value of your debt moves up and down, you then have to make sure that your. Your collateralization ratio stays at the target. You know, like, stays near the target when you want to claim, because you can only claim your rewards when your c ratio. When. When your collateralization ratio is above the governance set target ratio.
00:36:07.310 - 00:36:37.516, Speaker A: Now that's done. Like any lending protocol or anything would do to make sure that you say at a safe level in the system, right? Like, we don't want to give you a dollar worth of debt. I, for you, gave $5 worth of SNX. And let's say the s and x price goes down. Now, could be at a point where you're at an unhealthy level and you're close to liquidation or something along those lines. So let's get back on track here. You take your s and x, you stake it, you receive a certain amount of SUSD.
00:36:37.516 - 00:37:02.276, Speaker A: You put that in this thing called DSX. It's an automated tool by D hedge and Taurus that hedges your debt every week. On Wednesday, which today is our sacred holy day, you will go and claim your SNX. Your SNX and your SUSD. Warrants. Now, that's what you do on a weekly basis. There's automated tools to do that for you as well.
00:37:02.276 - 00:37:51.412, Speaker A: We've worked in this process, and some of those were some of my passion projects that I was taking is so difficult. Let's try to make it easier. Now, the confusing part for a lot of people is how does your debt get used by traders? Okay, so for something like perpetual futures, like government sets, governance sets parameters, and governance will say there's $40 million of open interest allowed to be traded for something like ETH. Perpetual futures now, okay, traders can go trade that. Now. The perpetual futures system at Synthetix has been set up in a way where stakers aren't just hoping for traders to lose. That's a bad system.
00:37:51.412 - 00:38:49.568, Speaker A: You don't want to have to rely on trader losses for you to not face any sort of hedging loss. The system is created in a way to incentivize people to continuously keep open interest at 50 50, 50% long, 50% short, because that's what everyone wants to target within Defi. And that's your best way. Because really, in the event that open interest is lopsided, let's say that you have 80% longs and 20% shorts. The other side of that, to bring it back to 50 50 is taken on by stakers. In the event that ETH is to pump, stakers have to accept those losses. Now, we've created a system, and the perpetual future system is created with these arbitrage incentives and these risk based strategies and these risk based management to push people to arbit.
00:38:49.568 - 00:39:36.756, Speaker A: And if you look at perps, they're pretty much always armed to 50 50. You have dynamic funding rates, you have price impact doing that. Now, I know I've deviated a little bit, but on the staking side, that's where your liquidity is deployed. This s USD debt that you've created is now any trader can then use that liquidity to trade any of the derivatives within the system. That's mostly because in the v two X system, like the current existing protocol that synthetix is on, there's only one debt pool. So there's only one pool where you stake to, and then everything that's powered by synthetics. Liquidity is then powered by that one pool.
00:39:36.756 - 00:40:40.270, Speaker A: So you underwrite all the trading within the system and you receive all the fees, your pro rata distribution of those fees within the system as well. So, while it may seem complicated, let's just leave this with a quick summary. You stake your s and x tokens, you receive a certain amount of debt. You take that debt and you hedge it through an automated hedging tool. Every week on Wednesday, you claim if, in the event that you need to, you know, like if the SNX price goes up, or if you're, you know, your debt goes down, you may have to mint more SUSD, which is just, you know, creating more SUSD debt yourself back to this target ratio. Or you might have to burn some of your SDSD to bring yourself back to this target as well. This is the same sort of process that you would see in a lending protocol that, let's say you take out a loan at 200% and it falls down to 150 from collateral price changes, then you'll return some of your collateral back and go back to 200.
00:40:40.270 - 00:40:56.480, Speaker A: Now that's a lending protocol at Synthetix. You need to be at the target ratio to claim your rewards. So that's all of that. Let me know if there's anything else to include there. I know that staking at Synthetix can be a very complicated topic.
00:40:57.420 - 00:41:18.234, Speaker C: Yeah. Yeah. I think you did a pretty good job kind of explaining it in more approachable terms, though. I wasn't aware that debt is automatically issued to you when you. I assumed it was. I never. I've never staked before, but I've always assumed that it was a very active management process every step of the way.
00:41:18.282 - 00:41:18.778, Speaker A: So you have.
00:41:18.834 - 00:41:52.362, Speaker C: You have to like, set your own. You have to determine how much debt you take on above the c ratio. You know, you have to actively manage that. I wasn't familiar with, like how. I guess, like how common the hedging opportunities are, because, you know, to me it was. It was, in order to provide liquidity, you have to have exposure to synthetix or to SNX. But if the hedging options are a key step of the process, I would imagine that it's a much more approachable thing.
00:41:52.362 - 00:41:58.602, Speaker C: But I guess just as a general question, how active is the management process for that position?
00:41:58.786 - 00:42:27.590, Speaker A: Yeah, just to be clear here, to still stake within the system currently, you have to still hold SNX. And the hedging is to hedge your debt. It doesn't hedge your s and x price exposure. So like that. That's still something that you have to consider when staking. Now, within v three, the idea is to allow for a system that's agnostic to collateral type. So what that would mean is you could state things like ETH or rap state ETH if governance was to approve it.
00:42:27.590 - 00:43:21.278, Speaker A: Now, to your question, of how active this process is really depends on how active you want to make it. At the end of the day, if you're using the automated hedging tools and you check in once a week just to make sure that you've claimed that you're eligible to claim, then that's as active as you need to make it. All you need to do is make sure that you're at the target ratio and make sure that you've claimed for the week. Now, there's automated tools like Gelato that will check every 3 seconds if you're eligible to claim, and if you are, it'll automatically claim for you. It'll handle that process for you. So really, the only thing that you're. Then if you use all these automated tools, the only thing that you're automatic, the only thing that you're like active is in, is making sure that you're eligible to claim.
00:43:21.278 - 00:44:04.660, Speaker A: And like that, your collateralization ratio is at the target so you can claim. And that may just mean taking some s USD debt out of the automated hedging tool and then burning it so you have the ability to claim rewards. So I wouldn't call it extremely active, but synthetix uses the term staking in a way that's a little bit more confusing for some users because they expect it to just be like, stake and forget. But that's not how this works. Because at the end of the day, you are the underwriter and the LPD to these traders, and you do want to make sure that you're hedged to any exposure that they take on.
00:44:08.080 - 00:44:44.040, Speaker C: Gotcha. Okay, yeah, that makes sense. And then I guess, like, when I first heard about staking and providing liquidity on synthetix, my initial concern was, I guess, like, capital efficiency, at least right now in v two, with synthetix being the only support, SNX being the only supported collateral. Um, you mentioned, I don't know. I don't know if this is like around what the actual c ratio is, but you mentioned 500% as like a rough figure. Is that, does that create, like, concerns for scalability in the long run? Kind of having to have that level of over collateralization?
00:44:45.420 - 00:44:51.404, Speaker A: Yeah. So the idea behind that, you know, that level, that that level has been higher in the past.
00:44:51.492 - 00:44:51.668, Speaker B: Just.
00:44:51.684 - 00:46:00.910, Speaker A: Just to throw that out there, like, when I entered the synthetics realm and was staking on l two, that was at like 1000%. But anyway, so the reasoning that that's set the way that it is is because of the level of liquidity and depth in the s and x markets, right? You don't want to set that at a level of 200% and then have a price drop and then be left with bad debt. Nobody wants crazy scenarios like that to erupt. So when it comes to this idea of scaling, as of right now, and Kane has said this time and time again, and others have said this, the current system and the current level of open interest and the current level of volume can be supported by s and x. Like this totally works at the level that it's at right now. Now, if you would like to grow by leaps and bounds, by multiple magnitudes, you're definitely, in my opinion, and this is my opinion as a community member, because there's a lot of competing visions on this. I think that you're going to have to onboard additional collateral types.
00:46:00.910 - 00:46:57.276, Speaker A: I think that if you onboard things like ETH, if you onboard things like rap state EtH, that'll get you a good amount of the way to allowing the system to be extremely scalable. Because what I think a lot of people get confused with is they think of the system as only synthetics perks. Now that's great and all, but synthetix has a vision to revolutionize the world of building derivatives on chain. And to be this backbone of building derivatives on chain, you need to have ample liquidity for everyone. If there's a new options protocol with new pricing that wants to build on synthetix, you need to have ample liquidity for them. And if we're reaching somewhat of a maximum, or maybe we could double from where we're currently at, that doesn't get you far enough of the way to supporting centralized exchange level traders. And also, we're just on optimism right now.
00:46:57.276 - 00:47:49.750, Speaker A: So imagine if you're trying to share this liquidity not only on optimism, but imagine trying to share this pool of liquidity on arbitrum and polygon and base and so on. Now you're presented with an even bigger problem if you're only using SNX as the collateral type. Now, Cain, in his recent blog post, I keep referencing it because it's the newest thing that people are chatting on. But in that blog post, he references the fact that, hey, on something like base, we can use ETH and Rapstake ETH and others as collateral, and then you can direct a fee share to SNX stakers. That's similar to how like how GMX has operated. Like GMX uses. They use like their system of GLP, where they direct a certain amount of rewards to GMX stakers and a certain amount of rewards to GLP.
00:47:49.750 - 00:48:46.360, Speaker A: Now, Synthetix can do the same thing with etH, and they, like, I think, the numbers that Kane quoted in the base blog post, where you can use it as collateral on base and only use Ethan and wrap stake and things of that nature, and then from there direct, like 40% of the rewards to SNX stakers and see if it catches on and tinker with it. Like, is that enough? Is that too much? And work it out from there and see what sort of collateral you can help to onboard. So to really answer your question as concretely as possible, I think that there does have to be additional collateral types onboarded in the system, and governance will work out, you know, how that actually works and what the fee shares will be and things of that nature. But if we're trying to grow at the level that everyone wants synthetics to grow in, you'll need additional collateral types. I don't think it can be supported with just synthetix.
00:48:48.820 - 00:49:28.080, Speaker C: Yeah, yeah, I think that's also. That's a pretty good segue into. Into v three, just because I believe that's like one of the core new offerings of it. Just touch base real quick on where we've been before, getting into that. So synthetix, you stake s and x, you take on S USD debt, and then that's used to provide liquidity for synthetic swaps as well as perpetual futures. Obviously a complete oversimplification, but can you talk a little bit about what exactly is planned to change in that process with V three?
00:49:28.740 - 00:50:16.106, Speaker A: Yeah. So the overall idea behind V three is, I'll take it from a different realm, rather than talk about what's changing, because the system is still very similar. But the idea behind synthetix v three is that the core of V three is that it's a CDP protocol. We're back to the days of haven, talking about Haven, Makerdao and so on. V three is this CDP protocol. And the differentiator between using a synthetic CDP and using a Makerdao CDP or liquidy or one of the many others, is that instead of just borrowing in the system, you will be able to. If you want to use your SNX and borrow s USD, you can do that.
00:50:16.106 - 00:51:00.746, Speaker A: But the key differentiator here is the fact that you can then delegate that liquidity to a pool. The idea in V three is that there's many pools. So, like, there's many dead pools, and then there's also many markets below that. So really what you then be able to do, if we cut out some of the confusing language that sometimes gets thrown around. You're able to then take your CDP liquidity, and then you're able to be an LP in markets and receive a part of the fee share for those markets. Now, there's so much more to talk about with V three. V three is this re architecture of the Synthetix protocol.
00:51:00.746 - 00:52:13.064, Speaker A: Synthetix as a protocol was built as haven in 2018. There is DeFi standards of today, and there's development and smart contract standards of, you know, 2023 that were not standards back in 2018, were not even thought of as standards. So really, this is building this. This new architecture for Synthetix to build on for the future and to allow the system to be created in a way that is agnostic to as much as possible and to be as modular as possible. So, really, Synthetix v three enables synthetix to get to this end state that we always wanted to target, and that was enabling the development of permissionless liquidity and permissionless market creation. So, within the Synthetix V two system, you have to receive governance approval to direct liquidity and to create new markets. But in synthetix v three, that will be the case initially, but as time goes on and as governance approves feature flags to unlock more parts of the system, you will then have the ability for a developer, let's say someone like Quinta.
00:52:13.064 - 00:53:12.750, Speaker A: Let's say Quenta wants to spin up a perpetual futures market for something long tail. Let's think of some. Think of a crazy new coin that just came out of nowhere. And let's say that they have their. Okay, let's say they want to spin up liquidity for this new market of any sort. So what they can do is they can create a pool on top of synthetics infrastructure, get people to delegate their CDP liquidity to this pool, and then from there, that pool delegates the liquidity that's sitting in the pool as a whole, that delegates liquidity to a market to enable any sort of derivative. So if Quinta wanted to enable some long tail, think of it, a long tail shitcoin for people to trade, they could go and do that without having to go through synthetics governance.
00:53:12.750 - 00:53:43.402, Speaker A: You don't have to have any conversations with governance to support this. Now, obviously, the caveat here is the largest basket of liquidity will be controlled by governance, or at least initially, where you'll have something like the spartan council pool will be the pool that most people delegate their liquidity to. And then the spartan council pool can decide which markets they want to, you know, delegate the pools. Liquidity to from there. Right.
00:53:43.586 - 00:53:43.954, Speaker C: You.
00:53:44.002 - 00:54:36.260, Speaker A: You land in this great element, though, where, as of right now, within the v two system, synthetix supports spot synth and they support petrol futures. But in this v three system, it's created to support any derivative being built on top of synthetix. It just has to build in the core logic in the market to take the SUSD provided by pools and to have some sort of amm or some sort of logic to support trading. You could see, you'll obviously see things like perpetual futures v three built on top of synthetics. You'll then see spot v three. You'll see options, protocols, but then you'll see things like sports markets. We already have failies from the synthetics ecosystem saying they want to build sports markets on top of e three infrastructure.
00:54:36.260 - 00:55:30.686, Speaker A: Because what will happen is protocols like Felix and others can then control the fee share. Like, if you're creating the market, you can then control the flow of fees. So if you want to say, hey, we need $5 million in SUSD liquidity directed from the spartan council, pool governance may say, okay, great, yeah, we'll direct that over and we'll see how things. Things are going with your market after a two month period. Now, they could do that. And then you've landed in this great spot because you have new protocols that have faced this continuous issue of the cold start problem. Now, the cold start problem is the fact that protocols that are building in the early stages can't bring in new users because they have no liquidity, and they can't bring in liquidity because they have new users.
00:55:30.686 - 00:56:12.610, Speaker A: Now, if you build on top of synthetics, we've solved your liquidity problem. There will be ample liquidity to be sent around the system. And if you're building something novel that is created in a way that is the ideal market and creates fees and brings in users, there will be liquidity available for you, and there will be ample support and ample incentives and so on for people to build in the system. To give you one thing to walk away with when it comes to synthetix P three, is synthetix P three. The core of it is a CDP protocol. You could take that CDP liquidity and you can delegate it to markets. And those markets are the.
00:56:12.610 - 00:56:59.360, Speaker A: These markets is just this term within synthetix to describe any sort of derivative or on chain financial product created within this, you know, within the synthetics ecosystem. And these can be fully permissionless. And we're really standing at a point where synthetix V three has the ability to revolutionize the idea behind creating on chain derivatives, you don't need to reinvent the infrastructure every time that you want to create things. You could tap into synthetics liquidity, and then you could tap into cross chain synthetics liquidity, which still being worked on. But then you would have the ability to have your same protocol on base. You could have that same protocol on arbitrum. You could have that same protocol on optimism.
00:56:59.360 - 00:57:24.460, Speaker A: Then from there you have this massive shared liquidity pool where you're just working on trying to bring in as many users as possible. That's v three in a nutshell. It's really created to be the most modular, agnostic system to oracles collateral market type and so on. And it will really just usher in so many more developers building derivatives on chain.
00:57:25.920 - 00:58:36.730, Speaker C: Yeah, yeah, I think there's definitely a lot to unpack there. Specifically, one of the things that I find interesting, because there's synthetix, is one of a handful of different approaches to solving this problem, is like liquidity for trading derivatives against tail assets. The way that I see it, when you want to offer a product like that, the two biggest problems are liquidity and containment of risk. A good example of the second one, there would be NFT perp. They were offering trading for a variety of NFT, of different NFT collections, and they were all down. Only users were like 99% short, and there was no one there to pay off that counterparty. Is there some sort of a contagion concern? Because you mentioned that a protocol or an exchange can offer any asset using synthetics feed three without having to go through governance.
00:58:36.730 - 00:58:46.320, Speaker C: If there's some asset that they offer that users are just wildly profitable at trading, will that affect the larger liquidity basket?
00:58:47.060 - 00:59:31.100, Speaker A: No. So within synthetix v three, that will not be the case. The only way that it could affect a liquidity basket is if that liquidity basket was delegating their liquidity to underwrite that market. In V two X, that can't really be the case though, in the current state of synthetics. Now it gets a little bit more on the confusing side. But in the current state of synthetics, if that market was a spot asset, there's no caps in V two x on spot assets. If you want to take all the SUSD in the world and convert it all to se, you can.
00:59:31.100 - 01:00:31.748, Speaker A: Now given converting it to se is not a legitimate risk like a Wong tail asset. So to really just answer your question. No. The only liquidity that will be present for those assets is the amount of liquidity that has been delegated to underwrite that market. And that's the reason that synthetix V three is created in the way that it is, because it can enable these, like, these really liquid markets, like ETH, bitcoin, and think of the top 25 most traded markets, or maybe even top 50, that people trade on centralized exchanges. But it can also enable the risk tolerance of an LP that wants to back something more long tail and maybe take in a lot more fees, depending on how trading goes. The idea behind this is the same idea behind, like, uniswap, allowing anyone to lp on any particular token that they want to in a fully permissionless way.
01:00:31.748 - 01:00:40.280, Speaker A: Like, that's the goal of synthetix, but the only available liquidity is what people have given and what people have allowed.
01:00:42.260 - 01:01:18.218, Speaker C: Gotcha. Okay. I think that. I think that, you know, you mentioned earlier, especially, and I'm sure we've all seen on Twitter as well, there's a lot of. There's a lot of comparison between, like, synthetix and other, you know, specifically GMX, obviously. And I think even I've, you know, been out there tweeting about some of the comparisons and my thoughts there. But I think what a lot of people don't realize is that, like, with v three, the whole, like, the entire narrative for synthetics kind of stands well past that.
01:01:18.218 - 01:02:09.510, Speaker C: You can obviously go back and look at Quenta or whatever the top perp exchange will be for synthetix v three and make those comparisons. But I think more broadly, the possibilities become a lot more exciting for synthetix once v three is deployed and functional. Not to mention when you guys are able to go past optimism and start offering that stuff on base or polygon or whatever. So I guess, like, a broad kind of question I have for you, which I'm hoping will be entirely opinionated, is like, what is your favorite long term vision for synthetix five, six, seven years from now? What are some of the most exciting possibilities you have in mind?
01:02:10.260 - 01:02:35.704, Speaker A: Yeah, no, I can. I can definitely be as opinionated as possible just to touch on, like, this. Like, some of these, like, comparisons to, like, GMX. Before I get into my long term vision, like, my. My thought and, like, what I always say to people is that you really can't compare these two protocols. Yes. As you said, you can compare Quinta, which is, you know, backed by synthetix, perps and GMX that you.
01:02:35.704 - 01:03:05.270, Speaker A: You can do all day, every day. But you can't compare a liquidity provisioning back end protocol like synthetix is, and it aims to power all these different derivatives with a protocol that is just doing perpetual futures. Right? Like, it, it doesn't make sense. There's really no comparable protocol that is doing what synthetix is currently doing. So, yeah, just totally agree with that. Makes a ton of sense. If only Twitter would agree with that one, too.
01:03:05.270 - 01:04:16.780, Speaker A: But anyway, as to my vision for synthetix, my vision for synthetics is really rooted in this crushing thesis. The current issue that we have now with onboarding users is we need to meet them where they are. With the synthetic system only being predominantly with all its bells and whistles on optimism, that doesn't meet users where they are. So really what I want to see is to have this cross chain infrastructure be top of mind, and what that consists of is having a system with fully shared liquidity and able to interact with other parts of the system wherever you are. If I process a trade on base, I want that to be the same trade I would get on optimism. Same liquidity, same fees, same everything that would land us in a realm that really no one has ever done before. In Defi, there's been protocols that have launched isolated deployments and things of that nature.
01:04:16.780 - 01:05:19.156, Speaker A: But what I would really love to see is this fully cross chain system that you can make trades anywhere, and it's, you know, you can trade anywhere, you can stake anywhere, you could do anything along those lines on whatever chain you're on, whatever EVM governance approved chain you're on. That is what I see as like, this really, like, long term goal, right? To like, really to really meet people on where they are on chain. Now the next thing is all around empowering developers. I think that has to be a critical mission for Synthetix going forward. It has been one in the past, but we've been able to rely on either protocols that have spun out of synthetix, like Quento was originally synthetix exchange, and you can't rely on that going forward. You can't rely on spin out projects continuing to be the number one innovators on top aesthetics. What I want to see is ample developer incentives.
01:05:19.156 - 01:06:49.710, Speaker A: I want to see ample rewards, like ample fee share things of that nature, and give people a reason to build derivatives on top synthetics, make them the number one reason that there's so much innovation going on. I expect that to be the case. I know that Kane and others have, have, like, subscribed to that vision of the fact that we want to incentivize builders in the best way that we can, and we'll do that, right, because there is so much innovation in the derivative space and there's definitely so many protocols that have been fantastic ideas, but just suffered from a lack of liquidity and having to just bur their token away to bring in liquidity. And then you just land in this weird spot where the liquidity is mercenary and they're just going to leave, you know, when the, when the incentives, you know, from that protocol stops. So, so there's so many protocols that have probably died that I've had great ideas but have just died because they haven't been able to source liquidity. Maybe they just can't keep up with the infrastructure needs and they can't compete. And synthetics, as the, as like, you know, v three really starts to because like as v three features continue to unlock and as we, as we really onboard new developers and so on, we'll be in a great spot to reward this innovation and get them building on top of e three.
01:06:49.710 - 01:07:50.312, Speaker A: So that's really the second thing. And the third one is all around scaling the system. I think that onboarding collateral types like ETH, like rapstaked ETH and other uh, liquid staking tokens and liquid staking derivatives like I think those will be the path for scaling synthetics. Um, there's governance conversations to be had on like how exactly that should be done and what the fee share for sneak stakers should be. But the vision that I continue to subscribe to is we want to build this, this protocol for protocols that is the hub of derivative and on chain development in the DeFi landscape. And if we want to do that, we need ample liquidity, we need the best infrastructure, we need the best builders, we need all of this has to be amazing. And if we want to get there, we'll obviously have to shift some original ideals.
01:07:50.312 - 01:08:29.004, Speaker A: And some of those original ideals have been, we're just going to use SNX as the only thing that you can stake. I don't think that should continue for the long term of the protocol. I think we should look towards wrapsake deep and ETH and so on. So to walk away with three clear things to think about here. The first is around the cross chain thesis. Meet users where they are and meet developers where they are. There's many great developers that are on Polygon, on Avalanche, that will be on base, that there's so many places where these developers are.
01:08:29.004 - 01:10:00.960, Speaker A: And if we can support them where they are with proper cross chain infrastructure, they'll be extremely happy. Built on top of synthetics, because we've abstracted so much R and D and so much development away from them having to do it themselves obviously just touched on all of the scalability needs that'll be critical. And the second one we went over was all around developer incentives and making sure there's proper rewards for developers to build in the ecosystem. I think that that's something that a lot of people have taken for granted across all of DeFi, most developers have had to just launch tokens or go to grant programs or things like that, which definitely works, but we'll definitely want to see if we can incentivize people through a share of the fees that are generated in the system and initial onboarding grants and initial incentives from maybe the synthetics treasury or things along those lines. There's so much that we can do within those three, and that'll take years to come to really see the whole endgame of it all, but it'll be really exciting to see countless derivatives and financial instruments built into synthetix. There's probably 25 of them or 50 of them that I could think of as quick examples that people could get to building ASAP.
01:10:03.660 - 01:10:44.760, Speaker C: Yeah, lots of good points there. I think. Me personally my favorite would be just the general helping new projects solve their own like liquidity cold start problem. I'm a big fan of like the liquidity as a service slash like programmable, programmable liquidity narrative. I really admire balancer for that reason. And this is just like a more like in a box, like ready to go plug and play solution, I think, which is going to pave the way for a lot of projects to not have to die or not have to burn to 30% of their tokens just to get a couple of users. We're about ten minutes over here, so we're going to start to wrap up.
01:10:44.760 - 01:10:58.080, Speaker C: Just wanted to give you some time in case there's anything you feel like we missed, anything you wanted to touch on any call to action for the people to keep an eye on with regards to synthetix.
01:10:58.500 - 01:11:39.676, Speaker A: Yeah, so quick call to action here. I've referenced Cain's recent blog post about a zillion times during this call. I would highly recommend that you read that. All of it at the end of the day is Keynes opinion on how he thinks the protocol should go forward. But I think it's a very good blog post to go through and understand some of these things that I've talked about. And he really explores a lot of the narrative around should we build cross chain infrastructure, should we have isolated deployments? You know, what's the best way to do these sorts of things and I think that touches into a lot when it comes to additional cult.
01:11:39.868 - 01:11:43.316, Speaker C: Just to confirm, is this his mirror article? Like a new hope?
01:11:43.388 - 01:12:12.970, Speaker A: Yep. Cool. Highly recommended read. It was fantastic. Now, when it comes to other things, over the next few weeks, Synthetix will begin really ramping up the amount of educational resources out about synthetix v three. So I would highly recommend reading that. There's a lot of great existing posts, but this will do a lot more of laying the foundational knowledge for a lot of the v three systems because a lot of it only lives in like, you know, proposals and like, docs and so on right now.
01:12:12.970 - 01:13:08.906, Speaker A: And the next part is to watch out for the synthetix perps v three testnet competition that'll be happening relatively soon. In the next, you know, two weeks or so, it'll be happening on base because I don't know if I was fully clear on this, but synthetix v three as a, like the idea behind synthetics v three is actually live right now. It's live, it exists, it's on main net, it's on optimism. And, you know, testnet is on, is on base and the other testnets as well. It's just that we haven't. It's not at the point yet to start moving large amounts of liquidity overdose once there's like perhaps v three and, you know, spot sense. And these are, things are like, you know, really starting to, you know, move and get to the point of like, you know, needing, you know, like, kind of need to be like the new home for synthetix.
01:13:08.906 - 01:13:33.518, Speaker A: Then stakers will start to migrate and so on. But I would look out for those two things. Go take a look at Cain's blog post or his, you know, his mirror. Watch out for synthetix v three educational material coming very soon. And then the testnet competition on base. There's a prize pool. There's a prize pool.
01:13:33.518 - 01:13:45.370, Speaker A: I know Quenta is giving out some rewards as well and so on. So that'll be a great one to watch and just be able to see what the new features are coming on top of synthetic Forbes v three.
01:13:47.150 - 01:13:57.178, Speaker B: Awesome. Thanks a lot for coming on. Thanks for everybody who tuned in. I think that's episode 36. Really appreciate it. Really appreciate you taking the time, Matt.
01:13:57.314 - 01:14:04.458, Speaker A: Yeah, guys, thanks. Thanks for letting me ramble on for an hour and 14 minutes, guys. I know you're probably looking at me like, damn, this guy can just.
01:14:04.554 - 01:14:07.698, Speaker B: No, it was great. It was great stuff.
01:14:07.834 - 01:14:13.490, Speaker A: No, guys, it was great chat with you guys. You guys had some fantastic questions, so thanks for having me on, Anddez.
