00:00:04.730 - 00:01:08.050, Speaker A: Hi everyone, that's Thomas Stench from Nethermind, but also working at Flashbots and Twinstake. And this topic today is actually somewhere on the meeting point of all of those projects that I've been working on. So I'll be talking about the future of MEV in the Ethereum. So I want to show that MeV has actually a deep impact on how we think about the protocol security, about the Ethereum future, about how we build financial markets and how we keep the user value where it should be. So staying with the user, we'll talk about MeV Burn, about EPBs, about the roads to okay, so at least a few topics that are all related to the future of Ethereum. And you can see on the right, this is the updated roadmap from Vitalik. So Vitalik keeps sending that roadmap vision for Ethereum with a list of all the topics that are being started.
00:01:08.050 - 00:02:45.886, Speaker A: It's probably like 100 of items there at the moment, with few hundred core developers working, researching, developing solutions to all of the important aspects that are either bringing like paving the road for user adoption, increasing the protocol security, usability, making sure that there is much more decentralization and furnace in how Ethereum looks in the future. And many of those solutions are borrowing the ideas that are developed in other blockchains, improving on them, or simply replicating, or sometimes or very often defining of what will be delivered in other chains in the future. So showing really that innovation path that ethereum has been actually participating in for many years now. So the topics that I'll cover today are only a subset of those that are relevant for Ethereum future. They attach things related to economics, to staking to MEV. So the first one is MeV burn, that is addressing the problem of overpaying the validators during the time of the spiked volatility. So we'll see how we can introduce the mechanisms that is similar to something like EIP 1559 for gas prices, for solving the problem of unequal payments of MEV, so unequal payments of the benefits from the arbitrage on chain arbitrage to the validators.
00:02:45.886 - 00:04:39.960, Speaker A: We'll talk about EPBs, so enshrined PBS proposal builder separation, and you'll see that those two topics are related. We'll talk about restaking, which is close to the staking world, the post Chappella Ethereum with the staking rewards and withdrawals, and now the road towards potentially a next interesting thing and hype of reusing your deposits, the validators to support more protocols and more functionalities. The shared sequencers topic, something that is very important for the future of bridging, of bringing the rewards to validators, of connecting roll ups together, bringing interoperability, geographic decentralization, which is a topic that's very important for us, maybe from the perspective of delivering Ethereum as a global public good. How not to forget about building protocol that is decentralizing power around the world, not only with the global financial hubs, but also to the global south, connecting bridging Asia with Europe, Asia with us, and so on. We'll talk about Mev share for order flow, sharing the account abstraction topic, cross domain mev. And finally, I'll try to show how swav, the product, the overarching product from flashbots is connecting all of those things together. How we think that Ethereum with swap builds the future for geographically decentralized, privacy enabled, decentralized market for value extraction and value extraction not by those in power, but by user earth back to the place where that value is created in the first place.
00:04:39.960 - 00:05:26.286, Speaker A: Okay, and if you'll be listening to me, but you would prefer to actually read while you do that. So this is the link that you can simply screenshot and start checking now, and also refer to it later if you see the recordings. So I used mostly those sources. I try to focus on the things that are the newest, the freshest. So you can think of it as a research from the last month or so and the main protocols that are being developed now. So now after using this lots of fancy words, I come back to the glossary. So maybe to let everyone join this short journey.
00:05:26.286 - 00:06:42.822, Speaker A: So what is Mev? It's a minor extractable value. So think about it as a value that is available to those participants of the protocol that have privileged position on blockchain. So in the ethereum space and in many other blockchains, you can think that this privileged position is mostly with the validator or miner, or those who are actually constructing the blocks and sending that block to the network. Those who decide which transactions go in, which transactions pay transaction fees, and what financial operations are happening on blockchain, the privileged position, because they are perfectly placed in the timing of decision placing and available to extract that value of the misaligned prices on the markets of maybe pending liquidations, and so on and so on. So this MeV topic, and the fact that that value always exists and there is always some kind of like sequential series of events on blockchain, means that sometimes, always, there is someone in the right place at the right time. And we need to think about how to smoothen that privileged position. How to redistribute it back to the users through the protocol solutions, the bundles.
00:06:42.822 - 00:08:09.986, Speaker A: I may use it a few times during the talk. So bundles are group of transactions that you're sending together, and they're very often not defined by the protocol, but it's just like a package that is used very often by extensions, through the communication layer of the protocols or protocol extensions that build on top of a mempool, or creating private mempoles on top of the public mempool, allowing to send a few transactions together with some additional metadata telling how to process those transactions together. And then an important distinction between all the aspects of who participates in block building and block propagation. We splitting the traditional role of a miner or the role of a validator nowadays into a sequencer builder proposer validator sometimes it's the same node, single operator, but sometimes, and especially with the introduction of the protocol extensions that flashbots builds together with researchers from Ethereum foundation and other teams that deliver MeV solutions, very often we actually think about how to separate those roles. So then we say that sequencer is then the one that collects and orders transactions. The builder is the one that builds a block out of those transactions, maybe by selecting a subset or maybe by adding additional information, metadata to the block. The proposer is the one that actually decides which of the different blocks to broadcast to publish to the network.
00:08:09.986 - 00:08:49.026, Speaker A: So selects the block that is most beneficial to them or to the network in general. And the validator is a role. I define it as those who participate in a consensus security. And as I say, those roles can be split the various ways. But the most important split that we've introduced in the last months, practically since the merge in Ethereum, since September last year, is the proposer builder separation. So those who build blocks. So practically combined sequencer and builder are separated from those who push that block to the network and validate network.
00:08:49.026 - 00:10:13.438, Speaker A: And this is because the validator or proposer has that security responsibility and you want to make it as light operation as possible so those who are responsible for security can focus on it entirely and don't have to worry about that very complex, financially heavy role of the block builder. Those who scan for the opportunities on the blockchain to select best transactions and build the best blocks to extract the most value. All right, so first I'll talk about the MEV burn and MEV smoothening. So, as I mentioned, the MEV smoothening and burn are all about removing the spikes of volatility and the unequal distribution of the spikes of volatility. So you think about the large events in the market, like a collapse of a centralized exchange, like October November last year, like things like Luna in May, or some announcement about regulatory actions, litigations, or even unrelated to the blockchain markets, the global markets collapses, or some good market situations. So all of those increase volatility. The prices of assets start to move a lot, and suddenly much more transactions are being created by financial markets participants to take advantage of those situations.
00:10:13.438 - 00:10:53.674, Speaker A: They try to move assets very quickly. Some liquidations happen. The prices are misaligned between different decentralized exchanges. Some new opportunities appear, new products that are maybe suddenly stress tested in that situation are starting, fail, starting to fail. In those situations, a handful of validators that are randomly selected to produce blocks at that very moment are having a great advantage to actually take that value for themselves. Like the searchers, the arbitrators on the market pay huge transaction fees to those few validators. They're on Ethereum.
00:10:53.674 - 00:12:11.622, Speaker A: At least they are randomly selected for that time. And they may maybe take home like something like 100 t for every block that they produce. The problem is that actually, from the security perspective, it's undesired. Even from the perspective of many of the operators, whether solo operators or large node operators, it's also undesired creates some kind of unpredictability of the rewards and possibility of some so called reorg attacks, those who were not selected for those particularly valuable opportunities that may go, you can imagine in the future, maybe some major roll up collapse will lead to something like hundred thousands of eve rewards for a single block. So in those cases, you may think someone can decide that it's worth to put the Ethereum at risk just to reorg the order of blocks to get that reward for themselves. So MeV Burn is all about introducing a solution that smoothens that problem. And the discussion is currently happening on the if research forum and what it will lead to, very likely within a year or two, because this is the timeline that we're talking here about.
00:12:11.622 - 00:13:37.620, Speaker A: Maybe like between one and three years from now, we'll introduce a solution that will start redistributing that MEV, either through the burn or through smoothening of the redistribution among the validators. So why mev burn? It's a solution similar to AP 1559, the same way as an EIP 1559 forces the base fee to be burned and burning of Ethereum. You can think of it as a redistribution of value to all the holders of ether, because everyone who holds ETH is suddenly having a share of a smaller pie. So theoretically the dollar value of that if should be higher, right? So that's why we're redistributing to all the holders if we burn. And Mev Burn says that if there is 10,000 if opportunity, then instead of having multiple builders to try to compete for that and bid to the block proposal to validate or to make that payment of like split, maybe 7000, 3000, we force those builders to actually bid for burning as much amount as possible. So they may end up burning something like 9000 if and taking 1000 between validator and block builder, and that 9000 burn. Similarly, as we've seen in the ultrasound dashboard, is leading to the global decrease of the total cap or decrease of the total available if.
00:13:37.620 - 00:14:48.070, Speaker A: All right, so MeV Burn is related also to proposer builder separation because the current proposal of MEV Burn, of how it will be architected, are based on the communication between builders and the proposers through the peer to peer network. So there'll be a series of messages together with the attestations from the Ethereum block beacon chain that will observe what happens and split the block construction role into like multiple phases. The phases when the beats with the highest MEV burn are proposed, the best block is selected. And a tester is saying, this is what we've observed as the highest promised MEV burn level. This is what we've observed as the block selected by the proposer, and so on and so on. So multiple stages leading to the block selection. But for that to happen, we need to have a modification from PBS today which uses the centralized relay in between the builder and proposer into PBS endgame.
00:14:48.070 - 00:16:02.826, Speaker A: Some, again, some work for the one or two years where we have just builder and proposer communicating over P two P network and the attesters just monitoring what kind of messages they notice on the network. So this is even nowadays when we have the validators on Ethereum creating, proposing new blocks and participating in security, you have those attestation committees that are observing what really happens and they agree on the state of the network. They say this is the best block that we've seen. In a way, this is the block that we commit to, this is the history that we all agree on. And we can start kind of overloading that responsibility of the attestation committees to provide a bit more and more functionality. What comes else? So this is maybe slightly on the side from that, or maybe different topic, what's coming to Ethereum is also restaking and I think that there's a big prediction that there'll be a lot of protocols that will start taking advantage of restaking. And it might be also a lot of misleading advertising of the benefits of restaking.
00:16:02.826 - 00:17:24.646, Speaker A: And I think the understanding of the risks of restaking, understanding of the opportunities of restaking will be an important role. And one of the things that at Netamite we start to work on in collaboration with Eigen layer is to understand, to provide some common framework to the users of how to best analyze the risks of restaking. And what is restaking? Restaking is using your deposit from Ethereum and using it as a potentially deposit for another protocol that is slashable under other conditions. So instead of using deposit directly for validator and Ethereum, we deposit Ferdy to Eve through a smart contract that has additional logic that says that I have additional responsibility to either validate or maybe provide the data as oracle, or maybe settle some additional financial protocol transactions, or maybe liquidate in time and so on and so on. I have additional responsibility. So also I potentially have additional punishment. If there is additional punishment, it means that I put my deposit from Ethereum, which is designed to secure the Ethereum network 32 Eve that is actually used in all the calculations of the network security and I put it at risk of additional slashing.
00:17:24.646 - 00:18:45.344, Speaker A: So suddenly we have the additional risk of the network security just because of some overhyped, well marketed project that is inviting all the validators to restake with it may fail, may cause the massive slashing which may lead to the decreased security of the entire network. And I think that understanding of those risks, but also opportunities because it leads to additional rewards on top of your stake is what will be very important aspect of building on restaking. And I hope you all take it into account when you'll be planning restaking in a few months when it happens. The next topic so short sequencers. So this should be again coming to Ethereum, I guess maybe in a year, maybe a bit faster in the first examples, maybe it's already there in some very early forms and this is very important for the rollups and for the world. Also of a cross chain MeV as the shared sequencers are promising the role of building blocks for multiple chains at the same time. And when we think about multiple chains, usually they'll exist within the same domain, like within the same family of chains.
00:18:45.344 - 00:20:30.052, Speaker A: You can think of it as maybe optimist stack with superchain or some solutions across for Starknet, like all the layer three on Starknet and L2, or Ethereum ecosystem as Ethereum and its roll ups together. Or maybe something. Well, I guess in Cosmos we're talking more about the cosmos specific solutions. But here about Ethereum, the shared sequencers will bring the bridging capacity, the potential cross domain MEV extraction, and potential significant decrease of the cost of security of building a new roll up. So, shared sequencers and I invite everyone to read a very long but very comprehensive article from Jean Charboneau, which I link here to understand, really, this scope of what are shared sequencers, what is the centralization spectrum of all the sequencers that we can build, and how many functionalities we can do to the overloading the sequencer, or like proposer world geographic decentralization. So there is a bit of like geographic decentralization manifesto from flashbots that says that as now we are defining the protocols for MeV, for roll ups, for new layer ones, there is very often an incentive to build for latency, to market the products, market the L1s, or market l two s, that they have the lowest latencies that are fastest in processing transactions. And there is a reason.
00:20:30.052 - 00:22:01.750, Speaker A: But through that we see the geographical centralization, that to catch up with the network, you will need to colocate the validators in a single region, that you'll have to be close to the block builders to deliver your transactions as fast as possible, and so on and so on. It's this famous world of the traditional finance, where you're buying the space in the same rack in the data center to be as close as possible to the decentralized exchange operator. So, geographic decentralization means that for all of us among Ethereum, research, flashboards, metamind, and so on, whoever works on the protocol, it's important to have it always at the back of our minds that the design of protocol has to take into account that when we design for latency, we design for centralization. So we should have the protocols that ideally do not deliver more value to those who have higher latency in delivering messages to some reasonable level, I think. So there has to be some compromise. Obviously, you cannot wait hours, but if you start thinking of maybe milliseconds, then it might be that the protocol should have some modifications to simply batch together, collapse transactions over time. While this is also opportunity to think of how to keep bridging the various regions when building.
00:22:01.750 - 00:23:25.980, Speaker A: So breaking the barriers of either language, understanding, communication, meeting together and introducing the infrastructure from different regions, and building cooperation. So whenever we see builders from the west coming here, or vice versa, there's opportunity to start building protocols together, and build them together from the beginning, with the validators in the regions from two ends of the world and making sure that even within those latency situations, high latency situations, the protocols are operating great. So I feel that on the Nethermind side, it's always invitation for cooperation between netermind that tries to be global, but definitely has a bit of like european roots. And that's when much of the infrastructure for netamind exists. Cooperate and collaborate and invite to collaborate for anyone here on in asian region to help bring those infrastructure operators to the Ethereum ecosystem. One more thing that is coming, or it's almost being deployed now on Mainnet in the 10 production version is semi V share. It comes from flashbots and it talks about the order flow sharing.
00:23:25.980 - 00:24:47.336, Speaker A: And by order flow we mean here the list of orders or transactions from users that flow usually through the wallets, through the front end transactions. So it can be maybe the list of uniswap orders, or the orders from a wallet like metamask, or the list of orders for one inch, and so on and so on. So that order flow in traditional finance market very often is a part of transactions like OTC transactions or order flow selling. So we go to some broker platform and we don't pay fees, but our order flow is being sold to the market makers who take advantage of the knowledge of the knowledge in advance of the market movements, of the direction of trades and the trade against that flow or background on top of that flow. And we want to introduce solutions having potential in blockchain for the privacy, for the control, for both privacy and transparency. We are introducing solutions that are protecting users on the side of ensuring that we do not give away the details of a transaction too much. We just share some aspects of it, but not everything.
00:24:47.336 - 00:25:58.720, Speaker A: So the user transaction cannot be front run, cannot be taken advantage of. But we share enough information that the transaction can be backrun, which means that whatever misalignment in the prices on the centralized exchanges it can introduce, can be detected background, and then the value can be shared with user back. So I make a large trade, let's say as a user can be large company, right? Can be a user as well. So you think of a user as maybe a single person using the metamask. Now we're thinking here of a user as maybe large company operator that makes a trade for $10 million to change from one currency to another. And if they introduce a trade like this, then they can move the prices significantly and ideally some of that value misalignment, if detected by arbitrager, can be paid back to the user. So Mev sharecamps from fashionbots is at the moment in the beta stage on Mainnet, and you can start connecting and analyzing how the matchmaking algorithm works, how we provide the privacy solution for the users to not show all the data of the transaction.
00:25:58.720 - 00:26:38.280, Speaker A: Okay. And the account abstraction is one more topic that will have MEV, because when you think about account obstruction, it's splitting the transaction into more granular level. So block is constructing of transactions and the account abstraction. Erc. Four, three, seven. On Ethereum, we split further transaction into user operations. So user operations are some small actions that are signed by user, but signed not using the typical transaction signing methods from Ethereum, but some any other abstracted way.
00:26:38.280 - 00:27:30.730, Speaker A: So it can be signed with a password, signed with some custodial key by someone else, signed with some electronic ID, and so on and so on. So the same way as we can have MEV available for the block builders, by reordering transactions, maybe even injecting transactions, and so on and so on on block level. The same way we can have MEV in the world of reordering and selecting the user operations to the transaction. So instead of block builders, we are talking here about bundlers. Those who bundle transactions together, bundle user operations together to create a transaction. So now account abstraction gets a lot of attention. There are lots of builders, and it's good to start thinking that there will be a world of MeV in the account abstraction as well.
00:27:30.730 - 00:29:04.490, Speaker A: The last one thing before suave, I was actually asked to speak a bit longer. So I'm having a thing, three minutes more. So the cross domain MeV concept, as I mentioned, with the shared sequencers and with the roll ups, and in the world of multiple layer one chains, we talk about extraction of value that is only possible if you have access to multiple chains at once. So in particular, you can imagine solutions like Ethereum Polygon or Ethereum binance smart chain or Ethereum optimist, Ethereum, Starknet and so on. So what if I can only liquidate a position on Ethereum? If I move the assets first from Starknet back to Ethereum? What if I can do that in a transactional way? So if I'm using shared sequencer, then maybe I'm guaranteed to do that. If I'm not using shared sequencer, can I introduce mechanisms that allow me to promise to make a promise that I will be able to do that in a transactional way? So there is a solution, or like multiple solutions that we're researching at flashbots now that will allow us maybe to improve the mechanisms of providing those promises and providing this communication layer between the block builders on multiple domains and the domains themselves. So by domains I mean maybe decentralized exchanges, centralized exchanges, layer ones, L2s and so on.
00:29:04.490 - 00:30:34.420, Speaker A: And finally, we say that for flashbots, there is a swap as a unifying solution. Single unifying auction for value expression. So allowing users to express what has value for them, what is their intent, what they want to achieve, where they want to trade, and allowing them to participate in single auction that unifies all the domains, while at the same time providing users with privacy. Providing users with a full, decentralized, permissionless access to the financial market that is fairly redistributing that value back to where it's created. So back to the users, which when you think of something that we've at the beginning been considering, an important aspect of blockchains was disintermediation, not having intermediaries that were charging the fees for execution of the most simple operations as we see it in traditional finance. So in suave, we have an idea that by introducing systems that are permissionless, redistributing value back and operating with privacy, you no longer need intermediaries. You simply allow users to connect to the system that works, that provides the functionality of participation in financial markets, and distributes value exactly in the fur way, so you no longer have the intermediaries fees.
00:30:34.420 - 00:31:08.890, Speaker A: And this is a long, long way from multiple steps. Components, progressive decentralization, removal, centralization bridges that let us jump from one state to another forward. And some of them are Mev share, some of them are domain solutions, some of them are solutions like enshrined PBS. Everything that we talked about is part of this. Thank you so much for listening. Contact details thank you.
