00:00:23.440 - 00:01:21.684, Speaker A: Do you hear me now? Yes. Okay, thank you. I think I talked when I was muted. There is a section here about parcel frames, but before that, I want to make some more general comments. We had a week on respaces and frames about two weeks ago, and immediately talking about parcel frames here does not show what's going on. That is why it's better to explore a bit more. In a Hilbert space age, we usually talk about an orthonormal basis.
00:01:21.684 - 00:02:08.264, Speaker A: Just what many properties can be proved by an orthonormal basis. Let's call it es with index s. And I here is not necessarily countable can for any help participate. It is true. And the most important property of orthogonal basis is this representation. For every element we can write, f is equal to a coefficient. We know what the coefficient is times s.
00:02:08.264 - 00:03:12.044, Speaker A: And here we have an unconditional convergence of the series to f. Very good, very useful representation. But there is some problems with autonomous basis. The most important one is probably that when we do a little bit of perturbation, foes is given the function s given, we change it a little bit. I mean, I call it epsilon, which also can depend on s, and call this function f of s. So es is given the original one, and you change it a little bit, call it fs. Fs means fails to be an orthonormal basis in the general setting, not and orton on my base is anymore.
00:03:12.044 - 00:04:23.232, Speaker A: And this is important for application, because, for example, in signal processing, in telecommunication, we have noise, which is our epsilon. Here we start with something which is good autonomous basis, but immediately with a noise, we obtain something which is not autonomous anymore. That is, I mean, just as an explanation why we see such things. That is why mathematician started to think about other objects, objects such that still we can have such a representation, even unconditional convergence. And it's kind of stable under some perturbation. It means that we have this representation for es. If we change a little bit es, then still we have a representation with some coefficient with respect to fs.
00:04:23.232 - 00:05:13.844, Speaker A: I don't say for every perturbation, but for some still it holds. So we have to move from orthonormal basis to something else. And this brings us to the concept of shoulder bases, and then wrist bases and frames. There are several ways that we can define any of these objects. One of them is by operator theory tools. The good thing about this approach is that by looking at the definition, we see what's going on. But to extract the properties, it takes time, and you have to cook a little bit to obtain the required result.
00:05:13.844 - 00:05:55.324, Speaker A: I summarized the way we can use operator theory to make the definition. But I will present some other definitions for wispases and for pulse walls, which sound to be different but they are connected and in fact equivalent. We can go from one way to another. Let's start indeed with an orthonormal basis. You have seen the original definition. They are normalized, orthogonal to each other, and create a space. Here is another way to do it.
00:05:55.324 - 00:07:46.334, Speaker A: There is a mapping u from l two of s to h, and I would like to use es for the elements of l two. I'm sorry, please let me, let me change this to say f and these 2G not to mistake with e of s here, e s is an orthonormal, canonical orthonormal basis. For this it means that at one point is equal to one, at all other components is equal to zero, and this is mapped to fos. Here, if the map, that's the point that you need to remember, the map view is bijective and an isometry short term for this is a unitary map, a unitary map from l two of s to h. Then it maps an orthanormal basis here to another orthonormal basis there. So in this case we obtain an orthonormal basis. So I repeat, we have a map from l two of s to h, bijective and isometric.
00:07:46.334 - 00:08:51.204, Speaker A: Now we can relax the assumptions that we have isometry, we can relax it bijective, we can relax it and we obtain something else. If we relax this and instead of isometry, we just assume that it's bounded, but it's still bijective. So a map which maps es to fs, but the map is bijective and bounded. This gives us a respaces, that's a definition using operator theorem tools. And in the second step of relaxation, still when we have bijective here, you see that the kernel is zero. In other words, our representation is unique. This representation of f is still unique because the map is bijective.
00:08:51.204 - 00:10:04.474, Speaker A: So we keep bounded, but replace bijective by projective just being onto what we obtain is a frame. So that is why I said, when we look at these three objects, orthonormal basis, raised basis and frame from operator point theory point of view, it's easy to describe. We have a map, um, and we relax the conditions. We obtain ob, we obtain risk spaces, we obtain frame. But after that we need to work a little bit more to say, to obtain equivalent definitions for spaces or equivalent definition for frames, many books start with the other one, which I will mention momentarily. But when we do that, this picture is not available and we have to obtain it later on. At any rate, we have to start from one of them and do some work to obtain the other definitions.
00:10:04.474 - 00:10:29.818, Speaker A: So let me, let me start with the definition of re spaces. Yes. When you have bijective and isometry, then your h will be separable. S is not necessarily countable. Oh, okay, great. Okay. It can be in the countable case.
00:10:29.818 - 00:11:14.184, Speaker A: Yes, we have a separable Hilbert space, which is, I mean, usually the case in our studies, but in the general setting that's not the case. Even you need to be careful. In some books they write fn. And usually, usually when we write fn is an integer. I can show you books which write fn, but say that n is not necessarily an integer. Careful, it's a general net. So.
00:11:14.184 - 00:12:37.958, Speaker A: But anyhow, the definition is the same for in all cases. Now, as I said, the second category of definitions which are equivalent to the previous ones. But with this definition we can get more rapidly the properties that we want, uh, pass over this rapidly. But still, I mentioned, so fn n bigger than or equal to one. In a separable Hilbert space, h is risk basis if there are constant a and b bigger than zero such that the sum of ckfk, the nor in h squared. Some books write a finite number of songs, but even, I mean, an infinite number is okay too. You can go to a limit.
00:12:37.958 - 00:14:13.896, Speaker A: So either k from one up to m or from one to infinity is controlled from above and from below by the norm of the coefficient in l two. Some ck squared, so controlled means you pick, you put a constant here, a and a constant a. The values of the constant a and b are important in particular in numerical calculation. But if in our calculation they are not, the notation that we use is like this. This is equivalent or asymptotic to the sum of ck squared we have, which is the same thing as normal ck in l two. So they could, of course, for an orthonormal basis, this is the case with a equal to b equal to one. But we relax a little bit.
00:14:13.896 - 00:15:15.466, Speaker A: The relaxation here is seen as the existence of this a and b, which are not necessarily equal to one. Over there, the relaxation is going from isometry to bounded. These are the same, but to prove they are the same, you need to, I mean, study more about this. In the one two. In the orthonormal basis case, we had this representation f, the sum of f inner product with fs times fs. The difference here is that. So the theorem for the orthonormal basis for the respaces said let fn be a respaces.
00:15:15.466 - 00:16:33.560, Speaker A: That's the most important theorem about respaces in elevated spaces in h. Then there is, there is a sequence, even a unique sequence gm n bigger than in h, such that for any f in h we have the representation f equal to the sum some coefficients times fn. But the coefficients here are given by inner product of f with gn. In the previous case, when we had orthonormal basis, gn was equal to fn in the general setting. No, it's not necessarily the case, and we can say more about gn. It's called the biorthagonal sequence for fn. Even we can go a bit further and explore some properties.
00:16:33.560 - 00:17:23.453, Speaker A: For example, even we have this one. Even gn is a we spaces, which means that we also have f inner product with fn times gn. When this sum up gives us the function f. I stop here to talk more about these spaces, because it's a huge, huge theory. I just wanted to touch the beginning to say what's going on. The good thing about here, the respaces, is that the representation is unique. The coefficients are uniquely given with respect to fn and uniquely given with respect to gn.
00:17:23.453 - 00:18:24.584, Speaker A: In other words, if by any method you discover that f is equal to the sum n from one to infinity sum alpha n times fn, there is no liberty for alpha n. We know that alpha n has to be f inner product with gm. So the uniqueness, which is a component for orthanormal basis, is saved for risk based. This is going to be lost in the next step when we study frames. Frames is another step for generalization. The goal for frames is to is to have a representation like this, but not necessarily a unique representation. F might have even infinitely many representation in terms of fn.
00:18:24.584 - 00:20:27.434, Speaker A: In the language of operative theory, this is translated here not injective and not injective means that there is a kernel here, and if there is a kernel, many elements can be mapped to zero, which are not zero. Another feature of this is precisely here we have such representations, but these are not unique. The second way to define a frame is via this definition, which I mean really not similar to what I gave about operator theory, but at the end of the day it's equivalent, not something different. Definition the sequence fn in age is a frame if, as before, there are constant a and b strictly positive, such that the sum k from one to infinity. Inner product of f and f k mod squared is majorized and mineralized by the normal f in h squared by some constant. We can put a here again, you see what's, what's here? This is a map from the space h into l two. S, not from l two to h, from h into l two.
00:20:27.434 - 00:21:33.214, Speaker A: Let's map from h to l two, which maps f to the sequence f and f k. The case component here is in l two. The case component is f inner product with fk that's in h. And what you see in the middle here is the norm of this mapping, the norm of this element in l two squared. So the norm is controlled by the norm of f from above and from below. If, sorry, if a is equal to b equal to one, you have an isometry. But I consider before that just case a equal to b.
00:21:33.214 - 00:22:15.474, Speaker A: This is called, there is a specific name for that. What kind of frame? I apologize, I forgot the name. No, I'm sorry. No, it's for one. For one, it's a tight frame. No, this is, this is tight frame. Thank you.
00:22:15.474 - 00:23:15.878, Speaker A: This is tight frame. And if a is equal to b equal to one, it's called parcel frame. And in the book it started precisely from here. Why I mentioned all of this because in the previous case, you saw in the risk basis case, we show that f n is given gn exists such that we have this representation in the case of frames. In the case of frames, they show that the operator s equal to t t. What is t? T is the operator I mentioned about. This is operator t from h to l two, which maps an element into its coefficient.
00:23:15.878 - 00:24:02.132, Speaker A: In l two, they show that this operator is invertible. And then we have this representation. So the most important representation in the frame theory is this one s of f is equal to the sum n from one to infinity f. Inner product with fn times fn. So the sum we obtain here n from one to infinity f. Inner product fn is not quite equal to f. It's equal to slf.
00:24:02.132 - 00:24:49.634, Speaker A: In the previous case here, either f with g n times f, or in the orthonormal basis setting here, it gives us f not so f. So that's one thing. But the good thing is that this operator is invertible. One thing that we can do is to multiply, multiply both sides by s minus one. So one formula is this f is equal to sum ffn, s minus one f. It's very similar to the previous representation. That's one function, that's another function.
00:24:49.634 - 00:25:51.716, Speaker A: And we have a representation. Another, instead of multiplying both sides by s minus one, is to replace f by s minus f in this formula. So it gives us s of s minus f. And then we see that f is equal to the sum s is self adjoint. So s minus one is also self joint. These two formulas, this and this one, are very similar to the previous two formulas that we had here for, for re spaces. But in term of fn and gn.
00:25:51.716 - 00:26:25.866, Speaker A: Now we have in terms of fn and s minus one f. So as a representation, is a representation for f. So in a sense we succeeded. We obtained the representation. Two features. First, it's not unique. In other words, it is possible here that we have f equal to some n from one to infinity alpha n fn n, but alpha n not equal to f.
00:26:25.866 - 00:27:15.554, Speaker A: S minus one f, we lose the uniqueness of the coefficient. That's not, in many application, a big deal. As long as we have a representation, it's okay. Second, which is more serious in application, is that s minus one is not easy to calculate. Fn is given. So the calculation of s minus one is a problem and we need other numerical methods to obtain this. That is why in this case, tight frames and parcel frames become more important.
00:27:15.554 - 00:28:31.956, Speaker A: Because in the case tight frame, when a is equal to b, s minus one, is very simple, is just equal to one over a identity. So pretty much here, pretty much here we obtain what we want. F becomes f equals to the sum n from one to infinity f and s minus one is one over a. So here is fn, here is f n. And one over a comes very, very close to what we have to orthonormal basis. And even if we have a personal basis, a personal frame, sorry, it becomes the same formula that we had for orthonormal basis. This could be very misleading if you do not pay attention to the fact that the coefficients are not unique.
00:28:31.956 - 00:29:40.800, Speaker A: In other words, even in this case, even in the case a equal to b equal to one, it is possible to have another representation but alpha n not equal to f. In a code like f in the book, we just have this one, this representation, and look what happens in the original definition if a is equal to b. Here is the original definition. If a is equal to b equal to one, the definition becomes, I repeat the definition here. Definitions case a b equal to one. For any f in the space hook norm of f squared is equal to the sum f inarvo, that will be fn squared. That's the definition.
00:29:40.800 - 00:31:49.270, Speaker A: In this case, I will prove indeed I didn't give the proof of the formula in the cut here, but I will prove it. We have this representation, but it is not unique. It will be for the next in the remaining time, few minutes remaining, I give one example to ensure you that it is possible to have the representation and indeed many many representation. So example the let h be any Hilbert space and consider two orthonormal bases for h. One of them we represented by by u index s when s is in s and autonomous basis, another one we represented by v index t t another index t again an orthonormal basis. With each of this, we have a representation which is unique. I mean f equal to sum s in s f in a product with us s this is unique also f with respect to t f in a product vt vt again unique.
00:31:49.270 - 00:33:08.224, Speaker A: That's the classical one that we have seen many many times. Now consider this. This setting modify we consider this setting the set u one over root square of two us as in s union one over root square of two vt you will see the reason for one over root two. So our index set is s union t. So s union t is our index set and I want to show that this is a parcel frame. To show the parcel frame, the definition is like this. I have to study the sum f in a product with all elements square.
00:33:08.224 - 00:34:28.714, Speaker A: I write here f, but if I write fs, it will be mixed with this one. If I write ft, it will be mixed with this one. I write yota where yota is in s union t. So if yota is in s f, yota is this element. So f y is equal to one over root two us. If yota is equal to s and if yota is equal to g is over one over root two vt so what do I obtain? I obtain two sum. This is equal to sum s is in s f, one over root two us squared and another t is in t f one over two dt square can extract root two, it becomes squared.
00:34:28.714 - 00:35:59.014, Speaker A: So half f inner product us squared, another half t in t f inner productivity t mod squared and we know that each one of this is equal to norm f squared. So we obtain norm f squared in h because each of them is an autonomous basis. So from beginning to the end, I have this equal to this. Therefore I have. I have a parcel frame as the collection f yota yota is in s union t is a parcel frame which two? Comments? If I remove one over root square two, it's still a tight frame. It's not a partial frame the coefficient a appears. So a normalization is hidden here with root square.
00:35:59.014 - 00:37:42.424, Speaker A: And the second is that I show we have a representation, and this was the representation. If a is equal to b equal to one, that's for the separable case. But in any dimension f is equal to f inner product with f yota times f yota, and yota is in this space. Again, this becomes a triviality here, because we know the representation between respect to us and with respect to vt. But if we repeat it here, it becomes f equals to the sum s in s f one over root square us, one over root square us, that's half of it, plus t dot in t f one square, one over square can leave it as it is. That's, that's a representation with respect to our elements. But if you want to take one over two outside these two, it becomes a half fus plus a half fvt times vt.
00:37:42.424 - 00:39:42.908, Speaker A: This signature, it's, I mean, it's not a good idea, but just to show that this is equal to f, because this is f, this is f and half plus one two, it gives us f. But let's stay with this representation to conclude that, conclude what I wrote here, I believe where was I wrote that the coefficients are not. Yeah, here it is, we have this representation, but we can have other coefficients. For example here, if I remove this, then at the same time I can write this is equal to the sum s times s us, one over two, that's our basic element. And here f us root two, that's my coefficient alpha plus zero, that's another representation, because this part is zero and the other part is the one we had before. For the orthonormal basis, this one, it's kind of trivial. But the goal is not to give an example which is trivial.
00:39:42.908 - 00:40:43.112, Speaker A: The goal was to show that it is really possible to, to have other coefficients. And here I have another coefficient, it's not equal to this one and this one. The coefficient here I have is this and zero as the prototype example. So you see what's going on. In the general setting, one good property is saved, which means that you have the representation f equals to this. On the other hand, it's not, it's not unique. In more advanced properties of frames, we can show that these coefficients have minimal energy.
00:40:43.112 - 00:41:26.262, Speaker A: But I mean, I do not enter it. Now, there are some questions here, or comments. Let me see. I think that the set SMT need to be disjoint for this work. Well, yeah, kind of, yeah, you are right. I mean, it is I think better way out will index social. What you said is equivalent to what Alex, what Sheldon mentioned.
00:41:26.262 - 00:42:12.714, Speaker A: Because when I take the union, I mean, you product them with one and two, but being destroyed give the same thing. So I've seen in some books they also. Wow, what's going on? In some books also, they use special notations like they put a dot here to do precisely what you suggested. It's disjoint union on snt. But thank you for the comment. You're right. I mean, when I write s union t, there shouldn't be an intersection between them.
00:42:12.714 - 00:43:04.870, Speaker A: So, to finish, even though I mentioned. Let me tell one more time. And among all representations of f as f inner product with fi times f I or another alpha I times f I. If you want to calculate the minimum energy, it means that absolute value of alpha yota squared to be minimum. There is a unique solution, which is this one. I do not enter this. It's a part, of course on dispases and frames, which is not our goal.
00:43:04.870 - 00:43:49.194, Speaker A: I just wanted to give an introduction to these partial frames to say that where they come from and why this representation is important. Next week I will prove this representation and some elementary properties of personal frames. It will give a few more minutes over time, plus two trms, one from Larsen and the other from Papadeckis. And then we will continue our studies of kernels consequences of more TRM and reconstruction problems. Some of them okay, thank you very much.
