00:00:00.480 - 00:00:42.734, Speaker A: Hello. I'm super excited to start the course with you, but before we do, we need to see where we're starting and where we're ending up so we have a clear path to success. So let's see what this course will look like for you. First, we start off with Deno foundations, just basic fundamentals, how Deno is built, what the internal architecture is, how it works, so that we truly, truly understand this JavaScript runtime. This is going to build the foundation for the rest of the course. We then dive into comparing Deno with node. You see, Deno was created by the same creator of node.
00:00:42.734 - 00:01:31.306, Speaker A: So in order to truly understand Deno, you need to understand node, some of its shortcomings and how Deno tries to improve it. This is going to be a very interesting section. Next we start learning about modules and tooling and discover the unique ways that Deno handles these things. This is where we get to really discover the power of Deno and how we can use Deno to build some large applications. Then we start getting into some really fun scripting when it comes to Deno. With Deno, we can do a lot of things now. And one of the projects we're going to be working on is working with real life planetary data from satellites and trying to discover planets around the universe that might have life.
00:01:31.306 - 00:02:07.916, Speaker A: That's right. We're going to read data, reading files and try to discover useful information using Deno. This is going to be a really fun one, and I'm really excited about this section. Next we start talking about backends and APIs. At the end of the day, Deno will most likely be heavily used for backend servers and building APIs. So we're going to learn about how to build these systems. And in here we're going to do a fun project using SpaceX data to analyze their launches and their launch schedules.
00:02:07.916 - 00:03:10.534, Speaker A: And once we have these foundations laid out, once we understand the internals of Deno, how Deno works, what the best practices are, this is the fun part. We built a massive NASA project. We're going to build a NASA mission control dashboard where we can schedule launches, see the launches, see the missions, all powered by Deno. But most importantly, along the way we're going to cover things like performance testing, security debugging, using Docker to deploy to production on AWS, all things that as backend developers we need to know. We're going to use modern practices to build actual secure applications that you can trust. By the end of this project, you'll have a great looking portfolio project. But more importantly, you'll have the ability to create your own projects and feel comfortable that you are deploying something using modern best practices along the way because everybody has different level of experiences.
00:03:10.534 - 00:03:45.600, Speaker A: We also include bonus sections on JavaScript and typescript so that when we build our projects we really, really know how things work. We know how to use typescript in our project and overall have a modern tech stack using Deno to build real life applications. I promise you we'll make it fun along the way. And by the end of it all, this is all going to fit in together and make sense to make you truly understand. Deno and its power were going to take you from zero to mastery. Oh, and I almost forgot the best part. The best part is right here.
00:03:45.600 - 00:04:23.474, Speaker A: Our online private community of over 130,000 programmers. We have people chatting here every day, going through the course, helping each other out, solving problems together, doing coding challenges, and just talking about the latest and greatest in programming in general. This is an optional resource for you to use so you can have back and forth conversations with other students and your instructors, like myself, so you feel like you're part of a classroom. I'm on there chatting every day with students. But you know what? Enough talk. I'm getting excited. I feel like you are too, otherwise you wouldn't be here.
00:04:23.474 - 00:04:30.410, Speaker A: So let's get started, and let's start diving into the world of Dino. Welcome to Dino Park.
