00:00:26.874 - 00:01:20.824, Speaker A: First of all, hello everyone, my name is Jamila. Thank you so much for introduction and thank you for having me. I will indeed talk about how smart contracts bring, or may help to bring justice. So I wanted to start by telling that I'm first year PhD student at Paris to university and my PhD research is based on legal issues and governance of decentralized dispute resolution systems. I work as a researcher at Clarus, which is essentially a decentralized dispute resolution system, and today hope that by presenting my topic, which is part of my research, I would spark some conversation. I would be happy to discuss it and get some feedback from you often. So let's start current justice system.
00:01:20.824 - 00:02:44.430, Speaker A: We can't talk about all countries, but I studied law in three different countries. And when I was a law student, my objectives were I was dreaming to become a judge because I was driven by so many stories and I was really determined to bring justice and facilitate that. But then I became a little bit disappointed in the realities of justice system. I was doing my bachelor's degree back in Russia, and then I just. At the time I graduated, I understood that while there are so many problems that are yet to be resolved, so eventually I chose different path. Now I'm in academia, but generally when we refer to traditional means of justice, we would say that it mostly very time consuming, it could be very costly, especially if you are hiring lawyers and you go through those procedures and lack of trust. It's something that refers to lack of confidence in the traditional justice system that many people face, or just as simple as inability to reach to that justice and just inaccessibility to that and execution of the decision.
00:02:44.430 - 00:04:00.874, Speaker A: That's something that also tied to traditional justice system. Even if the argument and the was settled and the decision was rendered, there's a lot of problems of actually when does that decision come into force or how do we actually facilitate the acoustic of such decision? So, smart contracts eventually help through technological solutions. But before I jump into decentralized dispute resolution systems, I wanted to give a brief overview of the alternatives that exist there. So first of all is alternative dispute resolution or ADR. So it's a process that is referred to neutral party, neutral third party participating in the argument between two parties, and basically helping and facilitating those parties to come to an agreement. So mediation and arbitration are usually the most common types of alternative dispute resolution. And through mediation, usually neutral parties try to help to discuss eventually come to consensus.
00:04:00.874 - 00:05:36.354, Speaker A: And in arbitration on that hand, there is other primary form of alternative dispute resolution where the neutral third party serves as a judge who is responsible for resolving the matter. So when it comes to online dispute resolution, I would personally put it into a subcategory of alternative dispute resolution, because, I mean, if any of you have used eBay or any other Internet platform that allows those dispute resolutions, you would know that, well, it is relatively easy now to settle a dispute if you have, let's say, with, I don't know, with potential buyer or a consumer within the platform. And eBay was one of the examples that facilitated that new era of online dispute resolution back in the nineties. And then we have decentralized dispute resolution. And that's something that sparked a lot of interest with the development of blockchain technology. And not just the development per se, but also popularity among the general public, because, as we know, the blockchain technology was present back in the nineties and even before the development of Internet. But then when it actually comes to being something that is popular amongst the public, I would say that it started to develop in 20, I don't know, 1516.
00:05:36.354 - 00:06:39.266, Speaker A: So, as I mentioned, I work in Kleris, and Clarus is a decentralized dispute resolution system that offers a solution to settle your disputes. So just a brief introduction to people who might have never heard of it. It's one of the actually first decentralized dispute resolution systems that were launched back in 2017, 2018. And it continues to serve the public and it continues to grow the amount of cases that is being resolved. So back in 2017, 2018, there were a lot of alternatives. But even before I joined the team, which happened not long ago, I followed the project. And for me, one of the criteria for joining was to see some project that is actually viable and that continues to grow, work on the features and something that actually stays and that actually people can use.
00:06:39.266 - 00:08:11.574, Speaker A: It's not just a theoretical idea, but it could be used in practice as well. So let's say, because I have a legal background, I have to give that little background and overview of how the, just the legal overview of the regulation that is present around decentralized dispute resolution systems and alternative dispute resolution system in general. So there is convention on the recognition and Enforcement of foreign arbitrary awards, or it's usually being referred to us, the New York Convention, and it provides that, you know, like the foundation, and basically was aimed to draft aid in an enforcement of domestic courts, of awards granted in foreign countries. So that's kind of the legislative framework that we usually refer to when we talk about alternative dispute resolution systems. There's always, of course, national laws that should be taken into consideration when we talk about the how, for instance, any case that is resolved in decentralized disputes, resolution platforms would be interpreted in local legislative framework by local courts. And we're going to look at it. And there's, of course, the unsettled trial model law on international commercial arbitration.
00:08:11.574 - 00:09:11.492, Speaker A: And we don't have, unfortunately, time to go into details. I would love to discuss that. But basically, Clarison fits into these legislative framework. Of course, like the New York convention that was set in 1958, it doesn't have the direct reference to blockchain technology. But what is interesting and what I hope to cover today is that what we see governments do is actually they try to facilitate innovation, not just legislating like legal smart contracts, and saying, well, now we accept blockchain based evidence in court, but also going further and facilitating means and tools to maybe help the traditional judicial system. It has to be said, though, that in my personal opinion, I'm doing my research. I do not view alternative dispute resolution systems or court on blockchain.
00:09:11.492 - 00:10:26.568, Speaker A: I don't really like this term court on blockchain because it refers to traditional court in a traditional sense. But I see it as a great additional tool that can actually help courts, because we know that many courts in many countries, they are overloaded with cases. And when it comes to small claims, which does not require necessarily physical presence, or people might be in two different countries, they don't want to, or they can't travel, it could be a great additional solution. So it shouldn't be viewed as a replacement to any traditional judicial system or a replacement of any present traditional means to resolve the justice, but as rather an additional tool that could be utilized and could help so many people. So what you see here is World justice project. And basically it's an independent multidisciplinary organization and works to create knowledge, build awareness, and stimulate action to advance the rule of law worldwide. But I wanted to draw your attention to the World Justice Project's rule of law index, as you can see.
00:10:26.568 - 00:11:21.934, Speaker A: And you can check on the website. Well, it provides kind of the rating, including the countries which, you know, the green, they have like the strongest adherence to the rule of law, where we can say affected, and areas like yellow, orange and red one would be the worst. So the one case in particular I want to talk about is Venezuela. Venezuela, in accordance to this index, is in the last place on 139. And one of our colleagues, Mister Roberta Han, I've had a pleasure to chat with him in regards to issues that Venezuela faced in terms of, you know, traditional justice system. He's a lawyer, researcher and academic, and he is originally from Venezuela. So I feel it's, you know, the person to talk to.
00:11:21.934 - 00:12:36.154, Speaker A: So, basically, the situation in Venezuela is in terms of, you know, accessibility of justice is quite problematic. And, you know, the index proves that point. So there are actually, like, local legislation that governs the arbitration, for instance, commercial arbitration law. And there's also even centers for arbitration. Two most known ones are Caracas Chamber arbitration center and the business center for Consolation on Arbitration of the Venezuelan American Chamber of Commerce. Although Venezuela could be one of those use cases when people, for instance, seek a resolution of their dispute and they may not have access to justice system, and then we can actually implement this smart contract technology that essentially facilitates fast and cheap and anonymous dispute resolution by the third party of the jurors that were drawn, and it facilitates impartiality. And that could be something that would be so great.
00:12:36.154 - 00:14:41.314, Speaker A: In addition, for instance, the use of, I don't know, anything from escrow services, from crypto bank lending, to decentralized dispute resolution, so many things that could potentially help people. And that's just my thoughts that when I was thinking, well, it's great that we have this means and people who are native with blockchain technology, they can use that. And they are using it actually, not just to settle their dispute, but also participate as a juror and potentially earn some money, because the cleverest system is based on game theoretical principles, and there is an economic motivation for jurors to participate. But that's whole another topic. I'm happy to discuss it later. So, yes, however, we were talking, and I was like, well, what is the problem? Why can't we, let's say, bring people who need decentralized justice and the technology, and how can we connect that? Two things? So, one thing that is obvious, that even if theoretically, we have legal foundations to implement decentralized, distributed justice, when it comes to practical means, sometimes it's very problematic, because just levels of corruption, levels of education, because you can talk about theoretical use of decentralized justice, but if people, for instance, don't have any knowledge of blockchain technology, it would take some time to actually do the onboarding or just introduce that concept to people at all, so that they even consider using that technology. So the challenges that decentralized dispute resolution face, as I said, public awareness, local regulation and recognition.
00:14:41.314 - 00:15:41.306, Speaker A: One thing that I really wanted to talk about is the mexican court. And that's one of the means that when mexican court actually ratified the decision that was rendered using Clara's justice, and I don't have time to go in details, but basically very short. There were two parties in the agreement, and one of their clauses in a recent traditional agreement was, well, shall we have a dispute? It's not direct quotation, but we will use basically like Clara's technology. So there was a third party that was appointed, and that third party has taken the dispute and put it into Clara's court. When decision was rendered, the pool of judges was gathered, everything, like the whole procedure was finished. Mexican court ratified that decision, and that was one. It happened last year.
00:15:41.306 - 00:17:01.408, Speaker A: And that's one of the actual practical cases when we see local courts acknowledge the technology and, you know, basically not legalizing, but setting precedents which we can use for further development. So if you are interested in the problems of decentralized dispute resolution and just the current place of Clarus, for instance, I would suggest you to take a look at the report that was written by Mauricio Veros. It's based on the mexican court case. Yes, please take photos. Yes, it's very interesting. It discusses the place of decentralized digital resolution systems and maybe potential solutions, how we can bridge and connect, like the problem and the solution to essentially help people who need that tool. So, very short, when we talk about what is the current state of the international regulation, and I would love to draw my attention to, you know, there are many.
00:17:01.408 - 00:18:24.944, Speaker A: It's just one of those examples of bills and guidances that were issued by governmental bodies. And I really want to focus on the uk jurisdiction, because I was just not long ago giving a talk on regulatory framework of smart contracts. And I was kind of pleased to find out that UK, yet again, support the development of innovation and technology. So we have Law Commission and UK jurisdiction task force that issue guidelines that provide that essentially legal smart contracts fits into the current english system and provides reasonable description how english common law can facilitate smart contracts. But that's not the most important thing today. The most important thing is the digital dispute resolution rules, which were developed and issued in 2021. And yes, it provides certain definition, which is very important to just to have the understanding of basic terms.
00:18:24.944 - 00:19:43.674, Speaker A: And yeah, if you are interested, I advise you to take a look. And if you see that uk jurisdiction task force has yet again stated that currently there are no, at least from governmental side, there are no kind of problems of implementing technology. Of course, it's not easy, it's not that straightforward, but at least seeing governmental bodies, institutions cooperate and just, you know, actively support that, it's something. It's very important. So, in terms of research, right, I'm definitely not the first who would take that topic as a research issue. There are a lot of interesting papers that are dedicated to decentralized justice because I'm currently doing the research based on the centralized dispute resolution systems. One of the main points I want to raise in my dissertation is how we can bridge, basically blockchain technology and people who might actually need it.
00:19:43.674 - 00:21:17.144, Speaker A: And by that, I mean people who may not have many other alternative dispute resolution tools. So that's an open question, which I don't have an answer yet. I hopefully, maybe in three years, by then I finish my dissertation, I'll be able to analyze and hopefully come up with some suggestions how the current situation can be improved. Yes, one of the obvious things which we can do is basically like, raise awareness, because, as I said, there's no use of saying, well, theoretically, smart contracts can help people from unprivileged jurisdictions if we can't actually practically understand how those people living in specific countries would use the technology, then continuation of growing numbers. It's also something that's very important whenever you look at the project, there are many beautiful startups, but you have to take into consideration whether it's something that essentially makes people believe and trust and have confidence in that technology. And one of the reasons I joined Clara, yes, they have 1100 more cases now, and the cases keep growing. And that's something.
00:21:17.144 - 00:21:52.274, Speaker A: That's something that proves the, you know, the confidence in the platform, at least. Yes. And as I said, policy initiatives and support from lawmakers. And an open question, because I would love to hear your perspectives. If you've had maybe any experience in arbitration or maybe you're coming from technical side, I would love to hear from you. That's the current problems that I see. And yes, I think the time is up.
00:21:52.274 - 00:21:56.774, Speaker A: And thank you so much. I would love to answer any questions.
00:22:13.174 - 00:22:22.034, Speaker B: Okay, so if there are any questions, there's Kellyn here with the roving mic. It'd be great to have the questions on the live stream as well. There's a question here. Kellan.
00:22:26.094 - 00:22:57.030, Speaker C: Hi, I'm Thomas. You mentioned Clara's has 1100 cases so far. Roughly, what would be the high level breakdown? Like, you know, how they look like. And what are your thoughts, whether from Clara's experience or from your. I know it's still beginning an ongoing research, but in integration solutions like Kleros with escrow payments, whether on chain or off chain.
00:22:57.222 - 00:23:38.924, Speaker A: Oh, yes, thank you for your question. Actually, Clarus is bigger than just dispute resolution. Quartz is one of the Dapps, and there is escrow service that you can use. And essentially, if you, for instance, using an escrow service provided by Clarice in case you have any dispute that just being ruled by Clariscourt. So whenever I actually. Just to give the understanding, whenever I refer to Claris cases and how people actually initiate dispute resolution on the platform, I personally. That might be not right, but I personally it categorized into two groups.
00:23:38.924 - 00:24:15.122, Speaker A: The first one is when it kind of, like, goes organically comes. So we have partnership with prediction markets, with other platforms. And then, in case, like, escrow, and then if the dispute arises from those services, they automatically end up in Clara's court. And there is another group of disputes that are brought non organically. By that, I mean that they don't go automatically from, for instance, escrow. It's when people bring their dispute, you know, to Clara's platform. Something that happened with mexican case, for instance.
00:24:15.122 - 00:24:31.494, Speaker A: So. Yeah. And for now, the second group is the minority of cases, most of them, they are being resolved when they are brought organically. Yes. I hope I answered your question.
00:24:32.274 - 00:24:33.014, Speaker B: Great.
00:24:33.474 - 00:24:34.842, Speaker A: We can chat later. Yeah.
00:24:34.898 - 00:24:36.454, Speaker B: Another question here in the middle.
00:24:43.714 - 00:24:44.842, Speaker D: Hi, I'm Julian.
00:24:44.938 - 00:24:45.218, Speaker A: Hi.
00:24:45.266 - 00:25:27.856, Speaker D: So maybe it's a naive question, because that's probably a problem with every dispute resolution system. But if there is no escrow, if there's like, as you said, like, something that comes from outside world to you, which is, of course, needed, if. If it is to scale and be more important, then there is always someone unhappy with the resolution, or most of the times. So how you can make sure that this enforced and does not need to end in a cart anyway? Because if there is a disparate resolution, then that needs to be reconfirmed by the official legal system in a way that doesn't make sense.
00:25:28.000 - 00:26:10.776, Speaker A: Yeah, I get it. Thank you so much for your question. So there are different types of you, I think, mentioned, and, like, essentially mexican case, this is kind of a hybrid system. When you have your dispute resolved in Clarice, and then you have a court, like, verify it. So that's just one of the use cases that I think essentially more easy to, like, give as a use case. So I also wanted to say that Clara's platform is. I mean, I think it's great, but I'm biased, but it cannot resolve all the, you know, justice problems, for instance, criminal law, family law, anything like that.
00:26:10.776 - 00:26:49.684, Speaker A: No, it deals with very specific types of cases, and it's good for that. And then also, additionally, to answer to your question, there is an possibility of appeal, which, you know, for instance, in traditional arbitration, might not be always the case. In Clarice, there's always party that is not happy and anyone. The beauty of it is that anyone can facilitate the appeal. So the case would be overruled and the new pool of jury would be essentially drawn and. Yes. Yeah.
00:26:49.684 - 00:26:51.984, Speaker A: Hello.
00:26:52.144 - 00:27:32.662, Speaker E: Thanks for your great sharing about the collero system. I have several questions regarding this. Actually, the first question is, so Clara, implementation of Claros is based on the fact that the parties has already initially used kryptos as an exchange method in the payment or something, so that they can automatically apply Kleros as the dispute resolution. Am I understanding right? Because if it's in the outer world, like in a real world, you pay with USD, then using implementing KLaDOS will not be that enforceable if you pay with USD.
00:27:32.798 - 00:28:04.952, Speaker A: Right. Okay, so Klairs has their own token, which is pin k token. So if you were, let's say, to participate in court as a juror, you'd have to stake certain amount to be drawn. And then if your decision rules to be in majority, you would have, like, reward for the right decision. If not, you will lose the stake amount. That's just from the juror side. When you want to take your case to Clarice, you don't have to actually own PNK.
00:28:04.952 - 00:29:09.734, Speaker A: So it actually depends how you do it. Yes. Most of the cases, as I said, organically brought in terms of people are either familiar with technology, but they don't really have to know much about blockchain. That's one of my points that now, yes, it's probably used mostly by people who are familiar native, but it doesn't have to be that way in, like, I'm sorry that I'm referring to that, but, like, in cases with Mexico, people didn't do, like, they had a third arbitrator that posted the dispute on Clarus and didn't own any cryptocurrency. I don't know what their level of, you know, kind of knowledge, but it doesn't have to be that way. And one of my objectives in my research is how to actually, we take those, like, small amount of cases that are basically being brought by people from non blockchain community, and how can we actually make it more scalable?
00:29:12.074 - 00:29:14.170, Speaker B: Okay, I think we're done for time.
00:29:14.282 - 00:29:14.778, Speaker A: Thank you.
00:29:14.826 - 00:29:20.554, Speaker B: Thank you very much, Jamelia. It.
