00:00:21.260 - 00:00:55.450, Speaker A: All right, thanks everybody for joining us today. Here with Protocol Lab we will be exploring first principle thinking history of finance DeFi and filecoin with ZX Sun. And if you have any questions, please post them in the chat here. And after the talk you can join the sponsor Discord Channel with Protocol Lab where ZX will be able to attend more of your question if needed. And on this note, I'll let you introduce yourself and take it away.
00:00:56.240 - 00:01:06.590, Speaker B: Great. Thank you, Catherine. Let me share my screen first. Great, let's see. Can we all see it?
00:01:08.880 - 00:01:10.172, Speaker A: Yes, it's all good.
00:01:10.306 - 00:01:39.770, Speaker B: Great. Awesome. Thank you. Hi everyone, my name is ZX. I'm very excited to be here at Hack Money. I lead Crypto Economics Lab at Protocol Labs and today I'm very excited to talk about first principle Thinking history of Finance DeFi and be. I want to share some kind of mental model to how we think about new application, new use cases, new protocols as we enter this hackathon and hopefully there are some new ideas and opportunities that we get to explore during the hackathon from this talk.
00:01:39.770 - 00:02:32.568, Speaker B: Before we start, I want to just have a quick advertisement about my lab. Crypto Economics Lab is hiring. We really work on crypto economics is a pretty young and emerging field and then we work on at the intersection of network science, statistics, game theory, resource allocation or graph, algorithm market design, also institutional economics and governance. And then we are really hiring for these three roles data scientists, protocol engineer, research scientists. So we hope to do research in this pretty push the boundary forward in terms of our understanding of crypto economics and emerging markets and then we get a prototype and build many of these new interactions and we have the capacity to really understand analyze data from live networks. So if you're interested, check our website, feel free to apply. And with that, let's get started.
00:02:32.568 - 00:03:59.780, Speaker B: So why first principle of thinking? So I think we are in a very fortunate space that we get to define many of this new protocol, new interaction, new foundation of many of these new networks. First principle of thinking really is about breaking down problems and observation into these fundamental building blocks and we better reassemble them into reassemble new possibilities based on our goals. It kind of require us to ask what are the assumptions and what is the fundamental thing that is really driving these changes? And I think a lot of the social norms and rules that we are very accustomed to today, they are kind of formed over the years, right? They are not where they are today. Just like out of scene there it's all context and path dependent. Sometimes we might get boxed into a certain way of interacting with certain things unless really drill down deep into what is the goal, what is fundamental thing that something is doing and how can we assemble new interaction? What are the new building blocks that we have at our disposal as we build this infrastructure for both social, technological and financial networks. I think having really solid reasoning goes a super long way. And so far, at least in the case of crypto economics for Filecoin, it has been really useful for us in reasoning, in coming up with new designs and reasoning about the dynamics and help us to design new networks and protocols.
00:03:59.780 - 00:04:46.260, Speaker B: And the next question here is like okay, so why do we care about history of finance? Well, but I feel like at Tech Money I kind of feel obliged at least spend some time talking about history of finance. But of course I'm not a financial historian or economic historian. This has just been something that really fascinates me. So I hope to share that with you. And as we hack on the next generation of finance and money, we get to look back and see how things has evolved, what problems are finance solved, what's the trajectory and why is it useful? And that hopefully give us some answer about what's next. But as I mentioned, maybe at the end of this talk, the takeaway is oh, it's actually all made by humans and we are really fortunate, we are at the onset of charting the next chapter in history. That that's a pretty valid outcome as well.
00:04:46.260 - 00:05:38.580, Speaker B: So overall, that's the goal. Talk about financial history, understanding from first principles and then I want to talk about how DeFi and Falcon really go hand in hand and there's so many new opportunities that's possible at intersection of DeFi and Dow coin. One more thing, finance is a really broad topic. History of finance can mean many, many different things. So it's pretty much unrealistic to cover that all in a 30 minutes talk. So I'm going to do something really brief and rather just scratching the surface to talk about different kinds of markets, different kinds of structure mechanism when they first appeared, what are they used for and what are some of the milestones in that development. So first is all of the credit and debt, right? These are the earliest form of finance and exist pretty much early human history.
00:05:38.580 - 00:06:31.732, Speaker B: And the big part of credit really reduces transaction costs and creates this economic expansion. Like we saw example when in island of Yop I believe, where people transact with rhinestones, those really big rhinestones people just basically mark the record of transaction instead of really carrying the coin. And then as credited merchant banks and credit network were developed around the world basically at different boom and bust cycles to really facilitate this transaction and provide liquidity. And that's the key thing of credit. And in the modern world, access to credit has been really powerful for social mobility, as evident in many of the micro loans experiment that people have pioneered. Insurance not a big part. It also took form in a very early human history in different kind of community, whether they are abuse, co ops, merchants, military even.
00:06:31.732 - 00:07:13.484, Speaker B: And I think the real thing here is the risk and uncertainty in the real life can be really daunting. And how do we really pull together and mitigate individual risk exposure. And I think as we have seen today, we have various kinds of insurance. It's pretty much like in every aspect of our life. And then bond, which is one of the largest market in finance, rather it's the largest market in finance, actually not one of the largest market in finance. So there are different phases and it really started off with raising money to fund walls, even though that's no longer the case today. But the whole structure of bond has kind of persist, right? Like you really defer a few parameters in terms of principal, maturity, yield, coupon and quality.
00:07:13.484 - 00:08:13.092, Speaker B: And then you have different ways of really distributing, calculating the yield, distributing the coupon and then there's different underlying and so on and so forth in terms of equity and stock where equity really started formally in a public traded form in early 16 hundreds when sea voyages and expedition of the new world is at its prime. Back in the day it was a really high risk venture to really do this kind of exploration, but it's also really high return. So Dutch is in their company issue, this first public traded equity of their company to really shoulder the risk and also allow individual investors to share the return. And that became really popular. And then there are many boom and bust cycle of the stock market, I'm sure people have heard of them. And then in the late 17 hundreds, this is like 24 brokers came together to sign an agreement which later then became the New York stock chain. This is quite interesting in some way.
00:08:13.092 - 00:09:04.788, Speaker B: If you put up the web three lens it's like oh, 24 crypto bros came together enter into some kind of dow structure with some kind of governance kind of constitution of some kind of agreement that govern how this market should work. And then as they iterate and they then formalize that into a New York stock exchange. And then I think in the 1970s electronic trading really turbocharged this whole trading space by using electronic trading platforms and settlements. And that creates a whole new different kinds of market that we see in equity. And then we just also derivative. The first recorded derivative is actually back in ancient Greece, which is also very interesting where this philosopher is speculating on the price of olive oil. So I guess this philosopher also enjoy EU farming today in the D by land.
00:09:04.788 - 00:10:07.610, Speaker B: And also broadly speaking, derivatives are contracts that really derive value from underlying and then they are mostly used for hedging and speculation. As a fun fact, McDonald's chicken nugget may not have existed if not for discount. There is a contract that allow business operation to really manage the risk of price volatility risk which we do see a lot in crypto markets today, which we'll talk about again in later part of my talk. Commodity is another one. It first appeared pretty early and then people started setting standardized contract that will be permitted, that will be delivered. This kind of forward contract similar to the soy and corn future that was used in the McDonald case, were really used to us a hedging and speculation instrument as global trade extended and then Chicago Board of Trade was founded later on and decorated exchange traded futures. And what that does is really bring standardization on product variation and that brings a ton of liquidity to the whole commodity market.
00:10:07.610 - 00:10:49.464, Speaker B: So takeaway so far with my rather cursory kind of overview of the history of finance. I think financial history is almost as long as human history and it's always evolving with new markets, new instruments and new theories. And then many of these are catalyzed by technological improvement or events in human history. And really it's that uncertainty in real life as a business owner or as like an individual, as a participate in various economies, that uncertainty is scary. And then we want to able to find ways to be able to manage that risk. And that's the core of value of finance brings to the table. I think there are some repeating themes here.
00:10:49.464 - 00:12:22.164, Speaker B: They are managing risk, reducing uncertainty, facilitating transaction, providing liquidity, and also price discovery and speculation. So then if you look at DeFi as like a new frontier and what are the new building blocks that we really bring to the table? I think like permissionless and verifiable markets and being able to decompose them into many primitives. And I think one big powerful tool that we have here is that this crypto economic incentive and mechanism that allow us to create or incentivize the formation of a network of a market very quickly. So then the natural question is we are familiar with some of the existing protocols that we have in DeFi and how do we find new inspiration, new use cases as we collectively push the boundary forward? This is where how I might go for the talk is that we have this mental model of like okay, so how finance has evolved so far and then what are the building blocks that we have on the table, what do we really bring? And are we making any assumption in some of the previous financial structure that we have seen? Can we really challenge those assumptions and then define entirely new interactions? And that's my firm belief. I think for web three to win, right? It really is about new interactions, new business models and new markets. Apart from that, there's also this part about how do we empower traditional businesses or empower web two businesses to make blockchain really mainstream. And this gives me this segue to talk about.
00:12:22.164 - 00:12:45.420, Speaker B: Filecoin. Filecoin. From my point of view it's really uniquely positioned to support both web Two and Web Three use cases and make blockchain mainstream useful to empower traditional businesses with the power of blockchain. And also first principle of thinking was applied to navigate this whole design constraint space as we design the crypto economics of FalcoIn.
00:12:48.960 - 00:12:49.324, Speaker A: Right?
00:12:49.362 - 00:13:39.228, Speaker B: And then, so what is FalcoIn? So FalcoIn can be thought of as an airbnb for cloud services, but it's also more than that. So let's do a recap on what is FalcoIn. Then I will talk about how it relates to DeFi and what are different financial services that's possible. And then we go through some of the ideas that I some of the pretty high level ideas that I have. So this is a pretty common mental model. We think of it as the file coin storage export economy, right? Where you have like these are the participants in the network in the economy. You have researcher developing algorithms, and then you have miners amassing different kinds of resources, storage, data centers, compute, and then you have developer building on the raw material to really improve the storage experience, to build applications, tooling and so on.
00:13:39.228 - 00:14:24.632, Speaker B: And also define new experiences that the world has not seen before. And then, because all storage requires collateral, you have token holders providing collateral for these miners. And the miners exchange these goods and services with clients through filecoin. And the overall goal of the storage export economy is to really attract more potential clients and participants into the ecosystem. So when we think about using storage on filecoin, people are using storage provided by miners on filecoin. When they think about using services, they're using services built by developers on filecoin. The protocol itself cares about a very specific thing, which is like, is the storage reliable? It produced like a periodic proof that the source is indeed reliable and verifiable.
00:14:24.632 - 00:14:49.520, Speaker B: So it's really multifaceted. It's a utility token. Some falcon will be spent whenever someone uses a network. It's a platform economy, it's a protocol, it's blockchain network. It's also a community and economy and ecosystem. It's always evolving just like any other economy that we see. So here are some key crypto economic mechanisms within filecoin.
00:14:49.520 - 00:15:15.016, Speaker B: I will try to explain some of the first principle thinking here. And the overall goal for the network and the crypto economic is really to incentivize reliable and useful storage, right? And then there are five key mechanisms. First one is token minting. And the goal here really is to align minor minting curve with the network utility. I will talk about pretty high level what token minting is on filecoin. There are two minting curve. One is called the baseline minting.
00:15:15.016 - 00:16:00.360, Speaker B: The other one is the simple Minting. Simple Minting is just a simple exponential decay baseline Minting is kind of like a KPI driven kind of Minting curve. And when we look at this, when we look at historically what some of the traditional blockchain network, when they do the Minting is pretty much just time dependent that create pretty bad incentive, right? Because you mean the most tokens when the network is the least mature and then that may not create strong enough incentives for participants that are joining the network later on. Right. However, we keep both because the Simple Minting in the bitcoin style basically means on a fixed schedule a fixed amount that creates a counterbalance in the events of shock. So that's why you want to have the good parts from the Simple Minting. At the same time you also define a KPI.
00:16:00.360 - 00:16:47.252, Speaker B: Right? Now the KPI is close to three exercise starting from Genesis and growing and double every year. So for Falcon network to reach its maximum Minting potential it needs to reach like one yotabyte in 20 years. So there's this combination of a KPI driven kind of Minting and also this time dependent to provide counterbalance to shocks that goes into the token Minting curve to create this incentive alignment with network utility. And we are using the size of network as a proxy of the network utility. Next one is token vesting all block rewards. The goal here is really to align stakeholder with the long term behavior of the network. All stakeholder have some form of vesting instance genesis and all the block rewards.
00:16:47.252 - 00:17:40.280, Speaker B: 25% of that is immediately available to minor to provide cash flow and liquidity and 75% of that will go through a six year linear vesting period. Right? And this 25 versus 75 is not random. We did lots of analysis to understand what's the impact? Right? We want to provide liquidity to the miner because that's really key to the profitability and operation of the mining business. But at the same time we want to make sure that miners are aligned with the network in the long term. Right? And as they earn rewards, there is always a big proportion that west over six months. So that also makes FalcoIn miners slightly less sensitive to short term price movement because people, when they choose to mile on filecoin, they opt in to be at least a medium term to long term aligned with the network and be a believer in the potential of the network collateral and slashing. This is to align participants with the reliability of storage.
00:17:40.280 - 00:18:33.736, Speaker B: So collateral serve two purposes. One is consensus security and the other one is storage reliability. So for you to mine filecoin it requires you to pull up some collateral for the storage collateral that is expected 20 days of block reward that is also not random. Right? We don't want that to be too high to be a deterrent to mining, but that should be substantial such that people have miners have a very strong incentive to maintain the data on the network. Next we have Falcon Plus, which is a pretty groundbreaking thing in all crypto and all institutional economics and governance. Aligns participants with useful storage by adding a social consensus layer on top of the purely resource driven network. So it's a decentralized kind of dow structure where you have a decentralized network of notaries that brings in clients, that notarize clients.
00:18:33.736 - 00:19:48.980, Speaker B: And then miners who store the deals from this client get a ten x in their storage power which increases the chance of them winning more block rewards. We will talk more about this in a moment as well, but this creates a strong incentive towards servicing useful data, useful deals on the Falcon network. And then lastly network transaction fees. We adopted Ethereum's EIP 1559 so this aligned token supply with the network usage and the base fee really is the reflection of the supply and demand of using the network. So, so far I think right now the protocol has more than I think 83 million file coin locked in collateral and then it has burned more than 26 million filecoin in network transaction fees. But all in all, given that I think the economic is set up to really align the participant with reliable useful storage and really make blockchain useful, right? We talk about web two interaction where somebody wants to store something they can find a minor that stores them or the web two interaction where we define these kind of new experiences and so on. But the volatility of cryptocurrency market can still be daunting for average users and even for miners, right, because they are running a full on operation.
00:19:48.980 - 00:21:12.252, Speaker B: So this is where we can come in and I hope to suggest some of these ideas that we can explore during this hackathon. So the first one matching result on credit, I think Falcon loan is a big one. Loans are useful in shielding miners from token price volatility and also provide this return to token holders or lenders. And then we can also explore collateral free loans which are some kind of some form of credit that will be very meaningful for new miners underrepresented region to get started. And then as mentioned, receivable financing block rewards linearly vest over six months, right? So this is very similar in traditional supply chain where you have this account receivable then you can do financing on that to provide liquidity and improve cash flow payment and insurance payment bridges for client is a pretty common misconception that client when they use filecoin they might need to weather the token volatility risk of filecoin. That's not the case because clients and miners can agree on deals denominators in fiat and then clients can convert these currencies other currency they like into filecoin and then clients will no longer have exposure to the token price volatility and storage and minor insurances. As mentioned, there's collateral and slashing, right? Like all the collateral, most of the collateral the miner put up are subject to slashing throughout the lifetime of the sector, throughout lifetime of the mining process.
00:21:12.252 - 00:21:42.200, Speaker B: So they have a very strong incentive to make sure the storage is reliable. But then again, what if there's always some unlucky event that may happen so they will incur a penalty and this is where the insurance may come in. And then clients and lenders, they may also want to insure against the default risk or the credit risk of minors. This is where some of the insurance contract can be explored. Next up we have financialization of data. We talked about that in the last if global events. A big part here is like data bounties.
00:21:42.200 - 00:22:27.284, Speaker B: We can check out that talk for more detail. But the high level is filecoin brings lots of scale to distributed storage and there's also a verifiable proof on the storage on a periodic basis. So we can then bridge that with different smart contract platform, then build different kinds of smart contract logic, right? So then you can see smart contract putting together funds as a bounty for the storage of particular CID. CID is an ID of content that is stored on Falcon network. And the funds only get paid out when there's a proof that it has indeed been stored. And as an extension to data bounties, you can have data dows, other forms of way, or sometimes we call them smart data supply chain. Right.
00:22:27.284 - 00:24:40.716, Speaker B: Like you can have this DAOs organization workflows being formed around data that people care about and their members can join by proving that they have stored this piece of data or a copy of the data or they've contributed into a pool and then like data tokens all this other stuff will be a natural next step as well. Next we have derivative I think US network matures it's useful to define different grades of storage services as we see in the commodity markets for clients to trade or consume to have an easier time trading and consume different kinds of storage and then if you can have some kind of verifiable delivery then you can have storage futures which people can then trace different grades of storage that are coming online in the future. There's also price discovery so while right now people are building different kinds of multiple airbnbs and jobboxes on filecoin to do like client minor matching it'll be also quite interesting to explore how can we match storage demand and supply in a decentralized way and also storage deal options. Right now miners are very strongly incentivized to take filecoin plus deals and many are willing to pay clients for using filecoin which is quite amazing if you look at overall crypto, all the crypto networks however, it's kind of unclear how much are we willing to pay as a community to bring clients onto file client right? So there is some kind of price discovery that can be explored here as well so some key takeaways here of a presentation so far financial history is really closely related to human history, right? And it's really shaped by technological improvement and historical events if you look back there are many moments in time where individuals or organizations come together to define new standard, new ways of doing things. And we are really fortunate because we have so many tools at our disposal to really define new experiences. And then financial services are really useful in managing risk, providing liquidity and enabling price discovery. And the rights of financial services in the real world really match with the rise of human as a civilization.
00:24:40.716 - 00:25:24.210, Speaker B: And I believe the rise of financial services on Filecoin could also be key to the rise of Filecoin as a useful storage economy. And there's a ton of potential here at the intersection of DeFi and Filecoin that I really invite everybody to check out. And lastly, Outlier Venture just announced basecamp at the end of our hackathon. I highly encourage everyone to apply to Basecamp to really take our ideas and projects to the next level and then we'll be able to iterate on business model and go to market and many, many other aspects of business. And lastly, happy hacking. Feel free to reach out to me on Twitter or Discord and I think now we can answer some questions if you have oh, we have three minutes so it's perfect for some quick questions.
00:25:27.650 - 00:25:40.220, Speaker A: Yeah, definitely feel free to jump in or post in the chat if you have anything. Let me quickly check on YouTube.
00:26:03.850 - 00:26:53.350, Speaker B: There's a question about able to ensure data availability integrity depending on the context here. But the Falcon protocol ensures that there is approved of the storage. You can basically check for each. But as a client, when you use the service of a miner it's really like a kind of a one to one relationship that really depends on the miner's SLA. I think there's lots of room to build this kind of airbnb like services on top of Filecoin to provide a better UI and experience for clients. And I believe there are many clients looking to use Filecoin. But I think there's lots of hurdles to jump through as it is today to find the right miners even though there are many people building different kinds of tools.
00:26:53.350 - 00:28:01.440, Speaker B: So the short answer is it's not really on the protocol level, it really is on the miner and client kind of level and miners are strongly incentivized given the rise of different reputation system to provide a higher tier of service. Next question any resources for File video streaming, IPFS or Filecoin, I believe I think there's some work with VideoCoin Live tier and then there's also I think Huddle was doing some kind of video conferencing on IPFS. I think there's lots of room there building new business model as well, right? Like we stream videos and then we encapsulate them into NFTs, into other different kinds of token, create new incentive for you to bring more content on the web. Three the question from YouTube what about the Filecoin wallet? I'm not sure what the Falcon wallet is. There are like many teams building different wallets that comply to the protocol standards.
00:28:04.450 - 00:28:38.674, Speaker A: Thank you. Great, thanks. So someone else on YouTube was asking where to join us. So you can join the Filecoin Discord Channel itself, or in the event you can definitely as a hacker, you can definitely join or even not as a hacker. There's a more global eGlobal community and there's a private event for hack money where you can join and just take part of the sponsor channel if you'd like, so you can engage in the conversation there.
00:28:38.872 - 00:28:47.900, Speaker B: Great. And there's also a falcon slayer. The entry point should be on the website. Let us know if you can't find it. Or I think someone from the community can help you as well.
00:28:48.350 - 00:28:58.840, Speaker A: Awesome. Thank you so much for this great presentation, ZX. I really appreciate it. Thanks everyone, for joining. I hope you have a wonderful hacking couple of weeks.
