00:00:00.170 - 00:00:24.240, Speaker A: Up. We have Mo Dong leading the seller project. Seller is actually another team that's been working rigorously through the bear market. And so they were focusing on state channels. They also created a really revolutionary state guardian network. And what I most remember Seller for is the Gomoku game that you guys did that got a lot of traction. So welcome, Mo.
00:00:24.970 - 00:01:04.122, Speaker B: Yeah, thank you. Thank you for the invite and it's great to be here. So today, I guess I would just first share my screen here and talk about some of the new things that we're working. Oh, let me just see this. Right. All right, as Eva had pointed out, we are a scaling platform and we started out with State Channel solution and we actually are the first one launching on Ethereum with generalized state Channel. And the generalized state channel side of things are running very smooth right now.
00:01:04.122 - 00:01:54.382, Speaker B: The initial Gomoco game right now has evolved into a whole platform called Cerax gaming platform. And the games built on top of that is processing payments using State Channel and now has approaching 1 million users in the US market actually. But most recently, we are also kind of looking at different kind of skating technology and we always see layer two skating as a holistic landscape that we need to have combined different kind of technology pieces together to offer a holistic view for the market and for the developers. So this is like one of the motivations that leads to the things that I'm going to talk about today, which is layer two finance. And what this really is, is the DFI City's public transportation system. And I'll get into how that is the case. Well, we all know DFI is awesome.
00:01:54.382 - 00:02:45.406, Speaker B: Like basically this summarizes it all the most stable and safe. D five protocol provide ten to 50% of APY. And if you want to go to a little bit Djang word, it's really no upper bond on this. While we look at the entire traditional financial world set along like banks, traditional banks, even if we talk about think tag banks, neo banks, challenger banks, these guys are always 50 times, 100 times away from the kind of yield that can be offered by the DFI space. What this tells us is that this huge amount of a difference between the kind of yield we should see, a huge influx of demand and exponential growth of user numbers. Well, not so much. So these are the data we pulled from dual analytics.
00:02:45.406 - 00:03:27.258, Speaker B: And what the graph is telling us is after the last DeFi summer that we are seeing like a very booming trend for the entire DeFi space, the entire DeFi growth. The key protocols on them, I'm just showing some of that is actually slowing down this graph. The y axis here is a day by day user growth, new address thing. And the axis here is actually the time. So you can see that after the huge spike around last summer, everything started to quiet down a little bit. And another interesting way to look at this is that we look at the total amount of daily active user for the entire D Five space. This is also data we pulled from dual analytics.
00:03:27.258 - 00:04:11.882, Speaker B: And so basically based on onchain data we're seeing about 40,000 daily active user in this entire DeFi space. Okay, so we have 40,000 other Dau in the entire DeFi world. What does this mean exactly? Okay, so it basically means a US apple app store based app. I'm just talking about US market and ranked about 500 in Cairo game category, which is like one example is a cut rope. This particular games, the daily active user exceed the total daily active user of the entire D Five world. So DFI is still small and it is not exponentially growing. It backs the question of why really why that is case.
00:04:11.882 - 00:04:55.690, Speaker B: It just doesn't make sense. One way to kind of look at this problem is to really visualize the DeFi landscape as a city. So like you have your home, which is your MetaMask wallet, and then you have all these shops which is DeFi protocol. You can park your money on at and kind of earn reward. Now the problem happens at the point where you want to travel from your home to these shops to actually drop off your money. And the problem about this particular city is that this particular city only have one type of transportation system, which is an expensive limo service. Like super expensive, highly expensive taxi.
00:04:55.690 - 00:05:37.046, Speaker B: This works fine for Alice who has like a million dollars to play with. So Alice goes to a shop called Compound, which is offering 10% annualized, again paying about $250 for the limo fee. And what's going to happen is that after one day sitting in this particular protocol with $1 million minus that limo fee, she can turn into profit in just day one. Now, let's look at a different scenario. Who is Bob? Early majority. He wants to try this out, but only have like $1,000, $2,000 to just try the water and test out what's this D Five all about to actually get hands dirty. So same thing.
00:05:37.046 - 00:07:06.146, Speaker B: But just as the limo fee is fixed, no matter how much money you are actually taking to these shops. And what's going to happen to Bob is that even after one year, bob still lost $175 after parking his money to Compound while paying that super expensive limo fee. Now we probably all know that what this limo fee is referring to is basically the layer one transaction fee we need to pay in these days to interact with these kind of protocols. Now this is why we believe that DeFi hasn't really started to grow exponentially because for many of the early majority adopters in the space, it is actually very hard to guess the promised API while eating all this kind of upfront gas fee cost and kind of learning frictions of using DeFi. So any kind of a reasonable city designer and city planner would at this point say that, hey, this totally doesn't make sense. We should have like a public transportation system in this entire city where people can just gather around and take the train all together and split the vehicle cost or split the gas cost of this entire train and everyone will pay like one dollars, $250 limo fee. Well, this is exactly what layer two finance is trying to do.
00:07:06.146 - 00:07:59.990, Speaker B: Layer two, finance is trying to build a layer to roll up system that essentially act as another layer on top of the existing DFI landscape without actually asking the DFI protocols to move to a different layer. But just adding another layer of liquidity on top of that to allow user to use DeFi system as if they're taking a public transportation system in the DFI world. So this is what layer two finances looks like. Let's walk through a very simple user flow here and it's right now live on. Robson this is actually the new UI we're launching in Minat next week. So in this particular UI, the first step is really just move user fund from layer one to layer two. Well, using the same kind of subway analogy, you're basically buying a subway ticket this time.
00:07:59.990 - 00:09:05.286, Speaker B: Like you're entering this entire layer two space. And then the next step is among all these protocols that you see. Like basically we're actually aggregating all these protocols together like compound yearn, Arfa, Ape and all these other future protocols and strategies that user can express their intent to actually put their money in. So user can actually click the deposit and specify a certain amount of fund to actually deposit in. And this is like they're now getting at a station to wait for a train to leave. Okay, so what actually happened under the hood is that they're sending a layer two transaction in this layer two roll up chain indicating that oh, I want to allocate my fund to compound by how much. And what happened after that is that they will have an aggregation pending phase where this roll option is essentially aggregating and waiting for a sufficient amount of user who are all going to compound basically having the same kind of intent.
00:09:05.286 - 00:10:08.394, Speaker B: And then what's going to happen is that it's going to aggregate all these demands together and form a kind of a layer one call, basically layer two to layer one call in the form of kind of a commitment. And saying that, hey, now let's allocate the fund pool in layer one to basically direct three users combined fund all going to compound at once. And therefore if we have like 100 user all wanting to go to compound in this train, they will be able to split the cost by 100 times. So basically everyone will get the cost reduced by 100 times so this is like the basic idea of layer two finance and using Rob to solve the DFI kind of a problem. And then after that the user will be able to just directly get their gain on layer two while their fund is actually moved to that protocol. The good thing about this is that it doesn't cause any kind of liquidity fragmentation. So basically we don't need to push different protocols into different chains.
00:10:08.394 - 00:11:21.558, Speaker B: We're merely moving users and their liquidity in layer two and aggregate their demands in layer two and combine their demands back into layer one and allocates the entire pool of fund altogether at once and split the single transaction cost instead of asking each and individual user to make one single layer one transaction cost all by themselves. So this is basically the kind of a high level idea of layer two finances. This is what we're building. And actually there is a live testnet running today and we're also releasing a new Minnet with this new shiny UI next week. So the immediate question is, hey wait, so this sounds like really something like I'm putting my money all together and someone seems to be managing it. So is it possible for the layer two or whatever the system you're calling it, actually be malicious and actually take the money and just run? Well, that's a very legitimate question. The answer here is that no, really because this is actually built as an in house optimistic roll up solution right now.
00:11:21.558 - 00:12:39.898, Speaker B: So how the process works is that a user starts from layer one and they all have funds. The first step is they will put their fund into a roll up fund smart contract, just like any roll up, they will just put the fund there and then they are moved to layer two. Essentially they have balances on this layer two finance roll up chain and then they will specify their fund allocation intent basically to this layer two finance chain. So it's very critical to note that these type of fund allocation intent now becomes the transaction on this special layer two. And what's going to happen then is that see, for example, these three intents are all sharing the same kind of a strategy goal. And what's going to happen is that this Roar armchain is going to of course post all the call data and state route and very importantly a fund allocation proposal. And in this case it's basically telling the layer one fund pool contract and saying, hey, I can prove with the call data and state route that in combination you should allocate $300 to this strategy zero, which is let's say compound.
00:12:39.898 - 00:13:35.150, Speaker B: And then there will be challenge period passed. And what's going to happen is that the fund allocation confirmation will happen and the fund pool will actually allocate fund into the corresponding strategy adapter and then the strategy adapters themselves will actually interact with DeFi protocols to actually allocate fund to the DeFi protocols. It's essentially kind of combining many users fund allocation strategies and transaction into one. So this is how this is done. Now an immediate question would be okay, does this actually cause a lot of kind of a delay in the sense well, not so much. There of course will be the aggregation delay but the challenge delay is definitely not going to be something like multi weeks, it's actually going to be in the hours. The reason for that is that the roll up state in this particular roll up is so much simpler because it's not arbitrary EVM.
00:13:35.150 - 00:14:34.370, Speaker B: You can think of this as kind of pretty simple ledger. That is I'm putting my money into which protocol or which strategy and the type of transaction is also pretty simple. So it's very easy to verify, it's very easy to catch any kind of malicious intent. It's extremely cheap to challenge in the case of any kind of malicious attempt. So let's talk a little bit more about the strategy side. The strategy can be very simple, direct the wrapper to the existing strategies like compound where we basically wrap the compound with auto harvest of the liquidity mining token function and curve and maker and all these other protocols can be very simply wrapped around. And what can also be done is we provide this thing called layer two finance strategy SDK to allow user to basically develop a strategy as long as it's conforming to a certain interface that is connecting to the fund pool.
00:14:34.370 - 00:15:53.360, Speaker B: It can be plugged into this layer two finance system dynamically. What this means is that you can create a strategy, for example put ease into maker and land out die at compound and the earning interest rate and you can combine multiple kind of strategies altogether. That's all perfectly fine. The good thing about this is that you can really start to expand the complexity of the underlying strategy while maintaining an extremely simple user interface for the user to use. So in a way layer two finance become a very nice to use and easy to use aggregator and at the same time it avoid any kind of the key challenge people face in today's layer one aggregator where in today's layer one aggregator people are actually paying higher fee because this additional layer is actually causing higher amount of fee. But like actually in the layer two finance the retention of user using this aggregator is going to be pretty strong because they really will be better off using layer two finance. And at the same time in terms of like a transaction fee is also much lower comparing to directly using layer one.
00:15:53.360 - 00:16:46.858, Speaker B: So for that we are offering $705,000 as prices to build using layer two finance strategy SDK with two prices, $3,000 to the best layer two finance strategy and $1,005 each for three runner ups. And we hope to see the community start to build some very cool strategies and connect them to layer two finance and allow more user to use layer two finance. And you can always find us at East Global Discord Space. And you can follow us at Stereo Networks. Twitter. And we have pinged the tutorial video on our Twitter and all the relevant codes and documentation can be found in our GitHub. So we're basically trying to build a DeFi public transportation system so to allow everyone to be able to easily access DeFi.
00:16:46.858 - 00:16:50.800, Speaker B: So, yeah, that's all from us.
00:16:56.310 - 00:17:03.860, Speaker A: Awesome. Thank you so much, Mo. And it looks like we have a few minutes for questions, if you don't mind sticking around.
00:17:04.870 - 00:17:07.554, Speaker B: Sure, yeah, I can definitely stick around.
00:17:07.752 - 00:17:25.770, Speaker A: Cool. The first question I have for, you know, you've been on this journey for a while as you see gamoku into a gaming platform starting from state channels to where you are today. What has been the biggest learning for you as a researcher in how you've seen L two scaling solutions evolve?
00:17:26.670 - 00:18:30.414, Speaker B: Yeah, I think depicts the learning is that it's always a trade off game and it's basically defining and finding out what is the right trade off to choose. In the early days, if you think back in the plasma days, people are thinking we can achieve this kind of a quadratic scaling by cascading plasma layers, like one layer on top of one layer two and another layer two. And then along the way, people quickly find out that the trade off doesn't actually pay off while we kind of continue to cascades. And I think the biggest learning for us is that there are different kind of application scenarios suitable for different kind of underlying scaling solutions. And our goal is still very much the same as we first start out, which is like trying to combine different technology pieces together into a holistic platform and a holistic application to offer to the end users and bring more kind of end users to the platform. Yeah, got it.
00:18:30.612 - 00:18:49.750, Speaker A: And how are you guys thinking about the future? So we've got quite a few layer two options and my personal view is that every DAP, every layer one chain, they'll choose the solution that makes most sense for their use cases. But as we also expand to e two, how are you guys thinking about Sellers role in scaling ethereum?
00:18:50.490 - 00:19:51.318, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. There are a couple of different pieces right while we're moving to this MultiChain world, seller also have this our stitch channel solution is easily extended to something called cBridge, which is able to bridge different kind of chains from layer two, layer one, and all that stuff. So we're launching pretty soon with all the other layer two solutions together and it will be something pretty interesting that everyone actually can participate and provide liquidity for the liquidity bridging between different chains. It's kind of almost like a liquidity pooling, which is pretty cool. And for the roll up perspective, there are really two kind of a stream that is going on. One is that let's build a separate chain and move every application possible to that chain. And what's going to end up very soon towards the end of this year is that we'll end up with almost a sharded ethereum.
00:19:51.318 - 00:21:00.560, Speaker B: Basically you will have multiple kind of roll apps that is spinning up. It's good for scalability but really horrible for UIUX, especially for new beginners. They will have a hard time in terms of figuring out where to send the fund to and the ecosystem also need to catch up a lot like each exchanges need to be able to figure out how do they connect to different kind of ethereum? Does the layer two ethereum actually have the same price as the underlying ethereum? Because there's always this kind of inherent friction there and these kind of questions will actually create increasing kind of usability hurdles. And our approach here is that instead of taking this view we kind of are trying to take a unifying view but basically helping all these layers and all these kind of different chains be able to aggregate together all of their application to aggregate all of their application together and into a unified interface for the users. And into unified pool of liquidity for the users. So from a user's perspective, they don't really care where they're traveling as long as they're in this kind of D five subway system. They can kind of travel intercity or kind of across different city basically.
00:21:01.810 - 00:21:28.330, Speaker A: I really like that analogy like traveling between cities and each layer two or smart contract is its own little village. Maybe one last question and this one can be sort of a prediction. So it's very clear that DFI needs layer two. As we can see through gas prices and just massive adoption. What use case do you think will be next for really needing layer two to solve the UX and getting more users onboarded?
00:21:28.910 - 00:22:57.800, Speaker B: Yeah, I honestly think that we are still just scratching the surface on the decentralized finance and open finance space and I'm seeing a lot of the exciting things popping up with very exciting new DAX kind of design and things like that. And what's layer two is going to enable? Is it's just like 4G enabled TikTok? Basically you couldn't have TikTok in 3G networks, in 3G mobile networks and with kind of this layer two capabilities the capacity is going to be quickly filled in layer two. And with new type of applications that couldn't be built with existing layer one capacities and the cost basically I think there are a very large class of open finance applications that can be built and couldn't be built today because of this kind of a high gas cost. And I'm really just looking forward to that. And aside from that, I'm looking at various different things but I haven't found out that it's something that is extremely interesting except for several very interesting experiments going on with some kind of social tokens and social interactions and kind of self organizing stuff, which is kind of dated back to even in the Dao time. Right. So, like the you know, it's still social coordination, but, like, I'm very interested in kind of how some of these experiment is going to go.
00:22:58.890 - 00:23:03.910, Speaker A: Awesome. Yeah. Looking forward to seeing you guys also support a lot of these apps that are coming to fruition.
00:23:04.330 - 00:23:06.580, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. Thank you. Thank you guys so much.
