00:00:00.650 - 00:00:46.438, Speaker A: GMGm this is a short overview of our new UI. Visit niftify.com and click Open Dap. First you will have to connect your wallet and if you have any nfts from the listed collections your nfts will get displayed in this section. As you can see, my wallet is already connected and I only have one asset in this wallet. Currently it is unlisted and if I want to list it I have to click on it and I have to select and set loan terms by using this drop down menus. Once I'm happy with the terms I can just list as collateral.
00:00:46.438 - 00:01:36.774, Speaker A: Once the asset is listed you will start receiving loan offers and you can check for offers received in this section. Just click offers received and your loan offers will be visible here. Once you accept an offer, your loan will be visible here. You will actually take a loan. So current loans will get displayed in this table and previous loans will be visible in the table below. Now if you have multiple NFDs and you want to bundle them, click this button and in this section you can create a bundle, list it and also accept any offers that you receive. So that's a section for borrowers.
00:01:36.774 - 00:02:55.534, Speaker A: Now let's go over this section for lenders. So if you want to give out a loan you can click give a loan and you can browse all the assets that are listed from other borrowers in the menu on the left. In this list of listed collections you can select a collection for example and then you can see in this example I'm looking now at doodles. I can see all NFTs from the doodles collection and if I for example click on one asset I can make an offer for this asset and similar to the borrower section, the lender section also has different tabs. So in offers sent you can check for offers that you made to other borrowers. In loans given section you can see which loan offers were accepted by the borrowers and in the previous loans as lender table you can see all the previous loans that happened. So here are active loans.
00:02:55.534 - 00:03:54.902, Speaker A: Here are all the previous loans. If you need any help at any time you can go into the faq section. You can also read how it works page. If you are new to NFT lending you can also read our blog if you click that icon and you can manage your profile in the account. Now you can also check the standing collection offers section where you can put loan offers to any asset in the collection and you can also make private offers. We won't go into too much details of these, but you can read more about all these different options on our blog. So I highly recommend you go through our product updates what we have been shipping in the last few months.
00:03:54.902 - 00:04:05.540, Speaker A: And yeah, hopefully you like the new UI and join our discord and let us know what you feel. Thanks guys.
