00:00:00.520 - 00:00:36.442, Speaker A: Standardization is one of the biggest productivity boons to anything, right? You're talking about, like, you know, in finance, there's all these complex systems. Everyone talks about cross border payments, how, like, every, like, the banking rails in every country are different, and it's very hard to sort of move money around. Well, that's just because, you know, there's very little standardization. And think about, like, Internet, I used to do when I was an academic, international trade. And what are the biggest sort of productivity boons to international trade was the creation of, or the invention of the container. And it's kind of like it's just a metal box, right? Like, it's not like someone created, you know, electricity or antibiotics. It's literally a metal box.
00:00:36.442 - 00:01:10.728, Speaker A: But that was enormous because it meant that people no longer have to have, like, these complex shifts. And I think that's a little bit of what interoperability does. And while I think that a lot of people are, I hope they don't hate me for this, but I think a lot of people are just like, decentralization maxis for the purpose of decentralization, which is a fair position to take. I think that really the reason why decentralization is valuable in this case is because order to truly harness interoperability, you need some degree of decentralization. Or else, like, the centralized party can always just say like, you know, I don't like you anymore. Move. And then at that point, you know, you're Mexico.
00:01:10.728 - 00:01:29.340, Speaker A: You're integrated with the global rails. But then that centralized party says, like, I don't like you anymore. It breeds fragmentation. So interoperability, I think, was what we were talking about with standardization, about making these rails, being able to talk to each other very simple. And decentralization is what really makes, like, delivers tea. It's what delivers value and makes it possible.
00:01:31.040 - 00:01:50.300, Speaker B: Alonzo, thank you so much for joining me. Excited to find out another person is expanding the Miami crypto ecosystem. But thank you for coming on the podcast. Really looking forward to doing this and diving into really a lot of the inner workings at Misin and what you have been up to at Sui.
00:01:50.840 - 00:01:57.884, Speaker A: It's my pleasure. Logan, thank you so much for the invitation and pleasure to talk to you and reach your audience and talk about suite.
00:01:58.032 - 00:02:05.760, Speaker B: Awesome. Maybe to kick it off, let's start with a little bit of your background, how you ended up at misin and really diving deep into the tokenomics.
00:02:06.780 - 00:03:01.188, Speaker A: Yeah, sure. So, I mean, taking maybe a little bit of a step back, like many years ago, I was very much sort of on this sort of economist academic path towards doing a PhD, being a professor, publishing all that kind of stuff. I was pretty into it until at some point I realized that I was kind of bored and also that I wanted to do things that were a little bit more tangible. I feel like when you're in academia, especially in economics and the social sciences, you're very much observing the world and trying to explain it, as opposed to acting upon the world and trying to do things. I had a little bit something in me that said, let's do something more interesting. At that point, I moved to Facebook. That was the initial phases of the Libra project that was later called Diem, and I spent a few years there at Facebook, and it was really interesting to see just generally how these giant tech companies work, but also, more interestingly, that's where I started getting my feet wet a little bit more with the crypto stuff.
00:03:01.188 - 00:03:44.886, Speaker A: I was already interested as a sort of enthusiast in crypto when I was an academic, but this was the first opportunity I actually was able to do something myself. Spent a lot of years there working on the Libra stablecoin, on the design of the stablecoin, and sort of the use cases of the stablecoin, especially in terms of financial inclusion. And that's where I met all the founders of Mist and labs, and we worked together. And so when they went out to create mist and labs, I believe it was in late 2021, it was kind of very natural for me to come with them because I was like, I know you guys, you're great. Your project is great. Let's figure out what we can build. I've been in here at Mistin Lab since then, and obviously the big first project with Mistin has been Sui, but there's sort of more interesting things to come.
00:03:44.886 - 00:04:10.972, Speaker A: It's really a startup that is interested in redefining how the infrastructure of the Internet works. One of that is sort of Sui as a coordination layer for intelligent digital assets, but truly the first stop. And so that's how I got here. And since then, I've been working on the tokenomics ensuite, trying to make it an ecosystem that can be sustainable from business perspective and trying to grow, in particular from a product perspective. The financial services ecosystem, obviously defi, but.
00:04:10.996 - 00:05:09.204, Speaker B: Also more generally amazing. Well, I appreciate all the background context. I think maybe starting off at the tokenomics would be interesting, because if we look at the history of blockchain and the designs and ultimately how we got here, it's very fascinating to me because I think if you look at web two it's really about abundance, the peripheralization that ultimately you can scale these systems. And the early blockchain designs were really about scarcity, keeping block space small, not really having abundance. And then they went to turing completeness. But still, we're really kind of in the middle ground in my point of view, trying to balance scarcity, but also trying to balance abundance. And I think now where I'm super excited is we're getting to the point where we have these high throughput blockchains that are uniquely focused on just scale and applications that can be built on top of them.
00:05:09.204 - 00:05:32.910, Speaker B: But with that, and kind of the lack of scarcity ultimately comes in, how do you design these tokenomic incentives to actually work at scale and where those kind of take us long term? So I'd love to dive deeper into some of your thoughts, how you're thinking about it, and kind of maybe talking about prescale. And then also, like, once we hit scale, how do those economics also change?
00:05:33.490 - 00:06:09.770, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, absolutely. I think that's a great little narrative of how blockchains have evolved in the last ten to 15 years. So going back to this point of thinking about SWIA's infrastructure for the Internet, that can truly be like the infra that handles, like, all of digital assets to give you a sort of web two analog. I think about the way we build Sui. From a tokenomics perspective, it's a little like cloud computing. So back in the day, everyone had to run their own server. If you wanted to have an app, then AWS and Google Cloud and Microsoft Azure, and these guys started creating these servers that you can just run on demand.
00:06:09.770 - 00:06:33.556, Speaker A: And one of the nice things they have is that they have a lot of elastic capacity. If suddenly your startup has ten x the amount of traffic, or 100 times the amount of traffic, you're not sitting there worried, oh, my God, my server is going to be congested. That problem has been solved. You rent one server. If you have ten x traffic, you rent ten servers, you pay ten times as twice, it scales linearly. It all works very nicely. I think, from Sui.
00:06:33.556 - 00:07:16.962, Speaker A: We had that design goal from the beginning. From an engineering point of view, Sui was created from basically first principles, thinking like, what is the architecture, from an engineer perspective, that can sustain, you know, hundreds of millions of digital assets, billions of users? So sue has, from an architecture point of view, this sort of object centric model that enables, together with its consensus mechanism, sort of basically infinite parallelization. And the idea is very simple. Everything on Sui is an object. It doesn't matter if it's a fungible token, a non fungible token, a smart contract, whatever. Everything is an object. And if two objects don't have dependencies, then they can basically be executed in parallel and that can scale it infinitely.
00:07:16.962 - 00:07:57.766, Speaker A: That's very different from sort of the old blockchains in which I think it was very much a proof of concept of how can you build permissionless distributed systems. And if you go to the very original ones that had been very successful, like in Ethereum, there's no sense in which things can be parallelized. Like in Ethereum, in a block, literally everything is orelled to each other. And because the blocks are chained, it's a blockchain. Everything in the blockchain is or relative to each other, that doesn't need to happen on swing. And so for removing those type of constraints, it was really give you the powerful to scale kind of in the way of like cloud computing. Now, if you have an app on sw that has, you know, one day ten x of traffic or 100 x of traffic, well then you can have ten x or 100 x the objects that can be executed in parallel.
00:07:57.766 - 00:08:41.130, Speaker A: You shouldn't have those, those concerns in terms of, you know, a lack of throughput. Now the interesting part is that's from an engineering perspective. And you know, engineering can be very solid. But if it's because crypto has a sort of permissionless nature in which you need a token and you need certain financial incentives to get the different entities to work together, you know, the operators, the validators, the token holders, the users, et cetera, you need the tokenomics to work hand in hand. And so Sweet's basic contribution to that, from a tokenomics perspective, was created a financial layer of incentives that work hand in hand with the engineering. And basically the idea is very simple. Gas and sue works in a way in which the validators sort of get together and figure out like what is the gas price that makes us break even.
00:08:41.130 - 00:09:13.740, Speaker A: And when there's more traffic, validators add more computers. So there's ten exit traffic, they'll add ten exit computers. Their costs are scaling linearly, but because there's ten x traffic, their revenue is also scaling linearly. And so at a given gas price, the chain can be pretty much, from a cost efficiency perspective, just as efficient regardless of the amount of demand there is. That's what sort of lets you have a really scalable system that doesn't sort of deliver these surge pricing problems, that you have another chains in which like there just simply is no more space. So you need to jack up the prices in merch.
00:09:13.780 - 00:10:08.110, Speaker B: I think that's a super important point because it's kind of funny because as you pointed out, going back in history, everybody did have these giant server racks in their closet or garage and trying to scale these systems. And I think we've been butting up against those limitations today, which to me was always one of the most frustrating things for the application engineers, because you start to achieve some level of product market fit, whether it's you or another application starts to create this noisy neighbor problem where now your application is just not usable. Really excited that SWE has focused on that from day one, because I think we're transitioning from this feature in the past, being a nice to have just because blockchains really didn't have the level of skill required. But now going forward, as more and more people try to experiment, do things like order books, these are really going to be a necessity.
00:10:08.920 - 00:10:31.820, Speaker A: Absolutely, absolutely. I think what suite tries to achieve, again, even in sweeper, we're very in the early stages, and there's other chains that are trying to do similar things. It's very much like remove the complexity of all the underlying infra problems from the app developer, so that the ad developer can truly focus on what they do best, which is, as you said, finding power market fit. So that is very much, I think, in the ethos of what we're trying to do here.
00:10:32.280 - 00:11:51.280, Speaker B: And how does that engineering focus ultimately translate to the economics of the token? Because I think some of these other networks, perhaps using Solanag's example, being one of the first high throughput blockchains, it was really fudded for the lack of scarcity, at least initially, because in my mind, there's kind of a couple key drivers, and feel free to push back on any of these, whether it's like MEV priority fees, just overall network usage, and just increasing transaction throughput. And in the beginning of all high put networks, because there's not a lot of scarcity, because the goal of the network is really the opposite, the abundance. These networks look a little bit funky because generally they have higher inflation rewards to get validators up online, reward them. How are you guys thinking about either kind of pre critical mass and then post critical mass with either MEV priority fees, getting people essentially whether it's validators or internal applications to capture some of that value?
00:11:52.220 - 00:12:46.116, Speaker A: Yeah, that's a great question. So I think when you think about from like, what is the critical mass necessary to become cost efficient, it goes back to this idea that validators have a certain hardware, certain like cost structure that they need to uphold. Once they're able to be sustainable from a revenue perspective with that, then the chain itself is sustainable because the operators are working well. And so really, right now, the validators have the most basic machine configuration, and today they're still not at capacity. So that is, I think, the sort of funky period that you're talking about right now. I do need to have my basic spec, and that gives me a cost. How much revenue am I making? Is it enough revenue in order to cover it? But once you're there, whether you have that or you need to have 234-5678 100 machines, you're just as sustainable because you're just adding machines as you're seeing more traffic coming into the network.
00:12:46.116 - 00:14:00.392, Speaker A: So I think we're not too far away from being from that point because you really just need to get that the validator set, the gas prices that they break even. It's just that you have a little bit of slack because we're still very early in terms of these chains. So I think that question has been addressed by the gas mechanics in terms of what I think people ask, how does the token accrue value and these kind of questions when you don't have that more artificial scarcity. I think one thing that we did in Swe was, and this comes right, I think from like, the little bit of sort of the economic background is, you know, you always see people talking about the Federal Reserve, are they going to lower rates? Are they going to increase rates? And all this questions comes really because, you know, at least in modern economies and like the United States, the Fed has a mandate of 2% inflation, right? Like, and the whole question about, you know, whether they're going to raise rates or not is because do we believe the fed is going to, you know, honor that 2% target? So I think in sweat, because we know that having those types of nominal anchors are very hard to sustain. We sort of just did something very simple, which is let's get rid of the problem and have a finite supply of sweet tokens, which is another way of saying, like, we just have zero inflation. And so the monetary rule is very clear for everyone, right? Like, what leads to price dynamics is a combination of supply and demand. And if you fix supply, then everything needs to be driven by demand.
00:14:00.392 - 00:14:33.880, Speaker A: And so in sui, if you look at sort of on chain prices in terms of the sui token, the only thing that matters is how much demand there is. And that if there is increasingly demand that is growing over time, that growth, because supply is fixed is going to lead to deflation. And it's pretty much that simple. So it does very much hit hinge on the fact that you need to grow over time. But like, ultimately, you know, Swe is a blockchain that is, is built to, you know, handle all of digital assets on the Internet. So, like, we're all about growth and that is what delivers with deflationary mechanics, or we hope will in the long run.
00:14:34.300 - 00:14:55.000, Speaker B: How would you address maybe concerns from the economic side if someone said, look, if you don't have a small amount of inflation in your token, or even money supply, as the United States does, people will want to hoard their cash because inevitably it will increase in value and it will kind of stop people from facilitating trade.
00:14:55.820 - 00:15:48.900, Speaker A: Yeah, well, I mean, I think it really depends on what is the unit of account that people use. I think today, as much as us at the crypto community like to talk about full decentralization, including monetary systems, and this is a personally held belief. I think we will never move to a world in which, like, fiat ceases to be of relevance and people will still, like in the United States, anchor on the dollar, and, you know, in Mexico, on the mexican pace, so in Europe, in the euro, whatever. So really, like these tokens are a little bit more of a medium of exchange that's particularly relevant to an ecosystem which they have a lot of things to do. And so for me, those things about, like, cash flowing is not so relevant because you can always buy sweet tokens on demand. If there are particular people that are interested in holding those tokens, because they feel like the network is going to keep growing and want to have a sort of financial interest that's great for them. I think for the majority of people, all these things are going to be hidden under the hood.
00:15:48.900 - 00:16:08.282, Speaker A: And what they will experience is that gas fees will fall in terms of the tokens, so there will be deflation, but they don't really care, because from a financial perspective, from a portfolio perspective, this is a very small amount. It's almost like just a medium of exchange. Whatever, it doesn't matter. I think that's for sweet. For the older blockchains, like bitcoin and perhaps ethereum, I think this was a little bit different.
00:16:08.476 - 00:16:38.530, Speaker B: Makes sense, maybe shifting slightly. I think all the networks from the high throughput days will hopefully eventually get to a critical mass where that validator set is kind of self sufficient as we've been talking about. But even in these earlier networks, one hot topic has really been about meV, or maximal extractive value. How do you think about the maximal abstract of value within Swe?
00:16:39.750 - 00:17:23.700, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think Mev is actually like a. I think sometimes it's very, very. It's definitely a very popular topic, but it's very nuanced and it's very hard to understand exactly, you know, what drives what and what is sort of the aggregate effect. Needless to say, for a new network with suite NEV is very contingent on how the operations of network work. And so there are some interesting teams that are trying to figure out how to, I wouldn't say like extract MEV, but sort of channel MeV to good causes. The key question for me is not so much whether MEV exists or not, like in some cases, like for sandwich attacks and like front running, like, you're always going to have that at some level. The question is whether when there is sort of an extraction of MEV, whether it can be channeled into things that are aligned with the network's best interest.
00:17:23.700 - 00:18:24.600, Speaker A: So in some cases, and this is a little bit, you know, going back to, I don't want to be too academic, but to like the public finance literature and economics is when you think about taxation, you know, what should taxation should be? Should people or government expenditure should be given back to the citizens? Should it be given to the military, whatever. It's kind of like the same thing with Mev. Should you be rewarding the operators, the validators? Should you figure out a way of sure making that, that MeV does accrue to someone, but distributing it more generally across the ecosystem, across all participants? And so I think what some teams are doing is they're thinking about, like, is there a way of doing that mev extraction, but in a way that ultimately then is delivered not to some specific participants, but more generally to the ecosystem. And while the validators and other ecosystems been very, you know, gained a financial edge through this, perhaps here in Sweden, they just become just more standard operators who are very much like, you know, standard, you know, Internet infrastructure providers. They have a good business, but they don't have to make, like, you know, this financial killing in the sense of like a combination between a hedge fund and an infrastructure operator.
00:18:25.860 - 00:19:07.698, Speaker B: I think that makes sense. You should be compensated for the service you provide, but you don't have to be overly compensated. I think kind of diving deeper into some of the nuances, the crypto community, at least today, seems a little bit torn about where Mev should ultimately be settled or where. Where that value should accrue. And if you spend too much time on crypto Twitter like I do. You'll hear the modular enthusiasts say, hey, you need to ultimately create your own l two. You need to create your own app change, because if you don't, you'll leak value to the underlying blockchain.
00:19:07.698 - 00:19:34.460, Speaker B: And then there's another school of camp kind of, in my opinion, the high throughput integrated chains that I think are figuring out ways to have value be captured more at the application layer. How much thought has kind of the sweet or missing labs team kind of put into this debate? Are you guys at the point where you're thinking about some of this stuff, and if so, what are your kind of thoughts around it?
00:19:34.760 - 00:19:59.232, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it's. That's a very good way of sort of putting how the discussion that there's two camps on Twitter. I also spent too much on crypto Twitter myself, so definitely guilty on that regard. I would say, like I personally, we would be much more proponent of the second camp, I think we believe, and maybe this is a good moment to talk about the move programming language. So sweet. You know, the smart contract scripting language is called move. It was created for Libra back in the day.
00:19:59.232 - 00:21:12.204, Speaker A: Basically, it's just a very friendly way of developing that, you know, doesn't have lot of the re entrancy and other types of risk attacks that something like solidity would have. And the reason I'm going to go through a little bit of a tangent, but you'll see why. The reason I think move is very powerful is because by being much more accessible and not requiring that you're a total blockchain junkie or you don't have a computer science PhD or anything like that, it really opens the floodgates for people in random place of the world to develop product. You can be in Central America and maybe you don't know much about computers, but you have a lot of pain points because you see your family, maybe they don't have access to bank accounts, or maybe you're in East Asia and you like to play a lot of video games, and the traditional video game or gaming companies don't enable you to do certain things. So what move lets you do is let you prototype these projects in a blockchain environment in a very friendly and easy way. I think that's very important because it's going to create a wave of product innovation that would be very hard to do in other places like Ethereum, where every time someone creates a new Dex or whatever, 95% of the code is recycled from Uniswap or whomever, because it's just very risky to implement something new that has a big attack vector. The design surface is very, very limited.
00:21:12.204 - 00:21:52.624, Speaker A: And so this product innovation is really relevant because it means we're also going to get innovation and new business models. And I think we will sort of move away from this very narrow crypto conversation of like, how do you extract value from the chain L2, blah blah, blah to more in which people like, you know, I just want to create an app that needs an interoperable network to be more valuable than if I hosted it on AWS. Can you give me that solution and I will figure out my monetization elsewhere. We're not there yet, but I think that's where we would like to go. And if we are able, I'm not talking about just switch, just generally as an industry to deliver on that. I think finally we can go to people who are very crypto skeptic and say, this actually has value. Look at all these cool products that.
00:21:52.632 - 00:22:50.332, Speaker B: Are on crypto 100%. I am very aligned with that vision. I think I've personally been a little bit frustrated. And why I've been so excited about the high throughput blockchains more broadly is exactly to that point in house the complexities so that application engineers can focus on applications and worry about finding product market fit than trying to spin up their own infrastructure and get your computer science degree and all that mumbo jumbo that comes along with that. So I'm very much aligned with that, maybe moving on slightly. I think SWE has done a good job about fostering, starting to build that organic ecosystem. I always say as a new, as a new kind of community is building, you always have to build the basic building blocks.
00:22:50.332 - 00:23:18.620, Speaker B: You kind of need your borrow land, an amm, an order book, NFT platform. All those necessities are really required for the crypto community to really come start experimenting. And I think SwE is definitely on its way and building out that or granite community. But how would you kind of assess SwE's broader kind of adoption with Defi? How are you seeing that progressing, being on the ground floor?
00:23:19.440 - 00:24:27.524, Speaker A: Yeah. So I think Defi has been a little bit of a boon to Swe. It grew from almost zero in the last, I don't know, eight months to we reached almost a billion dollars in TVL. It's gone down a little bit with a little more later market crash. I think more interesting to TVL, volume has been pretty strong, and within that ecosystem, the foundation and mistin and just the broader developer community have been able to create very strong protocols that I think today, for the most part, are a little bit traditional in the sense, like, you have your amm, which you have your more traditional concentrated liquidity amm, you have your more traditional lending protocol and all these kind of things. Perhaps the perp stacks are a little bit more on the frontier, but it's really sort of building up those built in blocks which are the foundation. Hoping that you have a very strong developer community that in the very near future will be able to leverage the fact that the basic building blocks exist, but also their more inherent knowledge about both how SwE's architecture works, but the move programming language and all these things to build those killer defi apps on Sui in the same way, like Uniswap was huge on Ethereum three or four years ago.
00:24:27.524 - 00:24:57.688, Speaker A: More recently, like Jito or Jupyter on Solana have been like, what are those type of products that are going to be very strong on suite? We don't have them today. I want to be very open about that. But very much all these efforts are about giving those developers and trying to increase the number of shots on goal that we have so that they end up developing that killer use case. I don't think the end goal is at all to say, like, you know, sue has the biggest amm, which is basically a copy of Uniswap V three, and has, like, the most amount of volume. Like, that's not a bad thing. Don't get me wrong. I would love for that to happen, and, like, we're very, very far away from even that happening.
00:24:57.688 - 00:25:23.928, Speaker A: But I think, like, the true victory would be at a moment in which those devs go and look at the chain and say, like, we did something that is tailor made to sweet. We use sui strengths and really deliver something that's not possible elsewhere. And it's very hard to forecast what that's going to be, because I just don't think you can forecast innovations, but you can sort of increase the probability that that materializes by having more developers experiment. And that's what we're trying to do.
00:25:24.064 - 00:26:06.410, Speaker B: Yeah, I've always been fascinated by once you thousand x the capacity, what type of applications can engineers build that they couldn't build on the low throughput chains? And I think we're just now starting to experiment that on these other chains. And, like, including SWE, SWe also enables this massive experimentation. And I think part of that is order books. When you have twelve transactions per second, it's very hard to set bids and ask and update that order book. With such limited throughput, can you talk about what SWE and Mist and labs is ultimately building with Deepbook?
00:26:07.190 - 00:26:32.438, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think deep is, the goal of Deepook is very much to be sort of a community project that is sort of just how we're building different infrastructure layers for the Internet. I think the same is true for financial services. And so obviously, Sui is at the bottom. It's the true infrastructure layer for the digital assets that run on Sui. Then there's a wholesale liquidity layer. That's what deep book is supposed to be. Supposed to be the deepest and tightest liquidity for.
00:26:32.438 - 00:26:59.898, Speaker A: Especially, I would say, like, tier one one assets for more tail assets. Probably deep book will not be the solution. And then on top of that, you will have the DeFi protocols that will source liquidity from deep book in order to offer richer financial services to end users. And so in order to have that type of world, an order book in some ways is much better than an amm. It gives market makers a lot more control over price. You can have a lot more depth, but it has other things. Maybe it's less composable.
00:26:59.898 - 00:27:30.842, Speaker A: It's definitely much harder to build. As you were saying, every time someone wants to sort of post a limit order, they want to move the price, they want to move the bid, the tick size, all these kind of things. It's very costly if you're not able to sort of be doing that all the time. Right? An Amm is kind of like, it's kind of like passive. You just put some money in, you see what it has. You don't have a lot of control, granted, like, market makers do need to be smart about how they hedge certain things because the permanent loss is very big. But in terms of, like, the active liquidity management, it's a little bit slack, less stringent than what an order book has.
00:27:30.842 - 00:28:19.970, Speaker A: And so what deepbook has is it really sort of leveraged suisability of having not only the throughput, but the latency. And so deepfook is 100% on chain. The routing of the orders, the matching of the orders, settlement of the orders, everything happens on chain. It gives market makers a very efficient perspective for providing liquidity. Market makers can have a pool in which they provide their, their funds, and they can use it to market make across different books. It's built in a way that the APIs provide an Amm like experience, so to speak, so that the DeFi protocols can plug in and source that liquidity in a way that's friendly to them and not complex and so those are very much the goals about being that wholesale liquidity layer that sort of is the grease that makes the wheels of the whole financial services ecosystem entry move.
00:28:20.750 - 00:28:40.220, Speaker B: Yeah. And it's, again, super helpful that this is all integrated. There's kind of one source of liquidity that people can tap into. It's very helpful than having 100 different L2s or layer three, that kind of fragment that liquidity and make it harder to make markets across each of those.
00:28:40.880 - 00:29:21.908, Speaker A: Yeah, that's right. And I think one thing, so I didn't mention, which is perhaps the most important thing about Deepook, is that the team that has been building Deepook also, as in the case of SWE, where the engineering is very strong and it has a very tailor made incentives layer on top. The same thing as for deep book, there are very clear incentives for market makers to provide liquidity. There's like this very interesting sort of counter cyclical valve in which when liquidity is low, market makers get more rebates than when liquidity is high. And that ensures that when liquidity is low, there's more liquidity. And when liquidity is very high, you're kind of good. You don't need to encourage more folks to come in for takers.
00:29:21.908 - 00:29:46.290, Speaker A: The more volume they take or they execute, they get sort of a lower fee schedule. And so it's kind of like, you know, you get a bulk discount after a certain amount. And so it has a lot of moving parts, has some governance components that really make deepbooks say, like, it's not only that the engineering is strong, but for the different participants, it aligns their interests. Kind of hoping that deep book not only is infrastructure that can enable this, but actually the incentives deliver that outcome.
00:29:46.410 - 00:30:44.182, Speaker B: No, it's very unique. The saying is, show me the incentive and I'll show you the outcome. I very much appreciate the incentives to add additional liquidity. One thing we are seeing, though, in the Ethereum and now starting to in the solana ecosystem, as well as this private order flow. And I think I read an article this past week on Ethereum having up to like 50% of the transactions actually going through private order flow. I think that's interesting in the sense that when these market making competition actually heats up, market makers obviously want to be profitable over time. If they can have better flows or have private flows, then potentially they could quote tighter spreads, be able to give retail or whoever essentially passing on those savings, but also know that they're going to be more profitable.
00:30:44.182 - 00:31:14.770, Speaker B: Has we gotten or miss and labs gotten to the point about thinking about some of these private order flows and. Yeah. Just your thoughts around how market dynamics. Maybe a better question is obviously today, it's early in the end state of SWE mists and labs. What do you foresee happening? Is it powering the entire world? Is all financial rails on Swe? Maybe painting that broad question. That broad question is better than kind of private order flows?
00:31:15.230 - 00:31:35.170, Speaker A: Yeah, no, I think it's a really interesting question, and I'm going to speculate a little bit. So five years, we come back to this conversation. You tell me I was wrong. It's just kind of. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. I mean, I think it's interesting, right, like on the Ethereum cave, that what you're referring to is a little bit a signal of, I would say market maturity.
00:31:35.170 - 00:32:18.956, Speaker A: You know, in, in traditional finance, like dark pools and all these things are very, very prevalent, but they have an impact on the sort of more open things because they also pay their own arbitrage opportunities. And that should sort of have a first order effect on other trading venues. On the other side, you could also say it's a little bit of, it's unclear who are the winners. So while it is maturity, perhaps it's matured in the same way that tradfi has matured, which is not always friendly to everyone or, like, especially the people that don't have, like, the gazillions in the bank. But anyways, in terms of sort of, of how we see sui in the future, I think, you know, I would love to say that I think sui is sort of everything should move on chain and everything should be on Sui in the future. And if that does end up happening, I mean, that's great.
00:32:18.988 - 00:32:19.132, Speaker B: Right?
00:32:19.156 - 00:33:05.920, Speaker A: Like, we're done. But I think more importantly, the opportunity is really to identify where there are strengths that do not exist in other types of technologies. And to me, like, the most important ones, when I think about not only about sweet, but just general about this whole industry that sweep, because it's at the forefront of the infra, can enable the most is interoperability in global markets. So there's a lot of segmented markets out there in the world which still operate in a very sort of strange fashion. Like, foreign exchange is one of them. Like, why is it people that are calling each other or, like, fixed income? It's just like, some of the bonds are just so unique that it's very hard to have sort of more central markets. And so I think these are the things where there are some benefits in terms of, like, creating that interoperability and global layer.
00:33:05.920 - 00:33:54.286, Speaker A: But there's even simpler things. You know, I'm from Mexico, and you'd be surprised that even today in Mexico, if I want to buy sort of Nvidia stock, that's very, very hard to do. And I'm not talking about like some random asset, right? Like, this is Nvidia. It's something that everyone's very excited to. And so in the future, just literally having an open, permissionless system in which people can have access to those type of tier one assets, that is sufficient probably, too, for like 90% of what people want to do. Then there's a 10% which, like, let's be honest, that 10% might be the one that generates the most amount of fees or revenue, but it's a little bit more exotic that I think can also do. And so I think that the vision really is, how could this infrastructure be something that really leverages sui strength of interoperability of move programmability, which is very friendly to developers? And that is something you're already starting to see in suite defi.
00:33:54.286 - 00:34:26.491, Speaker A: Like, one thing that I do think Sui deFi protocols are doing different from other places is they're leveraging suites composability to offer very, for example, complex yield farming strategies at a one click solution. So you have your wallet, one click, boom, boom, boom. It does 20 different things in a thing called a programmable transaction block. And it's very seamless because suite was sort of built in that way in order to make it very friendly. And so these are the types of use cases. And like you say, like that infrastructure as a coordination layer for digital assets is very powerful. You don't always need to go to the most exotic things.
00:34:26.491 - 00:34:40.500, Speaker A: There's already some very simple things that if you're able to move the needle on, it's extremely powerful. But we're definitely, like, as you said, very early, everyone says that it is true. We need to deliver. So in five years when hopefully we've been able to deliver a little bit on it.
00:34:40.920 - 00:35:53.176, Speaker B: Yeah, I've always been fascinated by the banks as they exist today, as these heterogeneous databases that are slow, have super high latency, and sometimes not always the most secure. And to me, the really cool part about all these blockchains is the fact that youre a essentially enabling permissionless interaction with them. And by increasing the bandwidth communication in between them, you're lowering the latency with private keys and even things like Zklogin, ultimately able to make them more secure. I think when you take those heterogeneous databases and kind of collapse them into one giant database. There's a lot of interesting things that can happen in the forex markets, as you mentioned. I kind of even think of stock markets as their individual databases and TBD, how all those pieces ultimately play out and come together. But there's a lot of interesting experiments in my mind on the DeFi side that could potentially be run, because now all these systems are really integrated.
00:35:53.176 - 00:36:09.660, Speaker B: Everybody can opt in, have this, the same shared standards, which I think is powerful. And we're just now seeing the experimentation, but 510 years in the future, I'm very excited to see what interesting engineers build.
00:36:10.040 - 00:36:41.280, Speaker A: Yeah, 100%. And I think one of the things that you were touching on is standardization is one of the biggest productivity boons to anything you're talking about in finance. There's all these complex systems. Everyone talks about cross border payments, how the banking rails in every country are different, and it's very hard to sort of move money around. Well, that's just because, you know, there's very little standardization. And think about, like, Internet, I used to do when I was an academic, international trade. And one of the biggest sort of productivity boons to international trade was the creation of, or the invention of the container.
00:36:41.280 - 00:37:05.576, Speaker A: And it's kind of like it's just a metal box, right? Like, it's not like someone created, you know, electricity or antibiotics. It's literally a metal box. But that was enormous, because it meant that people no longer have to have, like, these complex ships, in which every little compartment is different, every product is different. Bringing the things on and taking them out makes it very complex. It's very simple. All the ships are the same, all the containers are the same. You just load them and load them.
00:37:05.576 - 00:37:39.172, Speaker A: You can standardize ports. It was truly a boon, and I think that's a little bit of what intraoperability does. And while I think that a lot of people are, I hope they don't hate me for this, but I think a lot of people are just like, decentralization maxis for the purpose of decentralization, which is a fair position to take. I think that really, the reason why decentralization is valuable in this case is because in order to truly harness interoperability, you need some degree of decentralization, or else, like, the centralized party can always just say, like, you know, I don't like you anymore. Move. And then at that point, you know, you're Mexico. You're integrated with the global rails.
00:37:39.172 - 00:37:56.040, Speaker A: But then that centralized party says, like, I don't like you anymore. It breeds fragmentation. So interoperability, I think is what we're talking about with standardization, about making these rails, being able to talk to each other. Very simple. And decentralization is what really makes like delivers team, it's what delivers value and makes it possible.
00:37:57.260 - 00:38:20.992, Speaker B: Censorship resistance is must. Decentralization for the decentralization I think is a bit overkill. But that shared standards that everybody opts into is really the alpha because everybody agrees. And just getting to that point is absolutely massive. Going to your point with the containerization. And I think right now we're seeing some of these issues arise with l two s. Yeah.
00:38:21.036 - 00:38:21.480, Speaker A: Yes.
00:38:21.600 - 00:38:40.260, Speaker B: It's not an intractable engineering problem. There could be a shared standard. Everybody just has to agree upon those standards, which, where you have a high throughput, integrated l one, then everybody by default, by using that network, opts into those standards, which I think is very eloquent.
00:38:40.600 - 00:39:33.662, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. And, you know, I think it's been, I mean, we were talking about like, what are the crazy use cases that you envision in the future? I still personally believe that cross border payments, something that could be huge if we ever managed to get it right, it was definitely one of the things that were behind the whole Libra project. It was always talked about like, you know, remittances and these kind of things. And even here we are, like five years later, you know, some, some chains and some teams have been able to do a little bit, but I think it's a little bit, you know, not to end with a negative note or anything, but it is a little bit concerning that, you know, blocking has been around for a while. Cross border payments have been around forever, and we still haven't been able to move the needle as much as we'd want to. So it's not so much, I think that it shrouds in negativity the future of our industry, but rather says, like, even if you have the tech, there's so many other things that you need to get right. You need to sort of honestly get a friendly regulatory landscape so that you can build it.
00:39:33.662 - 00:40:20.230, Speaker A: You need to get the right partners. Like the fiat on and off ramps is still a headache for everyone, not only for cross border payments, but just for crypto in general, the onboarding. I think from a wallet perspective, that is something I think we're very proud about with, for example, zkloginde giving people the ability to log into their wallet using traditional credentials. That already removes a lot of the hurdles of, like, what are my private keys sponsored transaction, which is the ability for third parties to pay your gas fees and so you don't need to worry about, oh, I need to pay like 0.035 suite to send a transfer, things like that. Those are steps in the right direction and we're very proud of that. But we need to sort of keep surmounting those hurdles in order to deliver even on very basic things that are huge markets and supremely important, but still very big challenges.
00:40:21.130 - 00:41:15.190, Speaker B: Maybe as we are wrapping up, swe has the benefit in hindsight, to see what has worked and what has not worked in some of these earlier networks. Bitcoin, Ethereum, Solana. What are some things that you either want to see brought over or things that you want to have learned from these earlier networks that you can integrate, steal to help to slingshot your gun? The team are missing to faster adoption, so to speak. Because I think you should learn from the people that have kind of walked path before you. Making the same mistakes obviously is not good. And I do think there's a lot to be learned. Just as you guys are coming onto the scene, building that community, building and getting engineers, the applications, everything stood up and starting to scale.
00:41:16.000 - 00:41:40.688, Speaker A: Yeah, 100%. I think two things come to mind. One is, I think this is one thing we've actually done pretty well relative to other changes. It was always very clear to us that user experience was the most important thing. And there's different layers of user experience. One is in terms of if your chain is not high throughput, it doesn't have low latency, it doesn't have a good user experience. I don't want to be sitting on my wallet having to wait 3 hours for a transaction to go through.
00:41:40.688 - 00:42:16.470, Speaker A: I don't want to pay $100 for a transaction that is in itself user experience. I think that's something we learned and we've done very well. There are the other things we were talking about, like Zklogin sponsored transactions. So in general, I think everything that mist and Sue foundation and the broader developer system is doing is really trying to figure out how do we leverage this cool infra to provide the best user experience. I think we're doing a good job there. There's a lot more to do. The other part, which I think is a very important thing for us to remember, is one thing that the very early crypto communities have been able to, to do successfully is build their community.
00:42:16.470 - 00:43:02.000, Speaker A: And I think that's something that's important in crypto communities are not perfect. Obviously, we're all aware of the bad stuff that happens on crypto. Twitter and telegram and Discord or whatever, and things get out of line. But I think for the majority of people, folks in this community, maybe they're passive and they don't say much, but they feel a sense of belonging. And that's important because ultimately we're talking about digital assets. And so it is very much about digital online communities. And that is important not only because it's a little bit of the spirits and the ethos behind these chains in this infrastructure, but it also delivers, I think, the seeds to have those crazy developers who kind of like, they go to sui not because like, oh, you know, I read the Misticeti paper and I like sub second finality.
00:43:02.000 - 00:43:24.448, Speaker A: It's more like, this is a cool community, someone build this cool project. I want to sort of figure out how to build our own. And so I think that is something where suite honestly is very early. There is an important community. There's a lot more work to be done. I think that's something from like the very old communities, especially like bitcoin and ethereum, have really been able to harness in the right way. They're not perfect, but there's definitely something to learn there, in my opinion.
00:43:24.624 - 00:43:58.688, Speaker B: I think it's well put. Maybe last question, or the last question. Slight, clear ball. I am very excited about the SWE community, what you guys are ultimately building. I've talked as an investor with lots of different teams building there. Some of the pros and cons that I've heard is talking about the Mist and labs team building, deep book, not in house, so to speak, allowing teams to tap into that. Instead of a crypto native team emerging.
00:43:58.688 - 00:44:36.630, Speaker B: I think there's a case to be made for each side. On this missing side, I really appreciate, in my mind, it's kind of taking the apple approach of integrating more components, allowing engineers to focus more and more on their applications. And the flip side, it's the community feels like missing labs or SWE is ultimately competing with them. And obviously you guys are great engineers, world class, previously been at Meta or Facebook, and they feel like it's a little bit of competitive attention. How would you kind of address some of that feedback or talk to the community about kind of that balance?
00:44:37.290 - 00:45:20.466, Speaker A: Yeah, I would say the reality is like a lot of what Mistin and the C Foundation do is because they were probably the ones that know our technology best. And sometimes when innovations came out, it's hard for people to grasp unless they can see a proof of concept. I think most of the case, most of the time, the goal is not to monetize things and sort of to, you know, build first party projects, but rather to show what you can do and then have others create crazy things. So for example, Zklogin, when it first came out, was very notive. The sweet wallet integrated it initially as the first mover because who was going to use Zklogin? And then the other wallets realized, oh my God, it's really cool. You can just log in with your Google credentials or twitch credentials or whatever. And now the wallets have it.
00:45:20.466 - 00:45:53.318, Speaker A: Like some DeFi protocols have it and other people have built it. The goal very much is not at all for us to be the owner of these kind of things. It's just really showcasing that and having other people build it. So I think that's where the line is drawn. But luckily there are many other cases in which actually the communities are sort of taking the flag and building on this innovation way more than we are. To give you another example, one thing that Swe has is that you can actually store data on chain. So if you buy like a PFP NFT, you actually have the image on chain.
00:45:53.318 - 00:46:51.290, Speaker A: But more important than that is that NFTs on Swee are dynamic, which means they can evolve, they can change over time. So one simple example of this is an NFT that's an image, but that changes over time. For example, there's an amazing team called studio Mirai who I think are not only forefront of sui, but they are the forefront of crypto in terms of what they're trying to do because they basically issued an amazing NFT collection called prime matches. And they're initially, these pfps were in black and white. And then as you know, there's an upgrade to these in which you can color them and you can color them in different ways. And so this is something very rich in which like we're not building nfts at this lab like they are, but they've really showcased like, wow, not only you can actually own your data, your PFP, you can color it and change it in ways. When you think about gaming, of having, you know, you have your avatar and you want to equip a sword or a hat or a cape or whatever, like that is also an image can be stored on chain that is also a dynamic NFT.
00:46:51.290 - 00:47:21.686, Speaker A: And they're much more boring applications of this. For example, think about, again, international trade. There's these things called letters of credit in which suppliers need to say JPMorgan, give me financing or whatever. These are boring PDF's, but they need to change a lot every time they go to a port, someone needs to sign it could be a PDF that's an NFT that also dynamically changes as more text gets tagged onto it. So I think there is a fine line. I think that's a fair point that you're making. But at the same time, I think that for the most part, it's really just trying to show to the world this is what you can do on sue.
00:47:21.686 - 00:47:27.296, Speaker A: Once we've made that case, it's like, go build on it and create something crazy.
00:47:27.408 - 00:47:35.800, Speaker B: Personally, I'm all for the free markets. People should be competitive, and if someone can outship you, you shouldn't win.
00:47:35.840 - 00:47:36.580, Speaker A: That's right.
00:47:37.560 - 00:47:50.034, Speaker B: But awesome. Alonzo, anything as we're kind of wrapping up the podcast, anything that we didn't touch upon that you wanted to touch upon, whether swe miss inside Defi, I.
00:47:50.042 - 00:48:05.370, Speaker A: Would just say, first of all, it was great chatting with you. I think we've been here for 15 minutes and it went by really quickly. I would just say, like, people find any of what we talked about exciting. Go check swe out. There's a lot of interesting things. There's a lot of wallets and Defi protocols. I think you're starting to see a lot of traction.
00:48:05.370 - 00:48:23.890, Speaker A: For example, the electric capital developer report came out, I believe, last week, and they showed that the biggest move community is now in Swe. That means that we're getting. The SwE community is getting a lot of traction from a developer's perspective all over the world. New languages and protocols. Go check swee out. I hope you like it.
00:48:24.430 - 00:48:34.970, Speaker B: Yeah, I'm of the proponent. That move will probably be the most predominant programming language for web3 in the next five years, which is my prediction.
00:48:35.430 - 00:48:37.090, Speaker A: I hope your prediction comes true.
00:48:37.870 - 00:48:54.080, Speaker B: Awesome. Well, thank you again for coming on the podcast. Fantastic conversation. Appreciate you diving into your background, what you've been doing at Misin Tokenomics and also defi. It's early, I think, people trying to put the pieces together, and hopefully this gives them a lot of clarity.
00:48:54.660 - 00:48:56.860, Speaker A: Absolutely. It was great to be here. Thank you so much.
