00:00:00.330 - 00:00:26.518, Speaker A: I just honestly don't fucking care about any of the tribalism or zealotry in crypto. Everybody else is building with so much in mind about the community that they're building on and trying to align themselves with that and potentially making trade offs that are so optimal from a product perspective. Like, we have to build great products here, and if we don't have that, we don't have product market fit. We don't have anything. Literally nothing.
00:00:26.604 - 00:00:54.602, Speaker B: This episode is brought to you by Jito. Jito is the easiest way to start earning Mev rewards on Solana through liquid staking. Get your soul, stake it with Jito and get instant access to liquidity through their liquid staking token Jito soul. Get started today at what's up, everybody? Welcome to another episode of Lightspeed. Today we're joined by antonio, the founder of DyDX. Antonio, welcome to the show.
00:00:54.736 - 00:00:56.430, Speaker A: Hey, thanks so much for having me.
00:00:56.580 - 00:01:17.670, Speaker B: Yeah, we're pumped to have you on. One reason I'm excited about having you on that represents DYDX is that you might be one of the only protocols to find product market fit at this. Know, a lot of our listeners are outside of the Ethereum community, so I think it'd be really helpful to start off with just maybe the history of DuiDx, because you do have a big release coming up this month. So maybe if we can work back to when you started and then get to where we are today.
00:01:17.820 - 00:01:44.214, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. So maybe I'll just start with a quick overview of what DyDx is. So we are the leader in d five plus derivatives. Derivatives have become the main way that crypto is traded. Derivatives trading volume in crypto is about 75% of the entire market. And then spot trading, just kind of a fancy word for just normal buying and selling, is about 25% of the market. So we have over 50% market share for DFI derivatives right now.
00:01:44.214 - 00:02:31.862, Speaker A: As you mentioned, we've been around for a long time, too. I like to think we're one of the ogs of DFI. DyDx has existed for six and a bit years at this point, which is quite a long time in crypto. I actually got into crypto back in 2015 before DYDX, when I had my first job at Coinbase as a software engineer. So I've never not worked in crypto, so I don't know how many people can say that, but I think it has definitely colored my opinion of the markets, and I've definitely seen a lot of ups and downs, and I think that helps me and DyDx to stay a little bit more stable throughout all of it. Just real quickly, on the overview of the history, and happy to dive more into anything that's of interest, but we are founded in 2017. I'm the solo founder of DyDx.
00:02:31.862 - 00:03:06.262, Speaker A: I used to be a software engineer at Coinbase and briefly, Uber. So for the first three or four years, I was coding a lot of the thing. Fast forward to today. We have about 50 employees, and though I stay involved on the technical side, don't do so much coding anymore. For the history of kind of the products that we've released over time, the first thing that we released was, I believe, back in 2018, a margin trading protocol. So this is a way that you can borrow to get leverage or to go short on given trades. And that existed from about 2018 to 2021 or so.
00:03:06.262 - 00:03:46.322, Speaker A: Since then, in about 2020, we started to focus on perpetuals contracts, which are right in the wheelhouse of derivatives trading in crypto. Perpetuals contracts are by far the main way that derivatives are traded in crypto. As I mentioned, about 75% of the crypto trading volume is derivatives, and of that, about 98% to 99% is perpetuals. So just perpetuals. This one product that we offer is the bulk of the trading that happens in the crypto market. From our evolution today, we are the largest application that's based on a L2. So we were pretty early adopters of L2 in general.
00:03:46.322 - 00:04:31.122, Speaker A: A little over two years ago, we launched our current product in partnership with Starquare, who's one of the leaders in a technology called zero Knowledge rollups. And that's how DyDx operates still to this day. The main thing that we're working on right now, which I'm sure we'll talk a lot more about, is the upcoming release of the DyDX chain, meaning that we're building our own blockchain, which will exist based on the Cosmos SDK technology. It's tailor made for derivatives trading, tailor made for what we're doing, and we're very excited about it. So that's planning to release just in October. And kind of the biggest hallmark of that release is, for the first time, DYDX will be fully decentralized. That's always been the plan.
00:04:31.122 - 00:04:49.580, Speaker A: We've kind of taken a more progressive approach to decentralization, which, as you mentioned, I think has been really positive for us, and allowed us to iterate quickly to find that product market fit that we have right now. And then think about full decentralization of the protocol later, which is right now.
00:04:51.790 - 00:05:09.978, Speaker C: Thanks for the intro, by the way. When you say this will be, like, one of the biggest milestones, here's that. Duidx will be fully decentralized for the first time. What's the current state of things? Is it not fully decentralized today? What does that look like for people who are not familiar?
00:05:10.154 - 00:05:30.342, Speaker A: Yeah. So right now, I would say DyDX is hybrid decentralized. It is fully non custodial. It is fully transparent with what happens on chain. But the main thing that's not decentralized right now is the order book and matching engine. So I'll define this a little bit. Most decentralized exchanges that you're probably familiar with, like a uniswap, a curve, those sorts of things.
00:05:30.342 - 00:06:21.430, Speaker A: These are automated market makers, and it's just generally much simpler to operate an automated market maker than it is to operate an order book. It also requires much more performance in terms of transactions per second, low gas fees, et cetera, to be able to offer an order book effectively. What an order book is for those who aren't familiar is just a bunch of offers to buy or sell a given asset. So you could say, oh, I'm willing to buy bitcoin for 20,000, but some guy's only willing to sell it for 21,000. And then whenever the prices intersect, you have those people trade with each other. The reason that this requires such high performance is because the market makers or the kind of programmatic traders that are providing liquidity are trading with bots, not with humans. So there's thousands of orders per second that are hitting the actual system, and today, no blockchain can support that.
00:06:21.430 - 00:07:01.534, Speaker A: So starkware and all the rest of the l two s can't come close to the amount of performance that's needed for that. Potentially, that will change long term. We're still excited to see that happen, hopefully, but that's not the case right now. So that's why we have adopted this mode where all of these settlements. So, like, when you actually trade with somebody, that all happens on chain, or at least through the Starpro roll up that we're using. But all of these offers to buy and sell on DyDX today happen off chain, just on a normal server kind of running on AWS. You can still keep the whole non custodial nature of the chain or of the product in general, but it's not completely open source, it's not completely controlled by the users.
00:07:01.534 - 00:07:45.294, Speaker A: All those sort of hallmarks of defi that we're trying to move towards. So what are we building with DydX chain? The main thing that we're decentralizing is what I was just talking about, the order book and the matching engine. And that's actually quite a difficult problem again, because these systems require really high throughput. So we started designing what we're going to build for the DyDX chain about a year and a half ago. And then, and I would still say this is the case today, we took a look around and asked ourselves, okay, which blockchain can support on the order of 1000 plus transactions per second, ideally with very low or no gas fees. And the answer we came back with was, none of them. Maybe Salana gets sort of close to that.
00:07:45.294 - 00:08:30.138, Speaker A: But first of all, we don't have all of Salana to ourselves. And then second of all, there's still kind of gas fees and other considerations involved there. So the solution that we came up with is somewhat technical, but I think also very novel and unlocks a really great product experience. Effectively, what we built is what we're calling a decentralized, but off chain order book and matching system. So you effectively use the mem pool. So when you go and place a trade on metamask for Uniswap or something like that, you click and then it's like pending for ten to 15 seconds or so. That means your transaction hasn't actually been mined into the blockchain yet, but it's going to sitting in the memory of all the ethereum nodes in Uniswap's case, waiting to be mined into the blockchain.
00:08:30.138 - 00:09:18.320, Speaker A: So we took that concept and extended it and we were like okay, well what if we had the entire order book not have to be put on chain? Still, the validators can keep the entire state of the order book in their respective memories, but you don't actually have to add anything to the consensus state of the chain until a trade happens. And that's a very unique property of what we are trying to build, because only about 1% of the orders that get placed on any order book based exchange get filled. So we have this unique problem of we need like 100 x the scalability for placing and canceling orders than we need just for the trades actually happening and settling. So it made this cosmos chain that we're building a really natural fit for that, just because you can do really custom stuff if you own the entire stack. And that's what we have been developing for the past year.
00:09:19.730 - 00:10:33.750, Speaker C: So a few things I want to clear up there, I think most a lot of people won't know what a mempool is Solan doesn't have a mempool. That's more specific to EVM chains. Just FYI, Salon doesn't have one for people listening. The second thing that I want to actually challenge here is, I think basically, at the time of your research, and obviously, you had to do a lot of research into different ecosystems before deciding to go with an app chain cosmos approach. So one thing I would push back on is you said there are no chains that can support order books, and specifically with low fees and speed. So I guess I would ask you, what do you think about serum or Ellipsis Labs, which is like an order Book on Solana? And then there's also things like, say, coming out, and then I think, like, sweet and aptos also have another order book kind of flavor there as well. What do you think about those approaches? Is really the main concern for you, vertical control and being able to kind of own the stack, or are you not satisfied with the performance of those out?
00:10:33.820 - 00:10:59.274, Speaker A: I would say it's both, yeah. Even for serum. I mean, we talked to a lot of the institutional traders and other traders that are trading on serum in TLDR. They said it kind of sucked. I don't know if that's the most diplomatic way to say it. I think it is a good step forward in technology, but just trying to put this order of magnitude on chain is not feasible yet. And we did actually pretty seriously consider just building something similar to serum on Solana.
00:10:59.274 - 00:11:31.526, Speaker A: That was probably our number two option, but ultimately decided to go with building our own chain. Some of the newer ones, like, I think what say is doing, they're also building their own cosmos chain is interesting. They put more of the stuff on chain or in consensus than we will with the DyDX chain. So we'll see which of those architectures work better. I think what we're doing is quite novel, and also because 99% of the stuff doesn't even have to go on chain. That's literally 100 x scalability right there. So it's like whatever you can achieve on chain, at least with the Cosmo stack, we'll have that.
00:11:31.526 - 00:12:28.918, Speaker A: We'll have the state of the art there, but then be able to multiply that by ten, 100 x, because things are not going on chain. So a lot of it does come down to the performance, but I would also definitely agree with us as the developers controlling the entire stack being a big plus point as well. So let me give you just an example of that. One of the things we're also building into the DyDX chain is our own oracle system, so we won't be reliant on any external oracles. This is really helpful, especially as one of the biggest derivatives exchanges in DeFi, because oracles are the only prerequisite you basically have to launching new markets. So by controlling that amount of the stack, by making an oracle system that's custom, tailor made for leverage trading, we were able to do that in a decentralized way, because there already exists this network of validators and nodes, and you can just have them do more types of activities on the platform. Another example of that is liquidations.
00:12:28.918 - 00:13:12.730, Speaker A: So when the price moves against a given trader, somebody has to come in and liquidate the position if they lose enough money. This is usually a problem in crypto and defi. Like, how can you do this if you don't have this decentralized network of participants that are standing there looking at the chain ready to liquidate things? Well, guess what? We do. So we're also having the validators effectively run the liquidations against the order book. So they're not the ones literally trading against the positions, but they're the ones that are sitting there making sure we have a high performant liquidation system. So there's a lot of tradeoffs with all these different chains. I would definitely say if I were building something different than DyDX, like if I were building an amm, for example, I would not build my own chain, or our own chain for that today.
00:13:12.730 - 00:13:41.438, Speaker A: I just don't think it makes sense. It's hard with the bridging, it's hard with the development costs of building your own chain, maintaining the software, et cetera. But for us, it's just a really specific use case, right? It's like off chain order book 100 x, more scalability there. We need that. One of the other really interesting things is we don't really need that many tokens to exist on our chain. There's literally only two tokens. First of all, the DyDX token will be migrated and used for governance, staking, et cetera, on the chain.
00:13:41.438 - 00:14:21.370, Speaker A: But then all of the trading, from a collateralization perspective, happens through USDC. So you only need to have USDC on the chain, at least for the time being. And that makes us much less reliant on bridges than pretty much any other platform would be. Not to pick on them. I think they do a great job. But osmosis, I think, is an example of this, where it's just kind of challenging for them to get enough spot assets to trade on their platform because they're really reliant on bridges security, usability issues all over the place there. With DYDX, we worked pretty closely with Circle to deploy a native version of USDC on Cosmos.
00:14:21.370 - 00:14:49.622, Speaker A: So when you're trading on DYDX, there is no bridge risk. You're just literally holding native USDC. And that's very unique to kind of the platform that we're building. So it did take kind of the main negative, I would say, of building our own chain is that it did take a lot more effort, especially on the engineering side. But we've been fortunate to build a great team around DyDx and have the throughput to be able to build that. And I think a pretty quick timeline, like building your own chain in just a bit over a year, I feel pretty good about.
00:14:49.676 - 00:15:18.750, Speaker B: I think it was in 2022 when you announced that DyDx was going to move to an app chain in Cosmos. And at the time that was a really big deal because you were going to be the first big project, or really project in general that went from Ethereum to Cosmos, and you even went on bankless. And I think the title of their podcast was is DyDx abandoning Ethereum? So quite think one, I'm curious, just during that process, what was the hardest challenge of actually doing that migration? And do you think you're going to see other applications try this, that find product market fit similar to DYDX?
00:15:19.190 - 00:15:57.386, Speaker A: So I'll take the latter part of the question first. I do think that will be the case more and more over time. Again, like I was saying before, I don't think app chains are a perfect fit right now for everything that you could build. Like if I were building an Amm, if I were building something like friendtech or nfts, I would not build my own app chain. And what we're doing is pretty specific. So I think we'll see more of that over time, though, I think a good example of that is what rune, the founder of Makerdao, I think, was posting about a couple weeks ago. His vision for potentially something like maker building their own chain to at least control parts of their protocol.
00:15:57.386 - 00:16:37.386, Speaker A: And I don't know if that's confirmed yet, but I think that's a good example of people taking it seriously as a decision you could make once you start to get that product market fit and have more resources to build more difficult things. So in terms of our decision, was it a hard one? I would say it was challenging, but in the most part we did a good job. I think realizing where the technology is going. And I think that's something that historically we've been good at. At DyDX overall is just making technology bets earlier than most people do. Obviously, we were one of the first in DFI overall, some of the first building smart contracts. Fast forward to L2.
00:16:37.386 - 00:17:07.078, Speaker A: We did that about a year or two before it was cool. And now with our app chain migration, I'm hopeful that we'll see more players start to do that over time. But that being said, I still think we're super aligned with all the different blockchain ecosystems, still very aligned with Ethereum, with Solana, and especially at DyDX. We really try to stay away from tribalism in blockchains in general. We think it's all just amazing technology, and we'll always build on the best possible technology for our product.
00:17:07.164 - 00:17:51.762, Speaker C: So one thing I'm curious to get your thoughts on is there's obviously different thesis within the blockchain world, especially on the more technical side, right? There's the integrated or monolithic kind of thesis, where everything can kind of be on the same l one. And then there's maybe the modular thesis, and then there's the app chain thesis, which is part of the modular thesis, but maybe a little subtree. As a founder and also a technical person who has thought about this a lot and seen it evolve over the years, how do you think about it in terms of what is your mental model of, okay, this is when an integrated chain is useful. This is when the modular stack is useful. How do you decide what's the best tool for the job?
00:17:51.816 - 00:18:33.214, Speaker A: I guess I think it just depends on the trade offs that you're willing to make. Anybody that tells you one particular technology is objectively better than another one doesn't know what they're talking about. Just in technology in general, there's always trade offs on your building. And of course, some things can be higher or lower quality than others, but generally I see everything as trade offs, and I think that's a good way to think about it from a business and technical perspective. So again, I quoted some of the things I would build on, not my own blockchain, like amms or nfts or something like that. And I'd say the main characterization of all of those is that they require a good amount of composability. So they require tokens to be on the chain that the exchange is on.
00:18:33.214 - 00:19:20.682, Speaker A: They require all the nfts to be on that chain, so on and so forth. And for Dydx, we don't need that right now, I think that bridges will get better over time, but we're really not there yet in terms of them being optimal. And I think one of the things that I've really internalized and learned over my years in crypto is that things take longer than people think they will. Obviously, there's a lot of hype around things when they come out, whether it's icos or nfts or l two s or new l ones like Salana. And I think generally people are right about those theses, but they're generally wrong about how long it's going to take. I think people just think that things will go much faster than they actually do. And I think that's the main cause of a lot of this really boom and bust cycle that we see in crypto.
00:19:20.682 - 00:19:39.174, Speaker A: It's kind of like, okay, Solana is invented. Let's just take that as an example. People are really excited about it. It's a great new technology. It is much more scalable than ethereum and all these other things. Is it objectively better for all use cases than ethereum? No, definitely not. There's kind of trade offs that have been made there, but I think it's an excellent product.
00:19:39.174 - 00:20:14.970, Speaker A: People get really excited about it. And the kind of juice on all of this is that a lot of these tokens are financialized around the products themselves. So it's like, people get excited, token price goes up, then it's a year or two later, and people are like, what the hell? I thought Solana was going to be the future. There's barely any defi products on it or whatever that have usage. And yes, that's right. But I think it just takes longer for those ecosystems and that technology to evolve over time and zooming out even more. That's why I always say our goal at DyDX is to become one of the biggest exchanges in crypto.
00:20:14.970 - 00:20:59.642, Speaker A: But on a five to ten year time horizon, like, we're just not going to be able to grow more than a binance or a coinbase of the world in the next couple of years. The technology isn't there, the network effects aren't there. We and everyone else in DFI haven't yet perfected the product or found our killer use cases. But in five to ten years, yeah, it seems totally reasonable that something like DyDX or Uniswap or whatever else may become one of the biggest exchanges in crypto. And most of crypto trading will happen there. So I think I would just challenge everybody to kind of zoom out when they're thinking about these things and if you start looking at things on a decades long time horizon, it really seems like a lot more things are possible. And I think that's one of the things that helps us be really optimistic and forward looking at DydX.
00:20:59.706 - 00:21:23.640, Speaker B: Curious, what do you think about the l two landscape in general as being one of the first apps on an l two and also one of the few that found product market fit. Right now there's some people that talk about like they'll come on the show and they think there's going to be 1000 plus l two s or even a million at that point. How do you think that's going to play out? Because like one issue we have with it is the fragmentation of liquidity users and so forth across those. And I think there's almost always a power law outcome that's going to happen.
00:21:24.730 - 00:21:26.600, Speaker C: Yeah, I'm just curious, what do you think?
00:21:26.970 - 00:22:10.998, Speaker A: So I've been excited that lots of people are using l two s now and they've really moved to the point where they are production ready. I mean, I think we were a good first example of how you can build a great production quality product on an l two, and fast forward to today. And that's almost a norm, right? You see things like friend tech just launching directly on an l two because the experience has gotten so easy, or so similar, at least to Ethereum to develop on top of that. And I think that's an awesome thing for the space. In general, I don't think all products will fall into this category. But following up on my previous answer, I do think it makes sense to start off on some of these more general chains. It's just a lot easier to find product market fit, to iterate quickly, to have a user base that already has all the wallets and knows how to use the technology.
00:22:10.998 - 00:22:48.258, Speaker A: And then once a given product becomes more mature, I think they'll probably move to their own app chain. Not all of them, but I think a lot of them will. And I think that's great and that's okay. If I were to hypothesize about what does the really end states of decentralized apps look like? I would guess it's some combination of a stack where you have your own chain, but it rolls back up to some other l one. Like for example, the DyDX chain someday incorporates either optimistic roll ups or zero knowledge roll ups or something, and then post back to Ethereum or whatever other chain. That's definitely possible. I want to caution people when they're thinking about this.
00:22:48.258 - 00:23:36.702, Speaker A: That's absolutely not going to happen in the next five years, in my opinion. But it's good to have an understanding of what the end state is. And I'm always just really pro people experimenting with the technology in general. How could that possibly be a bad thing? Even if you don't agree with DyDX's decision to move over to our own app chain, the space is going to get information about how that actually goes. Can we pull it off? Is that a good model for others to follow in the future? And if we're wrong, then there'll probably be some other DeFi derivatives player that wins on existing platforms. So I think we always try to be bold in our decisions at Dydx and just consider where we're at in the evolution of DeFi right now. I just really don't look at other DeFi platforms as that big of competitors right now.
00:23:36.702 - 00:24:28.034, Speaker A: We do pay attention to them, but we have a pretty dominant market share in derivatives right now, and that'll continue to grow. But it's kind of like with over 50% of the market share in DFI derivatives, does it make sense for us to try to get that to be 100%, or does it make sense for us to just grow the pie ten, 100 x? And that's literally growing all of DFI into the point where it's comparative volume, potentially more volume in the future to centralized exchanges. So that's really what I think about as the goal, rather than competing with any of the shorter term competitors, even though we pay attention to them. And it's really good to have competition. But again, if you look at things on that timescale, you're like, who cares about our l two platform that's doing a billion dollars a day of trading volume? Finance is doing 50 to 100 billion. We have nothing. And that's kind of a strange thing to say.
00:24:28.034 - 00:24:52.566, Speaker A: Maybe as the leader of this platform, that is one of the few things I agree, that has found some measure of product market fit in DFI to be willing to throw away, at least from a technology perspective, what we've done before, and take big bets on what the future of the technology will be, even if that hasn't been a proven path so far. I think that's pretty unique about DYDx and something I feel good about.
00:24:52.668 - 00:25:20.330, Speaker B: Quick break to tell you about our sponsor, Jito. Jito is the number one liquid staking provider in Salana. You probably already know about Jeto because they're our leading MeV client, and now they're the fastest growing liquid staking provider in Salana with over 2 million soul staked. So you take your soul, stake it with Jeto, you immediately get liquidity with their liquid staking token, jito soul. And then you take Jito soul and you can start earning guilds in d five today, while at the same time earning staking rewards powered by Mev three reasons that I use Jito. One, it's simple. You take your soul, you stake it, you get Jeto soul back, all in three clicks.
00:25:20.330 - 00:25:37.174, Speaker B: Two, not only is it simple, but most importantly, it's secure. The Jeto protocol has seven audits, and they're one of most respected teams in Defi. When I'm playing around with Defi, one of the most important things to me is security. And that's something that Jito takes seriously. Three, Jeto just launched their points program. The more you contribute to the Jito protocol, the more points you get. So if you hold Jito soul, you get points.
00:25:37.174 - 00:25:55.106, Speaker B: If you take Jito soul and play around in Defi, you get points. They also have a referral program where, you guessed it, you can earn points. So use Jito to get immediate liquidity on your soul while earning staking rewards and DFI yields and even points at the same time. Go check out Jeto at Jeeto network staking. That's jeter network staking. You don't have to remember that. I put a link in the show notes.
00:25:55.106 - 00:26:27.080, Speaker B: Use that one. Now get back to the show thing that l two s have going for them at the moment is that they often say they're ethereum aligned, which to me, admir, it sounds a little bit funny, but I do think it works right now because there is a lot of zealotry, I guess, in the space, and for a good reason. I'm curious, once you moved to Cosmos app chain, you did tweet later on that you did not want Di DX to be associated with the Cosmos brand, not because you don't like Cosmos, just because you want people to actually focus on the product. With that said, though, I'm curious. Do you think that some of Dy DX's success will be dependent on how the Cosmos ecosystem does?
00:26:27.690 - 00:27:10.870, Speaker A: I think from a technology perspective, yes, definitely. There's a lot of things the Cosmos core teams or other players in the cosmos ecosystem we're working on. Like how can you solve MeV in Cosmos? How can you make the chain go faster? How can we make IBC connect bridging to different chains more easily? So we're all going to profit everybody in cosmos. That is off of this from a technology perspective, but from a branding perspective, I meant what I said in that tweet and maybe just kind of rephrase it a little bit. I think that the brands of products in Defi should stand on their own. And you have to grow to a point where that's possible. Right? Like Ethereum is always going to have a way bigger brand probably than anything, any one particular thing that's built on top of it.
00:27:10.870 - 00:28:03.206, Speaker A: But Uniswap has become a great brand in crypto. I mean, I think DyDX is getting there as at least a brand people hopefully respect in crypto and some other things can too. And I just honestly don't fucking care about any of the tribalism or zealotry in crypto. And I feel good about that. I think that's a bit of counterpositioning going on there too, where it's like if everybody else is building with so much in mind about the community that they're building on, or the broader chain, and trying to align themselves with that and potentially making trade offs that are suboptimal from a product perspective. Not saying that everybody is, but maybe some people are to appease the community or token holders, or the broader Solana slash whatever community. I just don't think that's the optimal way to do like, we have to build great products here, and if we don't have that, we don't have product market fit.
00:28:03.206 - 00:28:37.918, Speaker A: We don't have anything in Defi, like literally nothing. Just learn how to build a startup. The only thing that matters is finding really strong product market fit and continuing to grow in an organic way from there. And for us, building our own chain is the optimal thing. I do think the brand of DyDX should stand by itself. We are doing some co branding, co marketing with Cosmos, obviously, but we want to stay really aligned with Ethereum, with Salana, and kind of just never be divisive. I think that's one of the things I try to practice, is giving a lot of respect to what's going on, on all these different ecosystems.
00:28:37.918 - 00:28:49.886, Speaker A: I don't think I've ever said that Cosmos is objectively better than an l two or a salana or something like that. It's just different. And there are trade offs, and I think different trade offs make sense for different platforms.
00:28:50.078 - 00:29:23.450, Speaker B: Yeah, that makes sense. I think one thing that can be confusing maybe to some people, including me, when I was first looking at DYDX, and you talk about the reasons to have your own app chain it's all about having a better product. And one of those features of having a better product is decentralization. But everyone looks at decentralization differently. And it seems like maybe for you and DYDX, a big part of that is not saying that immutability is everything, which I think some people would maybe conflate. Immutability and decentralization. Similar to rune posting about doing an app chain with the SVM, one of the main benefits that he wants it for is the ability to fork if something does go wrong and have that sovereignty.
00:29:23.450 - 00:29:29.298, Speaker B: Is that kind of the core thesis for you as well? Or how do you think about the decentralization and mutability piece?
00:29:29.384 - 00:30:18.786, Speaker A: Yeah, I think there are a lot of aspects to decentralization, and people don't dive deep enough to understanding all of them. People talk about immutability of the chain, and I think that's absolutely a good thing overall. And that's kind of like the peak of decentralization for the base level chain at least. But when you're building something on top, especially something that's relatively complicated, like a derivatives trading platform, there's a lot more things that have to be decentralized as well. I talked about some of them before. Let's just go through a couple of examples, like the liquidators on the platform. Is that just one person doing it? Is it easy to run this decentralized network of liquidators? How decentralized are the oracle prices? Are there just a few reporters, like on some other Oracle platforms, or are there tens, hundreds of them? Because we have our own validator network that's definitely more decentralized than what we could build if we were just sticking on an l two.
00:30:18.786 - 00:31:02.442, Speaker A: So I think there's a lot of aspects to it. One of the other things that is the current state of l two s right now is that there's a single sequencer, which is effectively this one server that everything goes through as a gateway to get on the L2. This is how DyDX works today. So we're very familiar with this, but that's clearly not decentralized. It's kind of like that sequencer can choose to censor any transactions at once. Still has to play by the rules of the chain, like you can't steal your money, but from a censorship persistence from just like ownership of the entire protocol perspective being in the hands of the community, that's less decentralized considerations about how do you decentralize front ends. So I think when people, especially on Twitter, just make these really simplistic takes on decentralization.
00:31:02.442 - 00:31:11.966, Speaker A: I think it's valid and we do think about that. But there's trade offs and there's a lot more aspects to decentralization than just literally how many nodes do you have and how immutable is the chain?
00:31:12.078 - 00:31:53.726, Speaker B: Yeah, I 100% agree. So one of the benefits that you said for DyDX to have the ability to have an app chain is that it's a perpetual platform, meaning that you don't have to bridge over many tokens. Instead, you really have one base collateral asset, which is USDC. USDC is obviously from a centralized company, so it is kind of confusing in one way when you think about, like, we want to be decentralized, but the only collateral asset behind everything is USDC, which is centralized. So how do you balance that? Because, for example, I know you tweeted out, I think, yesterday, but you've been talking about this for a while, is that ideally you're not really supporting, even though it's up to the community, not you, any validators that are based in the US. But then the collateral asset is a us based asset. So how do you look at those two?
00:31:53.828 - 00:32:59.026, Speaker A: Well, it's just required from a product perspective, in my opinion. Like, if you look at the assets that derivatives traders are holding as collateral, it's not dai, it's USDC and it's tether. So we could either sort of make that decision to hamstring ourselves like ten to 100 x if we only use a collateral asset like die or potentially some wrapped form of bitcoin or something like that. And you always have to balance these things, like what's the amount of adoption, like influence you'll get with how decentralized are things? Yes, USDC is a centralized stablecoin, but I think they have a quite good track record of operating it in an impartial way and not censoring their users, not censoring applications that are using the token, that sort of thing. So I think that's something that's probably the status quo of the market right now. Will Dydx only use centralized stablecoins as collateral forever? No, probably not. But again, these things take longer than people think and it's all trade offs, right? I can't sit here and say this is both the most decentralized system in all aspects and it's like the most performance and all this stuff.
00:32:59.026 - 00:33:24.302, Speaker A: Have you ever hear people saying that they're lying or stupid, and it's just kind of like there's trade offs all the way down. So we felt like using USDC was a really good compromise between the two. Yes, it's centralized, at least from an issuance perspective, but at the same time, it's really open, it's transparent, and we feel like we can build a great product that users actually want to use based off of that.
00:33:24.356 - 00:34:10.540, Speaker C: So we've talked a lot about just lower in the stack technical infrastructure and probably bored a lot of normal people. And so one thing I want to start talking about now is why Defi? Okay, which might seem like maybe a too general question, but that's given your background and kind of one of the earliest people in crypto and also defi and also your own perp exchange, I guess you probably thought a lot about this question when I'm explaining it to people why you should use crypto, et cetera. It enables these new cases in financial freedom or economic freedom, as Coinbase says it. How do you explain to people why they should care about DeFi? Why should they use it?
00:34:11.070 - 00:34:50.434, Speaker A: So here's the most basic way I figured out so far. To put it. If you could have a financial system that's based on code and software rather than humans, which would you pick? Like, our current financial system that's based on humans and intermediaries, and as a consequence of that, is very closed off. Like, not that many people have access to professional financial tools, and that's a result of that, because there's a lot of people involved. Therefore there's a lot of regulations, therefore the innovation happens slower. But in DeFi, what we're building is just based on code, and that's fundamentally different. Like, I have no access to how the chain or the product operates.
00:34:50.434 - 00:35:26.322, Speaker A: I can't take people's money. And it also just really makes it much more modular to be able to build in DeFi. Look at what has already been accomplished in just the past five years of DeFi compared to decades and decades of the traditional financial industry. We have money markets, we have derivatives platforms, we have spot trading, we have liquidity mining, like all the nfts, like all this stuff. Why is that the, like, why do people keep building in crypto and Defi? Because it is this platform that is fundamentally based on code and is fundamentally open. If you want to go build on top of a DyDx or a uniswap, great, do it. You don't have to ask anybody.
00:35:26.322 - 00:35:48.518, Speaker A: You don't need our blessing. You don't need Uniswap's blessing. I think that really improves the rate of innovation in the space. So I think that's a pretty big use case there. Obviously there are things like transparency, like the users being in control of the platform. It can be much more secure than centralized platforms. Those are all absolutely true and I think are good reasons to use DeFi.
00:35:48.518 - 00:36:29.158, Speaker A: And I'll say something maybe a little bit controversial. I think the main reason why DeFi hasn't taken off to the level of centralized exchanges yet is a product question. There has to be products that are built based on DeFi, that can only be built in Defi. And this is something I think in retrospect DyDX has been a little bit guilty of. I don't regret doing it this way, but more or less the way we thought about it is how can we take the centralized exchange derivatives trading experience and bring it to DeFi, give people this transparency, this, it's just based on code mutability, put the control in hands of the users. And that's all awesome and that's good, but it's not enough. You have to come up with a fundamentally new product.
00:36:29.158 - 00:37:06.254, Speaker A: Like you have to come up with nfts or you have to come up with friendtech or your uniswap. And now anybody can create a market or be an LP that is new. And that fundamentally has to happen for us to find really strong product market. You know, we kind of touched on this at the beginning of the episode. I honestly think DyDX has only medium product market fit right now and I think we need to find strong product market fit. And the way that we do that, and this will be something we're focusing on more in 2024 is what are the things that only we can do, that only DFI can do. People shouldn't have to care too much that it's like just DFI.
00:37:06.254 - 00:37:58.870, Speaker A: And maybe some people care and they want transparency and security and their financial, I mean everybody wants that, but we have to make the product experience at least on par with centralized exchanges. But I think people too much think about, oh, we just need to get up to the same level as centralized exchanges and not enough about what's fundamentally new here. And it doesn't have to be better in every way, it just has to be ten x better in some way. It's like literally it was impossible to add a market to an exchange before Uniswap allowed anybody on planet Earth to do, wow, like that's cool, that's fundamentally new. And I think that spurred a lot of innovation and new asset launches and things like Pepe or ICO, like those sorts of things are good examples of this. So, yeah, I think that's the main way I would think about product market fit and where we need to go as a space overall. And both are important.
00:37:58.870 - 00:38:13.820, Speaker A: Like, we need to continue iterating on the product side just to make it as user friendly, as performant, as full featured as possible. But then we also need to come up with some of these fundamentally new things, and that's what we're going to start thinking about next year.
00:38:14.990 - 00:38:36.766, Speaker C: Yeah, that was actually going to be my next question, which already touched on, which is that DeFi is. I think your earlier point was, would you rather have a system that's run on automation and code or humans? And it's like, yeah, I mean, code is going to be more reliable, consistent, secure. But then the question is, do users actually care about that?
00:38:36.788 - 00:38:36.926, Speaker A: Right?
00:38:36.948 - 00:39:15.578, Speaker C: Or do they just care, like, I just want the price to go up, or I just want to not worry about this, I'll have some FDIC insurance or something. That's all I care about. Right. And then the question becomes, well, okay, so can we make products that make it worth for them to actually use crypto versus not using it? And I find it interesting that you said you're basically one of the largest protocols in crypto in its history, and you still think you only have medium product market fit. So I wonder what that says about some of the smaller protocols who think they do have it. But I would agree with you. And so I guess my question is maybe a more philosophical one.
00:39:15.578 - 00:39:41.606, Speaker C: We're kind of taking this bet that over the next five to ten years, we will find product market fit and crypto will enable these use cases that will make it worth. And that's based on kind of our vision of what blockchains enable. What do you think still needs to happen to get there, right? Obviously, that's a very hard question because if you knew that, you would just build that yourself anyways. But what are some general things that you think need to happen to get there?
00:39:41.788 - 00:40:24.914, Speaker A: I think a lot of experimentation, and we're fortunate that that continues to happen. There are tons of d five platforms. I seriously think there's 50 to 100 d five per platforms at this point, which is great, like a lot of experimentation going on with different liquidity modes and stuff. But again, this stuff takes time. I think one of the ways that I also think about it is really trying to understand what the fundamental unlock or the fundamental value of some new piece of technology is so that you can come up with ideas that fit that core value proposition. And I think in defi the best way I figured out to articulate it so far is that DeFi enables user generated value. And I'll define what I mean by that.
00:40:24.914 - 00:40:58.222, Speaker A: I think the user generated part is a really fundamental thing that crypto enables. It's like so much easier to start your own exchange now. You can have your own token, anybody can launch an NFT collection. And it's just all of these things that have come in crypto and become popular, even friendtech are an example of this. It's like for the first time, you can financialize yourself or your Twitter following. And I use this word value as an intentionally general term. But that value could be like a token, a fungible asset, could be some art or whatever you want to use NFTs for.
00:40:58.222 - 00:41:57.730, Speaker A: Could be yourself, could be something else, could be an lp pool on uniswap. And just the fundamental unlock is that these types of activities, like creating a company with stock or making art and selling it like an art show or whatever, were fundamentally gated before, and now they are not gated. It's like anybody can come, can build these things, can launch a token, can start their own friend tech profile, and that's really fundamentally new and different. I think I could classify literally every single thing that's taken off in crypto so far in this thesis of everything comes back to user generated value. So then you kind of take that thesis if you believe it, which I do, and look forward. Okay, what does that mean for the future? What experiments should we try that are consistent with that overall thesis? Just some examples of things we likely will try in the next year. And again, I think these are experiments, but experimental thinking is required to find a really strong product market fit.
00:41:57.730 - 00:42:43.198, Speaker A: Experimental, meaning you're not 100% sure that this is actually going to work. Probably you're like 25% to 50% sure, which is really high. And probably most entrepreneurs are way less sure than that. But some examples of how DyDX can incorporate this user generated value thesis are okay, what if we had permissionless markets on DYDX? What if for the first time in history, anybody could come to a platform add trading for any asset? Derivatives are amazing for that, right? Because you don't even need the asset to exist on chain can create liquidity pools for that asset. Like the market now exists, the liquidity around that asset now exists. And I think just generally that's a big thesis we want to test next year. A couple of other thesis we have more generally are social.
00:42:43.198 - 00:43:29.114, Speaker A: One of the things that's been really interesting about the crypto markets is that it's made trading and financial assets and just finance in general much more social and transparent. Right. You see people posting about their holdings on Twitter, you go to crypto events and they're like, oh, what tokens do you hold? All those sorts of things that fundamentally didn't exist before. So I think it makes sense to lean into that just as an example of a trade off that you can make here. It's kind of like DyDx and all other DeFi platforms are a bit in between on the privacy side right now. So there is usually not privacy tools that are integrated directly into some of these DeFi platforms, DyDx included. Should we lean into, there should be more privacy on the chain, or should we go the opposite direction and be like, yes, everything is transparent.
00:43:29.114 - 00:43:55.298, Speaker A: You can see exactly how the market makers are trading. You can see exactly what this address is doing. Is that fundamentally better than a financial system that's closed off? No, not necessarily, but it could be ten x better for some use cases and really leaning into the things that are unique about the technology and kind of playing to the strengths of that technology, rather than only trying to mitigate its weaknesses, I think are the best way to find product market fit long term.
00:43:55.394 - 00:44:55.206, Speaker C: One thing that I found interesting there is your focus on experimentation, especially as a market leader and a team that's been around for very long and people who aren't familiar. If you've been around for very long, you probably have a lot of tech debts, which maybe slows you down to some extent, and you can't experiment as much, but you've kind of cultivated that, and in fact, you've literally moved entire chains, which kind of is a good segue to maybe thinking about how you approach Duidx as a founder. Right. As an operator and a person that builds companies. You said you guys have about 50 people as employees, and you've been around for a while, so I guess I'm curious. And you're actually in one of the worst, let's say, most turbulent industries probably ever in terms of regulation and upcycles and down cycles. How have you maintained? Because a 50% company and big market share and still experimentation, these are all very big things that you've been able to accomplish.
00:44:55.206 - 00:45:04.330, Speaker C: How were you approached building DuidX to company? As a founder in crypto, what is your general philosophy on startups?
00:45:04.670 - 00:45:35.254, Speaker A: Yeah, well, I'll just talk for myself personally, and I don't think that this is the only way that it makes sense to run a company or mentality. That you have to have. But this is how I think, and if it's valuable, then great. One of the biggest things that I really believe, or have come to believe over the years is not being motivated by fear is extremely important, especially as a decision maker, especially as a leader. It's hard. It's hard to have 50 employees, all of whom have given you years of their lives. It's hard to have all these users that are trading a billion dollars a day.
00:45:35.254 - 00:46:21.190, Speaker A: It's hard to have tens of millions of dollars of revenue per year and be still making big, bold decisions. And it really is an innate human thing, I think to be like, oh, I think this is the right thing, we should do this. But man, I'm worried. What if we fail? What if I let all of my employees down? What if the price of what we're trading? What if our traders can't use the platform anymore? Things like that, if it's not as good. But just being able to make those really big, bold decisions, I think is important and maybe taking a step back, I think it's also really worth identifying for an entrepreneur or a leader more generally. What are your goals? There's no goals that are objectively better than other goals. It's just you really have to decide what you want to do.
00:46:21.190 - 00:46:54.986, Speaker A: Do you want to go out, make some startup and it has 100 million dollar type exits, and you do great, and you have some good outcome for your users and your employees? Amazing, that's great. You should go do that. Do you just want to experiment with new technology? If you're curious, if you're kind of building things, you don't care about the valuation of the company as much. Amazing, great, you should go do that. It's good to know if I had those motivations, I would be making different decisions. Those aren't the motivations I have. I want DFI to be the main way that people trade in the world, period.
00:46:54.986 - 00:47:48.580, Speaker A: It's like you cannot have a bigger vision than that, and we're very far away from that, right? And it's hard to be sitting here with about 1% of the entire trading volume in crypto is traded on DYDX, which is pretty damn good for a DFI company. But still, if you look at it through that lens, since I mentioned it before, it's like we're not close to that goal, and I'm not going to stop until we actually get there. And will we get there? Probably not, but I honestly think there's probably like a ten to 20% chance that DyDx could become one of the main ways people trade crypto today and assets more generally in the future. And I think that's reasonable if you start to look at things on the ten to 20 year time horizon. I just don't think that that many people think about things on that time horizon. They're sort of like, oh, this is my first startup. Am I going to do this for a few years then? Am I going to go back and work at Google? Like, whatever? That's how I used to think, too.
00:47:48.580 - 00:48:24.894, Speaker A: But I think I always had these aspirations and I feel like success can have impact on you in both positive and negative ways. I think success can actually cause you to feel more fear because you have more to lose. I talk about the employees, the valuation, our investors, like, whatever else, or it can kind of give you more confidence to believe that you can build something bigger than you probably actually can. That's probably what we're doing here. We probably don't have the capacity to go and build the world's largest financial platform, probably. I'm not like the founder that's going to take DyDX there, but maybe. And that's something that's exciting to me.
00:48:24.894 - 00:49:15.870, Speaker A: And I think just having that scope of vision is rare, or that scope of aspirations, and you can always say those things, but I think people can tell if you mean them or not. It's like every vc pitch meeting, it's like, oh, sell us on the vision. How's this going to be a $10 billion company? You have to have that. And then everybody's like, okay, yeah, really, I just kind of want to start my own company. But here's how it could be like a $10 billion company? Or is that the main or kind of the only thing that you think about? Are you willing to risk it all and are you willing to say that publicly to your investors and to your employees and stand up there in your all hands meeting every week and be like, guys, I think we only have a ten to 20% chance of hitting our very high goal. That's really exciting to me. I don't know if that's going to be exciting to you, but there's a lot on kind of the people leadership, operational side that goes into that.
00:49:15.870 - 00:49:29.474, Speaker A: But I think it really comes back to the founder or the kind of people that are owning and running the platform itself. What are their goals and how do they articulate it, and how true are they to themselves, do you think?
00:49:29.512 - 00:50:03.594, Speaker B: One thing that's held back the experimentation in the space is just the fact that maybe we've over indexed on DAO decision making, because DyDX is extremely lucky to have somebody like you. And I think other protocols are too, like synthetics. And somebody like Kane who just came on the podcast and he talked about dows are really good at making decisions when they have all the facts. They're probably better at making decisions than he is. But it's really hard to look around the corner. You've said this a few times, but DoidX had over 50% of the market share in per volume on chain, yet you made this incredible decision to say, oh, we're actually going to leave this tech stack and go to another one. I don't know if Dow decision making can do that on its own.
00:50:03.594 - 00:50:14.834, Speaker B: I've seen you, I think, either tweet or you have a quote and you said these communities need to adopt a venture mindset because that's what crypto is. We have not found true product market fit. Yeah. Can you maybe just expand on that idea?
00:50:15.032 - 00:51:03.466, Speaker A: Absolutely. And I strongly believe that committees cannot make big bold decisions. It's fundamentally impossible. So given that, how have we chosen to build Dydx from an organizational perspective going forwards, especially now with the DyDX chain, that the community and the DyDX token holders are in control of everything, more or less around how the product is operated. So I think there's a really key distinction between how the product is operated and how the product is developed. It's an open source platform, and I really see our goal as being the open source developers of UIDX and as that we can make very big bold decisions. It's just kind of like, okay, here's this novel way that we're going to build permissionless markets where, fuck this, we're throwing away the cosmos chain.
00:51:03.466 - 00:51:41.914, Speaker A: We're moving back to an l two because it's five years from now, and l two s have improved to the point where that's possible. Is the committee going to be able to make that decision? No, but this is why I think leadership is important. And I think a great example of this is Vitalik, obviously. Does he literally have any kind of legal or ownership control over Ethereum? No, but people respect him. People listen to what he has to say. It has a lot of influence, and it's ultimately up to the participants of the Ethereum ecosystem how it evolves. But he's built his leadership reputation, I would say, to a point where people generally listen to him.
00:51:41.914 - 00:52:12.930, Speaker A: And that takes a lot of work. It takes a lot of, first of all, making really good, sensible decisions, even when you're making big, bold decisions, explaining them very well, and being like, this is XYz exactly why we're making this decision. I think it takes being honest. It's like, oh, will this decision absolutely, 100% work? No. And I'm not going to be one of those founders that sits here and tells you that, like, DyDX is objectively the best thing in the world. We're trying to build towards that. But there's risks involved in building something that's entrepreneurial.
00:52:12.930 - 00:52:49.966, Speaker A: And if we don't take them, somebody else will. And somebody else will eventually accomplish that goal of bringing DeFi to be the dominant way that crypto and potentially other assets are traded long term. So I really think about that a lot, just in terms of staying bold and what's kind of the organizational structure of the entire project to allow that to happen. So, more specific example, we have DyDX trading, which is my company, of which I'm the CEO. Our main goal is to develop software for the DyDX protocol. There exists the foundation that launched the DyDX token. They're primarily responsible for governance and coordination.
00:52:49.966 - 00:53:24.602, Speaker A: And we have different goals. Right. Our goal at DyDX trading is to build fundamentally new and exciting products. And their goal at the foundation, for example, is to facilitate open discussion in a governance forums. These are different goals. And we definitely, I would advocate strongly for the DyDX community and Defi communities more generally, to stop thinking so much based on fear and stop thinking so much about what you could lose. Stop thinking so much about, oh, at every step of the way, we need to have a totally fair system for all our participants.
00:53:24.602 - 00:54:11.450, Speaker A: Absolutely. We want that. But really, what's the most important thing here is we're building something that's really novel. It's going to be messy along the way. And if we look at this on a ten to 20 year time horizon, we can be really excited about it. So I think it's kind of like one of the frameworks I try to use a lot of the times is understanding something that may be suboptimal. Like, for example, dowels just cannot make good product decisions and not be like, okay, well, how should we structure the dow to make the best product decisions? I think that's sort of important, but I think a better way to think about just like, okay, given that, I accept that, how can we still create innovative products? Oh, it's like we separate the development of the product from the execution and the operations of said product.
00:54:11.450 - 00:54:44.790, Speaker A: And therefore, we can still do big, bold things and the community can decide to adopt them or not, or we can deploy them like other places if they don't want to use it. And I think that mentality is a good one going forwards. And I think when you see people say things like, oh, the community is fully in charge, we're just only going to build whatever the community wants us to build, that's great. And that can be a final state of a given. Defi product. Do all Defi products have to end up in that state? No, I don't think so. At least until they're willing to sacrifice forward innovation.
00:54:45.370 - 00:54:51.554, Speaker B: Yeah, I've heard you talk about something similar with that dow treasuries are like criminally underused.
00:54:51.602 - 00:54:51.766, Speaker A: Right.
00:54:51.788 - 00:55:01.446, Speaker B: And that's another thing that there's like the stasis in dows that they don't want to sell any tokens because they're scared of what can happen with the price. But it's like, really, if you're looking out three to five years, you want to actually do innovation protocol.
00:55:01.558 - 00:55:29.774, Speaker A: It's like, who cares what happens in the short term? Who cares if your token price goes down like 50% to 75%? Yeah, it'll make it a bit harder. But really the only thing that actually matters is do you build a product that has product market fit? I'm going to repeat that. It's like literally the only thing that matters is do you have a product that has product market fit? If. No, nobody cares about anything else except for that. So until you have that, you should try to do a decent job of all the other stuff along the way. But nothing else matters.
00:55:29.902 - 00:55:51.390, Speaker B: Yeah. Just to pivot a little bit on this, because let's say all these different protocols or applications do find product market fit. Curious how you think about go to market. DyDX is a really strong brand. I think before you started Dydx, you actually were building a search engine for decentralized applications, which has to do with. I have to talk about like, distribution is free now that we have the Internet and everything's composable, but to discovery can cost everything.
00:55:51.460 - 00:55:51.646, Speaker A: Right?
00:55:51.668 - 00:56:04.682, Speaker B: Like, discovery is really hard. So how do you think about go to market in crypto, which when we go into that we often talk about, do you think about getting users from other chains? How do you think about building that brand and owning the user touch point where they think of Duidx when they want to make a trade?
00:56:04.826 - 00:56:47.262, Speaker A: Well, branding is very important, I think, especially in crypto, just because there's so many different things that having a really good brand. I mean, we saw this with FTX. Coinbase is a great brand, obviously Uniswap, et cetera, et cetera. It's like which decentralized exchange are you going to use? Uniswap or the people that forked Uniswap? Probably uniswap, right. Even if the products are literally exactly the same, you would still choose to use this product that has a better brand around it. And that's something I've really come to realize over the past year or two. So again, that's why I answered the previous question, that the way I did in terms of it's important that we at DyDx have our own brand and people recognize that they want to use DyDX because that's like the main thing.
00:56:47.262 - 00:57:09.862, Speaker A: It's not some other random defi derivatives company. And hopefully we've earned that good brand over time by doing innovative things like being secure, hopefully, the way I talk publicly, and other things like that. So I think it's really important, and I do think a lot about that, just in terms of how do we actually build the brands. But I think that's probably the most important thing around it.
00:57:09.916 - 00:57:44.666, Speaker B: Probably like a year ago or a year and a half ago, you talked about one thing that you wanted to do at DyDX is to compete. You still say this, but you want to compete against centralized exchanges, right, and offer something better. And that doesn't mean better at everything, but you have a unique advantage. But you often talked about horizontal integrations. So not just offering perps, but I don't know, maybe going to spot and these different products. But I've heard you lately talk about, you're like, actually this market for perps is so big, we're just going to focus here. So I'm curious, what changed your mind there? And do you think we're going to see that across different applications? Because right now in cosmos, every single chain is going from app specific to we're going to become generalized and just keep adding more features.
00:57:44.666 - 00:57:45.486, Speaker B: So how do you think about that?
00:57:45.508 - 00:58:26.350, Speaker A: Yeah, so I did absolutely change my mind on that. You would have asked me a year or two ago, what's the long term plan for DyDX from a product perspective? I would have said something like, okay, we already have most of the defi derivatives market. Then we build out spot trading, then we build out margin trading. Maybe there's other lending pools or whatever else on the platform. And the reason I thought that way was because that's what I had seen work on centralized exchanges you really just horizontally build out. You can do like everything on binance, you can do everything in Coinbase, and that's been their playbook. But in the past year or so, I've really come to believe more strongly what I have been talking about for a little while now, which is that you have to do something fundamentally different or fundamentally new.
00:58:26.350 - 00:59:20.414, Speaker A: You can't just do the same things that the previous generation of the technology had on the new version of the technology. That's a good place to start, and that's still kind of where we're at generally in DeFi right now. There have been some new things, but really not that many. Like you can count them on one hand, it's like nfts, amms, and just lping, like pretty much any token. And I guess launching your own token are kind of the main things that have found product market fit so far in Defi, and they're all really fundamentally new. So what caused me to change my mind on that? I guess it's just a lot of honestly, like a lot of personal development on my side and really trying to believe the things that I say, which I think I strongly do now, and not being motivated by fear, thinking honestly for yourself about how could we actually become one of the biggest exchanges in crypto. And to be honest, like two to three years ago, I didn't have a lot of conviction about that.
00:59:20.414 - 01:00:05.278, Speaker A: I had some amount of conviction where I was kind of like, oh, if we build effectively the same product as centralized exchanges, but then make it decentralized and it can be owned by its users, it's transparent, it's secure, that's going to be enough. But I don't think that's going to be enough anymore. We have to come up with something that's fundamentally really new. And I think this even extends not just to the products that you build, but also to the go to market strategy and the way you do growth around Defi products more generally. And we've tried this at DyDx. We've tried to run affiliate programs, paid marketing, this sort of stuff, and all the things that binance or centralized exchange does literally have hundreds or thousands of people working on this. It's not possible that we could do go to market or growth better than they could if we just tried to do the same things that they do.
01:00:05.278 - 01:00:49.770, Speaker A: But what is unique about DeFi protocols, they can be controlled by their users through a token that's fundamentally different. And I think that is by far the biggest growth driver that DeFi platforms have seen so far. Is tokens, is liquidity mining. And it just is a much better growth model for DeFi or something that's very unique, that only DeFi can do and just leaning into that and embracing it. Like for example, about a year ago, I unceremoniously decided to cancel all growth efforts at DYDX. And I stood up there in all hands and I was like, guys, we've been working on this for two to three years now, but we're done. We're not trying to do any more paid marketing, at least for the time being your affiliate programs or that sort of stuff.
01:00:49.770 - 01:01:09.620, Speaker A: The only thing that we're going to focus on is the product and finding strong product market fit. And the foundation is focused on helping to go to market around that with the DyDX token. So that's just something new and different. And I think that the more of those things that you can find that are fundamentally new and different, the better when you're building on a new technology.
01:01:12.230 - 01:01:33.610, Speaker C: Well said. All right, so let's get a bit more pointed. Yeah, let's do some rapid fire and then feel free to stop me or Garrett, feel free to jump anytime with any questions. All right, so you just talked about personal development. What is the number one thing you do for personal development?
01:01:34.190 - 01:02:14.214, Speaker A: The number one thing I did, and I was very fortunate around this to start working with a coach. So I work with this guy, Matt Bashari, who's coached to naval and Brian and a lot of the really good Silicon Valley people. I was initially really skeptical about this because I had historically not been into personal developments or anything like that at all. It did really change my mentality and a lot of the things that I've done around that. I'm not going to say anything super unique beyond the standard tech bro lifestyle or whatever, but I think some of that stuff does actually work. And just generally thinking about what the goals are. The first meeting I had with Matthew is like, I kind of went into it and I was like, okay, we have all these problems at the company.
01:02:14.214 - 01:02:46.100, Speaker A: Let's talk about them. How do I hire a Coa or whatever? And the first thing he says, I don't care about any of that. The only thing I care about is that you are not motivated by fear. I was like, what the fuck are you talking about? I have all these problems at the company right now. How is that going to help me at all? But a year later, in retrospect, I think that that mentality change that I've had has permeated throughout everything in the company. And hopefully the way we communicate externally, too, and I think it matters a lot. So I think coaching can help.
01:02:46.100 - 01:03:02.680, Speaker A: Nothing novel, honestly. It's like therapy. There's meditation, all this sort of stuff, being going to the gym more than zero times. All that stuff, I think, is helpful. People are saying that stuff for a reason, but really, it just comes down to you and what you're motivated by.
01:03:04.490 - 01:03:07.350, Speaker C: What does everybody get wrong about Defi?
01:03:09.870 - 01:03:53.462, Speaker A: Yeah, I think people are not innovative enough in Defi. I'd like to see there be more experimentation rather than the like, hey, we're building uniswap on avalanche, avalanche, or whatever cool. You can do. Like, that's fine, fine. I'm not digging anybody who's doing that, but it's kind of like, what are the goals here, and how much are you furthering the space by doing that? Are you building something fundamentally new, or are you building kind of a copycat that you can iterate on over time? So I think that's a big thing. My other big thing, I touched on this before, is just there's too much tribalism in Defi and crypto more generally. I just don't care if you're, like a Solana person or you're like an ethereum person or whatever.
01:03:53.462 - 01:04:25.166, Speaker A: We're all crypto people. And I promise you, the best thing for all of us is that crypto succeeds overall. So why are you being so short term focused that you are, for some people, at least, sort of saying, no, you shouldn't be building these things. This isn't the right way to build it. This isn't the best chain to build on. It's good for you that experimentation is really valuable, even if you only care about Solana or Ethereum or whatever else. And I think one of the really cool things about DeFi is that it's so transparent.
01:04:25.166 - 01:04:57.926, Speaker A: You can literally see everything everybody is doing. I can go look at right now, all of my competitors metrics to the date in real time, see what's working. People are writing about exactly how they're building their software, and that's awesome. You think? I don't look at that. I actually don't even need to do all of the experimentation internally at DyDx. I can just let all these other DeFi derivatives, protocols experiment, innovate. And then for the things that start working, or the things that I believe or we believe are valuable, then we'll just do it, and maybe we'll make it a little bit better along the way.
01:04:57.926 - 01:05:04.030, Speaker A: But I think that level of innovation is really important, and is unique to crypto, and we should just lean more into that.
01:05:04.180 - 01:05:21.410, Speaker B: Yeah, Antonio, on that, I've heard you say that you really just want to copy the best features from other people, not like, obviously you have DyDx, but when you're looking to build it out, you're like, okay, what are people already doing? And you did mention even Solana once, I think with proof of history and their leader selection and how that can lead to lower latency, what is out there today that you're looking at that you're like, that's something I want to copy.
01:05:23.030 - 01:06:09.970, Speaker A: This isn't obviously related to Dydx right now, but I really like friend tech. I don't know if that's not a super hot take right now, but I think it is something that's fundamentally new and is pushing forward this thesis of social trading and kind of the financialization of social things like yourself or your Twitter profile. So I'm pretty excited about that. I do want to experiment, like I was saying, with more social stuff on DYDX. Like, what if you could just have your profile on DyDx and it shows all your holdings, at least the ones you want to share, you could see your favorite Twitter profiles, like what assets they're holding. It's easy to buy the same ones, that sort of stuff. So I think social and crypto will be big, and then there's just a lot of smaller defi specific things, but there's really not that much stuff I pay attention to.
01:06:09.970 - 01:06:47.630, Speaker A: And I think it, for me at least, has been valuable to only pay attention to a smaller number of things, but go deeper and really be like, why is uniswap the leader in Defi right now? What fundamentally do they have? Or did they do? And that users care about, that we can adopt, rather than being like, okay, for the 50th spot, amm, what are they doing that's maybe slightly different? So, yeah, I think that helps a lot. It's helpful to just be and hang out on Twitter. And I do try to try all of the new products, at least the ones I think are legit, and just having that amount of context and that mentality is a good one, I think, going forwards.
01:06:49.330 - 01:06:52.480, Speaker C: If you weren't working on DyDX, what would you be working on?
01:06:53.970 - 01:07:32.126, Speaker A: It's a tough thing to ask. I have said things on Twitter and to the team before, where even if Dydx totally fails and we run out of money and lose everybody's jobs at Dydx and whatever else, I'm pretty sure I would honestly still just build something in defi and derivatives if it were in the next five years. Not that that's the best product of all time, but it's what I know, and I think I'm good at it. And even if I had fewer resources, I still think I have a good chance to be able to win the market. And whether it's with Dydx or some other platform afterwards. That being said, I have absolutely no plans to leave Dydx. I love it.
01:07:32.126 - 01:08:14.794, Speaker A: This is the perfect job for me, I think just having so much ownership of the company itself, having so much responsibility because of that, is something I found really valuable for myself. And today, if you would ask me like a year or two ago, I probably would have said something like, yeah, definitely, Dydx is the place for me for the next five years, and we'll see what happens after that. Could there be something else? And now I think just with the maturation of the space, it's here to stay. There are these fundamental things about crypto that are going to come true. There's just no way. I see in my mind that Defi is not going to play a bigger role in the world in an order of magnitude's bigger role in the world than it does today. And that excites me.
01:08:14.794 - 01:08:35.246, Speaker A: Is it the only thing that. No. Like, I'm sure AI will probably do as much, if not more than crypto overall. I just don't know that much about it. And that's not the place I'm going to be able to be as effective as possible. So I think I'm very sold on crypto for the long term. I think especially, that's a rarity amongst founders in crypto these days.
01:08:35.246 - 01:09:04.700, Speaker A: There are a couple other people that this is not exhaustive, that I really respect around this, but somebody like Hayden or like Devin from OpenC or whoever else, they're going to be there for the long term. Can you imagine like Hayden coming and being like, no, I'm kind of done with crypto. I'm more interested in AI now. I can't really imagine that, at least in the next five to ten years. And I think that's kind of a rarity to be able to find in people in this industry that has gone down 95% in the past few years.
01:09:06.030 - 01:09:08.170, Speaker C: What do you fear the most about DFI?
01:09:10.830 - 01:10:00.618, Speaker A: I guess I fear in DFI that we never really figure out as a space how to differentiate between the scams and the legit projects. I just don't really think it's sustainable. It's a sustainable long term equilibrium, to have so many things that are scammy come up, so many things that lose people's money to not enable users to differentiate between the high quality products and the low quality products. And whether that's solved through some amounts of sensible, hopefully regulation, or that's solved through just general standards and transparency in the space. I don't know what the answer is there, but it just doesn't really seem super sustainable for the long term. That would probably be my biggest one. Obviously, regulatory is a consideration, but I think people.
01:10:00.618 - 01:10:29.606, Speaker A: Not that it's not important, it is very important, but I think people overblow regulatory way too much. And that's absolutely not to say that we don't care about it or pay attention to it. I think we do basically more than anybody else in Defi. At DYDX, just intersection of derivatives and defi is a hot topic, obviously. Like derivatives are the most highly regulated form of financial instruments for good reason. So we do pay a lot of attention to it. But I just don't think it's as important as people make it out to be.
01:10:29.606 - 01:11:33.660, Speaker A: I had this tweet a month or two ago where I basically said, well, we've chosen to do this at UIDX, obviously, but I was kind of advising other people to adopt the mentality of not serving us customers for the time being or whatever other trade offs they have to make from a legal perspective to allow them to innovate more freely and then sometime later find a way to re enter the US market. Whether that's through policy change or working with regulators to figure out, okay, look, regulators, right, how it's literally impossible for a smart contract to register as a clearinghouse or whatever if you're the CFTC, it's literally impossible. Right? So what do you want here? Do you just want to fundamentally ban, like, maybe some people want that, or is there a way that we could actually come up with better regulations around the things that matter in Defi? Like there should be certain transparency standards around the smart contracts, there should be audit reports for all of them. Like that sort of stuff, at least once you get to a certain scale. I would absolutely be for that. I think that'd be great. But a lot of the financial regulation just doesn't really make sense right now.
01:11:33.660 - 01:12:14.934, Speaker A: It just wasn't written for a possible future where all of finance could be written by code, could be run by code rather than intermediary. So there's a lot to do on the regulatory side still. I say that and just the general market risk of people just, we never really lose this moniker in crypto. And Defi, more specifically of it's like the Wild west and you could lose all your money tomorrow and all this stuff, that can't be the end case. So how do we get to a place where that's not to say we should shut down all of the crazy stuff that's happening. I absolutely think that innovation should still happen somewhere. It should just be more transparent about, okay, here are the risks that you're taking on.
01:12:14.934 - 01:12:25.850, Speaker A: If you're yoloing into a million percent PPY, like yield farming token, and that's just fundamentally different than like a compound or Jave or Uniswap or DYDX.
01:12:26.910 - 01:12:30.970, Speaker C: What would you say is the most overrated concept in crypto?
01:12:32.190 - 01:13:16.620, Speaker A: Most overrated concept in crypto. I talked about this a little bit before, so I don't need to harp on it too much more, but I think just the amount of tribalism that happens in crypto and yeah, maybe overrated. Here's one more specific kind of addendum to that. I think people way too much think about blockchains as distribution rather than technology and product. So you hear people, a lot of times have we're uniswap, we cornered the Ethereum market for swaps. What if we deployed on polygon and own that market? That's more go to market, right? It's more about like, oh, we can increase our user base by x percent by going to this new chain. Or what if we go to Solana now and Uniswap is on Salana? Probably they'll take a good amount of market share.
01:13:16.620 - 01:13:54.322, Speaker A: And I think that's true, but I think it's also very short sighted in terms of how can we get the next 20%, next like 50% of users, whatever, by just adding one, two, three more chains, 20%, 50%. That does not get you to ten x, like 100 x outcomes in the future. So again, it comes down to what are your goals? And I think, at least at this stage of the market, it makes sense to more. Not exclusively, but if I were in charge, I would say, or advising people, I would say people should generally focus on fewer protocol or fewer protocols or fewer blockchains, but make better products on that specific chain.
01:13:54.386 - 01:14:08.780, Speaker B: It's like Kane's whole theory he was talking about. He made these numbers out, but he was saying there's like 50 users on Salana, 100 on Ethereum, and there's 2 million on finance. Maybe we should try to get some of those users in before going to different chains. So it's a great answer.
01:14:09.970 - 01:14:23.070, Speaker C: Yeah, I tweet about this a lot. It's absolutely true, I think. Okay, last question. What is your number one piece of advice you would give to a startup founder?
01:14:26.630 - 01:15:03.354, Speaker A: I think maybe it's two, but know your goals and know yourself. Like, you have to know what you want. You have to know if you want to build a $10 billion company, if you will just want to start something that's smaller. All goals are reasonable. And just honestly think for yourself, what do you literally want? Why are you doing this? And that will cause a lot of the decisions you make downstream of that to be much more clear and consistent with that. I think people generally don't really know why they're starting a company, which is totally fine. I didn't really know perfectly what I wanted when I started a company, but I think I figured it out faster than most people do.
01:15:03.354 - 01:15:32.806, Speaker A: And they're sort of just like, oh, I'm starting a company. I'm supposed to go talk to vcs. I'm supposed to hire some people. I'm supposed to find product market fit, whatever. Yes, you are supposed to do those things, but why are you doing it? And I think if you understand that, it's really valuable. The second thing is, know yourself, and you are not going to be able to be better at everything than everybody else. Right? You may be ten x better than people at certain things, and you may be worse than the average person on other things.
01:15:32.806 - 01:16:04.430, Speaker A: That's fine. It actually makes a lot more sense to focus on your strengths and try to mitigate your weaknesses. Like, say, I'm, I don't know, whatever. Like just kind of awkward and a terrible communicator and stuff. Should I just hammer it into myself to stand up there in front of people at all these conferences and make my case and try to get better? You could do that, and that would probably improve you. But maybe you're kind of the classic nerdy, just like amazing software developer type. You should just lean into that rather than trying to get better at the things that you're worse at.
01:16:04.430 - 01:16:42.022, Speaker A: It's like knowing yourself and being honest with yourself and then being like, okay, given I am the way that I am or my founding team is the way it is, what should we do? I need to find a product that makes sense for me. I need to articulate things in a way that's consistent with what I actually believe, because that's going to be way more charismatic. I need to find people that can complement some of the weaknesses I have. I need to be like, look, okay, we could potentially build this product. We could be this company, but that's not me. That's not how I'm going to win. So just think about what do you want? Who are you? And given those two things, what should you do? And that's a very abstract thought, I think, but I think it's really important.
01:16:42.022 - 01:17:11.638, Speaker A: And people much too much focus on the more granular things. Like, here's how you make a pitch deck, and here's how you go and attract your first employee. That's important. But everything has to start with you and who you are and what you want to do. Otherwise, you're always just going to be like school. You're like, oh, I'm doing these things because I have to do it. And the people that are doing it because they love to do it and they're amazing at it are going to be you every time.
01:17:11.638 - 01:17:19.958, Speaker A: So it's just like, find those things that you love to do and that you're amazing at and only do those things and think about that a lot. Yeah.
01:17:20.044 - 01:17:39.594, Speaker B: Fantastic answer. Tonya, thanks so much for coming on today. It's a lot of fun. We talked about a lot of things that crypto and Defi can maybe do differently in experimentation and how that can get us to where we want to go in the next five to ten years. I think more than anything, we need to attract more people like you. That's really what we need, is we need the talent and the leaders in the space. Extremely excited for Dydx V four launching.
01:17:39.594 - 01:17:55.554, Speaker B: I don't know. We don't know. But it's this month. I'm going to guess in the next week or two. So you may not say this yourself, but this is a big proof point, not only for app chains, but also the cosmos ecosystem and also just porting over to new technology and seeing how it works. So I'm really excited about that. And Antonio, thanks so much for joining us today.
01:17:55.672 - 01:17:57.640, Speaker A: Thanks so much for having me in the good questions.
01:17:58.090 - 01:17:59.620, Speaker B: Sweet. All right, we'll see you next time.
