00:00:03.690 - 00:00:36.342, Speaker A: Greetings. Welcome to storychain AI. In this presentation, I will showcase storychain and its integration with chaining functions. Storychain is an innovative, multi level AI based Dapp that fosters collaborative storytelling. As users input prompts, storychain takes action, generating related story chapters and images all merge within an NFT or outers. During this operation, the web3 and web two worlds are interconnected by chaining functions. Chaining functions isn't just a tool, it's the very bridge that brings innovative moderation into story.
00:00:36.342 - 00:01:07.294, Speaker A: Chain smart contract framework as a collaborative storytelling platform, ensuring content quality is paramount. This is where chaining functions shine. One of the most important steps of the project is having a reliable checkpoint ensuring each prompt powers the collaborative narrative. This is why we need chaining functions. Every prompt given to the project is moderated by chaining functions. By using chatgpt API to check if the entered prompt is suitable for the story. Only when chaining functions give the green light, our backend steps in to create the next chapter.
00:01:07.294 - 00:02:02.926, Speaker A: This synergy assures a secure and transparent moderation process when user enters the prompt for the story. Let's say our story is kid friendly and our prompt is frank opens a chest and finds an ancient treasure map. Now the contract asks chaining functions hey, this story is supposed to be kids friendly. Can you check if this prompt is appropriate and we can see it's checking for prompt safety here. Chaining functions asks AI if the prompt is safe for work or safe for children's books, depending on the category of the story, then it sends an approved or rejected event. We can see safety check is approved. Chaining don'ts use chat GPT-3 five to check if this prompt is kid friendly.
00:02:02.926 - 00:02:45.722, Speaker A: The best part is each don asks this individually and they reach a consensus if the prompt is safe or not. This eliminates the problem of chat GPT-3 five, sometimes giving wrong answer. If the prompt is not approved by chaining functions, it is ignored. If it is approved, the contract emits an event telling the safety it's approved. So the backend running on AWS receives this event and applies multiple steps on it. It gets the latest story data from IPFs providing the entire story to Jetgpt as to create a new chapter that would fit the continuity. Also create a prompt for AI image generator AI image generator generates an image for our chapter.
00:02:45.722 - 00:03:19.018, Speaker A: Then we upload the image to IPFs. We also upload the entire story with NIV chapter and the image to IPFs. We then submit these ipfs hashes to the contract and finally, the contract means an NFT for the author of the NIV chapter. Storychain is one of a kind project in the Webtree world with not many examples like it. It uses multiple AI tools, and these tools are growing very fast to keep up with this rapid development. Story chain is a partner that can connect to different parts of the project, web3 and web two. This is where chaining comes in.
00:03:19.018 - 00:03:49.962, Speaker A: It's like a strong bridge that makes sure everything works smoothly. Together with chaining, story chain can confidently move ahead and make the project even better. It's a reliable partnership that helps us shape the future of storytelling. I consider chaining functions to be a vital asset in the toolbox of blockchain developers. It opens up many possibilities effortlessly. I'm eagerly anticipating the full deployment of chaining functions on the main net along with its expanding capabilities. This will enable me to offload more backend responsibilities onto chaining functions.
00:03:49.962 - 00:04:03.970, Speaker A: I would also like to mention that functions and is a very important part of the project. Storychain is also planning to take leverage of CCIP to go cross chain, allowing users to breach their NFTs and stories into other blockchains. Thank you for listening.
