00:00:00.880 - 00:00:40.544, Speaker A: Okay, good morning everybody. This morning we have our first talk online by Yonit Kaifun. And he will talk about rigidity results for group von Neumann algebras with diffuse centers. And we'll try to keep an eye on the chat for you and as well questions in the audience. So please go ahead. Okay, so, okay, can we see? Okay, okay, so first of all, I would like to thank very much, Lisa and David, for giving me the opportunity to give this talk here. There's been a very nice workshop so far, at least the talks that we follow online.
00:00:40.544 - 00:01:30.554, Speaker A: So thank you very much for the opportunity. Yes, in my talk I will be talking about the rigidity results for group one m and algebras with the fuel center. So this is, I'm going to report on some new results in this direction, which I obtained working with my student Adriana Fernand. And. Okay, so in the first part of the talk, I would like to introduce the objects that we'll try to classify. So this talk is about classification of some bonoemon algebras which are associated with groups. So I'm going to introduce my objects, I'm going to survey a little bit some of the results that are somewhat landmark in the area, and then I'm going to introduce the actual results that I want to talk about.
00:01:30.554 - 00:02:39.062, Speaker A: So first, let me very briefly recall what the group animal algebra is. I think probably most of you know that, but doesn't hurt to do this. So in my talk, we will typically deal only with countable discrete groups. So every such a group admits a left regular representation, right, and the group bone and algebra associated with this group. It's essentially the left regular, the algebra, the bonehem and algebra left regular representation. So in essence, every element of g induces a translation operation operated on the square summable functions on g, right? And if we take the linear span of such operators, this forms a copy of the group ring, which is represented in the bounded operators over l two of g. And then we just simply take the strong operator topology closure, or weak operator topology closure, whatever you prefer, and the resulting object is what we call the group, the von M and algebra associates the group.
00:02:39.062 - 00:03:33.994, Speaker A: Okay, now a few basic facts about this object. So, a group von M and algebra admits a faithful normal tracial state. By just simply, you can check that for every operator like this, in this biogroup, you are just associated the Dirac at the point g. So it is zero if g is not the identity element of the group when it's one, otherwise, okay, now, because the algebra admits such a, such a state or thracial state faculty that implies automatically the bond algebraics are finite. Phoneme and algebra. Okay, so that's very nice. Now we know some other basic things, is that this bonhomme and algebra, it's what we call a type I factor.
00:03:33.994 - 00:04:22.054, Speaker A: Specifically when the group, all the non trivial conjugacy classes of the group are infinite. That will refer throughout this talk at the ICC condition. Okay? Now another thing that you may have, and this is more genetic, does not necessarily pertain to group algebra, but a type I factor. So you're going to see throughout this talk this notion of amplification of an algebra of a factor. So m is a type one factor. So it just simply means that a von Neumann algebra, which admits such a faithful normal tracial state and cannot be decomposed non trivially as a direct sum of two. That means that center consists only of the scalars.
00:04:22.054 - 00:05:54.024, Speaker A: So if you have such an object for every projection in your algebra, you can compress your factor and get another type, one factor, which is going to be driven by PMP, okay? And it's a fact that the isomorphism class of this compression essentially does not depend on the projection itself, but it depends on the value or the evaluation of the trace on this projection, which is essentially a number, okay? A positive number, okay? Between zero and one. Okay? So that's in the situation when p, it's just a projection. But you can also define other amplification when this t, it's actually a number above one. Okay, I'm not going to go into the details of that, but the point is that this is almost class of this, we're going to denote it by m to the t. So you're going to see when doing this talk, this type of notation, okay? Now of course there are many, many properties that this algebra, I'm not going to enumerate them here, but I would like to talk a little bit about the classification program within this framework. So what we like to understand, it's a fundamental question. It can be traced to the pioneers of the field, where people try to understand how the object l of g depends on the underlying group G.
00:05:54.024 - 00:07:04.594, Speaker A: Okay? So specifically, we'll try to classify this object in terms of the group, okay? In other words, what algebraic properties of a group are retained by the von Hyman algebra? So just looking in the isomorphic class, you can recapture those properties, okay, so that's one big, relatively big thematic that kind of drove all the research in this area over the years. Another question that I'm not going to talk too much about it, but it's going to appear, and there will be results that will play a role in this direction are the computation of symmetries. I think this kind of plays well with the thematic of the source shop. So specifically, we want to understand computation of symmetry. So the outer automorphism of your object. And another thing is the fundamental group, of course, fundamental group, it's essentially all the real numbers such that the t amplification of lg, it's isomorphic to l o g. Or in other words, you can think of, you know, you want to record all these projections for which the algebra, it's isomorphic to, to a proper corner by that p.
00:07:04.594 - 00:08:10.744, Speaker A: Okay, this typically is formulated in the framework of factors, okay? So type one factors. So this is what we studied, this symmetries, okay? But the classification, the structure of LLFG typically can apply to any group, doesn't have to be necessarily an ICC group. And that will be precisely the purpose of this talk. Okay, now a few things that we can point out that this object is notoriously difficult to classify. The groovy and algebra and this kind of surface from the beginning of the inception of this field. For instance, a basic observation is that if you start with any infinite abelian group and you create this groupon M and algebra, you always, always going to get an abelian, bonnem and algebra, diffuse abelian, Bon M and algebra in this arrow, isomorphic to l infinity with zero, one with the Lebesgue measure. So you see that clearly that if you vary this group, the object, you know, the isomer viscous, does not retain anything.
00:08:10.744 - 00:08:51.674, Speaker A: But you may say, well, this is maybe something only about things with center or a billion. How about a factor case? Well, factor case was, you know, equally from the beginning emerged that does not retain much of this. So, so this was present already in the work by Mura M. Von Neumann. So in their work, they introduced this, what we call approximately finite dimensional type one factor. So this is essentially a tower, a tower of finite, you know, a factor, it's approximately finite dimensional. It essentially can be represented as a tower of finite dimensional algebra whose union is dense.
00:08:51.674 - 00:09:40.158, Speaker A: It's so t tense in the whole factor, okay, so you can formulate this in general, right? And it turns out that, you know, this is unique, okay? Always you get the same object at the end. So in particular, if you start with a locally compact, locally finite ICC group, so groups are tower of finite groups, then automatically you get always bond hyman algebra, or a factor, type one factor, which is homotic to this approximately finite dimensional factor. But this can be pushed even further. In fact, one can take any amenable group, any amenable ICC group. So if you create this von M algebra, you always get something isomorphic to approximately finite dimensional factor. So, I mean, ability. I suppose most of you know what that means.
00:09:40.158 - 00:10:22.594, Speaker A: So it just means that it's, it's an analytic property. It just means that essentially the left regular representation has more and more invariant vectors. And this is a huge class of groups. It covers all the abelian solvable, locally finite disclosed under extension subgroups. It's a huge, uncountable family of groups, okay? And they all give you, if you take something ICC, they always give you the same object. Okay? Uh, now we can combine the two results and, uh, you know, this one and with quant's result. And actually, you can say that even if you take algebras which are neither factorial nor abelian, right, you still have this lack of remembering anything.
00:10:22.594 - 00:11:31.634, Speaker A: So, for example, if you take any abelian infinite group and any ICC amenable group, you take the direct product between them. This bone and algebra that are associated here will always be isomorphic. This bond dimension of l infinity of zero, one tensor, the approximately the AfD or the approximate finite dimensional factor. Okay? So only, you know, later, right? So, so from the beginning, the field was, I mean, all these results in the one hand, you know, they can be seen as classification results, but also they seen that it seems, seems to be very hard to actually identify situations where actually the algebra retains something about the group. Okay? And the first sign of rigidity, as we like to call them, kind of emerged from the work of Kwan. Of course, there were other examples where people could distinguish between group bonhomme and algebras. But I'm not talking about here in particular is this, you know, this family of groups introduced by Macduff, but I'm not going to talk about that.
00:11:31.634 - 00:12:29.010, Speaker A: However, in the eighties, you know, Kwon kind of discovered something very, you know, you know, striking somehow. It's easy. But also striking is that if we take groups which are kind of very opposite for the amenable groups, so in particular property t ICC groups, then, you know, their vonemen algebra manifest, I mean, show a little bit of or manifest a rigidity, namely that the symmetry, there are only countably many symmetries for this algebra. So this group factor. So the outer automorphic group and the fundamental group, they are both countable. And this depicts a very stark contrast. For instance, for the amino case, I didn't write it in the slide, but in, if you take j to be amenable, the outer automorpheus group and the fundamental group, I mean, are huge groups, right? I mean, outer automorphic group, it's huge.
00:12:29.010 - 00:13:14.074, Speaker A: You can embed pretty much everything there. And the fundamental group is the whole r plus. Okay, so this basically with a kind of pidgeon hole principle argument, right? Then analytic framework, you could show that this help meet only countable symmetries. Now, if you do not know what property t group is, fine, you know, we can very briefly review it. So, like I said, it's an opposite property with just means that every single group has property t. Specifically, when every, whenever you have a unitary representation which almost has invariant vectors. So I have this kind of vectors that become almost invariant for the, for the representation then naturally needs to have a non zero invariant vector.
00:13:14.074 - 00:13:53.582, Speaker A: So, for example, you see that if a group is amenable, has property t in the same time that those groups necessarily have to be finite. Because being ability amenable, if you need to have almost invariant property, then probability will force this to have an invariant vector. But left regular representation has an invariant vector, nonzero invariant vector, only when it is the group is finite. Okay, so this is kind of a very disjoint class, right, from. Okay. And now we can see that, you know, there are many, many natural groups in property t lattices, and higher ranking groups like SLA and PSLA, and uniform lattices in spn one, within, it's at least two. This is what we like.
00:13:53.582 - 00:14:48.956, Speaker A: Hyperbolic case. Also, another property that will be extensively used during this talk is that the property t actually passes to cautions. Okay. I mean, I mean, ability also passes cautions, but. Okay, so, okay, so all these things kind of underline that it's pretty difficult to classify this type of, this is the moral, right? So we have some, some results, some rigid results. But then in 2001, you know, Popa introduced this framework, you know, the formation rigidity framework, right? So this comprehensive theory to try to kind of combine together analytic, geometric representation properties of groups and such. And through this mechanism, many, many situations emerge where actually you can retain a lot of properties, algebraic properties of the groups from their algebras.
00:14:48.956 - 00:15:42.548, Speaker A: So here I'm, you know, I'm not, you know, there's been hundreds of papers written about this, but I don't have time to go into this. But just to exemplify, you know, I'm gonna point out some results in this direction just to show that actually classification can have successful answer. If you look in the right place for the right classes of groups. So one such class for which had been a lot of progress is this class of channelized with product groups. So if you have a group a and another group b together with an action somewhere, just an action, then you can associate the generalized with product with a by this, which is just simply the semi direct product between the groups, the group of all, you know, finitely supported functions from I into a. That's how you think about this. Or if you like, direct sum.
00:15:42.548 - 00:16:15.164, Speaker A: Right, so same thing. Okay. And then obviously b acts through this folded direct sum through the action, you know, shifted the indices to the action of d one. Right, okay. Yeah, something like this. And you know, you can take the semi direct product, and this manifests out of rigidity properties. For example, you know, they've been obtaining a lot of results here, some of them which are, in my view, are landmark.
00:16:15.164 - 00:17:22.790, Speaker A: One of them is Popa's result from 2003, which assess that if you take two read products of case, this read products are called regular. When I, it's equal to b to b. So that means that when instead of taking an action, I mean, you just take an action of b on itself by, by left translation, okay, and in that case we obtain what is called a regular with product, and which will be just denoted by this. Okay, okay, so, so in this context with, you know, assuming some properties, some rigidity properties on the acting group. So for example, if b and d are two property t groups, like the one that we described, for example, or maybe, okay, pslns, if you are in the Mycc, the volume and algebra associates to these rate products, right? With z by this b are isomorphic. If they are isomorphic, then basically the action groups are isomorphic, right? So this sometimes is viewed and called a relative version of the quantity conjecture. Okay, okay.
00:17:22.790 - 00:18:22.800, Speaker A: Then, you know, exploiting various properties and various aspects of this groups traces for b and so on through this mechanism, or this class of groups have achieved situations where you can obtain fundamental trivial groups. So that means the trivial fundamental group, that is that the group factors is not asymmetric, any of these non trivial corners. Or even more impressively, you can compute the symmetries. The symmetries essentially come only from symmetries of the underlying group and multiplicative characters of the group. So this is a formula that was conjectured to hold by John's, you know, some many years ago, right? Like 23 years ago, it was conjectural to hold for all property t groups, sites and property t groups. Of course, this is not, this example here will not be property t. But you know, somehow it reveals situations where one can expect such very powerful calculations.
00:18:22.800 - 00:19:00.840, Speaker A: Moreover, in a work by Stephanie and Sorim, basically, I mean, Popanbas showed that any finitely presented group can be occurred using this type of formula plus some geometrical theory of development, that in fact, any finitely presented group can be realized as the symmetries. Right. Outromorphous group of dichotomy factor. And even more impressively, in 2010 emerged the first example of groups which are w star super rigid. So that means that if L of G. So l of this particular. It's a very specific type of product reproduct construction.
00:19:00.840 - 00:19:29.226, Speaker A: I mean, in some sense is functorial on these subgroups of this b. But the construction itself, it's of a particular kind and sphere. Agility means that the group on M one algebra of this completely retains the group. So if you have that l of g, it's isomorphic to L of H with some H, with no assumption on H. Then this g has to. This h has to be that G. Okay, okay, so these are kind of, you know, you know, this results here emphasize that there is possible.
00:19:29.226 - 00:20:04.018, Speaker A: And, you know, all the work that have been done so far shows that it is possible to obtain very strong classification. Lots of situations where you can recover entirely your, you know, discrete information that you started with on the group. Yeah. From the one in one algebra. But now, for the purpose of this talk, I would like to look into the complementary situation. What the situation where the group, essentially, it's not ICC. And not only that, but the one m one algebra has a center which is diffuse.
00:20:04.018 - 00:20:21.178, Speaker A: Okay, so this is the purpose of my talk. There are very few results in this direction. Typically are quoted like, well, if you solve it for factor, we're going to solve it for this. But it's not quite what I have encountered studying on this. So I think it's an interesting problem. It's an interesting theme to study. Right.
00:20:21.178 - 00:20:56.614, Speaker A: And, you know, it's possible to reveal some new connections and to spark some new technology in this direction. So let me, before I. In order to introduce the results that I want to talk about, I'm going to review again the class of real life product groups. So this is an object that we have introduced together with. With working with Adriani one, Denis was in MB soon. Okay, so what is a read like product group? So this is kind of like a generalization of the notion of read product group. The ones that we have seen before.
00:20:56.614 - 00:21:46.556, Speaker A: So again, we start with two groups, a and b. And b comes equipped with an action somewhere. Then we say that g is a generalized product, okay, of a, and the action and will be denoted in this way. So when I emphasize the group, which is basically the base group, this a, and this action in this way. And we say that g, it's a joint product if basically g occurs as an extension. So if there is a short exact sequence between this group and b, okay, as written in the slide, which the only, you know, with the only assumption that you require is that the action by conjugation perm is the factor. So basically, because this group is normal in g, obviously the action by conjugation by element in g, on this group, there is an actual conjugation like this.
00:21:46.556 - 00:22:42.884, Speaker A: And what I'm saying is that if I take an eight level copy, so all these a's are basically copy isomorphic pockets, okay? Right. And if I take AI and I conjugate it by any element in g, I'm going to get another copy, a specifically, which is keep on track by this index, right? So specifically the rate copy. So, so what you do, we're going to take the element g, this is going to be mapped by epsilon g into b. Now, b acts on I, and I'm specifically acting, asking that the I copy is moved into a epsilon g acting on I. Okay, okay, now how is this different from the product that we talked about it before? Well, it is different because I never assume that this extension splits. Right? If this extension splits, then we'll be exactly that. Okay, so I'm allowing that there is a tuco cycle somehow associated to this that can enter the game.
00:22:42.884 - 00:23:54.462, Speaker A: And this might seem like a small game to play, but it turns out that it has a lot of structure and, you know, reveals an object that could help us to make progress on a lot of problems. Okay, okay, so, okay, so why we consider such things? So, I'm going to take this perspective, geometric group theory perspective, to show that, or to emphasize that there are many, many read like product groups that one can construct from, from geometric group theory. Okay. And I will show in just one slide how, for instance, you can, what is the perspective and how this basically gives you the actual generalized risk product, the one that are split. Right? So for example, if you start with a free product of two groups, a free product with b, so I assume that g, this is my group, then we can see that the normal closure of a inside this group is nothing else but all the possible conjugates. So now, since I talk to group theorists a lot, now, I learned their notations which are not necessarily in bon ton with operator algebraic. But I've been corrected all the time to do it this way.
00:23:54.462 - 00:24:18.244, Speaker A: So, a to the b, it just simply means that taking a and conjugating it by b. Okay, okay. So that's what I mean by. Okay. So if you compute this free product, you see that I can conjugate all the copies of a by the elements of B, and they are in free position. So the group generated by them, it's essentially a free product. A folded infinite free fold, free folded product.
00:24:18.244 - 00:24:58.644, Speaker A: And now, obviously, g, it's essentially all the elements in the g's can be written as something in disclosure times, something in B. You can see actually, that b acts by free shift. Right on this. And now I can take the subgroup generated by commutators, right? If I take the subgroup here, which add as a relation commutators between these copies of Hw B for different b's, right? And see then if you quotient some normal subgroup, you can show that pretty easily. It's a normal subgroup of g. And if you cushion by that, you're going to get exactly the reproduct between a and b, right? Because you are killing the free part. You are making them commute, essentially.
00:24:58.644 - 00:25:25.224, Speaker A: And the action, the free action becomes the shift action by the shift. Okay? Okay. And this is, this example is actually what lead us to, to explore whether we can do this type of process on more general groups than free products. For example, relative hyperbolic. Okay. And this kind of leading to this notion of con Linden subgroup. Okay, so if you have a group a inside g, this is called con Linden subgroup.
00:25:25.224 - 00:26:15.976, Speaker A: If the normal closure of a, it's essentially, again, a t folded free product of some conjugates, right. For some transversal of the normal closure of h and psi g, you know, h is not, okay, so this is, I think here should be a. Okay, okay, so, so we see that this a, right, in a free product, it's a con Linden subgroup. But then we realized this has been studied a lot by Kwan Linden. And in fact, he looked, they looked at maximal cyclic subgroups in the free groups or one related groups, and, you know, they, they showed some impressive results that, that, you know, le maximal cyclic subgroup is a coin linden subgroup. And then how is this relevant to build generalized real life product? Yeah, well, to the same mechanisms. Right.
00:26:15.976 - 00:26:58.084, Speaker A: If you take a con Linden subgroup like that, basically all these conditions are satisfied. Yeah. So having this properties and this probably kind of lend you here, right. And again, you can take. So basically, your group, it's like an extension between this folded free product and some quotient. And inside this normal closure, I can take commutators between consecutive, any possible, you know, different positions, right? And it turns out this is a normal subgroup of G. And if you quotient by this, you're going to get a read like product between a as a base group, right? Guy like this, and this quotient being exactly the quotient by the normal closure of a.
00:26:58.084 - 00:28:13.176, Speaker A: Okay? And proof is pretty easy. Okay? So essentially that tells us that, okay, so if you want to get a lot of read like product groups, you'll basically have to identify conlining subgroups in the group that you want to study. And, and this connected incredibly well with this notion of geometric group theoretic den filling that has been studied a lot in group theories, coming from the work of Thurston from the eighties. But of course, so for manifolds, but of course, we are interested only from the group theoretical perspective. And the biggest, you know, the main result that we use to build a lot of real life product groups in the form of quotients was, I mean, through this type of quotient procedure is this theorem, which is a combination of many hands, I would say work. I mean, it's the work of forcing from 2006 and then a follow up by dog, Manigra, Delinhausen, and then more recently by bin, soon one of our quarters. And essentially what this theorem says is that you can obtain, so you can play this game into relative hyperbolic groups.
00:28:13.176 - 00:29:18.474, Speaker A: So if a group is hyperbolic relative to a subgroup, then inside that subgroup, you can go deep enough, right? So with finite index normal subgroups, suppose that you can find smaller and smaller finite index normal subgroups here. And at some point there is a threshold, right? So if you avoid, if you're familiar with, you know, with the third stand theory, if you avoid finitely many slopes, this is what this means. So if you go deep enough, so you just have to avoid a certain finite set. And if you do that, then with h, then indeed the normal closure of this agent inside the whole group, right, is going to be a folded free product of conjugates of this a by a transversal right of this inside the subgroup generated for the sacro generic by the normal closure of a and h inside W. And moreover, the quotient that you obtain after this, it still preserves hyperbolic. This is space, specifically the dental. And this is exactly Thurston theorem and the work of Ossen.
00:29:18.474 - 00:30:34.590, Speaker A: But, but, but the new things, it's essentially the fact that this kernel has this free product structure, okay? And if you basically, do you know this quotient procedure. So if you take the commutator, the subgroup changed by all this commutator, then you're going to get a read like product with base a and reproduct the natural action of this quotient. So this hyperbolic quotient on this set, okay? And what we did then is that we showed that essentially any hyperbolic group has this. You can build Conlindon subgroups pretty much in any hyperbolic group. And you can build a free group, which is actually of any rank you want, which is actually appears as a con Linden subgroup. And then basically you can quotient by this. And the result that you get at the end of the day is that you can build a ton of read like product groups by doing this quotient procedure of hyperbolic groups, okay? So specifically, if you start with any hyperbolic group, then for every finite genetic group, there is a quotient, okay? Such, there is a quotient of w, which is a read like product between a and b, where b is hyperbolic, okay? So in particular, if you start with the group w, which is hyperbolic and has property t like a lattice in sp and one with a nucleus two, and you do this procedure.
00:30:34.590 - 00:31:15.664, Speaker A: Right, because I can build lots and lots of conundrum subgroups in this group, then I'm going to get a lot of read like product groups, which actually have property t in particular. And this already tells you that this departs a lot from the classical or split read like product groups, which basically never have property t in some cases. Okay? So it's a huge class of groups. And using this, we made the progress on, on these questions. Quantitative conjecture. Johannes, outer automorphic problem. You know, a more comprehensive conjecture, which basically contains this.
00:31:15.664 - 00:32:32.826, Speaker A: So, for example. So I wrote some results here. So from the last years is that if you take any read like product group between an abelian group in a ISIS subgroup of a hyperbolic group, then if you take any property t groups like this, this is w star sparing, right? So this is conregitted conjecture, right? In other words, whenever you have a group h, which is isomorphic l of g, then. Then the group must be actually the original group, okay? And of course, you have even more concrete questionings, right, that I wrote here, but can read this in the paper. So this already, this theorem provides, you know, because you can construct all these questions like this, it provides uncountably many, actually, or a continuum of property read like product groups with a billion base and, you know, property t, which satisfy. Okay, more recently, we also were able to kind of establish a converse to this well known result of quant, the one that I mentioned at the beginning. I mentioned that, you know, so proof quant discovered that property t group factors, right, have countably many symmetries.
00:32:32.826 - 00:33:29.306, Speaker A: So you can reverse one of this arrow here. Namely. So, through a fairly involved development in geometric group theory, and also in, in von Neumann algebra, we can show basically that any countable group actually can be realized as the outer automorphous group of a property t factor of a specific read like product group G. So if you take NAC, then in fact you can find uncountable ledges such that the outer automorphic is isomorphic to the c. Okay, now this is very involved. We have, you know, uses a lot of big guns in geometric authorities, so that regular small cancellation things. But also there is all this work by Haglon and wise on relative, on residual finiteness of hyperbolic groups and so on and so forth.
00:33:29.306 - 00:34:07.346, Speaker A: So I don't have time to go into that. But I think what is interesting is that you can basically say that Kwon's result is optimal, right? Everything is countable. Any countable thing you can realize it's right for a model. Okay. Okay. Okay. So now how about some new results in this direction? And I will point out two of them which are connected with the things that I would like to talk about, right? So the two results that I'm going to show, which basically is classification in the case of, you know, non ICC groups or algebras with center.
00:34:07.346 - 00:35:38.478, Speaker A: So there are two things that you're going to see here, and this kind of, we had to establish this, but I think this is a proper time to mention them since we talked about this results. So these are results involving factors still, right? So one thing that we found interesting, and it will be useful later on, is that if you take any read like product group, okay, where the base group, the acting group, it's an ICC subgroup of some hyperbolic group, and the action has amenable stabilizers. So every stabilizer here is an amenable subgroup of b, okay? So in particular, if your b acts on I, you know, by left translation, all the stabilizers are finite. So that's such an example. So if you take any property t group in this class, and we have seen there are many of them in this class, okay? Then if you take any age, any group in any scalar tuco cycle of this age, so every group, every scalar tu cocycle, together with a countable group, you can put this information together. Then you can build what is called a twisted group algebra, okay? Where essentially the multiplication between unitaries will have to involve this cocycle, this scalar cocycle, okay, I think we have seen some of this during the prior talks, even though they were in the context of sister algebra. You can do this more generally.
00:35:38.478 - 00:36:52.866, Speaker A: But the point is that you will get a, you know, a twisted group vone algebra. And the point is that, so if a compression of this particular group algebra, it's isomorphic to any twisted algebra of a group, then it must be the case that compression is trivial is done by the identity. So in other words, if you compress this l of g by any non trivial p, there are lots of them, right? Any, any number between zero and give you such a projection, okay? Then you're going to get something that will never be a twisted group algebra. Okay? So this is what this results is, okay, that's number one. Number two, we can actually push this further away and we can kind of classify isomorphism, right, between read like product. So for example, if you take two read like products with g and h, right, both of them with essentially the same conditions, these conditions that a, it's abelian, b, it's ICc. And the action, it has a minimal stabilizer.
00:36:52.866 - 00:38:27.110, Speaker A: So it's a symmetric condition, even though the cn, they don't have to be the same, they just start slicey metric conditions, okay? Like this. And then if you take, suppose that for the second group also have a to cycle, right? Then if you have an isomorphism between a compression, any compression, right, of this yellow of g by number t and the twisted group algebra of the second group. So if you have any isomorphism like that, then a bunch of things need to happen. First of all, the compression needs to be trivial. So the projection that you're compressing by here is one, and this is kind of comes from the prior result, okay? But moreover, the Tuco cycle that you are assuming is any to cycle, it's actually a two co boundary, right? It's some twist, right? And not only that, but the two underlying groups are isomorphic. Moreover, you can actually describe the isomorphisms, right? So the isomorphism is coming from a character, from a multiplicative character in an isomorphism of the underlying groups, okay? So in other words, if you have your guys that naturally generate, right, this is what generate the l of g and the v h generate the l of h, right. The canonical unitaries, this group is this isomorphism group? Like, it's coming from moving group elements to group elements through essentially multiplying, you know, sending, sending ug to delta g, we have the group isomorphism and multiply this or twisting this by, by multiplicative character.
00:38:27.110 - 00:38:55.012, Speaker A: Okay, so, so not only that, it says that this is not so. So not only that, these compressions are not twisted algebra, but also it says that, you know, if l of g isomorphic to something twisted, that has to be untwisted. Right. And it's actually a group algebra. Okay. Okay. Now finally we can introduce our results.
00:38:55.012 - 00:39:36.594, Speaker A: Okay, so what is the first result in this context of groups with center, right? I mean with non trivial center. So let me state the result and go slowly over it. So that kind of try to comprehend the conditions. So first of all, again, I'm going to deal with read like product groups. Okay? So first of all, I will have so again, symmetric conditions as before. Right? Start with us. Start with the read like product group between which has a base which is an abelian, an infinite abelian group, I mean, can also be finite, doesn't matter, just not be non trivial.
00:39:36.594 - 00:40:13.246, Speaker A: That's the only thing that matters. Now the acting group, you need to have a few more conditions. Not only that it's a subgroup of a hyperbolic group, but also you kind of have to assume that all the centralizers of non trivial element are amenable. That's a very natural condition to consider. Most of the hyperbolic groups are like this, even though occasionally you can have pathologies that can embed in a hyperbolic group like z two times f two or something like this, you have to avoid that type of pathology. Okay? Okay. And also the, again, as before the stabilizers, you have an action on this group somewhere with amenable stabilizers.
00:40:13.246 - 00:41:10.282, Speaker A: Okay? Now one condition that actually plays a role in our proof is that we also have to consider not only read like product, we see property t like this, but they also need to have a boundless condition. Right? So as we talked about, if the read like product group, you know, because it comes from an extension which is necessarily split, it has a non trivial tuple cycle, okay? And what you're assuming is that, you know, this tuk cycle that you have here, basically it's a map from d times d with value in c to the I to the two cocycle conditions. In particular, if you look at every element like this. Yeah. This has its representation in your, you know, as a function with finite support from I to c. And you can take the support of that function. Okay, well, now you want this support to be the cardinality of support to be uniformly bounded, not the support, its what can change left and right, but they cannot increase model.
00:41:10.282 - 00:41:48.826, Speaker A: Right. Now, it turns out that using geometric group theory can actually, most of the results that we built before you can actually extend them, you can always arrange for this condition to happen in a lot of them. Okay. And so if you started to read like the property t group like this, which in addition has two more lack of symmetry condition, first of all, you want this group to be perfect groups. So that means attribute ionization, not too much to ask, because, you know, abelianization of property t groups, it's always a finite group. So you just have to make sure that there is none right there. But also you want to assume that the outer automorphic of this group is torsion free.
00:41:48.826 - 00:42:26.410, Speaker A: Okay? So these are two technical conditions that come from the proof of the theorem. And you know, while I believe that you can go around them, I think the technology is not developed in this manner. And specifically what it is difficult is that like the results that we presented here before, the spiritual results for factors which kind of comes from twisted algebra, there is no spare GED result in that of that flavor. And that's why we need to assume these conditions. Okay? Okay, so you have a group like that product group with these conditions. And then I'm going to take any abelian infinite group, and I'm going to take the product a times w. Okay, so in this moment, these w's are ICC groups.
00:42:26.410 - 00:43:03.014, Speaker A: Property ICC groups. Now, a is just an infinite abelian group. So the group that we're going to have here in this moment, obviously it's not anymore an ICC group. It's something which has huge center. Okay, then we want to see how much you can reconstruct from this group articles, right? So I'm going to say that, well, now consider any star isomorphism between this group and any group with no assumption on it. And now one of the things that kind of come, you know, a condition that you need to assume right, is somehow in the case of factor, it's invisible because it kind of happens all the time. But here the point is that you want your isomorphism to preserve the canonical traces.
00:43:03.014 - 00:43:39.134, Speaker A: When this is a type one factor. This condition happens all the time, so in no way it is natural. So assuming this, now I would like to see what properties H share with G. Can I classify it? And you have basically up to the center you have a full reconstruction. What that means is that H itself is going to be a product between its center and some group, some ICC group, and that ICC group, it's exactly w. It's isomorphic to w. Okay? So you do not reconstruct the center.
00:43:39.134 - 00:45:22.482, Speaker A: You recover the fact that this is a product between something and w essentially, but that's something being in a billion group can be anything, right? You cannot recover that part, you know, via the results that we talked about. And moreover, you can write the isomorphism down. So in other words, and it's a little bit trickier than in the case when it's ICC. So what needs to happen is that you can find a countable partition with projections in the center of the unit, right? So that you can write one as sum of countably many orthogonal projections. And for each orthogonal projection you can find a, okay, sorry. And for every, when you can find an isomorphism, right, right, between w, between w and this quotient, you know this part here, okay, and the unitary search that the isomorphism looks like this, right? Okay, so it's going to send essentially x times u g, this up basically generators, because you know, your l of a, it's a tensor, right? Algebra l of a tensor of w, right? So at the level of l of a, which is the center, you don't recover much, it's whatever it is in the center can be anything. But then multiplying with these projections, right? Then you have here just isomorphism, right, of the group, I mean from, from w to this, okay? So in the situation that you, you can technically start with the situation when this is not just torsion free, but it is actually trivial.
00:45:22.482 - 00:46:26.690, Speaker A: Okay? So in that case, actually it's only one. So there is no sum. It's actually the thing that they expect. So that's the only case what actually diesomorphism basically looks like, kind of like it looks in the case of factors, okay? And this is optimal every single time when you have a bunch of isomorphic like this. And in a partition of the identity, you can write isomorphism between this algebra with exactly this formula. Okay? Okay, any questions? Obar? Okay, and finally, this is the second result that I want. You know, the rest is just discussing a little bit of the proof, ideas of the proof, but, but there is also a c star counterpart of this, okay, so again, in this case, actually the proof or the result is somewhat more involved, right? And also more involved, but also in the same time actually more accurate.
00:46:26.690 - 00:47:38.248, Speaker A: And you can recover more because obviously sister algebras are smaller objects, so you kind of expect that. So again, so this and this has like a double thing. It's a two case thing, right? So first of all, so suppose that again, we have our assumptions that we have a read like product group, right? With. So I have a read like product group with abelian base subgroup of a hyperbolic group as an acting group and some, some amenable stabilizer action, okay? And if you pick any group which has property t and is torsion free, by the way, these conditions can always be, you know, insured, right? So I have two cases. Either w is in this situation. So here, as you can see, I'm not assuming anything about this w being perfect group or the automorph is being grouping torsion free or anything, just a group like this. But I, you have to assume that a, the base group, it's a finite abelian group of finite ranks, okay? It's a free ability and group of finite ones, right? So either you are in this condition about w, or you are in the prior condition, right? Where you have again, a property t group.
00:47:38.248 - 00:48:33.350, Speaker A: And, you know, you are assuming that these are perfect group. It has no. So essentially these two condition means that there is no finite order symmetries of your algebra, right? But in this case, I can assume that a, it's any abelian, uh, torsion free group. So doesn't have to be three, a billion or anything, just a free, just a billion torsion free group. And then again, you form the product between this group a and this either read like product in this category or in this category. And you know they have property, right? Then you can describe the sister isomers between them. So if you take the reduced sister algebra of g, and then you take any group together with this sister algebra, you have an isomorphism from this sister algebra into this one, which preserves the trace, the canonical traces, okay? Then in this case, automatically you can conclude that h has to be isomorphic to g.
00:48:33.350 - 00:49:15.596, Speaker A: So you have a complete reconstruction of the group, okay? Unlike the Bonehman algebra case, where you reconstruct everything but not the center, okay? So here you can reconstruct the center, and moreover, exactly as in the previous case, you can write down the isometric, you can classify them. So as before, there is a partition of the identity with central projections, I mean projections in the center of H. And there isomorphism between this w. And so, you know, h being isomorphic, it splits as a product, right between the center and something else. And that something else is isomorphic to this w. And there is a unitary same formula. And once again, when the automorphic of w is trivial, actually there is no sum here.
00:49:15.596 - 00:50:17.160, Speaker A: It's just sending x tensor ig into p of x tensor v delta G. And what I should mention in this case is that still, you know, at the level of the center, you do not have a description of the. Right, because this is just an abstract isomorphism, right? I mean, you have a classification of this homogeneous, but there is not a clear formula that relates how the isomorphism relates to the isomorphism between the groups. So that one kind of remains the same, that part. But, but you still, the group is still isomorphic. So this group is, in this sense is our super region, okay, like this. And then of course, what I should say just towards, is just describing the proof, right? Which one of the things that I would like to, I wanted to mention is that in fact, I think working over this, we found the framework on how to can reconstruct a center of a group from w star equivalence.
00:50:17.160 - 00:50:53.458, Speaker A: And what is interesting is that we do a lot of analysis at the level of the FC center. So every group has an FC center. So the group generated by all the finite orbits, right, under conjugation. And one of the things that you can prove, and I think this exceeds, far exceeds the class of real life product rules, I mean, you can do it for lot of groups. Is that saying, I'll just mention this and then I will stop. I mean, there were multiple things in the, in the proof, right? Because you kind of need to reconstruct the center first. So the idea, and you're going to show that that center, it's essentially this Fc radical.
00:50:53.458 - 00:51:34.876, Speaker A: So you have to take this Fc radical and you show eventually converts to being the center. Typically, it's not the center, it's a much larger group. Okay, BFC group, okay. But first, so you cannot show, it's a billion right away. But what you can show, and this involves actually a lot of analysis and this fact that this cocycles have bounded support and all this type of stuff, you know, this is reflected in the formation that we build for this algebra. And we can do the analysis because of this condition. But anyway, at the end of the day, what you get is that if something l of g is isomorphic l of h like this, then this Fc center, it's, in fact, it's not necessarily the center, but up to a finite normal subgroup is the center.
00:51:34.876 - 00:52:14.618, Speaker A: So namely this commutator is finite. And I wanted to point this out because in the process of doing so, you have this deformation rigidity argument, where you exploit this deformation that you build against the weak compactness of the action. So the group H acts on the FC radical by conjugation. And this is essentially a weakly compact action in some sense. And this is the source of rigidity. And you show that basically all the groups, all the vonament algebra, I mean, this algebra of the FC subgroup interpolates back into the center what a piece of it basically can be conjugated in the center. And this condition actually translates exactly into this being finite.
00:52:14.618 - 00:53:01.134, Speaker A: And you basically, what you do in this proof is that you generalize an older result of Newman from 54, one BFC group. It's a famous result that you, you know, if you have a BFC group, essentially a commutator is finite. So you extend this and do analysis on word bits and things like this. And it seems that the analytic framework that one m and algebra gives you this, it's in fact a very powerful one, because you can prove all these generalizations which are not obvious in the case. I actually, we couldn't find them in the literature and so on. Okay, so this is basically the first thing, but then you want to show, the second step is to use the, essentially the integral decomposition. So now proceed to compute the integral decomposition of this algebra.
00:53:01.134 - 00:53:39.374, Speaker A: And you use the fact this group is finite, and you can show that the fibers are essentially a semi direct product of the quotient of this acting on finite dimensional algebra. I mean, semi direct collections. Okay? So that's what you can compute. And this is where you play those results that I mentioned, right? If you compress this algebra, therefore they are twisted algebra. But then you use the structure of this to show that the compression is trivial. So you are killing in this way, the finite, this normal finite subgroup. So basically this commutator is trivial, in which case the FC radical is the center.
00:53:39.374 - 00:54:03.722, Speaker A: So you get there, and now the second layer of technicalities proof is to show that it splits. And this is by no means easy. It's actually pretty complicated. So this is where we have to develop this rigidity comparing. So if you look now at the fiber and you're comparing group algebra with twisted group algebra, right? You have isomorphism. Then you want to conclude that this twisting disappear. And that's how we show splitting.
00:54:03.722 - 00:55:03.830, Speaker A: And then that's also not enough. You have to pass through a serif theorem, right? Sers famous theorem that essentially you have a central extension, right? You have a central extension, right, of a group. And if the extension doesn't split right, then if the quotient has property, then the whole group has property. So you have to play with this type of techniques to show that essentially you negate this and you do iterative process, and eventually you're going to show splits and the splits up finite subgroup. And so it's a lot of technicality trying to align. So when you do this integral decomposition that everybody say, well, you just do that and it follows. It doesn't follow at all, right? Because when you try to compute these things, you know, this comes with a lot of combinatorics and with a lot of new objects that, you know, basically you have to expand the theory of, you know, frigidity for factors to twist it, group factors, right? So you have to develop all these results.
00:55:03.830 - 00:55:43.284, Speaker A: And as far as I know, there is no technology developed there properly to handle this. Okay, so. So that was all. I will, uh, sorry, I went over time. You know, if the extension doesn't split right, then if the quotient has property, then the whole group has property. So you have to play with this type of techniques, right? To show that essentially you negate this and you do iterative process, and eventually you're going to show it splits and splits up finite subgroup. And so it's a lot of technicality trying to align.
00:55:43.284 - 00:56:15.984, Speaker A: So when you do this integral decomposition that everybody say, well, you just do that and it follows. It doesn't follow at all, right? Because when you try to compute these things, you know, this comes with a lot of combinatorics and with a lot of new objects that, you know, basically you have to expand the theory of, you know, frigidity for factors to twisted group factors, right? You have to develop all these results. And as far as I know, there is no technology developed there properly to handle this. Okay? So that was all. I will, sorry, I went over time.
