00:00:11.000 - 00:01:17.568, Speaker A: Welcome to the Infinite Jungle. On today's episode I am going to be talking about the main takeaways of all core developers consensus call number 143. We are going to be talking about updates to the Petra Devnets, specifically Petra Devnet 3 and 4. I will also talk about a few updates to the discussion about including more blob related EIPs into Pectra, specifically a BLOB throughput increase into Petra. It hasn't formally been accepted into the upgrade yet by developers, but there's been some development, some progress on that conversation which we'll talk about on today's show. As always, before we get started, here is a quick show disclaimer I need to remind you to please refer to the disclaimer linked in the podcast Show Notes and note that none of the information in this podcast constitutes investment advice, an offer recommendation or solicitation by Galaxy Digital or any of its affiliates to buy or sell any securities. Developers started off ACDC143 with a update to Petra DevNet 3.
00:01:17.568 - 00:02:37.353, Speaker A: Debugging efforts are ongoing on that DevNet. There was specific bugs that developers very briefly talked about on the call, but I think it's clear that developers are trying to wrap up as much as possible the client implementations on DevNet 3 and focus their attention on Petra DevNet 4. There are some specifications updates that will be implemented for Petra DevNet 4 which developers are trying to finalize as quickly as possible. So while the debugging efforts are happening on Petra DevNet 3, developers spoke a bit about the outstanding issues and outstanding decisions that have to be made by developers to finalize the specifications for Petra DevNet 4. The last I checked, there are 13 outstanding issues that developers need to address in order to launch Petra DevNet 4. Some of these issues developers agreed on the call to finalize and to move ahead with. There were other changes to Petra specifications that developers said will need more discussion and will be more time to really resolve.
00:02:37.353 - 00:03:37.555, Speaker A: And the chair of the call, Alex Stokes, he's an Ethereum foundation researcher, really encouraged developers at the very least buy the next at the latest by the next ACD call, which will happen in one week time because these calls happen on Thursday. He had encouraged he had urged developers to try and resolve some of these discussions by next Thursday. If you're listening to this episode, this episode is coming out on Tuesday. So within two days time, who knows? The developers have these Thursday calls where they make lots of decisions about the Ethereum protocol and upgrade progress. But very recently developers have started to do Monday Testing calls as well. So there is a possibility that developers may move ahead on some of these outstanding issues through the Monday testing call. But it remains to be seen there are quite a few open issues.
00:03:37.555 - 00:04:22.235, Speaker A: Kind of seems unlikely that developers will be able to launch Petra Devnet 4 by the next ACD call. That was the initial goal that developers had set out with on the last ACD call. But that's a little bit of a progress update on how Petra DevNet 3 and DevNet 4 is going. Developers also briefly talked about progress on Peerdas. As a reminder, Peerdas is now no longer in Petra. It is not going to happen in the next likely, I would say six months. Peer DAS is the update to Ethereum that will allow Ethereum to support more blobs.
00:04:22.235 - 00:05:14.993, Speaker A: Have a higher blob throughput. Blobs are transactions on Ethereum that can contain arbitrary amounts of data. Well, I guess I shouldn't say arbitrary amounts of data, but arbitrary types of data. And these transactions, these blobs are heavily used by rollups layer 2 roll ups on Ethereum so that they can, they can commit batched transaction data to Ethereum. Of course you can put any type of data in there, but it is generally designed and developers envision the main use for blobs to be where to be, how roll ups commit batch user transaction data from their L2 to the layer one and this is ephemeral data. This data gets pruned every. I think, I think it was two weeks, I could be wrong, it could be four weeks.
00:05:14.993 - 00:06:45.825, Speaker A: But anyways I digress into what peer das is anyways, developers talked about updates to progress happening on peerdes because that's what they want to focus on in the next upgrade after Petra. The upgrade after Petra is Fusaka and developers have taken the overflow of the initial list of VIPs that was, that was finalized for Petra. The eight EIPs that developers are going to be implementing in petra, there's about 12 others that they had initially thought that they were going to implement in Petra. And that overflow of the 12 EIPS is now going into Fusaka. And so one of the updates was that the latest peer DAS Devnet is failing to reach finality or struggling to reach finality. This means that many of the validators on that Devnet are not able to sync to the chain, are not able to agree on the canonical chain. So quite a bit of debugging work is happening on the peer DAS Devnet and I would imagine that developers as they're focusing on Pectra the focus and the amount of resources that they have to also divert their attention to peer DAs could be a little bit limited now that developers are trying to ship it on as fast of a timeline as possible.
00:06:45.825 - 00:07:38.775, Speaker A: However, it is good to note that on these calls, developers are still making some progress on peer das for the upgrade after Petra and lots of debugging work is happening on the peer DAS Devnet. That's the latest update. Then developers started to talk about the proposal to include a BLOB throughput increase in the Petra upgrade sooner rather than later. Of course, the major increase to Blob throughput is coming with peerdas. That is a shoo in at least for now as of time of recording. These things change so rapidly when it comes to sometimes decisions developers make about the priority for Ethereum. But for now, developers are planning on putting that the peer DAs upgrade into Fusaka.
00:07:38.775 - 00:09:12.753, Speaker A: But because Fusaka is likely not going to be activated on Ethereum anymore within say the next six months, developers have been weighing this idea of putting a minor increase to the Blob throughput in Petra. Right now the throughput is about three blobs, a target of three blobs per block. And developers are thinking of a very Conservative increase to 4 to this effect. Because blobs blobs make the size of blocks larger on Ethereum and it makes these blocks heavier, weightier to propagate throughout the network. The kinds of validators that are running on very low resourced hardware, the validators, the node operators on Ethereum that are connecting with not as like not the top of the top, the best of the best bandwidth, they could see negative impacts from these kinds of blob increases. So developers have been working on a new change, a new API method to the execution API, a new method to the execution API called engine get blobs v1. This code change, this change to the execution API is intended to help validators with low resources, whether it be bandwidth, specifically bandwidth.
00:09:12.753 - 00:10:57.415, Speaker A: Actually these validators operating on low bandwidth to be able to help them still propagate their blocks in a timely manner. Because if you are not able to propagate your block or you create a block and that block gets reorged out of the chain, replaced by another block, or the network says that you missed, you know, your set window of time to propose a block, that validator does not get the rewards, does not get the payout from the network for their work, for the work that they did. So this method, this engine get blobs v1 is a quote unquote, top priority that developers are working on right now to try and improve the ability of, of solo stakers, validators that are being run from home to be able to participate in the network. And so developers were talking about that, they were saying most of the client teams are still in the process of implementing this, but they were very looking forward to the point when all of the client teams will be able to roll that out. They also discussed conversations about trying to get more data. This was a major point talked about on the last ACD call of figuring out, in order to figure out whether or not developers want to include the Blob increase. I mean, they do, but whether or not it's safe to do so, especially for solo stakers, these validators that are being operated from again, very resource constrained devices and perhaps in environments where the bandwidth is not the highest.
00:10:57.415 - 00:12:46.505, Speaker A: Developers were not only talking about improvements to the protocol itself, like the execution API, but they were also talking about just getting more research and concrete numbers around the rate of block reorgs happening to solostakers. And if developers decide that these numbers and the research that they've done shows that solo stakers are already overwhelmed, already barely able to connect to the network, barely able to perform their duties as a validator, then developers will not choose not to increase the Blob throughput in pectra until pure DAs and peer DAs is a little bit of a different type of increase to blob throughput. It's really not about increasing the, it's not strictly about increasing the size of blocks in proportion to how much data is coming, but it allows this kind of sampling method where the amount of data that's being attached to the block, the amount of blobs that's being attached to the block increases by a very large amount, say like tens, 20 more blobs. But that does not mean that the amount of data being propagated throughout the network also increases. The nodes have this ability to sample different parts of the Blob and only consume and process like a very minimal part of the Blob data. And in this sampling there's this mathematic technique, I guess, that the more that you do sampling, you can become very sure that the entirety of the data was actually committed to the chain by the rollup with something like 99.999% certainty.
00:12:46.505 - 00:13:55.717, Speaker A: It's a lot of math. I mean, I don't confess to know all of that math, but that's the idea for peerdas. And that is why developers, there are some developers that are very concerned about prematurely trying to increase the blob throughput until the sampling techniques are ready to go. In Fusaka, one of the takeaways from the last ACD call was this effort to really figure out how are blobs impacting solo stakers. On this week's call, Ethereum foundation researcher Tony he shared some new empirical analysis that he's done. He didn't actually share the details of it on the call, but he shared in the Zoom chat that he's done some more work on the numbers and did some more analysis on the network. And I want to highlight it more on this call or on this show because while it wasn't a big part of the call, I do think that it's a big part of how developers are going to make their final decision on whether or not to include the blob throughput increase into Pectra.
00:13:55.717 - 00:15:02.073, Speaker A: So Tony's analysis shows that indeed the reorg rate for solo stakers has actually gone down since Denkun. So Denkun was the upgrade where blobs were first introduced. And contrary to what some may have expected, the reorg rate for solo stakers has not actually increased since the introduction of Dencun. However, in absolute terms, the kind of blocks that solo stakers are usually building, which are locally built blocks, blocks that they themselves input in transactions from the mempool. Take the blobs, attach it to the block locally built blocks, these blocks that are not being given to a validator through a third party builder via an MEV relay. These locally built blocks have a 5x a 5 times more higher likelihood of being reorged out of the network than blocks that are built through and processed through MEV relay. So that is obviously not good.
00:15:02.073 - 00:17:05.365, Speaker A: The high reorg rate for locally built blocks and Tony mentions in his analysis that it's very hard to pinpoint the exact reasons why this is There's a number of possible reasons. For example, it seems as the locally built blocks on average seem to contain more blobs than the norm. There is also a possibility that MEV relays are more proficient at propagating blocks quickly throughout the network, whereas if you're building your block locally, it's basically up to you to propagate the block. And again, if you have very low bandwidth, or if you're not able to process those and propagate those blocks fast enough, then you miss out on your on your window of opportunity to earn a reward for a block proposal. It could be various, it could be a lack of the appropriate hardware and one of the things we talked about on the last episode of Infinite Jungle when I was doing the Last Call summary is that there's not really an understanding of what is the minimum requirement for an Ethereum validator For someone who is at home, wherever you are in the world, what is the minimum hardware and bandwidth requirements that you need to proficiently be able to operate a validator? And these minimum requirements are not specified. And so I think there's a lot of questions of are some solo stakers on Ethereum actually operating with far too low hardware and bandwidth? Are they in an environment where it's just not feasible to really perform their duties? And if so, then it makes that they wouldn't that the reorg rate would be very high for them. But maybe they are using the kind of hardware and the kind of bandwidth that is the norm for what developers expect.
00:17:05.365 - 00:18:48.381, Speaker A: And if that's the case and they're still struggling to propose blocks, then that does mean that there's an issue. And that does mean that developers will need to probably put their foot off the gas pedal for increasing the blob count even more. And so developers on this week's call did talk about how difficult it is to really pinpoint what the heck is happening with solostakers. And one of the reasons that Prism developer POTUS was talking about was that the peer to peer architecture of public Ethereum testnets, Ethereum mainnet of course, is very different from the kind of network of nodes that you could spin up for a devnet. So while the ability for a devnet for a node on a devnet to sync to the head of the chain, even the event of like a prolonged lack of finality, like let's just say something happens on the network where the node loses connection to the network and they have to resync to the chain. Even though you might see and be able to benchmark how well that node is able to resync to the chain on the devnet, that doesn't necessarily inform how that same node would be able to resync on these other networks that are more like the public testnet for Ethereum that is more reflective of the network of Ethereum mainnet. And it's difficult of course, to be able to conduct the same experiments on a network that many people are using.
00:18:48.381 - 00:20:12.657, Speaker A: You can't just kind of take down Ethereum mainnet for a couple of days or take down a highly used public Ethereum testnet that is used by application developers and whatnot to be able to just simply figure out the bandwidth requirements or figure out do all these tests on running a validator on a resource constrained device. Yeah, which is why the developers were talking about these various challenges to really getting all the data and getting all of this research. But the research is ongoing and Tony shared some preliminary analysis and I think the preliminary analysis does show that reorg rates are going down for solo stakers, but it does also show that in absolute terms solo stakers really are at a disadvantage. And so I think, yeah, I think the data is not actually clear. It doesn't show how developers should lean one way or the other. But I do get the sense from Sentiment on the Call that developers are leaning towards simply including it, including the BLOB throughput increase and including other EIPs related to how the BLOB fee market works on Ethereum. Finally, developers talked about spinning up a public DevNet in time for DevCon.
00:20:12.657 - 00:22:02.777, Speaker A: Dev is the Ethereum developer conference that is happening in Bangkok, Thailand this year. I will be going, so in case my Infinite Jungle listeners are also going, I'm very excited to meet some of you in person. So the idea is for this Petra Devnet 4 Once developers stabilize it, once it's launched, once all of the client implementations are found to be working, developers would like to use the DevNet 4 specifications and basically replicate public testnet that developers at the conference can hack on. They can start using the new transaction type of VIP 7702, perhaps test out different wallet implementations utilizing that code change, start testing out if they're a staking pool or a liquid staking operator, try using the execution layer, triggerable withdrawals, these new features on chain so developers are kind of talked about how that would be a really nice to have and would like to aim to build and launch a public picture testnet in time for Devcon which is happening on November 12th starting November 12th. So that was some of the highlights from the call. As always, if you want the details of everything that was said, be sure to check out the full write up in the show notes. I'd like to take some time in the last few minutes of the episode to talk about the timeline for Pectra and how to best go about understanding when Pectra may or may not launch because there's quite a few, I would say stepping stones to of course the Pectra mainnet launch.
00:22:02.777 - 00:22:56.345, Speaker A: So just going through the logic of how at least I think about these development timelines, I hope it would be helpful for other people trying to figure out when Pectra could actually go live on Mainnet So let's start with DevNet 4. DevNet 4 is very critical to figuring out when Petra is actually going to launch on mainnet. And these kinds of estimations will change depending on when Petra Devnet 4 actually launches. So developers said let's try and launch Petra Devnet 4 in two weeks time. And this was last week based on the progress being made and that was shared on this week's call. It doesn't actually look like developers are going to be able to hit that target. But let's just say for the sake of illustrating how I think about this, that PectoDevNet 4 does launch next week.
00:22:56.345 - 00:24:37.615, Speaker A: It launches in advance of next Thursday's ACD call. Then from there that leaves developers at least about four weeks for developers to launch a public pector DevNet for DevCon. This is a really important milestone because that's, that's a ton more people using the code changes, identifying bugs and a live version of the PETRA upgrade that people are interacting with. So assuming that Devnet 4 goes live next week, I think it is pretty sufficient an amount of time for developers to try and prep a version of Petra DevNet 4 for public consumption and public use by Devcon November 12th. And then after that it gives developers a lot more confidence about rolling out the PETRA code changes onto Ethereum public testnets like Sepolia Holski, because they've seen how Petra works on a smaller testnet, a new testnet that they just spun up specifically for devcon. And so you could see public testnet launches of Pectra happening in January from then on, once the public testnet schedules are finalized and assuming by then it's very actually rare that developers identify major bugs in the public testnet launch process of the upgrade. So once the public testnet schedule is up and running and is going, I think you will be able to.
00:24:37.615 - 00:25:56.425, Speaker A: It's likely that the mainnet launch for Pectra would come a month or two after that, likely two months after that, from January to March, being able to upgrade the public test nets. And yeah, once the public test nets are starting to be upgraded, there's a lot more clarity around when actually the mainnet will go live. And I believe there's three Ethereum public test nets. So if you give about two weeks in between each of those for developers to upgrade those test nets, the public ones, and then move on to mainnet, it leaves you to March for the mainnet. Sometimes developers only leave about one week between the test nets, but even in that case you still have about Late February or March is when we're assuming. So as you can see, this thought process, you think about when the devnets are going to go live and when developers can realistically achieve either launching a new public testnet for Petra or move on to upgrading the existing Ethereum public testnets and then its mainnet thereafter. The one kind of hiccup that obviously is looming on everybody's minds is the addition of a Blob throughput increase.
00:25:56.425 - 00:26:57.103, Speaker A: And to be clear, because developers have not made a decision on whether or not they're going to be including a Blob throughput increase into Petra, they are not going to be moving ahead with upgrading Ethereum public testnet until this decision is made. So assuming that Petra DevNet 4 does not launch next week, it launches say in three weeks or four weeks. That might leave insufficient time for developers to spin up a public Pectra testnet for devcon. But even if it does launch the public testnet for devcon, I wish there was a name for it already, but developers are still hammering that out. So until they do, it's going to be a little wordy whenever I say a public Tektra testnet for devcon. But anyways, so let's just say they do launch that. That will in no way be able to encourage developers further about launching a about upgrading Ethereum public testnets like Holski Sepolia in January.
00:26:57.103 - 00:28:24.307, Speaker A: If developers have not yet made a decision around the Blob throughput increase, I do not think developers are going to be upgrading the big test nets, the Holski, the Sepolia. There's one more, but I can't remember the name of it. Or maybe there is, but the point is they're not going to be upgrading those that are actually used by decentralized application developers, used by staking pools until they are sure, until they are confirmed that the scope of Pectra is final, and until a decision has been made about whether or not the Blob throughput increase is there or not. You could see after the launch of this public DevCon testnet and the launch of DevNet 4 additional DevNets DevNet 5, DevNet 6, DevNet 7 until the end of the year, basically until developers finalize the scope. And it's clear that from the latest call and the discussions that were happening that an increase to the Blob throughput is not as simple as developers may have talked about it initially. It does require client teams to do some work in changing that target, changing the target Blob count and it does require implementation. The BLOB throughput increase will likely be coupled with some of these other EIPs related to the Blob feed market that are way more complex to implement.
00:28:24.307 - 00:29:58.809, Speaker A: So, for example, the one that Alex Stokes was saying was a shoo in for Pectra's EIP7742, uncoupling the blob count between the consensus layer and the execution layer, this is basically changing the mechanism through which BLOB count changes Blob target and Blob maximum numbers, how they, how they are calculated on chain, and it basically removes the need for the execution layer to really do any of the calculations. All of the numbers and the constants are communicated by the consensus layer, dictated by the consensus layer. So that's a code change that developers are going to require more testing on than say, just a simple throughput increase, even though the throughput increase itself will need testing once it's formally included. So right now you can see that that DevNet 4 is incomplete. And any public versions of Petra that are testnet versions of Petra that are launched with DevNet 4 specifications still will not be able to inform the timeline for Ethereum public testnet launches and mainnet launches, really until the scope of Pectra is finalized. Those are some of the major decisions I think to be watching out for. And because developers, I think, will need at least a couple of weeks before they're going to be able to make a decision on the, on the inclusion of any eips, any additional eips to Petra.
00:29:58.809 - 00:31:17.825, Speaker A: I think we could see the Petra mainnet upgrade happen more to like the end of March, if not April, you know, pushing out the upgrade a little bit further to allow developers time to make the decision, start testing, start implementing the new code changes and testing them thereafter. But of course, lots of factors at play, lots of different kind of stepping stones that need to be reached first before there's really any true clarity on the mainnet activation date. But these are some preliminary thoughts. These are preliminary. This is a preliminary analysis of how to go about thinking about the Petra timeline and what key milestones to be watching out for. Again, definitely the launch of Pectra DevNet 4 will inform how likely it is that we'll see a public Pectra testnet for devcon. And the sooner that developers can make a decision about the Blob throughput increase, the faster they can finally move on from the devnets and start to update the Ethereum test nets.
00:31:17.825 - 00:31:37.353, Speaker A: The Ethereum public test nets. So there you have it. I hope that you enjoyed this episode of the Infinite Jungle. I hope that you learned something new about Ethereum. I hope you will join me again for another episode of the Infinite Jungle. This week. I will be.
00:31:37.353 - 00:31:58.605, Speaker A: Tomorrow I will be speaking with Nixo and with Yorick again to get a little update on the Ethereum staking ecosystem. So please do stay tuned for that. I am signing off from New York City, the Concrete Jungle, in your explorations of the Infinite Jungle that is Ethereum. Stay safe out there.
