00:00:00.440 - 00:00:19.205, Speaker A: I think for Ethereum foundation and Vitalik, I think it makes totally sense to actually promote more of these other use cases to give them more attention and seeing breakthroughs, because it also indicates that Ethereum is not only a platform for finance, but it actually empowers a lot of use cases.
00:00:21.985 - 00:01:10.387, Speaker B: Welcome to Crypto with Cami, where we go over the biggest headlines in crypto in the past week. These are the headlines for the week of August 26th. One of the main stories is that Telegram founder Pavel Durov was detained in Paris over the weekend. He was being investigated for a bunch of charges related to the fact that his platform, Telegram was enabling all sorts of crime, including drug trafficking, pornography and so on. This is of course ridiculous. It's like arresting the creator of the knife or the gun because murderers are using those things to kill people. Of course, Telegram is a messaging app.
00:01:10.387 - 00:02:10.889, Speaker B: People will use it for many different things. Criminals will do crime because that's what criminals do and they use many different tools to do that. Of course, Telegram shouldn't be held responsible for what criminals do on the app. I mean, to me it's pretty simple. But it also, you know, it highlights Telegram being the main source of or the main hub for messaging in crypto, that the crypto community should have an alternative, an encrypted, private, secure, uncensorable alternative to messaging. Another big headline is that MakerDAO, one of the biggest apps in Defi, announced it is rebranding to Sky. Maker, of course is not just one of the biggest, but it was the first decentralized finance application.
00:02:10.889 - 00:03:14.981, Speaker B: It's the issuer of Daisy and now we need to get used to calling it sky instead of MakerDAO. It's launching together with a rebrand, a new token called sky and it'll also launch the USDS stablecoin. This is all part of MakerDAO's big endgame overhaul. We've reported before that this overhaul also intends to include a second stablecoin. So the idea is that there will be one fully decentralized stablecoin. Remember that DAI started out this way with only eth collateral and then it became less decentralized because it started adding fiat backed stablecoins and real world assets as collateral. Well now USDS will be a fully scalable and with, you know, with all sorts of fiat backed and centralized type of collateral.
00:03:14.981 - 00:04:15.023, Speaker B: And then as we reported earlier, there will be a second stablecoin that will be what DAI was originally. Also part of this endgame plan is that Maker will now be structured differently with subdials These are already working as part of this rebrand. The subdials will be called stars. So you know, lots of different pieces with Maker as always and always fun to keep track of the different terms they give things. But yeah, we'll be covering this huge overhaul of Maker. The goal for all of this is that Maker will become more scalable and efficient. Another big headline is that OpenSea, the largest NFT marketplace, received a wealth notice from the U.S.
00:04:15.023 - 00:04:53.401, Speaker B: securities and Exchange Commission. Of course this means that the SEC is investigating OpenSea. The SEC is threatening to sue us because they believe NFTs on our platform are securities, said OpenSea CEO Devin Fincer on Twitter. Of course, this also makes no sense. NFTs are a way to inscribe property on chain. Many NFTs are used as digital collectibles and to store art. Physical collectibles like baseball cards and physical art aren't securities.
00:04:53.401 - 00:06:03.095, Speaker B: So I don't see a reason why digital collectibles and art should be. So it looks like OpenSea will join Uniswap, Coinbase, Kraken and many others in their fight against the sec. And lastly, Vitalik made some controversial statements about Defi and we have Stani from AAVE on the show to discuss. Okay, so one of the most interesting developments this week was this series of posts by Vitalik, the co founder and creator of Ethereum. And they stemmed from apparently these comments that Ken Warwick made. Ken Warwick is the founder of Infinix and Synthetix, and he said in a podcast that apparently Vitalik doesn't like Defi. And then somebody pointed that out on Twitter and Vitalik responded to the tweet not by denying that statement, but by saying, you know, like the crypto applications that he likes should be sustainable and permissionless.
00:06:03.095 - 00:06:59.899, Speaker B: And then he listed a few Defi applications that he likes. He listed DEXes, decentralized stablecoins and poly market. And he says he tolerates USDC. And then there were some replies on whether yield was sustainable and so on. I'm super excited to have Stani from ABE and Avara and Lenz here joining me. Obviously crypto, DeFi, OG and the founders of one of the largest defi protocols. So would love to get your thoughts on this, especially you know, because Vitalik said that depositing crypto in exchange for yield, where the yield comes from people borrowing crypto to trade more crypto, is essentially unsustainable.
00:06:59.899 - 00:07:23.215, Speaker B: He said. It's an aura borrows which is a snake eating its own tail. So not, you know, not, not, not very Sustainable. And that's pretty much what most of defi lending is at this point, you know, so being like aave, being the center of this activity. Wanted to know what, you know, your interpretation of all this.
00:07:24.075 - 00:08:26.861, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, definitely kind of like maybe like more in the Defi community. Vitalik's post created some amount of kind of like discussion and maybe even confusion. And I personally have been building on Ethereum. I actually consider like since very beginning of aave, very early days. And I consider that AAVE has been kind of like, has been born on Ethereum, born and raised on Ethereum and today is more kind of like network agnostic, but focusing mainly on the Ethereum ecosystem and especially on L2s, where we see more accessibility with lower transaction fees. And it's kind of interesting and I think interesting topic. I think Vitalik has his own reasons and perspective to why kind of like maybe defi requires less attention or things that are in defi are less interesting to him.
00:08:26.861 - 00:09:56.145, Speaker A: But I would say that if we believe that the blockchain is going to be a value layer where any type of value can be represented, that can be valued from real world, which is, for example, USDC is what Vitalik says that he tolerates. It can be more native value, that is value that accrues natively and people are appreciating the value natively like Ethereum or some other similar type of assets or decentralized stablecoins. I still think that the fact that you're able to actually access to this value layer and find different types of. I'm not just investment opportunities, but financial opportunities is a big thing because we still live in a world where a lot of financial opportunities doesn't exist at the same scale to every single person around the world. There is, for example, not really accessibility even to something very simple and basic like a US dollar for just the stability and mitigation of, for example, inflation, which is happening in a lot of countries from Argentina and other countries. But also, you know, inflation is something that we've felt in the past year, even to some extent in the Western world. So that's one part of it.
00:09:56.145 - 00:11:17.295, Speaker A: But the second part is that once we have all this accessibility and if we believe that the future of our finance is that it's all transparently on the blockchain, it doesn't really matter where or what type of a value it is as long as you can transact and as long as you understand what that value is and what it enables for you. So for some it might enable those financial Opportunities, which is great. That's amazing if there's access for everyone, for finance, when we think about AAVE and think about those different financial opportunities, I would say that there's actually a lot of people using AAVE just because they have cryptographic value. So they have value on chain which they retain one way or another. Maybe they bought Ethereum as a kind of like a safe haven and they don't want to sell that. They will borrow funds and then with those borrowed assets they for example, convert them to, let's say dollars and pay their car, payday, mortgage payments, finance some other goal in real life. So that type of a thing use case actually exists there.
00:11:17.295 - 00:12:15.615, Speaker A: But then there is also people who don't find financial opportunities in real world and they come on chain and they might find it for example in AAVE, in DeFi, and that's something we shouldn't discount. So yes, there's for example, financial opportunities that are based on the fact that there's demand on some of these digital assets or cryptographic assets, whatever we call them. But there's also usage where you want to unlock liquidity and go and finance some other opportunities. So I definitely don't say, I would not say that most is yield or it's unsustainable because if there is demand and someone is willing to pay for that, that's actually real. But the second thing that is important is the diversification of these yield sources because a healthy economy has that diversification and I think that's what we should aim with Defi and bring more opportunities on chain.
00:12:16.995 - 00:13:06.243, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I totally agree with you there on kind of those two points. I think first you're right that what should be highlighted and what we should place emphasis on is the fact that these primitives have been built on Ethereum and on other blockchains. I think that's huge. You know, I don't think that should be minimized. And I'm kind of surprised that Vitalik isn't kind of jumping in one leg at the fact that these things are being built on Ethereum. We have permissionless open global trading payments, lending on borrowing, staking, all these things that were not possible before Ethereum.
00:13:06.243 - 00:13:09.445, Speaker B: They weren't possible before smart contract platforms.
00:13:09.595 - 00:13:10.497, Speaker A: Exactly.
00:13:10.681 - 00:13:51.591, Speaker B: And they've been tested, they've been battle tested all through, like the Luna crash, the ftx, through bull and bear markets. And they work, you know, like when cefi goes down and everyone is locked out of their accounts because there's too much volatility or whatever, Defi just keeps working And I think that's so important and so huge. So that's one thing. I think it's major and I think we're on our way to actually disrupt traditional finance. And I think that's kind of the main use of blockchains, like right now or like the first or more obvious one.
00:13:51.783 - 00:16:15.935, Speaker A: And I think one really kind of like misconception and I brought about this on socials actually, is that we kind of start thinking of like, well, what is the actual benefit for someone who, you know, has little value or, you know, kind of like, what's the like, empowerment use case with the blockchain and finance, essentially? And I think Vitalik has been talking about this in the past and something kind of like the way I, for example, explain of like what a protocol like AVA is, it's more of like a backbone of a credit system in the sense that anyone can actually access it permissionless, because it doesn't look into the backgrounds of who are the participants. And there should be that accessibility because that creates the best pricing and the best market for executing credit transactions or let's say yield transactions. And just to give you a simple example, it's kind of like hard to understand how a protocol where you have collateralization could help extending credit to, let's say, underfunded entrepreneurs or underfunded people across globally. But it actually is really possible because with the concept of tokenization, just by putting value on chain and reflecting that that value, whatever it is, on the blockchain, it essentially means that you could actually extend credit on a localized environment so that can be on different jurisdictions and put that credit actually into a tokenized form in a basic bulk and use that as a collateral to actually extend more credit. Now, why this is important is there's a couple of reasons there. First, it means that they can actually be a borderless credit market that can be utilized to any particular financial goal that humans or AI agents might have in the future. And also bringing that kind of like transparency and end to end on chain auditability.
00:16:15.935 - 00:17:07.313, Speaker A: And I think that's really powerful idea there. And obviously it doesn't mean that, you know, you can go and issue credit and there's no credit ratings and whatnot. That's not the case, actually. The case is that you have to be even more diligent to bring the credit on chain and get it into defi and get it into a protocol like aave, even if it's not in the main market, some other markets of aave. So you have to put more diligence so that essentially doesn't mean that you end up in a more riskier environment by doing so. In fact, you can actually increase a lot of transparency, auditability, better execution. I just see DEFI as a better financial infrastructure overall.
00:17:07.313 - 00:18:10.591, Speaker A: And to my point also is that finance is something that actually is the key driver of empowerment for everything. And when I'm thinking about finance, I also mean finance in the sense of like even like money and store of value. Just thinking about going back in history and thinking about agriculture, we quite often think about that. The empowerment of agriculture is that, you know, people got an ability to actually, let's say have a stable. They didn't have to move from one location to another because you didn't have to be hunter gatherer anymore. But actually the bigger empowerment there was that by doing agriculture you can actually farm crops that can actually store as a value that you can actually even sell later and exchange that for labor and same for other monetary instruments in the history, like SALT as an example. So finance and money has implications of everything.
00:18:10.591 - 00:18:34.175, Speaker A: And in the future, over time, money is exchanged with computational power, money is still exchanged for energy. So it's going to be there as a kind of like a unit of account and store of value. And that's needed for every basic empowerment, whatever use case you have outside of finance. So that's how important the space actually is.
00:18:34.635 - 00:19:17.205, Speaker B: Absolutely. So, so Vitalik in that sense was saying that finance for blockchain to make the world a better place is not enough. And he says that non financial crypto use cases should get more support. So he's, you know, he's naming, he named a few other use cases that he would like to see. Let me see if I can. Okay. So he was saying encrypted messaging, centralized identity, social media surveillance and other different use cases.
00:19:17.205 - 00:20:01.065, Speaker B: But if I'm interpreting what you're saying now and also what you posted, it seems like to you finance blockchain based finance still is such an important use case and it still needs to be further developed and that can then support the non financial use cases. But we still have like a really long way to go for that financial use cases use case to be, to be fully developed basically. I mean it's not kind of the right moment to kind of take our eyes away from defi and into other use cases, I guess.
00:20:01.215 - 00:21:01.607, Speaker A: Yeah, and exactly. And I would say that even I'm really, you know, I basically like the idea and I evangelize the idea of known financial use cases and that's what we are doing with lens. Essentially we see value and social capital because we understand that not every single person in the planet has financial capital, but every single person has social capital. And that's basically connections we make, the content we create and the attention we give and the attention we receive. And that's really quantified value because the biggest companies in the planet as well are one of those social media companies. And a lot of value is transferred their monetary value from advertisers to actually these platforms without going to the end users. So I'm basically all for new use cases.
00:21:01.607 - 00:22:21.467, Speaker A: I just think that Defi isn't in a place where you can basically put it into autopilot and focus in other things and neglect that. I actually think that Defi is the use case that will take the longest to actually mature because finance is quite fragile. Finance is very much been operating on a trust basis since hundreds of years. And essentially that means that to get a technology like this and getting it adopted into, to replace or let's say into the main financial infrastructure, that will take time, maturity, and also the aspect that we can actually trust these systems to be mature enough so all the world's capital could be actually on chain at that point. So I do think that essentially once Defi is actually just fi finance, that is just better, faster, stronger, that is the case. But I don't, I don't think we're there and Defi is still having its biggest fights of whether it's going to exist in the future. There's still regulatory fights on the topic.
00:22:21.467 - 00:23:21.871, Speaker A: And obviously we're just getting into a place where Defi can actually be used by in a more accessible way with lower fees and also without thinking about wallets and getting it integrated into fintech, for example. So it's not really, I would say it's not the best time to take the attention out of Defi, especially because it's needed across everywhere, but also everywhere where we have some sort of other type of value. So let's say social capital or let's say attention, you should be able to monetize attention or distribution that you have. Or let's say if you're a creator and you create music on chain, you should be able to somehow monetize that. So the monetary aspect comes here. And this is just pure because of the fact that we're living in a capitalistic world, because all the other forms of world didn't work until today. And I'm not sure if capitalism eventually will work.
00:23:21.871 - 00:24:30.505, Speaker A: But at least this is the model we're living completely or we have to turn the society completely upside down at that point. And I think for Ethereum foundation and Vitalik, I think it makes totally sense to actually promote more of these other use cases to give them more attention and seeing breakthroughs because it also indicates that Ethereum is not only a platform for finance, but it actually empowers a lot of use cases. So I do agree with that. But I also think that Defi actually needs attention and the fact that defcon for example, didn't have a track for Defi was really surprising at that point because there's a lot that can actually go into that category. And if we want to see this type of use cases where we see empowering funding or any type of empowering financial use case, we also need to promote those in these types of events in the category as whole. So I would say that that was kind of like my two way on the topic.
00:24:30.885 - 00:25:27.675, Speaker B: No, I think, I mean I didn't know that there was no DeFi track at DEFCON. I think that's just pretty mind blowing. But you know, I also believe that the blockchain's primary use and the primary function that they serve is to transfer value in a sensorless, permissionless way. Like that's, that's what Bitcoin was made to do, right? It's, it's pure to pure money and that's what blockchains do best. And yeah, like of course Ethereum expanded on that and made the blockchain programmable, but in the end it is a network that allows sensorless permissionless open transactions. And sure you can make computations on top of that. But the very core of blockchains is a financial use case.
00:25:27.675 - 00:25:50.235, Speaker B: And so I think for blockchains to succeed in other use cases, I think you're right in what you were saying, they need to succeed in finance first and that will enable more blockchain native non financial use cases. But we need to nail money and financial services first.
00:25:50.355 - 00:27:06.421, Speaker A: And do you think that Vitalik appreciates what's being built on Ethereum? So I mean he knows AAVE exist and appreciates that he knows a lot of things that is in Defi. And I think it's more about kind of like maybe for Vitalik to. And, and obviously I don't know exactly the case, but I would say that it will be amazing to see new things, novel things being built on Ethereum. My kind of like a main point is that there's so much to do in Defi and just get this technology into adoption and the financial system Today is really, it's not really like up to date if you think about what will be the ideal financial infrastructure and you could just have a kind of like a blank paper where you can actually draw it. It won't be the same that what we are using today on a day to day basis. Well, I'm using more on chain day to day basis for me maybe it's more towards that direction, but I'm still not satisfied where we are. For example, payments could be on chain.
00:27:06.421 - 00:27:38.585, Speaker A: Privacy needs to be solved and I am actually also excited about privacy based defined that type of use cases as well. So there is a lot, a lot of things to be solved before we can see like commerce and payments moving more on chain. So that's the reason why I'm being vocal about the topic and also try to inspire other developers and new developers to actually build something really interesting and important in this category.
00:27:39.445 - 00:28:52.845, Speaker B: And to wrap up, I think it's also interesting to highlight that this kind of criticism to defi also comes at a time where the Ethereum and ETH holder community is especially sensitive I would say because of the underperformance of ETH versus other cryptocurrencies. And I think there's some kind of doubt on how the Ethereum layer one is working when it seems like L2s are being a bit parasitic to the layer ones because we're seeing all this activity on L2s but not a lot of that value is transferring or being reflected in layer one or on eth. So yeah, I wanted to get your thoughts on how can all this growing Defi ecosystem and activity reflect or how can ETH capture that value if everything is being built on L2s or most of it is happening on L2s?
00:28:53.305 - 00:30:14.069, Speaker A: Well, one interesting thing about the layer 2s is that they need to acquire ongoing basis the block space of layer one. So essentially they need to buy ETH, to spend it, to actually write storage into Ethereum. So I do think that's kind of like the idea of the more layer 2s. There are different use cases that's beneficial for Ethereum. So I do think that really works because that also helps to create L2s that can actually progress faster on some sort of areas where they want to experience more with let's say better account management that takes way longer time to actually adopt on layer one. So you can actually experiment more faster or you can create a L2 specifically for one type of Defi activity and optimize it really well or it can be just not necessarily like purely a roll up, but like a validium that for example we're doing with Lens Network where we're submitting the same transitions into Ethereum but using something else for storage. And also that's kind of a hybrid solution.
00:30:14.069 - 00:31:28.775, Speaker A: So all these kind of solutions are helpful for Ethereum and I just think it's more about, and I do think long term Ethereum is really a great solution, whatever you want to build and also scale down the line. And the roadmap is really interesting from scalability perspective. And the question is more than kind of like is this the final way of scaling or is there going to happen something else? For now it looks really good. But maybe one issue is that when we have all these networks, how we abstract that away from the user experience and make it more easier for users to interact with different L2s and kind of like how L2s can actually work together and make more seamless and maybe strengthen the Ethereum ecosystem by working together in overall. So it's, I do think there's value capture long term, so it's built in, but it's more about how to bring everyone closer together is kind of like more interesting topic to solve.
00:31:29.075 - 00:31:56.861, Speaker B: Sure. But just to clarify, do you think it's a matter of time then that Ethereum will start, you know, seeing this, this, this value being driven to the asset? I guess like as more and more activity happens on L2, Layer twos will have to buy more and more block space ON Ethereum layer 1 and that eventually will go to eth the asset.
00:31:57.053 - 00:33:08.235, Speaker A: Yeah. I also think the challenge is that a L2 that has a lot of traction can, you know, they can decide to move in other networks because at that point it's a question where they save the storage essentially and what execution layer there's going to be. So I think there might be cases where one particular network is big enough that maybe the most financially beneficial thing is actually not to pay storage to Ethereum. So that's kind of like a one challenge I would see, but I think it's all about how kind of like you can align as a community. Because Ethereum alignment doesn't necessarily mean that all these L2s need to align towards the Ethereum values, but also like how Ethereum can actually support all these builders at the same time that are really valuable for the whole ecosystem. And that's really interesting challenge in my opinion, especially because there's so many contributors.
00:33:09.415 - 00:33:20.755, Speaker B: Interesting. So yeah, to end up like, what would you like to see in terms of this alignment for defi to keep thriving on Ethereum.
00:33:22.175 - 00:34:28.425, Speaker A: I think there should be some sort of long term goal of where the L2 scaling is going to go and how these L2s are like what's the role of L2s, especially as they're starting to grow significantly. Or maybe the idea is that it can be chaotic so anything can happen and we can see where the direction is still open. I don't have really specific requests. I do think that regarding Defi that could be interesting anal 2 that is focusing on Defi specific optimized use cases and I think it makes sense. Obviously I'm worried about the user experience when users have to use multiple different networks, but I think that's also solvable. But overall I think we should keep a lot of attention in Defi and figure out how we make this technology more accessible to everyone and actually make this as a basis for financial infrastructure that we are using every day.
00:34:28.925 - 00:35:31.717, Speaker B: Absolutely awesome. Stani, thank you so much for taking the time to chat with me about this. I think it's a fascinating topic, not a straightforward one because I think we all want to see on chain applications on every different industry. But yeah, I think we were all at least like I was surprised to see that from Vitalik because I just think that Defi is still such an important use case and it needs to be solved and there's such huge potential for improving the world, for changing the world for better if we get this right. So I don't know, I think some, maybe to some like finance is a bit boring or like you know, not so impactful but I disagree. Like I think it, I mean I think finance has the chance to make the biggest impact in the world so I'm super excited to see it.
00:35:31.901 - 00:35:34.905, Speaker A: I agree, I agree. I think the same way.
00:35:35.325 - 00:35:37.025, Speaker B: Awesome Sunny, thanks again.
00:35:37.485 - 00:35:38.409, Speaker A: Thank you so much.
00:35:38.517 - 00:35:38.665, Speaker B: It.
