00:00:05.450 - 00:00:40.358, Speaker A: Hello, Smartcon. Good morning from Melbourne in Australia. My name is Mark Richardson. For those of you who haven't met me before, I'm the research lead at Bancor. And for today's presentation, I thought that we would have a quick look at why I think that the Bancorp and the Chainlink communities have such a high affinity for each. So we're going to be exploring a little bit about Bancor's past, and then also talking about some things that we have in the future and how Chainlink is a part of that future. So to start the story, we need to actually go back in time to about April of last year.
00:00:40.358 - 00:01:31.390, Speaker A: And this is when Bancor first announced its version two. And this had a very, very strong integration with Chainlink price Oracles. The mission statement for Bancorp version two was to really try and alleviate four of the main pain points that we saw for the use of amms by sort of everyday people. And these are exposure to something called impermanent loss, the requisite or the involuntary requirement to be exposed to multiple items at once. Capital inefficiency, which, of course, something that the rest of the industry has kind of cotton on to since, and also the opportunity cost of providing liquidity. So, to tackle that with our version two, we introduced something called liquidity amplification. So, this is just a standard chart.
00:01:31.390 - 00:02:38.490, Speaker A: I'm sure most people will recognize this as a bonding curve, which has this kind of lovely hyperbolic curve to it. And what we did was that we amplified that by 20 x. So in April of last year, we were calling this liquidity amplification. But, of course, there have been several iterations on this idea, and the industry has kind of adopted the term concentrated liquidity to describe precisely the same thing. How Chainlink was involved in this particular implementation of concentrated liquidity was that as traders were moving the price by exploring the curve in both the left and right directions, a chain link, Oracle would basically read that current price and then adjust the weight of the pool accordingly. So we were using something called the strong invariant, which is slightly different to regular constant product. But for those of you who are already using other amplified curve liquidity protocols, you can think of this as using a chainlink oracle to automatically unstake liquidity and then restake it back in range every single block.
00:02:38.490 - 00:03:41.890, Speaker A: So this was a hyper automated version of the concentrated liquidity model, and it was completely dynamic. As the price moved around the chain link, Oracle would constantly readjust. So that sounds amazing, and I still think that it is one of the most beautiful Amm designs that's ever been. But it was ultimately unsustainable. And I think that we can learn something together by sort of having a quick look at what the problem was, especially because I think that there are new projects that are stumbling into this space and with sort of naive expectations for how automation plugs into amplified liquidity models. So if you think about the blockchain and the fact that the Chainlink oracle is always acting on a particular block, that block is going to be influenced by the blocks that preceded it. This is part of the information that the chainlink oracle is responding to, as well as, of course, outside information coming from sophisticated market makers.
00:03:41.890 - 00:04:56.490, Speaker A: But really, the problem isn't with how the chainlink oracles operate, or even the design of the system. The problem is the adversaries that can predict exactly what that system is going to do. So what we saw was that the opportunists that would usually arbitrage the pools to keep them in balance now have an incentive to unbalance the pools, so that after the oracle performs a particular action, then they can extract additional value from the system. So really, I think that the adversarial nature of Ethereum is something that people have dramatically underestimated. And this kind of concentrated liquidity approach, even combined with automation, it is a problem, the scale of which I think is lost on many people that are stumbling into this for the first time. So I thought that being a conference for blockchain and for Chainlink integrations, this is something that I don't want to see forgotten. I think that it's very easy to make these same mistakes again and to sort of have a look at what Bancorp did as the original pioneers of concentrated liquidity models, and how to automate these processes.
00:04:56.490 - 00:05:59.854, Speaker A: Don't repeat the mistakes that we made. There's going to be new ways that this model can be improved, and it's worth studying the past in order to not see those issues come to fruition again. The good news is that these challenges are totally surmountable. We never actually stopped our collaboration with Chainlink on this model. And where I am at least completely convinced that Bancorp version two has not been put away for good, there will be future implementations of the protocol, maybe even on other chains, that will allow the original design to be implemented and work exactly as intended. So even though that model didn't work, our communities have remained really close ever since. And I think that what Bangkok did next, with its release of Bancorp version 2.1
00:05:59.854 - 00:06:59.186, Speaker A: in October of 2020, really spoke specifically to the values of the chain link community. And that's why they kind of stuck around, even though we weren't really using the chain link price feeds at that time. So with version 2.1, we're really focusing on just two of those mission statements that we set out to address with our version two. And this is the exposure to impermanent loss and the involuntary requirement to take exposure to multiple assets simultaneously. So, if you think about your typical chainlink holder, right, I'd say that there's sort of two characteristics that I hope everyone in this conference will agree that most of these token holders subscribe to. One is that they absolutely believe that the token will outperform the market, right, in terms of its valuation over time.
00:06:59.186 - 00:08:05.750, Speaker A: And then the other characteristic is that they are extremely loyal to their project, and if possible, they would rather not hold much else other than the chainlink token itself. Or at least that they find the idea that they're going to be forced to rebalance their portfolio to have less chainlink in it is just unacceptable. And so, if you're providing liquidity to Amms, this can be problematic, because both of these values are actually working against you in the status quo. First of all, if you need to hold two tokens at once, and you need to hold these in equal proportion, then your portfolio, or at least the part that you're providing liquidity with, can be at maximum 50% chain link. And that's going to constantly rebalance as the prices move around. On Bancor version 2.1, you can provide liquidity with just one token, and you're not required to relinquish any of that portfolio exposure to Chainlink in order to participate in the platform.
00:08:05.750 - 00:09:09.260, Speaker A: And so I think that this is one of the things that Chainlink enthusiasts really saw value in, and which is why they've continued to hang around and why our communities have remained so close. Of course, the other thing is price exposure. So, Chainlink has this habit of going sort of parabolic compared to other tokens that you might be otherwise providing liquidity with. And this is unfortunate if you are holding both of those tokens at once, and if you're providing liquidity with them for two different reasons. One is that all of the tokens that you held that weren't Chainlink are obviously not going up as fast as Chainlink is going up. So you might regret that you weren't holding more chainlink. It's something of a meme now to say, can you ever truly hold enough Chainlink? The other problem is that because the other asset that you're providing liquidity with hasn't appreciated as fast as the chain link has, then you actually end up holding less money overall than if you hadn't provided liquidity at all.
00:09:09.260 - 00:09:47.720, Speaker A: So this is a price chart that I've taken from. I think this is the sushi swap data. So this is over the entire history of sushi swap starting in October 2020 and extending to today. So this is the impermanent loss versus wrapping on the link pool. And I'm not bashing sushi swap here. You could have chosen any amm where link is paid to eat to get this result. And so you can see that if you had started to provide liquidity at that point, and this is just an arbitrary point, I just chose it because it was the dawn of their project.
00:09:47.720 - 00:10:40.794, Speaker A: You can see that liquidity providers would actually be down about 10% relative to doing nothing at all. And I find that unacceptable, right. That a liquidity provider has provided value to the DFI economy should expect to receive some value from it. And so the fact that on a standard amm, that you can actually have less value after performing this activity than had you not performed that activity at all is counterintuitive to me. So on Bancor, you don't have to make that concession. This difference in the chasm between the impermanent loss of providing liquidity and doing nothing at all disappears on version 2.1. So if you had provided liquidity on Bangkok when it launched in October of last year, you would actually be 5% up as opposed to something like 15% down.
00:10:40.794 - 00:11:32.780, Speaker A: And I hear sometimes that we should think of this as a trivial difference, but I don't think 15% is trivial at all. And apparently the chain link community doesn't either, because we've now attracted something like a quarter of a billion dollars in liquidity, and we're still providing BNT rewards on the link side. And so this is still, I think, one of the best earning opportunities for Chainlink in the ecosystem. And so for these reasons, the chainlink community has certainly hung around, I think with good justification. Okay, so that's enough about the past. What I really want to focus on now is the future. For anyone that's been hanging around in our social channels, you'll know that we've started alluding to the idea that we're building a new system.
00:11:32.780 - 00:12:33.502, Speaker A: And so this is our version three. I'm not going to be able to discuss version three in detail on this call, unfortunately. But I am going to give some more breadcrumbs as to what its functionality is going to be like, and certainly nothing that we've spoken about in public anywhere else. So with version three, we're really returning to these original mission statements for what we set out to do with version two. So if we can strike off exposure to unemployment or lost into multiple assets as being completely solved, then one of the things that you might want to talk about then is capital efficiency. How is capital efficiency going to be a part of these three? Well, I don't actually think that the thought leaders in this space have a very good position on what capital efficiency is or how it affects market participants. This is just some simple math that you can do on excel if you want to model this for yourself.
00:12:33.502 - 00:13:40.180, Speaker A: But I want to make the point that blowing up the curves like this and calling it efficient doesn't necessarily mean it is efficient. So the C factor that I've introduced here just makes the curve get larger and larger. And it's usually peddled that because of this stretching of the curve, that means that there's less slippage on the trades and that makes it more capital efficient. But what I want you to realize, and why I encourage you to take those equations and plug them into excel and explore it for yourself, is that what you're actually measuring with this amplification factor is the proportion of the slippage that's paid by the liquidity provider rather than the trader. So these blown up curves, what they're really doing is selling tokens at a discount and then asking liquidity providers to pay for that discount. This can actually be, it can work. But what you're risking is that the demand for that activity is outstripped by the cost of supporting it.
00:13:40.180 - 00:14:48.662, Speaker A: So the question that I want to ask with these blown up amm curves in general is, for whom is this more efficient? Right? Because from my perspective, it doesn't look like liquidity providers are getting a very good deal. So I'd say it's still an open question in the space as to whether or not capital efficiency has a good answer. But I do think that there are components of capital efficiency, or better ways to look at it that Bancorp version three actually is going to be addressing. And this is the opportunity cost of providing liquidity. So I know many people in the chain link space are super excited to stake their Chainlink tokens explicitly on Chainlink and provide part of that crypto economic security. And that means that Chainlink community members now have this choice, right? Are they going to provide chain link tokens to an AmM or to a lending protocol, or are they going to participate in explicit staking? So with Bancorp version three, you won't have to make that choice. We want to make sure that you can provide liquidity and do explicit staking at the same time using the same app.
00:14:48.662 - 00:15:43.850, Speaker A: And so for me, that's a much better description of capital efficiency, right? The ability to do two things at once with the same capital and without having to expose liquidity providers to the risk of selling tokens at a discount, I think is a much more sustainable way to ensure that liquidity providers remain profitable into the future. I'd say that as well, that this is not necessarily something that has come directly from us. We are actually listening to the chain link community. This is something that was actually asked for by a prominent chain link community member, Jiminy Crypto, and you can read his proposal that he published to our discourse. This is still in the early phases. He didn't know about version three at this point, so the description there might not accurately reflect exactly how it's going to be implemented. But rest assured, this is something that we are absolutely committed to and we're really excited to see launch.
00:15:43.850 - 00:17:18.120, Speaker A: This is also coming back to a concept that Dan Alitzer has called superfluid collateral, and there is a lot in this medium post, and I strongly recommend that you read the whole thing, that he has points both for and against using this type of system. But I do agree with the conclusion that there is a very compelling argument to being able to use capital in more than one way simultaneously, and that that is likely to be the thing that kind of makes defi that really breaks that capital efficiency mold and really makes the whole process of providing liquidity, or what we call liquidity or collateral, much more general. Right? I think at the end of the day, people really just want to know that when they stake their tokens that it is doing something useful and that they are earning money for providing that service. And at Bancor, we really want to make sure that you have the easiest, simplest, and safest way of doing that. So just really quickly. I know I'm already slightly over time here, but just to let everyone know that we are very excited to rekindle our relationship with the Chainlink team and start integrating that technology again. It's been an awkward hiatus for us with the launch of version 2.1,
00:17:18.120 - 00:18:03.654, Speaker A: but with the chain link technology starting to come back into our protocol, we're absolutely confident that we've got a bright future in front of us. I can announce today on this call that the chain link keepers will be integrated with V three from day one. And as more features for V three come online, I've only discussed. I haven't even discussed 1% of what version three is right now. I've only discussed just this skin deep part of it as it relates to the chain link community. But as more and more of these features come online, things that I haven't even spoken about, just know that those features at the moment assume that Bancor is going to further integrate with Chainlink into the future. So thank you so much.
00:18:03.654 - 00:18:31.150, Speaker A: I really hope that you found this sort of interesting and informative. If you want to reach out to me privately, you can feel free to contact me via any of these channels. I also encourage anyone who is interested in what we're doing to join the Bancorp community calls. These are announced by the Bancorp Twitter, and at this point, I think I'll end the call because I'm already way over. And I apologize, Andy, for taking up too much time.
00:18:31.300 - 00:18:51.620, Speaker B: No apologies necessary. What else is there to say? I'm going to have the same reaction the community is having. I'm very excited to hear this news and very much appreciate your time. Mark, I'd like to get together with you once these things go live and talk more about that. So let's do that. Thank you so much for your time and getting up early out there in Australia. We'll talk to you again later.
