00:00:03.530 - 00:00:18.270, Speaker A: Hey everyone, just a quick note before today's recap that I need to take a bit of a health sabbatical. So Michael Del Castillo will be filling in for me on the weekly recaps during that time. I'm so grateful to Michael that he could do this and I'm sure you'll love him. Now over to Michael.
00:00:18.690 - 00:01:42.670, Speaker B: Hello and thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. This week, the US. Securities and Exchange Commission announced its intention to appeal a partial defeat in its ongoing case against Ripple Labs. The regulator will seek an interlocutory appeal, meaning the rest of the case will continue as planned, specifically targeting the part of the decision related to the sales of XRP on exchanges and other distributions, including offers and sales of XRP using algorithms also known as programmatic sales. In July, Judge Annalisa Torres ruled that some of Ripple's programmatic sales did not violate securities laws, while direct sales to institutional investors were in fact securities. In a letter to the judge overseeing the case, SEC Deputy Chief of Crypto Assets Jorge Tenrero argued that the review, happening at the same time as the case, would, quote, advance the termination of this litigation in an efficient manner, which his lawyers speak for not waste any time. Tenreiro proposed that Ripple should have until August 16 to respond, with the SEC filing an opening brief two days later, Gary DeWalt, senior counsel at the Catton law Firm, told crypto news site The Block that it, quote, would not be surprising if Ripple makes a similar request, end quote, regarding institutional sales.
00:01:42.670 - 00:03:02.754, Speaker B: The appeal process requires approval from the United States District Court, southern District of New York, and the Court of Appeals, followed by permission from the Second Circuit. In a week filled with legal developments surrounding the crypto exchange, FTX former co CEO Ryan Solame is negotiating a guilty plea with federal prosecutors for alleged offenses, including campaign finance law violations, according to a Bloomberg report. It's unclear whether or not Solomon's plea could involve testimony against former FTX CEO Sam Bankman Fried, whose criminal trial is set for October. Bankman Fried himself faces legal challenges. In a letter on August eigth, the Department of justice confirmed Bankman Fried will face campaign finance related charges and Sino Global Capital, a crypto VC, has filed a $67 million claim against FTX and sister company Alameda. A federal judge has set a hearing for August 11 to consider revoking Bankman Fried's bail, potentially moving him from house arrest to jail in New York. Adding to the complexity, the New York Times and separately, Harvard law professor Lawrence Tribe have argued that Sam Bankman Fried's gag order should be lifted, according to a report by the Bloc over the weekend.
00:03:02.754 - 00:04:09.174, Speaker B: In an affidavit dated August 1, Tride argued that Bankman Fried has a constitutional right to speak to the media, stating, quote, the order effectively precludes Mr. Bankman Fried from saying anything that might influence the public's perception of him in ways that could help make the presumption of his innocence more than a slogan. End quote. In an August 2 letter, the Deputy General Counsel for the Times, David McGraw, also opposed the gag order, citing public interest and First Amendment rights. The crypto community is closely watching the SEC as it reviews applications for spot bitcoin exchange traded funds or ETFs. CEO of Galaxy Digital, Mike Novogratz reportedly expressed optimism on an earning call, stating that approval is a question of quote when, not if, end quote and that he expects a decision within six months. Investment managers BlackRock and Investco have amended their filings to include surveillance sharing agreements with Coinbase, a move seen as crucial for approval.
00:04:09.174 - 00:05:13.706, Speaker B: Meanwhile, CEO of Ark Invest, Kathy Wood, anticipates another delay for ARC's proposed Spot Bitcoin ETF, optimistically suggesting that the SEC may approve multiple ETFs simultaneously, though of course, another possibility is the latest batch of Bitcoin Spot ETF applications gets shot down just like all the others. Global X has also refiled its application, marking the 9th active Spot Bitcoin application. The anticipation has triggered cautions, excitement and speculation, with decisions expected as soon as this week. However, nonprofit markets watchdog Better Markets urged the SEC to reject spot Bitcoin ETF applications, citing ongoing concerns about investor harm and potential criminal activities. Elsewhere. The US. Federal Reserve has unveiled a new supervision program to oversee banks engaged with crypto assets and any of a variety of distributed ledger technologies, including blockchain.
00:05:13.706 - 00:06:22.950, Speaker B: According to a statement from the Central Bank's Board of Governors, the program will be integrated into the existing supervisory process, with experts designated to work with banks involved in these quote, novel activities. The degree of supervision will be risk based, presumably meaning the more contact with crypto, the more requirements and certain banks will be routinely monitored depending on their engagement level. State banks wishing to venture into dollar token or stablecoin activity must receive written non objection from the Federal Reserve. The Central Bank's guidance emphasizes the need for appropriate risk management, including systems to identify and monitor potential risks, such as cybersecurity and illicit finance threats. While some on social media have portrayed the program as, quote, legitimizing the technology, by now it should be clear to anyone who has been paying attention to similar programs announced by the SEC over the years that having a path to compliance is no guarantee of approval. MakerDAO's decentralized Dai Liquidity Market. Spark protocol has restricted access to us.
00:06:22.950 - 00:08:07.506, Speaker B: Based users and just in case anyone else using a virtual private network or VPN to cover their tracks sparking criticism from privacy advocates. The move coincides with the implementation of an enhanced Dai Savings Rate, or EDSR, temporarily raising the Dai Savings Rate DSR to 8% in order to incentivize higher participation. MakerDAO founder Runa Christensen has since proposed reducing the EDSR to a maximum value of only 5%, though still higher than the original amount, citing unintended consequences of the rate being exploited by large scale ethereum whales the proposal also aims to ensure the EDSR benefits regular Dai users rather than just the richest investors. The changes in the Dai savings rate in the VPN blockade have ignited debates on the sustainability of such an offer, concerns about the decentralization of the matter and the balance between profit and principle within the crypto community. WorldCoin The Eyeball scanning crypto project launched by Openaico Sam Altman has faced a series of challenges this week following the Kenyan government's suspension of the company's activities to assess the legality and data protection. Nairobi police raided a World Coin warehouse, seizing documents and machines for examination, according to Kenya news site Kahawa Tungo. Kenya's Office of Data Protection Commissioner Immaculate Kaset told local news site KTN News that her team had asked WorldCoin parent company, Tools for Humanity to stop collecting personal information.
00:08:07.506 - 00:09:11.466, Speaker B: In May. Meanwhile, in Bavaria, Germany, the Data Protection Authority said it was still reviewing the project when it went live on Monday. Worldcoin's mobile app also experienced some technical difficulties limiting users'access to wallets with the support team attributing the issue. To quote, higher than usual traffic in New York The Attorney General of New York is probing Digital Currency Group, or DCG, over its financial dealings with its subsidiary, Genesis Global Capital, according to a Bloomberg report. The investigation, which has not been officially confirmed at the time of the report, is said to focus on loans and transactions between DCG and Genesis, including a $575,000,000 loan accepted by DCG from Genesis last year. The New York Attorney General's office, led by Attorney General Letitia James, is reportedly also concerned about the $1.1 billion promissory note declared by DCG CEO Barry Silbert.
00:09:11.466 - 00:10:08.400, Speaker B: The probe is part of a broader examination into crypto lending, raising questions about consumer protection, market manipulation and systemic risk. While no formal complaints have been issued, the SEC and federal prosecutors are also reportedly examining the firm. DCG told Bloomberg it is working with regulators and investigators, emphasizing that the transactions were conducted according to standard market procedures. Crypto Exchange Huobi has been embroiled in controversy this week as rumors of insolvency and police investigations circulate. Data from Nansen shows over $40 million worth of outflows from the exchange in the last week, with total value locked, dropping to $2.5 billion. The outflows followed social media posts claiming that senior executives were being arrested by Chinese police and allegations of money laundering involving Kwobi and Tron founder Justin Sun.
00:10:08.400 - 00:11:21.514, Speaker B: Analyst Adam Cochrane claims Kwobi is likely insolvent, pointing to a rapid sell off of the stablecoin USDT and a discrepancy in the stablecoin's reserves. Huobi's head of social media, on the other hand, said, quote this malicious rumor has been confirmed untrue, and Huobi is currently doing well, end quote. Despite the denial, the situation led to a sizable drop in Huobi global's stablecoin exchange balance in the past week. On Tuesday, an address reportedly related to sun transferred 200 million USDT and 5000 ETH into Huobi, though a Huobi spokesperson denied sun's link to the addresses. The unfolding situation has raised concerns and debates within the crypto community. Opnx, a digital asset exchange founded by the creators of the defunct hedge fund Three Arrows Capital, or Three AC, has bid to acquire the bankrupt crypto lender Hodlnot. The offer includes a $30 million capital injection of Opnx's native Flex tokens, which would result in Opnx owning 75% of Hodlenot.
00:11:21.514 - 00:12:25.494, Speaker B: Flex, however, is one of two tokens associated with Opnx, which was originally named GTX after its similarities to the defunct FTX. The bid comes not only as Hodlnaut's restructuring plan comes under court supervision in Singapore, but as US. Courts seek a response from Three AC cofounder kyle Davies curve Finance, the decentralized finance platform that lost over $60 million in a recent exploit, has opened a $1.85 million bounty to the public to identify the hacker after the hacker partially returned stolen funds to other affected protocols, but not to Curve. The platform extended the bounty, initially offered only to the hacker, to anyone who could lead to a conviction. The hacker had previously written, quote, I'm refunding not because you can find me, it's because I don't want to ruin your project. Anyone looking for a laugh today, something a little on the lighter side should tune in to hear stand up comedian Jenny Hogan.
00:12:25.494 - 00:12:35.534, Speaker B: Elucidate elon Musk confirming there will be no cryptocurrency for X, formerly known as Twitter. That's all for this week. Looking forward to seeing you next week.
00:12:35.652 - 00:13:02.994, Speaker C: Prominent dogecoin accounts are warning people to be wary of news that Twitter X is launching its own cryptocurrency. Elon has said he's never going to launch one. So these stories are all fake, which should be obvious from the fact that they have about 50,000 likes on X.com. Actually, though, Elon didn't say I'll never launch an X token. He said, we'll never launch an X token, which is really inspiring. I didn't realize there were still people working at X. Honestly, I also think the news of no X token itself is promising.
00:13:02.994 - 00:13:35.840, Speaker C: Maybe Elon plans on shutting down the whole site. Why doesn't Elon want X to have its own cryptocurrency? Well, not to brag, but the website formerly known as Twitter actually doesn't need to get into crypto to lose a ton of money. Elon is also enmeshed in a multimillion dollar insider trading lawsuit over the time that he changed the Twitter logo to the dogecoin shiba enu dog investors have accused Musk of doing it deliberately to drive up the price of dogecoin 36,000% and then let it crash. Wow, he has a real pattern. That's exactly what he did with Twitter, except for the part where he drove the price up.
00:13:36.610 - 00:13:50.610, Speaker A: Thanks so much for joining us today. Unchained is produced by me laura Shin wolf up from Kevin Fuchs, Matt Pilchard, Zach Stewart, Juan Aranovich, sam Sriram, ginny Hogan Leandra Camino Pama Jimdar Shashank and Margaret Korea thanks for listening.
