00:00:01.770 - 00:01:38.918, Speaker A: Because we launch all of these data related oracle networks, these compute related oracle networks, we have basically amassed a number of integrations and those live integrations that secure tens of billions of dollars in value today and power the majority of the financial contracts on many different chains and the majority of the various, even gaming implementations on many different chains. Those are time tested and proven, and they're hardened through collaboration with actually the core developers of those chains because the core developers of those chains would like those services in their ecosystem. So the maintenance of a chain link integration into a chain is actually quite useful for the target blockchain because it allows them to have many different decentralized services that their developer ecosystem needs. And the developer ecosystem of a chain is actually the real measure of that chain at this point in the blockchain industry's evolution. So as we continually launch and provide hundreds and thousands of these decentralized oracle network trust minimized services that power all of these different smart contracts, we also accrue a greater amount of integrated chains that are hardened and maintained by a collection of developers that not only use those integrations, but also even the core development team of those chains that needs those integrations to be properly maintained for all the key services that their ecosystem is getting. And this creates a kind of focal point through which all transactions and all commands from enterprise back ends can flow. And this really benefits everybody.
00:01:38.918 - 00:01:59.020, Speaker A: It benefits blockchains because they now have an efficient mechanism to get a large flow of commands and enterprise events. And the enterprises benefit because they don't want to learn ten or 15 blockchains every quarter. They just want to conduct transactions in the environment that their counterparty would like to conduct those transactions in with them.
