00:00:00.520 - 00:00:26.394, Speaker A: Okay. Welcome, everyone, to the fields number three seminar. This is only the second talk in the seminar. We just started the seminar last week. Michael Harris from Columbia gave a talk today. We're very pleased to have Rituvuta Munshi from the Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata. Ritav Ruth is a very well known analytic number theorist, famous for his theorems on subconvexity pounds for various L functions.
00:00:26.394 - 00:01:19.070, Speaker A: He's joining us now from Calcutta, where I understand it's in the middle of a big storm, and it's also 1030 in the evening for you. So thanks for joining us for this. To the people listening, the audience, let me say that the seminar has a little bit different format because we want to make it as accessible as possible, especially to young researchers and students. So each speaker gives in advance of their seminar talk, gives a particular talk, which gives the background so people can review that and become familiar a little bit with the ideas and so that they can get more of the actual talk. So I hope you've taken advantage of the talk that Ritavata has posted. And so now maybe he will tell us about circle method. And subconsciously, I suggest that we will handle questions at the end.
00:01:19.070 - 00:01:34.672, Speaker A: And what you do is just put them in chat, and I will try to direct them to Ritavrata. If they're not too many, if it's not overwhelming, then I will just ask the person who's asking the question to, you know, pose it themselves, and then we can have a discussion on that.
00:01:34.728 - 00:01:35.324, Speaker B: Good.
00:01:35.624 - 00:01:37.324, Speaker A: Okay, thanks, Ritavada, please.
00:01:37.864 - 00:02:30.146, Speaker B: Thank you. Thanks. So let me begin by thanking Kumar for his kind invitation and for the Phils Institute for hosting this seminar series online. So I'm going to talk about circle method and an application of the circle method to get subconvex bound for certain L functions. So, in the first few slides, I'm going to run through some preliminaries about automorphic forms on gl two and gl three. I'll talk about what they are, the L functions related to that and some Voronoi summation formula, Kuznetsov formula. And next, I will move to describing what called the Rankine Selbergel functions, which are convolutions of gl three and gl two modular forms.
00:02:30.146 - 00:03:16.746, Speaker B: And then I will describe a new result, sub convexity, about gl three cross gl two rank in self functions. And finally, I'll give a complete proof of one of one such result. Okay, so let me start by telling you what or recalling what gl two forms are. So let f is a heca modular form or mass forms. There are two different types of forms for gl two. One are holomorphic, they are called modular forms and r1 analytic, they are called mass forms and so fz, if it's holomorphic, then it will have a Fourier expansion like this. So it's n to the power k minus one by two lambda fnz.
00:03:16.746 - 00:04:08.830, Speaker B: And here ez for us is e to the power two PI I z. This is the standard notation for iot number theories. And if it is f is a mass form with spectral parameter tau, then it will have a Fourier expansion which will look like this, where here k is a Bessel function, the k Bessel function. Okay, okay, z here is x plus iy is a point in the upper half plane. So the mass forms and modular forms are functions in the upper half plane satisfying certain transformation property with respect to some discrete subgroup of sl to z. And so I normalized lambda fn in such a way, these expansions in such a way that the lambda fns, which are now hector normalized through your coefficients so that the value of lambda f at one is one. And so these are hecked forms.
00:04:08.830 - 00:04:39.204, Speaker B: So with respect to the heck y operator, tn tnf is lambda fn times f. So lambda fn are the hecke eigenvalues for the nth heck operator, and says that the ramanujan bound in this case will be that lambda fn is bounded by n to the power epsilon. So for modular form, it is known that this holds. This is the work due to deline. And for mass forms you expect such a bound, though it's not really known. So so far. Right.
00:04:39.204 - 00:05:42.864, Speaker B: So what is this spectral parameter tau? So for mass form, this is delta is the laplace n on the upper half plane. So delta f is one quarter plus tau squared f. So one quarter plus tau square is the eigenvalue for the Laplacian. So if when f is a mass form, it's actually Hecker mass form, then it's eigenfunctions of all the Hekker operators and also the Laplacian operator. Now, given such a modular form or mass form, we associate an l function to it and that defined by this Dirichlet series. So you take those normalized Fourier coefficient lambda f n and divide by into the power s some over n, since the standard drish less series. And so, as you're assuming that lambda again values if f is a hexagon form, there are some multiplicity conditions on lambda fn, and the Dirichlet series is also given by this Euler product.
00:05:42.864 - 00:06:16.986, Speaker B: Okay, and it's a, you can see it's a degree two Euler product. So the psi over here is the nibbin tipus of f. So, right. And then we can factorize this degree two Weller factor into two linear factors, and we get this local parameters alpha f one and alpha f two. Okay, so lsf. The l function has an integral representation. So it can be written as a Mellan integral of the actual form f.
00:06:16.986 - 00:07:26.534, Speaker B: And from this we can derive that this l function is enter. So it has an analytic continuation to all of c without any pole, and it satisfies a functional equation which looks like this. So if you multiply lsf with a suitable gamma factor which looks like this, when f is holomorphic and k is the weight of the form f, or if f is mass, then the gamma factor looks like this, where delta over here is zero and one depending on whether the mass form you're looking at is even mass form or odd mass form. And then if you complete the l function by multiplying this by the suitable power factor, and here n is the level of the form, and you multiply by n to the power s by two, then this completed l function is related. The value of this at s is related to the value of the dual form f bar at one minus f one minus s. Okay? And then this epsilon f is what's called the root number. It's the sign of the functional equation.
00:07:26.534 - 00:07:55.434, Speaker B: So absolute value of that is one. And for n squared free. Actually, you can write it down explicitly. And for holomorphic forms, it looks like this. It's I to the power minus k, where k is the weight. The conjugate of the nth non coefficient for f and g psi is the Gauss sum for the nebulant difference by square root of n. So this has absolute value one for n squared.
00:07:55.434 - 00:08:32.742, Speaker B: Right. For this Fourier coefficients, we have what's called the Bronois summation formula. And I'm writing the pronoise summation formula for the simplest case. So, this has a Fourier coefficient lambda fn and the additive character en by q. In the simplest case, we assume that this denominator q of the additive character is divisible by the level of the form n. So n divides q. If n divides q, then the prono summation formula says that this sum over here is equal to this sum over there.
00:08:32.742 - 00:09:07.776, Speaker B: Okay, so here g is going to be a nice function. You can think of it as a bound function supported between capital n and y s n. And on this side you have this. A n gets transformed into minus a bar n, where a bar is the multiplicative inverse of a modulo q. So I'm assuming that a and q are co prime. So this fraction over here is reduced. And on this side, we have the Henkel transform of the function g.
00:09:07.776 - 00:09:53.504, Speaker B: So jk minus one is the Bessel function j Bessel function of order k minus one. And we have such formula. Even in the case where n does not divide q, then it looks a little complicated. In that case, there are certain situation where we may not have such a nice formulas. For example, if, you know, if n is a square and the part of, say, if n is p squared and p divides q, but p squared doesn't divide q, then the formula is not really that clear. And it's not clear and also such a formula. So I'm writing this down for modular form.
00:09:53.504 - 00:10:21.604, Speaker B: This k over here is the weight of the modular form, but such a formula is also there for mass forms. I'm not going to write it down explicitly here. So this is a summation formula for the Fourier coefficients of a holomorphic form. And there is another summation formula that I want to recall over here. Is that. So? Here I'm summing over n. The form is fixed.
00:10:21.604 - 00:11:02.874, Speaker B: And here I have two Fourier coefficients, lambda fn and lambda fn, with the same form f. The n and m are fixed. These are two positive integers which are fixed. The form is varying. And here I'm taking the space of is a basis, or hecker basis of modular forms of level n, even tsi and weight k and wf inverse is what's called the spectral parameter. So it will basically have, it's more or less like one by the Peterson norm of the form f. And then this average is equal to delta of n minus n and plus this side.
00:11:02.874 - 00:12:01.050, Speaker B: And here j is again the j Bessel function that we had in the coronary formula over here. And now we have this sum over here, which is the clusterman sum simncn, and the delta is the Kronecker delta function. So delta of any integer is either zero or one delta of zero is one, and it is zero for all nonzero integer n. Okay? So if you closely look at this, then you will see that here one by omega f, one by w, f is of size, one by k n. And as we have normalized the Fourier coefficients, this lambda fn and lambda fn are more or less like one. So on the left hand side, you have a sum like this. The size of these things over here are one by kn, roughly speaking.
00:12:01.050 - 00:12:36.780, Speaker B: And on this side, you have the clusterman sum. The world bound for the clusterman sum is square root of cn. And then you have cn over here. And the size of the bessel function is like one by square root of the order k. And so if I look at the block where small c is like capital c, so small c is between capital c and twice capital c, then this is the size of the terms that I have here. And if I sum over c, then I get square root of c by square root of n k. So now, so this part, your number of f is also like k times n.
00:12:36.780 - 00:13:04.344, Speaker B: So this is like one. And this is, this part is like square root of c by square root of n k. Okay, so a sum of length n k, because that is the number of forms that you had is. So the saving that I have is from one. It goes to this. So the saving is square root of n k by square root of c. And so that is same thing as the square root of the initial length by the square root of the final length.
00:13:04.344 - 00:13:45.900, Speaker B: So that's something I wanted to recall over here. If you have looked at my prep talk, I've stressed on the fact that whenever you have a summation formula like this, the saving that you get, the saving. By saving, I mean that if I estimate the left hand side trivially and the right hand side trivially, the ratio of the size of the left hand side by the size of the right hand side is the saving that I get from the summation formula. And it's always going to be the square root of the initial length by square root of the final length. Okay, that's true for hormonal summation formula. That's true even for the Peterson transformula. All right, so now let me move towards mass forms.
00:13:45.900 - 00:14:46.184, Speaker B: And as we all know, that mass forms are more mysterious. And. But there is a wild law which guarantees the existence of mass forms. And the wildlife says that if I am looking at all mass forms of level n, and if I take the spectral parameter between capital t and capital t plus one, then that there are roughly capital n times capital t, many mass forms with spectral parameter between t and t plus one. So that is same thing as saying over here that there's k times n, roughly k times n many forms in this space. It's the size of the basis of the space of all class forms of level n, even to the psi and weight kick that nk and nt nt is analog that nk okay. And so here also, I also already mentioned that there is analog of corona summation formula.
00:14:46.184 - 00:15:13.394, Speaker B: And there is also an analog of the kuznets of tress formula in this case. And it the Petersen trace formula. It's called the kuznets of tres formula. And it's slightly complicated, as you can see that you have here. So these are the spectral weights now. And again we have the Fourier coefficients. Now we have an extra contribution coming from the non holomorphic Eisenstein series over here.
00:15:13.394 - 00:15:56.474, Speaker B: And then I have this diagonal term again, the conical delta function times h. H is some sort of, you know, taking care of the mass coming from the function h. So h is up to you to choose. If you choose any reasonable function satisfying certain condition, then you have such a formula. And again, we have this close toman sums, and instead of the Bessel function, we have some integral transformation function. So this is an analog of the Peterson formula, slightly more complicated. Again, if you want to see what this formula is doing, the saving that you get is again, square root of the initial length by square root of the final length.
00:15:56.474 - 00:16:30.104, Speaker B: And the formula is dissolving the Fourier coefficients and giving you a delta symbol, which is the diagonal contribution, and close Riemann sums. So it's basically reducing from a gl two harmonic to a gl one harmony. All right. So now let's move to gl three musforms, which are much more complicated and so complicated that I will not be able to write them down explicitly. So I'm just going to say that. Okay. So for simplicity, I'm going to stick to level one.
00:16:30.104 - 00:17:13.386, Speaker B: So I'm looking at heck and mass forms for sl three z only and not congruent subgroups of sl three z. And they have a Whitaker Fourier expansion, which looks like this. So these are the Whitaker Fourier coefficients of the form capital f and times there will be like, in the case of gl two, we had a k vessel function. Or here we'll have an analog of the k vessel function that's called a jacket reticle function. It's slightly complicated, so I'm not going to write it down, but what I want to write. So now what is z is not on the upper half plane anymore. So z is something in gl three r by o three r cross.
00:17:13.386 - 00:17:50.598, Speaker B: Okay, so this is the orthogonal group, and this is the three by three real invertible matrices. So if you replace three by two here, then you get the upper half plane. So this is the generalization of the upper half plane. Okay. And here the lambda fn are the hecker normalized Fourier coefficients. And again, it means that lambda f eleven is one and lambda f m one is the eigen value for the hecker operator ta. Also, we have the associated l function, which is again given by Adrischle series, which looks like this.
00:17:50.598 - 00:18:22.014, Speaker B: Now, lambda f one n by n to the power s. So you keep fix one of them to be just one, coefficient to be just one. So m is equal to one. And now again, we have the hectare relations, which reduces this Dirichlet series to an Euler product, which is now degree three because it's coming from gl three. So it's a degree three Euler product. And thing is that for a real part of s greater than one, both the duration series and the Euler product converge. Absolutely.
00:18:22.014 - 00:19:01.654, Speaker B: And again, I can factorize this degree three euler factor into three linear factors. And I'm going to call the local parameters as alpha f one, alpha f two, and alpha. And again, there is an integral representation of this l function, and that will give the analytic continuation of this l function to all of c. There are no poles. And again, and one can show that it satisfies a functional equation which looks like this. So now, again, you have to multiply the l function with a suitable gamma factor. And I'm taking the level to be one.
00:19:01.654 - 00:19:35.846, Speaker B: So there is no n to the power s by two term over here. So let me just mention what these alpha j's are. These are the spectral parameters of the form f. So they are called the lang length parameters. And if you multiply l with this factor, then the value of this computer l function at s is related to the value of the conjugate form at the .1 minus s. So that's a functional equation.
00:19:35.846 - 00:20:14.288, Speaker B: And again, we have a Voronoi summation formula for degree. And again, as you can expect, it's much more complicated. So it looks like this. Again, we have an additive character over here and a smooth, nice function over here. G, a and q are co prime. And now this sum gets transformed into something like this, where this additive character becomes close to Max sound. So that's something new, because in case of gl two, the additive character was going to another additive character with a being replaced by the multiplicative inverse.
00:20:14.288 - 00:21:13.430, Speaker B: But here it's going to the clusterman sound and a is replaced by a bar. Okay, and then we have m cubed by n. And then again we have an integral transformation. There are two copies of them, and that also is quite complicated to explain. So it is given by an inverse Mellon transform, which of a function which involves the Mellon transform of the weight function g multiplied by a suitable gamma function, gamma plus minus s, where here, again, you can see the lang length parameters appearing here. So again, if you look at this formula, and if you try to analyze this, you will see that the saving that you are getting is again square root of the initial length by square root of final length. Okay, so the, yes, the conductor of this part.
00:21:13.430 - 00:21:47.870, Speaker B: So if you want to see how complicated this sum is on this side, then there are two things that are contributing to the complication. One is this q, the denominator of the rational fraction over here. And the other thing is the spectral parameter. It's larger is the spectral parameter. More complicated is the form and the, and since it's a gl three, the q over here gets cubed. So it's q cubed times the product of the spectral parameters. So this is the conductor of this sum over here.
00:21:47.870 - 00:22:55.772, Speaker B: And if you look at it, if the initial length is capital n, then the dual length. If you look at, if you studied the integral transform, you'll see that this part of the sum is actually supported in the, with m n squared near the conductor, which is this by the initial length. And then if you analyze the size of the integral transform and use the well bound for the torstement sum, you will see that this formula is actually saving square root of the initial length by square root of the final length. And also, there is a version for gl three, whoseness of dress formula, and I'm not going to write it down, but if you look at the work of Bloomer and Birkin, you can learn a lot from there. Anyway, so let me now look at the l functions that we are interested in. So these are the rankings of convolution of a gl two form f and a gl three form. By definition, the l function is given by this Euler product.
00:22:55.772 - 00:23:32.762, Speaker B: So, alpha f one and alpha f two s are the Euler, the local factors for the form, small f. And this alphas are the local factors of capital f. Okay? And there are two of them, two of this and three of this. And so there are like six factors, linear factors over here. So this l function is actually an l function of dv six. Okay. And if you expand this Euler product, which converges absolutely again for sigma or the real part of s bigger than one, then in that half plane, it's given by this Tv series.
00:23:32.762 - 00:24:10.498, Speaker B: So these are the normalized Fourier coefficients of the gl three form. The normalized Fourier coefficient of the gl two form f psi. Was the nimbin, the form smaller. Again, you can have an integral representation of this form which looks like this. So you have to just embed the sl two z in the top right, top left corner of sl three g. And then here, that's the iota z. And then you have to multiply by sort of group y to the power s minus one, and then integrate this.
00:24:10.498 - 00:24:57.878, Speaker B: It sends kind of a Mellon transform. And then you get this l function over there. And from this you can get the analytic continuation and the functional equation. So, and the deep result of Kim and Shahidi says that this cell functions are actually automorphic. So they correspond to certain automorphic representation of gl six. All right, so now the main problem, the sub convexity problem, is about understanding the size of these l functions. And as you know that, it's enough to understand the size of the l function on the central line.
00:24:57.878 - 00:25:46.990, Speaker B: That's the line passing through the real part, one half. So I'm going to take the s to be one half plus id now, and I want to look at this l value, right. And now I want to see how large this is as t varies, or when the parameters of f vary, or the spectral parameters of capital f varies. Okay, so there are three different aspects that we are interested in. So, for example, we can keep the small f and capital fixed, and then I can take t high up in the, on the central line and try to understand how the size of this is varying with s. T goes to infinity. And that will be.
00:25:46.990 - 00:26:40.024, Speaker B: So there I will be trying to get a bound in terms of t. So that will be the t aspect bound. Or we can take t to be something fixed at t equals to zero, the central point. And we can fix the Gl three form and vary the weight and the level of the Gl two form, and try to find out how this varies with that. Or we can fix the Gl two form and fix the central point and vary the spectral parameters of the Langland parameters for capital f, and see how this is growing with that. And from the functional equation and the usual convexity principle of complex analysis, we can show that if small f and capital f are kept fixed and t is varying, then this l function grows like t to the power three by two. So that is because this is a degree six l function.
00:26:40.024 - 00:27:20.454, Speaker B: So, if you look at the functional equation, the gamma factor has six gamma functions in there, and each of them will involve a t. So the conductor becomes t to the power six okay. And t to the power three by two is actually one quarter of t to the power six. T to the power six to the one quarter is to the power. So this is the convexity bound. And if I fix t and capital f, then k to the power six, n cubed is the, is the conductor of the function, and one quarter of that is the convexity bound. And if I fix t and small f, then there are three spectral parameters coming from f.
00:27:20.454 - 00:28:09.516, Speaker B: But since there are six gamma factors, each of the spectral parameter gets doubled. So it appears in two gamma factors, each of them. And so the conductor becomes this product square, and one quarter of that is the convexity bound. So, in particular, if all the alpha j's are of size, say capital t, then you have t squared three times, so t to the power six and one quarter of that. So that will be capital t to the power three by two. Okay, and the subconvexity problem is about improving this exponent. All right, so why do you expect to improve the exponent? Of course, we have the grand Riemann hypothesis, which says that all the zeros of those l functions lie on the central line.
00:28:09.516 - 00:28:51.724, Speaker B: And that implies the generalized Lindelof hypothesis, which says that the exponent here can be taken as arbitrarily small. That means you can actually drop this three by two altogether. And the bound should be t to the power epsilon for epsilon arbitrary small. Or you can drop this one quarters over here from here. So that's the Lindelof hypothesis, and we are far from proving that. But also a good thing about this l function is the following. So if I replace the capital f by the, say, the Eisenstein series, it's a minimal parabolic Eisenstein series.
00:28:51.724 - 00:30:00.414, Speaker B: Then this l function becomes, is almost like the cube of the gl two l function. And if I replace the gl to form by an Eisenstein series, then this is like the square of the glg form. So if I get a bound for this functions, and if the bound is actually not sensitive to the forms being cuspidal or not, then we can get good bounds for the gl two and gl three l functions in one stroke. So it follows that if we get sub convex bounds here, we can get sub convex bounds for gl two and gl three in monstrosity. And that's one good thing about looking at the glass glanking solver convolution. And another reason for looking at this convolution is that they appear in Watson formula, which relates the period integrals that appear in the qe problem to this type of l function ls f sim square phi, where phi is a gl two form and sim square phi is then a gl three form. So it's actually a gl two of solution.
00:30:00.414 - 00:30:56.822, Speaker B: So that's one of the big motivation to study the subconvexity problem for such health functions. Okay, so the moment method has been used to get subconvex bounds in this case. So let me fix orthogonal basis heck, a basis for the space of mass forms of sltz. We know it's discrete, the spectrum is discrete. So fz is giving you an immersion of that. And so there's this result of Lee, it's very well known that if you take a self dual gl three form, and if, if I take the parameter aim to lie between t to the power three by eight and t to the power one half, then this sum over here. So this is the gl two l function.
00:30:56.822 - 00:31:26.644, Speaker B: And here the spectral parameter of the gl two part is ranging between t minus m and t plus m. And this is the integral of the gl three form l function of the gl three form square. Then this is bounded by t times m. So it's actually t to the power one plus epsilon times m. But I'm going to write it as t times m. Roughly, it's t times m. And why is this useful? Okay, there's a deep result of lapid which says that these l values are non negative.
00:31:26.644 - 00:32:05.386, Speaker B: If you take capital f to be self drawn. So if capital f is a symmetric square leaf from a gl two form, then these l values are non negative at the center. And if you have that information, then here you are adding all non negative numbers. And so if you have an upper bound for this sum, then from that upper bound you can get upper bound for the individual terms I'm doing over here. That's the moment method. And get and from this, Lee derived sub convex bounds for this gl three cross gl two l function. So this is the in terms of the spectral parameter of the gl two form.
00:32:05.386 - 00:32:56.964, Speaker B: So this is the convexity bound would have been 13 by eight or three by two. And she got eleven by eight. So it's one by eight better than the convexity bound. But she had to take capital f to be symmetric square lived because otherwise you don't have this non negativity. And then there is nothing you can derive from this certain inequality. And also she got the t aspect sub convexity for the g, for the symmetric square so again here, twelve by 16 will be the convexity bound, and she got eleven by 16. And then there was a subsequent work of Blomor where she looked at the twists of the symmetric square by quadratic form and quadratic characters.
00:32:56.964 - 00:33:53.094, Speaker B: And again for quadratic character, we have such a non negativity result. And so using that, he could also derive subconvex bound for symmetric square twisted by quadratic character. But both Xiaoqing's lees and blomers result actually are inspired by a well known result of onre vantage, where they look at this third moment of divide two l function. Okay, so here fjs are again the hiccup basis. And here I, they were taking chi to be a quadratic character, and here they have a cubic moment and they get such a bound. And from there this, since again, you have non negativity for these terms here, anyway, you get absolute, have absolute value, so it's no problem. But you have non negativity for this.
00:33:53.094 - 00:34:48.406, Speaker B: From that there, they could derive, like this subcontracts bound, very strong subconvex bound for quadratic twists of gl two forms. And the main things, main ingredients in this results are the Kuznets suppressed formula and the Voronois summation formula. Okay? And, but, so as I mentioned that they need to stick to symmetric square to have non negativity of the central value. But once you go to non self dual wall, there are no non negativity results. You do not expect them to be non negative. So such a computation of fast moment will not help you give anything about the bounds for individual functions. So in that direction, Matthew Jung looked at the second moment.
00:34:48.406 - 00:35:30.286, Speaker B: So he's taking absolute value square. So now they are non negative, and he computed the second moment over some family. So here the spectral parameter of fj are varying between t and two t, and it's integrated from minus t to t. And he could prove that this is bounded by t two power three. So you'll see that this is because the number of forms you have here is like t square. So there are t cubed many points of summation over here. So it's kind of proving the kind of slindel on average.
00:35:30.286 - 00:36:16.032, Speaker B: And from this you can derive the convexity bound for the individual function, but you'll not get any sub convex bound. And to, so to get sub convex bound, one either needs to get an asymptotic formula here or needs to shorten this integral to something shorter than length t, which is still open. Okay, so now I come to the result that I proved a few years back. So here. So small f is a sl two z form, capital f is an sl three z form. Capital f need not be self dwarf. So it can be any generic sl three z must form small.
00:36:16.032 - 00:36:55.686, Speaker B: If I'm sticking to sl two z for simplicity, but you can take it to be of any level. But I'm interested in proving subconvexity in the key aspect. Okay, so again, the convexity was t to the power three by two, and I could put three by two minus one by 42. So that was the selling over convexity. Okay, so the proof is the approach is slightly different. So we are not trying to compute moment. So actually computing moment is more difficult job than proving subconvexity.
00:36:55.686 - 00:37:38.214, Speaker B: So. And as we'll see, I give a complete proof of how to get derived this bound. But once you have a sub convex bound, this type. Now, replacing small f or capital f or both biaschel Stan series, you can get subconvex bounds for degree one l function. This is a Dirichlet L function, degree two l function, or degree three l function. So you get t aspects of convexity for degree one, degree two, degree three, and degree six g two plus j three function in one stroke. Of course, the bounds here are not as strong as you can prove in using other methods.
00:37:38.214 - 00:38:33.850, Speaker B: Okay, so now let me try to give a proof of this theorem. Okay, so, first we want to estimate this on the central line. And there is one method from classical linear number theory. It's called, using the functional equation, you can have something called the approximate functional equation, which gives you an expression for this l value inside the critical strip. And then if you suitably truncate the approximate functional equation, then you can get an inequality of this type. Okay, so here, this l value is. It can be bounded by a sum sn by square root of n, where the length of the sum n, sorry, the length n is going up to t to the power three.
00:38:33.850 - 00:38:58.918, Speaker B: Okay, so what is t to the power three? T three is the square root of the conductor of this. Okay, so t appearing in six gamma factor t to the power six is the conductor. So t to the power three. Okay, and you have an arbitrarily small error term over here. If you want, you can replace it by -20 20. I put it down last year. So it's 2019 over here anyway.
00:38:58.918 - 00:39:47.658, Speaker B: And what is sn? Asins are sums of this type. So it involves the Fourier, Fourier coefficients of capital f, the fourier coefficient of small f, and then there's a smooth weight, and we have this nr squared to the power it. And you will notice that if you put this trivial bound over here, if you use the Ramanujan bound on average, then you recover the convexity bound. So, to get a sub convex bound, what you need is to prove some cancellation in this sum. And let me just drop the r over here. And because it's not r comes with a square, so it's not really the main part. The main part is the n sum.
00:39:47.658 - 00:40:25.474, Speaker B: So I'm looking at the n sum. It's lambda fn one lambda f n to the power I t, and n is of size t cubed. And I want to show that there is cancellation over here without computing moment. So this is what I do. So, I want to introduce the circle method to separate the oscillation of the Fourier coefficient of gl three and the Fourier coefficient of gl two clubbed with m to the power it. So I write sn in this way, where, again, delta n minus m is the Kronecker symbol. This is one when n equals to m and zero otherwise, so that's trivial.
00:40:25.474 - 00:41:06.164, Speaker B: And now I want to introduce an extra integral over here. It's not really necessary, but from a psychological point of view, it helps. So, I'm introducing this integral, okay, and it's, I have n to the power I v and m to the power minus I v. And since n equals to m, so the integral is actually gives you a. So I'm assuming that the whole mass of w is one, so that balances this k. And then I want to replace this Kronecker symbol by a Fourier expansion. This is the circle method part.
00:41:06.164 - 00:42:05.144, Speaker B: And the circle method that I'm going to use is called the delta method, which says that delta n has such a Fourier expansion where you can, capital q can be chosen as anything non negative and or positive. And then an h is certain function, which is reasonably nice if you pick capital q to be large enough. So basically, it means that if you have a prior information that small n is lying between capital minus a minus capital n to plus capital n, then you pick capital q to be square root of the size of square root of capital n. So that's the size of the equation. And then this h is not really oscillating that much. So you can of h as basically one. Okay, so that's what I'm going to do.
00:42:05.144 - 00:42:23.284, Speaker B: Okay. I'm going to pick my q in a reasonable way. Okay. So this is a circle method without minor arm. Okay. So now I'm going to pick my q to be square root of n by square root of k. The reason is.
00:42:23.284 - 00:43:22.806, Speaker B: Okay, so now this is why I introduced the integral. So the integral over here is if you forget that n equals to m over here, if you just look at the integral of n minus m to the power iv, then this says that, that this integral will be negligibly small, unless n minus m is bounded by capital n by capital k. So saying that small n minus small m equals to zero is actually, you're trying to detect an equation of size capital n by capital k. So, yeah, so I pick my length, the size of the modulus in the circle method, to be square root of the size of the equation, which is now capital square root of n by square root of k. Okay. All right. So now I replace this expansion of delta over here and that will separate the end from n, and I arrive at this expression.
00:43:22.806 - 00:44:00.246, Speaker B: Okay, so now my, the gl three part is nicely separated from the gl two part, okay, and these are the summation points coming from the circle method. And this is the integral. And now if you, if you estimate this part trivially, then so this is bounded by capital n. This m sum is bounded by capital n, and the number of points of summation here is q square and this is the integral of size k. So kq squared is balancing the number of points of summation that we've introduced. And this is n and n. So it's heavily bounded by n squared.
00:44:00.246 - 00:44:36.334, Speaker B: And we need to save n because we want to show that sn is smaller than size n. So we want to save n and a little bit more t to the power theta for some theta positive. And that will give you a certain exponent. So now, so now since n and m are separated, I can apply the vonois summation formula to the n sum. I can apply the Voronoi summation gl two summation formula m sum. Okay, and this is what we are going to get. So if I apply the gl three ron summation formula.
00:44:36.334 - 00:45:05.464, Speaker B: So you can recall that the additive character over here was becoming a clusterman sum. So it is s of minus a bar nq. And then I had integral transform. This integral transform will involve the oscillatory part n two for iv. Okay, and now if you want to find out what was, what will be the dual length, the dual length will be the conductor of this sum. By the initial length. The conductor is q cubed.
00:45:05.464 - 00:45:22.524, Speaker B: The size of v was k q k. Right. And capital f is fixed. Right. And if q was root n by root k. So the conductor is capital n, capital k to the power three by two divided by n. So this is the dual length.
00:45:22.524 - 00:46:04.210, Speaker B: And the saving is square root of the initial length by the square root of the final length. And that turns out to be n to the power one quarter by k to the positive one. Okay? And then the Voronoi transformation formula for gl two gives, transfers this sum into this sum over here. So a now becomes a bar. And again, now the conductor is t squared times q. Square small f is fixed. And that divided by capital n gives you t squared by capital kick, and you save nk to the power one half by t.
00:46:04.210 - 00:46:46.330, Speaker B: So that's the amount you are saving from the gl three and the gl two formula. And now this is the magic that makes everything happen over here. So now, if you look, collect the clusterman sum over here and the additive character over here, and do the a sum. The a sum was coming from the circle method. Then this magically reduces to an additive character. So it becomes e of minus m bar n by q. Okay? So this, in one hand, gives you a square root of q, saving because this is a character sum, and you get a square root of q seven.
00:46:46.330 - 00:47:26.994, Speaker B: Trivially, it's root q times q is q to the power three by two. Now it's q. So you have a square root of q seven, and the character sum dissolves and gives you a nice additive character. And moreover, you save square root of k if you do the integral over v. All right, so now if you're keeping the account, then here you have saved this much. Here you have saved this much, and now you have saved square root of q and square root of k. If you put them everything together and recall that you wanted to save n and something extra, now it remains to save t and something extra after all this work.
00:47:26.994 - 00:48:00.794, Speaker B: And. And the sum that you ultimately are getting over here looks like this. So we have the q sum from the circle method. This is the dual n sum, the dual m sum, and there is some integral transform which will be oscillating like k. Right? So that we need to save t. So now the next step is to apply the Cauchy sword inequality or Cauchy's inequality. And using the Cauchy inequality, I'm getting rid of the gl three Fourier coefficient.
00:48:00.794 - 00:48:25.352, Speaker B: So I'm taking the gl three sum outside. The Fourier coefficient is gone. You have to use the Ramanujan bound, on average, for gl three, put the q sum and the gl two sum inside. Okay? Absolute value. And before the Cauchy we wanted to save t. So after Cauchy, we want to save t squared. And so now we open the absolute value square and apply Poisson on the inside.
00:48:25.352 - 00:48:50.964, Speaker B: Right? And you, so the, yeah, so there will be two parts. So there will be a diagonal part and the off diagonal part. In the diagonal part, you'll be saving the number of frequencies that you have inside the absolute value square. And that is q, t squared by k. And you need this to be larger than t squared. That will mean that q has to be larger than k. And that is same thing as having this.
00:48:50.964 - 00:49:23.696, Speaker B: And on the other hand, you want also want of diagonal to be fine. The diagonal will be by Poisson. As I said that it's the saving is the initial length by the square root of the conductor. So this is the initial length by square root of conductor. But you have magically saved more because you have an additive character over here. So the additive character gives rise to a congruence. And that will mean that you save the whole cube, whole q, and not the square root of q.
00:49:23.696 - 00:50:15.982, Speaker B: Okay, so the saving that you get is the square. The initial length by the square root of the conductor part is the analytic conductor. Just k was the analytic conductor. And so it's square root of k, and this is larger than t squared. If you take k to the square root of t, right, so, and so, and that, so that's, yeah, so if k is picked between t and square root of t, you get a sub convex boundary and picking optimally the size of k, you get the bound given in the statement of the theorem. Right. And now this method also gives you other results for gl three plus gl two l function.
00:50:15.982 - 00:50:54.304, Speaker B: So, there is a recent pre print archive by my student prahlad Sharma. And he looks at the gl one twist of gl three plus gl two. Ranking cell work and heat proves a sub convex bound again p to the power. Sochi is a primitive character modulo p smp to be prime. For simplicity, I get p to the power three by two minus this much saving. And then there is my other student is working on this problem and is still writing it down. So he's looking at the spectral parameter.
00:50:54.304 - 00:51:27.884, Speaker B: So capital f is fixed and small f is bearing and the spectral. So suppose small f is a modular form of weight k. Then k to the power three by two is the convexity bound. And he is getting something like k to the power three by two minus delta for some delta positive. Okay, so this is. So recall that Lee's famous result gives such a sub convex bound where capital f is self wall or symmetric square lift of a gl two form. But Kumar's result will be true for any gl three form, not necessarily self woe.
00:51:27.884 - 00:52:25.804, Speaker B: There is another work due to Kumar and Malaysian and Singh and where they fix the small f and vary capital f. So if capital f has spectral parameters alpha J's of size t, and suppose they're in a generic position, so alpha one and alpha two are not near each other, alpha two and alpha three are not near, and all of them are of same size wt. And then you have to. So if you assume so, it's a conditional result. So you have to assume that the Fourier coefficients are not that small that often. Then you get a subconvex bound and they can get an unconditional sub convex bound if they assume that two of the alphas are near other. So their result is conditional in the generic case and unconditional when the spectral parameters are near the walls of the white chambers.
00:52:25.804 - 00:53:13.904, Speaker B: Yes, I was just saying that, you know, here it was, the gl two form is fixed and you're wearing the gl three form and you get a subconvex bound in the spectral parameters for GL three. If you assume this condition on the, the Fourier coefficients are not that small when the spectral parameters are in the generic position. But if you assume that they are not generic, if you assume they say alpha one and alpha two are near, the distance between alpha and alpha two says smaller than t to the power one minus theta, then you have saving, you do not need this condition and you get a subcontract spawn. And so this nicely complements the result of blomer and Birkin, where they get a subconvexity bound for DH three. But when they're in the generic position.
