00:00:20.470 - 00:00:32.460, Speaker A: Great and we are live. So welcome to this session. We have Prashant here from SPHERON who's going to give you a workshop on UID centralization. Prashant, I'll let you take the lead.
00:00:33.630 - 00:01:18.650, Speaker B: Thank you Uchi, and thank you very much for giving us the chance to come and present here. So I know a lot of first of all, thank you everyone also for joining in here. I'll be taking a very interesting session today. I know time is not too much for me, but I'll try to get a little bit deeper into why you should do that and all those things and then I'll jump into the demo side of this feron like how you can achieve the same wire SPHERON. And in the meanwhile, if you have any questions, you can just hop into our discord channel or even Discord channel on the hack Money channel itself and we'll be more than happy to answer there as well. So yeah, getting started with that. So there are a couple of things, I just want to take it forward.
00:01:18.650 - 00:02:15.310, Speaker B: So first of all, what exactly isferon is and why we are building. So Spiron basically provides an automating workflow or you can say you can automate the entire deployment workflow for your decentralized infrastructure. So that is what isfront basically provides on the very high level. Coming to myself who I am, I just wanted to show myself here also. So I'm currently building in the Web Three for the past three years and prior to coming into Web Three I have worked in a lot of places, like some corporates startups and all these places and got a very good understanding on how to manage the team best code practices, writing the codes, building the infrastructures and doing a lot of things. So yeah, I have a very good experience in Web Three as well as in Web Two as well. If you see this around, you'll see the thing which we have built.
00:02:15.310 - 00:03:08.190, Speaker B: It has both the flavors in a very calculated way. So that is where my experience and expertise leads the entire team and we build that user experience onboarding for the Web Three infra, this is about myself. Now coming to the topic like UI decentralization and before I even jump into the UI decentralization part, the most important part of is like why do we even need UI decentralization? And there are a lot of factors. Basically 2.5 years back, I still remember the date when we started building into this space. Nobody was talking about it and then suddenly there were some questions being raised by some of the community members, team members even. We were also the same people who were raising the questions and the question was something related to this.
00:03:08.190 - 00:04:39.370, Speaker B: So we are building Dao, we are building DeFi, we are building NFTs, we are building lot of things and even though the Dao exit or the founders exit via Dao or anything happens on the NFT side whatever happens, it happens on the user interface side. Most of these user interface today are being controlled mostly by the founders even though they exit via Dow. If they don't, then they have this repository which even has a private they have access to change it a lot of things which they can actually do. Not only that, it becomes very difficult for the communities to get hold on a user interface which is attached to a centralized domain. Just imagine a scenario where let's say one day, one fine day somebody from Uni or somebody from any of the DeFi protocol which are building and say we are not anymore going to support our domain. In that case, how exactly the community is going to react? Are you really comfortable in going and swapping your token via Etherscan or even Ether? Scan also has a centralized domain so it becomes very difficult for the community once that hits up. But in order to make sure we protect ourselves from all of these things, that is where your UID centralization becomes and plays a very vital role and what exactly those vital roles are.
00:04:39.370 - 00:05:40.622, Speaker B: So the first role is which basically plays a very important role is like giving control back to your community itself. What does that mean? Let's say if I'm deploying ten versions of a web application which has been evolved over the time I as a community member should have access to the let's say I love the fifth version of it, I should have an access of it. So it should not be like my domain is controlling the things. And if you see the decentralized infrastructure we are trying to remove the control, right? So we don't want to give the control to one centralized person or entities to control most of the things but indirectly that is happening. But the moment you go on a decentralization part it just gives you the control back once during an improvement can be traced. What does that mean? There are a lot of thing which happens in the decentralized ecosystem not only DeFi on NFTs as well on wherever it is. So I as a user have a possibility to go and access the specific version coming to the improvement again.
00:05:40.622 - 00:06:39.522, Speaker B: So let's say there was some improvement which has been taken care, there were some changes which has been made into the older version and anything like that. So all those things can easily be traced via this entire UI decentralized mechanism which we have built. Coming to the most important part since most of us are building into this space and mostly we all are going to be startups trying to get into this space. I have a very good experience in web two. I know how web two developers think because web two developers don't have lot of money where they can just start spending on hosting their servers on AWS and all these spaces and even their credit also works only when if you have a good funding coming from a very good investment people. So that is another different question for them. So when it comes to the centralized version, it becomes more expensive for the startups and people who are building into this space.
00:06:39.522 - 00:07:48.166, Speaker B: But the moment you go into decentralized space, the things become much cheaper. Either you take a File coin as example, either you take a Skynet for example, either you take RV in terms of the one time payment phase, these things are way cheaper than what you can get in any of the centralized versions. So that is one of the added advantage and it also reduces your cash burn as well. The fourth and the most important part of this UI decentralization is basically it allows entire Web Three infra to grow. And when I say that, it has a more deeper question and more deeper analogy into it. The first is when you start using these Web Three infrastructure products like even any of the infrastructure projects like RVA, filecoin, any of these. We are directly supporting the Web Three infra and we personally believe all these things has to go up in order to make them go up in order to make them Web Three native and everything and bring more adoption on top of it.
00:07:48.166 - 00:08:50.220, Speaker B: Your participation is really necessary in order to make that go into the market. And even today I was reading one of the articles like lot of nodes, lot of storage protocols, NFTs marketplace and all those things, people are using centralized domains, even a centralized server as well in that case. So these things becomes very important when it comes to UI part as well. So we at Esperant wanted to tap onto the UI section first in order to solve that issue. So that all the people who are building into this space and the founders and the developers or the upcoming people, they should be aware about the UI decentralization aspects at least once they are designing their D Five based application or something, or even Dows or even NFDS or anything. So that is where it becomes very important for the team to participate in the growth of the Web Three infra. So coming to why exactly SPHERON and what exactly SPHERON does, there are a lot of things which we do.
00:08:50.220 - 00:09:38.330, Speaker B: If you guys have ever used Netlify oversell, we provide the same kind of feature around the Web Three, but it just talks to the Web Three infrastructure protocols instead of the centralized one. So if you go to, let's say on Versaille, they use AWS for hosting your applications and Edge Caching and all those things. But you come to SPHERON, you will be using Filecoin RV. We are also working on to integrate compute as well. So you'll be getting a compute in a decentralized fashion, not in a centralized fashion. So all of these things, the layer under beneath this Feron is the decentralized layer the layer beneath the version 85 is the centralized one. So that is what basically the biggest differences in terms of why isfiron and why we should go ahead and start hosting via Spiron.
00:09:38.330 - 00:10:40.986, Speaker B: Coming to some of the pain points which we are trying to solve via Spiron is it basically allows you to forget about learning process of the decentralized infrastructure. And when I say that, it basically means I'm also a developer. I'm an architect. If my team comes to me and says, hey, you know what, I have to carry multiple different wallets, I have to carry multiple different tokens, buy those tokens from the finance, transfer it to the different wallets, and or either use any bridge to bridge the assets and all those things. Most likely my answer to my dev is going to be no, do not to use these things because it just overcomplicates the thing as we proceed and as our team grows in that perspective, Spiron basically plays a very vital role. It just removes all these complex processes of token migration, managing and all those things. Apart from that, it improves the productivity of the developers who are building and trying to get into the recentized infrastructure.
00:10:40.986 - 00:11:15.002, Speaker B: And how does that happens? The tools and the suit of product which has been built around it. So what basically we do, we reduce the learning process and improve the productivity graph. So that is what on the very high level we do at Isfiron. Apart from that there are a lot of things into the Spiron itself which basically helps you to automate the entire process of your uploading of your data. Not even so currently we are working on providing the data part. So our UI part is live. So it just automates your entire UI decentralization process.
00:11:15.002 - 00:12:11.638, Speaker B: And how does that happen? I'll also demo you the same, but in the second half of the entire call. But just to give you the context here, the entire automation process helps you to push your entire code via GitHub, Bitbucket or GitLab. We are in the process of integrating some of the decentralized repositories as well. We are currently working on article, let's see how that goes in and if you know any more decentralized repositories which are getting built, feel free to just drop us a message and be more than happy to talk to them as well. Apart from that, you get all those things what you get on a centralized based tooling which are netify universal. Like you have your domain where you can manage your centralized domain, but we also have a decentralized domain management feature where you can just go and manage your decentralized domain as well. Create multiple environments for your development and for your prod environment in GitHub itself or even Bitbucket or even GitLab wherever it is supported.
00:12:11.638 - 00:13:17.874, Speaker B: And there are a lot more things which is fair on provides and I'll walk you through all of those step by step into the moment I start showing you the echo version of Spiron. So yeah, I will not take much more time more than this talking about SPHERON but if you have any more questions you can always reach out to these of the links. I'll drop this PPT also into our discord server and all those places you can always go through it. So what I'm going to do next is I'm going to walk you through Spiron in action. And one more important note here before I end up, if you are willing to use this SPHERON version, which we have basically built only for the people who have the access or who holds the NFT of the SPHERON HQ in the testnet version, they only will be able to access this version which I'm going to demonstrate. Now, if you don't want NFPs, you don't want to access those features, there is one more version of the app which you can always go and use. It is very easy, you can just log in to use.
00:13:17.874 - 00:14:23.154, Speaker B: But I highly recommend to get into the Equa version because it is very stable, much faster, much smoother and more robust tooling and functionalities into it. So let me just quickly open Spiron network and walk you through guys what we have built so far and where exactly we are. Just let me know somebody okay yeah, got it. So here is our echo version basically this is where our site is once you get on site so the moment you click on the deploy here it will take you to the app which is very older version of the SPHERON. But if you go to the Equadisferon network I'll try to basically put this here so that you can have access of it. So if you go onto this you will have the newer version of the Sprounder network which is much better looking and has a better UX and fields and everything. So coming to this aqueduct network, it's NFT gated access, so I will be able to log in very seamlessly.
00:14:23.154 - 00:14:53.310, Speaker B: But if you try to log in, you won't be able to do that because it is blocked. And the people who only hold the NFT will be able to access this. Coming to how exactly this entire functionality of this feron works, we have given the three repositories access so far into this feron. The first is the GitHub by default, which most of us basically use. Continue like you have a GitLab and bitbucket as well and we are eagerly waiting to integrate. Few more. Let's see how that goes.
00:14:53.310 - 00:15:42.142, Speaker B: But this is what we have today. The first thing you as a developer has to do here is to just go and log in via GitHub and if you haven't signed up, make sure you sign up as well. But if you are coming on equa, you just don't need sign up as well, you just need NFT. That's it and that will be enough. Now coming to just to give you the answer here, how can we get an NFT access to decwa just click on contact here you will be able to get to the discord channel and just ask for your access and tag like you are coming from Hackmoney and we'll give you the access. So coming to this one just click on Continue with GitHub. The moment you do so it just checks your NFT, you have NFT in the wallet or not and everything and it just opens the user interface for you the moment it gets open.
00:15:42.142 - 00:16:29.342, Speaker B: It's a very simple and nice looking UI which basically explains it explains everything on its own. But even though if you are confused to use some of the part of it you can always go to Docs isfron network which is here. You can always get into this and check out whatever you want to check out. Now coming to this interface on the equa side, there are a couple of things which I'll basically walk you through. What I'm going to do is before walking you through the features of it, I'll walk you through a simple deployment process into it. So the deployment process basically looks very similar and neat. So you just have to click on new project, connect your repositories, whichever you want to connect and if you haven't installed your app, you have to install the app first.
00:16:29.342 - 00:17:32.500, Speaker B: So in order to install the app you have to just go to Configure and just install the app here. Once you are done with that, you will be given this particular access. You'll get the repositories coming here and then the next step you have to do is just click that particular repository which you want to access and once you are done with that it just asks you where exactly you want to host your application. Do you want to host it on filecoin, pinata scan it or RV? We are coming up with few more which you will be able to select that as well. Let's say if I want to go and use Filecoin for my use case so I'll just click on Filecoin and the moment you do that it just auto detects your entire repository. So this is a view app, it just detect it like that and if you have some root directory, some monolith or something, you can always go and put those root directories as well. If you have some runtime variables which you want to pass, you can do that as well.
00:17:32.500 - 00:18:17.698, Speaker B: And then it has your published directory, yarn, package managers and everything. So just go and click on Deploy and the moment you hit the deploy it just starts the deployment process. And deployment process is a very straightforward streamlined deployment process. It just goes through it and starts deploying it. So I have received one more question. If ren you have asked like yes it's worked like Versaille, what framework are supported? So currently we are supporting react view angular, node angular and few more which you can always go and select into the drop down of the version. So around six to seven frameworks which we are currently supporting and you can basically use that.
00:18:17.698 - 00:18:48.170, Speaker B: So yeah, once the deployment starts, you just have to forget about it. It just happens everything. I'll now walk you through a few more things around it. So before let's say I am a developer, I just don't want to come here again. I don't want to even see my strong UI again. So what you can do is you can just go and once your deployment is done here, you don't even have to worry anymore. So you can just go and see what exactly is happening on your deployment now.
00:18:48.170 - 00:19:24.006, Speaker B: So if you see this deployment is lately it has been latest been triggered, right? So you can always track those deployments directly via your GitHub branch or wherever it is. So it is currently in the process. If you click on this, you will see like this, the deployment is currently in the progress. Apart from that, you also get these links where you can always it's a very readable link where it basically serves your decentralized version of the app on top of the domain directly. So that is one added advantage. On top of it, apart from it, we also have these environments where you as a developer can go and create different environments. I'll walk you through how to do that.
00:19:24.006 - 00:20:07.230, Speaker B: So for example, if you want to create your development environment or production environment, you can come here, go to the settings, go to deployment environments, and then you have all these environments just created. Now in this environment itself, you can just go and attach a different branch which you want to deploy on different environments and it just works like a breeze. So you don't even have to worry about it. So that is how easy it is to set up your deployment environment as well. And in order to see your deployment as well, like what exactly happened in my last deployment, you can just click on it, see on view deployment and it just serves on the influencer gateway directly. So whatever gateway you want to use, you can use that as well. So this is how easy it is to track your entire deployment.
00:20:07.230 - 00:21:17.670, Speaker B: Apart from it, when I was saying you don't even have to come to the sphere on UI, I mean that so we have a per commit based deployment model. So which means, let's say if I want to edit my README MD, I just have to go and let's say my developer just said, hey, you know what, I'm just willing to put Hyphen here instead of Dot and just go and commit this change. And once you do the change, the change has already been done on the main branch. And now if you come and go to the deployments and just refresh the screen and you will find like there is one more deployment just got triggered now and which is now started building now. So it is like is rigged just now it has been triggered. Let's say if I want one more commit which I want to get into just go here again, add one more hyphen which I just forgot again and just add a commit again and the moment you do that and come back and just refresh the entire screen because we are working to provide the refresh skin here itself. Now, if you see there's a deployment which got queued as well which means like you have a very streamlined automated fashion of deployment.
00:21:17.670 - 00:22:14.794, Speaker B: Not only that, once that happens you also have a flexibility to raise a pull request and the moment you raise any of the pull request you also get a preview of that pull request what happened with that deployment. So these are the previews which you can go and always check here itself without even going to the sphere on at all. So we have added everything, whatever you need in order to make your application go into decentralized environment and give it access to your user community and people around you. Now coming to the major factor, major part of it like how exactly the things are working. So do we have to pay any money, do we have to do something? So, in order to give you the context, we have a billing section where you will go if you are coming via hack money. Now, if you are claiming your NFP now you have a pro member membership by default, so you can just log in into your system. You will have a proper membership.
00:22:14.794 - 00:22:58.314, Speaker B: Your starter membership will be there, which you can start deploying from the day one. And you don't even have to carry any tokens there, so no tokens required in order to even do the deployment on this crown. So that is how easy it is. So you don't even have to worry about Fil tokens, you don't have to worry about RV tokens, you don't have to worry about any of the token which we have the integration which we will be supporting in the future as well. So that is the best part of this where we don't even require anything and for example if you need any more bonus you can go and add that. So today it is free of cost. So for example if you need any tokens so we have this Faucet spiron network which I'm going to put here as well again on the chat it gives you the free USDT and USDC or whatever you need to basically pay here as well.
00:22:58.314 - 00:23:51.334, Speaker B: So make sure you go and claim your tokens from Faucet network and then come to the Esperon and claim your NFT and get into the system and just play around with the features and everything you have enough money to play around with that. Now, coming to this plan usage here, you can just go and see what you have used so far. What are things with the progress, how much build execution time which we have used for and a lot more things. Invoice is the part which we have already built in. You don't have to worry about it's in testnet. So you can keep on using your faucet token which you have now go to the members. So this is one of the pain point in the web3 ecosystem where if I'm an admin of, let's say I'm the founder, I have ten team members or five team members who are working on a deployment of the user interface, or they are working on something and I need them to use my wallet instead of somebody else's wallet.
00:23:51.334 - 00:24:20.866, Speaker B: Right. Because the moment they deploy via their own wallet, that data ownership belongs to them, not to you. As a founder, as someone who is building this entire entity or company or Dow or whatever you're building. So in order to make sure the ownership retains at one hand, this is where you can go and invite your team members. Just go and let's say I want to invite him, send the invitation. The moment the invitation will be sent, it just goes on a pending. Once you approve the invitation, you will be able to part of this organization.
00:24:20.866 - 00:25:09.794, Speaker B: And what does that mean? You as an admin can give them an allowance, how much they are going to be using for this organization. So, for example, if you are adding this in the bill, you are adding let's say $18 per month or something, your organization, your teammates can only access $18 only, not more than that. And all those features around it and all the deployment, what they will be doing, it will be attached to the main wallet, not the user's wallet or the developer wallet whom you have onboarded. So it basically just eliminates the process of all the complex process here. So let me just quickly also share one of the Discord link where you can always go and join us. Here's the discord link. So, yeah, coming back to the team member size.
00:25:09.794 - 00:26:09.962, Speaker B: So this is what we have now, apart from that, there is one more thing which is built in and which is one of the interesting part of this is we take care of the development very seriously and we make sure like each and everything, whichever we're doing, our users are getting a proper invitation and everything. So if you see the invitation has been sent, the build has been triggered and all those things has a proper streamlined process of notifications which you will be able to receive here directly. Apart from that, since we are into the DevNet still and we are testing a lot of things, you can always click on these three dots, go to documentation. The moment you click on Docs, it basically gives you the change locks, not the docs network. And the reason we have put the change lock here instead of a Doc because most of the users don't understand what are the features. So this basically gives you the high level features of this Firon on every release whichever we do. So you can just scroll down and you can see what those features are and how they basically work, how they look like and everything.
00:26:09.962 - 00:27:27.170, Speaker B: So you can just go and see all those equal release versions version 3.0.0 and you'll be able to see those changes. There one more interesting thing you can always go and your settings, you can change lot of things. So once you go on NFT side, this is where you'll be able to mint more NFDS for your team members and teammates and everyone and that is how easy it is. And apart from that, if you want to create multiple organization, you can just go and create different organization, you can invite different teammates, different team member, different billing, different everything from the starting. So let's say if I'm into this organization, this particular starter pack is like it is starter pack, I haven't connected my wallet also and you don't even have invoice or anything, right? So you can always go and use this starter pack and start deploying from any of the other organization as well. So yeah, this is how easy it is to use this feron and make sure you guys do the UI decentralization from the day one and help web3 to grow, help us to grow, help us to spread the word and the knowledge around the UI decentralization.
00:27:27.170 - 00:28:37.350, Speaker B: And if you haven't yet reached out to our servers, feel free to basically come on these places. Follow us on Spiron HQ. This is our discord invite which you can always go. We have Spiron Network, click on that, click on Contacts and you will be redirected to the Discord channel. If you have any personal questions, anything which you want to ask from me directly, feel free to drop me a mail at Prashant at Spiron network and that will be really cool to see how you guys are building the DeFi NFT and dows. So thank you so much guys. I believe I have taken the time correctly, it's 1128 now so there is just curious where is the Spiron website is hosted? So currently the Spiron website is built on the next app which we are not supporting the dynamic one and since we have to host it on one of the servers, but we are planning to move it completely once our compute integration comes in.
00:28:37.350 - 00:28:52.860, Speaker B: But if you have a static web app which you might have then feel free to use us because we support only static as of now. Thank you. I believe I have covered most of the things. I'll drop all those links on our channel here.
00:28:53.310 - 00:28:59.420, Speaker A: That's perfect. Yeah. Just some time. Thanks a lot for the presentation, and we can follow up over.
00:29:00.910 - 00:29:04.430, Speaker B: Awesome. Thank you. Thank you so much. Bye.
