00:00:01.800 - 00:00:20.090, Speaker A: Hello, everybody. My name is Mauricio, also known as Bunny or Coneco Capital on Twitter. I'm the CEO of co founder Adora. We're actually also joined here by the two other co founders. Two out of the three. Four other co founders, Adora and Chai and Silicon FX. So also, you can go chat with them after this talk.
00:00:20.090 - 00:01:05.040, Speaker A: Today we'll be talking about something that is actually, actually, it's a bit of an introduction to three really big news that we have on Dora as a product and also as something that might be very interesting to you if you're launching a VM alternative. VM, a new VM, or also starting to innovate within the EVM landscape. Today we'll be talking about discovering the new infinite frontier search, the unified multi chain and multi VM world. As previously mentioned, I'm Koneho Capital on Twitter. Our company's Twitter account is search on Dorade. So let's add the agenda. So first, we're going to talk, have a really quick recap of modular acceleration, how this is a zero to one moment.
00:01:05.040 - 00:01:37.140, Speaker A: We've all experienced it. That's the reason why we're all here. And that is why we're having a modular summit. Then we're going to go dive into the infinite car. Then just a really quick glimpse into it, but also into the limb, how this does not equal that we're going to experience a limitless EVM. We're actually starting to hear some of the livings of the EVM, both in the fruct structural and also cultural standpoint, especially when it comes to ux. Then we're going to explore the new infinite frontiers, multi VM worlds, how stylists, fluent, and movement are all innovating within the multi VM landscape.
00:01:37.140 - 00:02:11.510, Speaker A: And ultimately, we'll look at the infinite discovery engine, which is where we'll announce three really big news from our team. So, let's start. So, modular acceleration, zero to one moment. One of my favorite graphs that I've now used, I believe, five times across different conferences, is the one by zero X coffee. In which we're able to break down their different role of economics that we're experiencing as an entire industry. Very simple. Let's say equation profit equals l, two transaction fees earned minus l, one call data blobs and verification costs.
00:02:11.510 - 00:02:46.924, Speaker A: There is a little bit of nuances on, oh, maybe they're paying a little bit more of the sequencer fees or roll up as a service. Maybe they're running their own sequencer. Maybe they're running they're entering into agreements with different infrastructure providers. But regardless, this is the on chain profit that we're able to at least guarantee that they're making. So if we're able to elaborate a little bit more on this, we look a bit more closely. We see that in total, as of last month, last month we made as an entire cohort four point one k of ETH, this being denominated into $15.32 million as of yesterday.
00:02:46.924 - 00:03:51.210, Speaker A: As of the time of making this slide and updating it, which feels pretty good, honestly, as an entire subcategory, we starting to see that actually running roll ups is quite profitable. We see the teams are arbitrary, leading to charge the teams at base op Mainnet. We are starting to see even teams starting to subsidize a little bit their own running of their chain, like let's say the Polygon CQ VM, which actually is at a negative loss of eats with -32 ETH as of last month. You can find more about this on dune.com comma infinite tables or just search up rollup score economics so now we have this infinite garden of the EVM we're starting, but however, this does not call a limitless EVM quick recap on the infinite garden. How we got here we got here thanks to all the innovations of data availability, thanks to Celestia, Eigenda, ABS's, Ethereum, blobs EIP 4844. This made it infinitely cheaper to actually be able to start working on roll up service.
00:03:51.210 - 00:04:18.434, Speaker A: We have shared sequencer networks start showing up. The team is Astrid spread, so you can also chat with them. You should definitely chat with them. If you're looking to launch your own roll up and actually have cross chain interoperability, then our sequencer interoperability, then we have rollup. As a service teams. Of course, they are honestly one of the most crucial ones within all these networks. We have the teams at Ogler, Gelato, gateway's roll up, our service offering Presto Caldera and conduit.
00:04:18.434 - 00:06:02.266, Speaker A: All of these teams have also become hyper specialized in some of these SDKs. Some of the ones that we're seeing right now flourishing quite heavily, are the arbitrary orbit and Nitro SDK, the super chain optimism, Op Stack SDK, Polygon, CDK, as well as the most recently announced as of last this month, CK Sync's elastic chain. Now, interoperability solutions related to this quick recap, we have a squid router which works closely with the Axr team across protocol, which actually is one of the major providers for all of these integrations that we effectively aggregated across, such as let's say socket descent. We also have of course hyperlina more open source solution for being able to create interoperability from your roll up, as well as wallet providers are a lot more personable, a lot more easy to onboard a web two user by letting you create embedded wallets with let's say Face ID, Google accounts and whatnot. And then we have of course our bread and butter for every roll up, which are indexed data subgraph providers, token NFT APIs, as well as multi chain search engines, and maybe a little bit more with simple cache and Dora so now we are starting to hit the limits of the EVM. What are some of these bigger issues? I could dive into most of the technical discourse onto why evms are not necessarily the best, but just to keep it very straightforward, we're starting to see even some simple UX issues in which fees could be lower. The developer mind is shared across languages and we see that simple UX does translate into users which at some times EVM does not.
00:06:02.266 - 00:07:15.050, Speaker A: Have to elaborate a little bit more on that. We have other EVM evidence of growing Tbl there global mind share growth, as well as one of my favorite tweets by the founder of movement your mom won't spend dollar 50 for a JPEG in which yeah, I don't think that anyone's parents is going to willingly spend dollar 50 for using a non chain distributed database without a good reason behind it. So a bit of evidence on that we're seeing on Google Analytics, Google trends that buy sole is actually dominating above by eat as of these past couple months, as well as starting to see even a more global presence of global fragmentation of what is actually a good resistance with crypto. We're starting to see dominance especially within countries where maybe the dollar denominated EVM spending is not as friendly for someone's currency. How do we see this in practice? We see that TVL percentages across evms and all vms. Yes, there's still a very big lead by Ethereum as of last month. However, we're starting to see growing interest of other vms like Solana, Sui, Aptos.
00:07:15.050 - 00:08:01.322, Speaker A: They are very much still on the lead from even other l two s out there. So this is not something that should be just taken as granted. Ethereum's dominance over the TVL and crypto mindshare is not something that we can really keep on taking for granted anymore. So what is this new infinite frontier? Multi vm worlds is specifically what we'll be working on as of recently as a cohort. Some of the offerings out there are currently like arbitrary stylists, so they enable WASM compiling of any single sorry. They enable you to deploy smart contracts that can compile with WASM, meaning that you can deploy rust C C code. You're able to, of course start keep on deploying solidity into it, just as any other standard EVM.
00:08:01.322 - 00:09:13.328, Speaker A: You then are starting to see some interesting projects actually play around with protocol cross app interoperability, in which they have some some of the very heavy compute be run on stylus, and then some of the more, let's say, solidity optimized, or more hard to migrate operations of their application to still be maintained within solidity. Then one of the really big selling points for stylus has been that it's been cheaper, cheaper, cheaper. They demonstrated ten x cheaper compute and solidity, and then ten x cheaper memory usage as well. One of my favorite graphics by the style of Sarvitron team is that WASM VM contracts 100% fully vm compatible more languages, supports more languages like Rust, and with optimized performance. Now, another approach that we're seeing is one of movement in which they are actually mixing three supports of different two different implementations of move, the one at SUI and Aptos, as well as their own implementation of the EVM on m two. And then they have m one, which is a move or move enshrine chain that will be community owned. Then, because they are developing this, they are also open source in their SDK.
00:09:13.328 - 00:10:41.764, Speaker A: So anyone can start experimenting with either deploying a fully move based chain or an app to sue move an EVM based chain with a move in SDK. They have fractal move, which is their EVM interpreter that effectively pulls back information to EVM information to move. And then they have finally the move share sequencer, which enables interoperability between the m one move chain and the m two chains that will be composed primarily by three different chains and eventually be unified into one single chain that supports all three languages. Another point that we should highlight is that they also borrow a lot of the l one eat security and l one eat liquidity. This is something that primarily other l ones that our move base have not managed to do without having a very deep bridge integration, which actually enshrines them and creates a really big bridge risk. Then, to elaborate a little bit more, we've seen movement have effectively shining this multi VM experience in which you're able to create applications that are cross compatible with after smooth Suey move and movement EVM, which has led to quite a few applications trying to experiment with maybe high throughput, let's say high throughput, lower security trading, but lower throughput and higher security lending protocols. Then another solution that we've started to pop up more recently is the approach of a blended VM, in which you are now enshrining all three languages into a single Vm.
00:10:41.764 - 00:11:41.060, Speaker A: You're enshrining WaSm Solana vm evm, and then you're able to therefore leverage millions of web two libraries that people feel a lot more comfortable developing on than just having to ask them, hey, please learn solidity. Again, they are ethereum aligned. Their fluent l two will be leveraging l one e security, l one eats liquidity, as well as again we start to see the concept of a multi VM interoperability. Fluent l two as a high throughput chain can achieve real time composability across absolute multiple vms. Here we see a little graph of all the different languages that should be supported from day one on movement, and also will be continued to add different modules that will add support for various languages as there's growing demand for them. So now we have the infinite multibm frontier, or what I like to call why I stopped worrying about picking one ecosystem and it's trade offs and just started building. So we have single VM bursts and multi VM roll ups.
00:11:41.060 - 00:12:29.056, Speaker A: We have this battle between monolithic single VM chains in which they're looking to hyper specialize and create a generalizable environment for blockchains. And then you have the approach of a modular multi VM chaining, which they start integrating every ecosystem's infrastructure for real time multi VM interoperability, which is a much more comprehensive offering for anyone out there that is looking to just get started. In any ecosystem, it brings a lot of assurance to know that your chain is constantly innovating and bringing any single innovation from any ecosystem back to you. So each application is a chain, each vm is a chain. How can we discover them all? What we're seeing is that we've started to work as of 2.5 years ago. We're starting to work on something that now we call the infinite discovery engine.
00:12:29.056 - 00:12:55.982, Speaker A: Dora. So power users are familiar with the tools for each ecosystem. Each vmdezenhe issue, l one, l two, l three, et cetera. We don't expect power users to be the one. We expect power users to be the ones driving the building on all of these ecosystem. However, we don't necessarily expect them to be most of the volume, most of the engagement. We see that the way technology actually gets pushed forward is one in which we're able to onboard a lot more users that are not cryptonated.
00:12:55.982 - 00:13:40.136, Speaker A: So we start using masks. We very much believe in aggregation theory, this concept that has been very widely explored, especially by a search engine team out there called Google, in which mass users start to utilize the most generalizable, friendly and certified by institution tooling. This means that there's this feedback loop in which a tool provides visibility and discovery back to certain, let's say in this case, roll ups. And then the roll up is able to also start enshrining slowly but surely different tools that they believe will be consistent, reliable, and will effectively protect their users and make their onboarding experience into them much more straightforward. So this is what we call the infinite Discovery engine. Two days ago we announced the fundraise. We've been working on this for, as I said, two and a half years.
00:13:40.136 - 00:14:04.960, Speaker A: We have some very wonderful backers. We're very much happy with them. We couldn't have done this without the help of people, even in the audience. We're very much happy with all the support. But how does this look in practice? We have Dora, we have the multi chain search engine. If you want to get on the list of chains, you can hit us up. You can find us on ad search on Dora, or just come talk to me, come talk to our team after this talk.
00:14:04.960 - 00:14:52.236, Speaker A: So now we get into the exciting announcements. So far, if you've been on Dora, you realize that we have been, like most explorers, provided a single chain experience for every single one of our blog explorers. This is nice. This is cool. People still very much appreciate this experience to navigate them the multi chain world. However, as of in a few weeks, maybe in a few months, as of Q three, Dora profiles are coming to Dora, which means that now we have native multi chain support used for every single token NFT activity, interactions collapse back to our single on chain interface. This means that you no longer have to have any single block explorers do any integrations with any other third party solutions to be able to resolve back to one single interface.
00:14:52.236 - 00:15:31.118, Speaker A: Or you no longer have to ask your users to go to another block explorer that actually fragments their experience from their native l one or l two. You can just start using Dora to experience the multi chain world. And another update, Dora Actions is live today. You can start swapping and bridging on Dora here. There's an example of me of swapping tennys into arbitram. Maybe you can start doing that as well. And the biggest update of them all, and the reason why we're actually very excited to be at Multirole Summit today, is that as of the past couple of weeks, we've reached an agreement with the fluent and movement teams.
00:15:31.118 - 00:16:20.740, Speaker A: We're going to be the first block Explorer that goes multi vm in this way. We seek to start providing not only support for m one and m two, but any aptos sui move compatible chain out there, any blended VM compatible chain out there. We're chatting with a few other l ones that have also gotten interested on our multi VM offering. We don't believe that it's fair to ask users to keep on learning new infrastructure when they go to every single new ecosystem. Even if you're going beyond evms, you should still maintain the exact semblance of oh, I have one Dora profile, I have one Dora actions widget. I have one single point of trust where I can make sure that they will choose an effective interoperability provider such that I can go to any ecosystem I want. And thank you very much.
00:16:20.740 - 00:16:25.760, Speaker A: The multivm future is calling. Will you answer the call? Thank you so much.
