00:00:06.720 - 00:00:51.774, Speaker A: So yeah, thanks for the kind introduction and welcome us from my side. I'm with the Lucerne University of Applied Science. We're based in the crypto valley in Rhodkreutz. You see our nice compass in here? So I'll invite you to come to central Switzerland and I want to talk a little bit about DeFi, decentralized finance and traditional finance. And these are the wrong slides because these slides are for Sunday for the workshop. So perhaps somebody can change this. And while we get the new slides, just a short question for me.
00:00:51.774 - 00:01:49.114, Speaker A: Who of you have bought some DeFi products tokens? Wow, that's cool. Who is new to the blockchain industry? No newbies or nobody wants to get exposed in this crowd. And who developed his or her own smart contract? Wow. Okay, then we can speed up the beginning when I get the slides. While we were waiting, just a couple of words to myself. As I mentioned, I'm working for Lucerne University of Applied science. Besides this, I'm also president of Decades Institute association.
00:01:49.114 - 00:02:37.576, Speaker A: We're offering blockchain certificates. So if you want to have a look into this. We just two days ago launched our collaboration with edX and also offering blockchain mukes. And I'm also involved in DDAs which is focusing on self sovereign identity. And tomorrow we also have a panel discussion here. So always the bad thing if you have two presentations on the same topic. So if you're interested in getting your hands a little bit dirty on this topic and also discuss with us, then I also invite you on Sunday at twelve for the workshop.
00:02:37.576 - 00:04:01.378, Speaker A: There we have a more interactive topic. But yeah, so let's get started. I think if one want to go through the first slides and what I want to present in this short presentation here is to think about risk management in DeFi. And I know risk management DeFi is a little bit different than in traditional finance. But what I also experience is that a lot of people when they come to defi think, well, now everything is completely different and we do things other than the old banks, the traditional finance. But I think that we can learn a lot from how risk management is done in traditional finance and also think about how can we use the features of blockchain, which are, I think the most important is immutability, so that you have your lecture and once information are there, they cannot be changed. Another feature is the distribution.
00:04:01.378 - 00:04:52.494, Speaker A: So you have a distributed or decentralized database stored on different sites. You always have to look about even if something is distributed could be centralized. So how is the influence of certain parties on this whole ecosystem. Another feature are smart contracts. So automation, transparency, especially when you look at permissionless blockchains like Ethereum, then it's always the question about here we go. Now I can go to this slide. We already had immutability, distribution and programmability of smart contract.
00:04:52.494 - 00:06:05.556, Speaker A: So the topic of transparency, as mentioned in permissionless environments and pseudo anonymity, most people think about real blockchain. I'm anonymous on a blockchain, you're not, you're just behind an address. And there are a lot of companies that track those addresses. So yeah, don't think that you, while you're behind this address and nobody knows who you are, that you are really anonymous, you're pseudonymous, like having an e bar number. And finally a consensus protocol, different consensus protocols, but there has to be a consensus in order to get information on the blockchain. And with those features we can span up a lot of possible use cases and well, I'm really curious about the teams, what they come up in, which use case area they come up and DeFi is just one of those aspects. So when we go to a definition of decentralized finance, then yeah, it's decentralized.
00:06:05.556 - 00:06:45.354, Speaker A: It's based on a blockchain or distributed ledger technology. Normally permissionless. It's run with smart contracts, so autonomous, nobody can interfere. We'll see if it's really nobody, then it's self managed. So you as a user interact with the system. It's not something that somebody on behalf of you is acting. So you can decide in which product you want to invest and then directly go into it.
00:06:45.354 - 00:07:58.572, Speaker A: You have no restrictions on trading hours, so it's 24/7 this is an advantage, but also can be a risk. We already had transparency, low fees compared to traditional finance products and as I mentioned, solidonymity. I think when you. There are a lot of protocols out there that claim that they are decentralized finance, but are at least centralized finance. And just short graph of a paper you really have to go through. And is there really nobody that can interfere? And when I think of interferes also is there for example in the smart contract, a functionality that you can stop trading and somebody can use this functionality, then it's not really decentralized. Are there any governance structures that can interfere with this product? So all those checks you really have to do.
00:07:58.572 - 00:08:59.966, Speaker A: And since a lot of you already know a little bit about smart contracts, I can go fast over this slide. Just as a short reminder, smart contract, the term was defined just before we already had blockchain. So by Nick Sable in 1994 as a computerized transaction protocol. And he compared a smart contract with a vending machine. So when you go to SPB station and just get some drink out of the vending machine, you also have this automated contract that run by the machine. And in our case, the smart contract is run by the blockchain nodes stored on the blockchain. Immutable, cannot be changed and therefore tamper proved it runs on events.
00:08:59.966 - 00:09:57.944, Speaker A: So once it is called, then it executes itself, stores the updated data on the database on the blockchain and then waits for the next event. We're still in the stage that smart contracts are not legal contracts. So just as a short reminder, normally you have to have a normal contract. Beside if you really want to use this as a legal agreement. There are a couple of initiatives in this direction, but still in most countries it's not a real contract and it's also not smart. But it can take custody over goods. And that's especially in the Defi area where we can implement a lot of different products.
00:09:57.944 - 00:10:47.614, Speaker A: You can go to deFi, Lama and scan do the categories. I think stablecoins are most known then decentralized exchanges or Dex, automated market makers. A lot of those decentralized finance products and the borders between those categories are not really clear because you have the smart contracts and with the smart contract you can develop whatever you like. So you can have slight variations between those. And some of the products perhaps make not much sense. Some of the products are only for speculation. Some of the products are really useful.
00:10:47.614 - 00:11:48.094, Speaker A: When we look at regulation, we're still in the wild west scenario, even that we have some legislation on it, but there are a lot of uncertainties and people just do what they do and they come up with new products. Also, you have to think about which country are you in. At the moment this is highly watched by the supervisors because the amount of transaction volume is rising. There is just a new report from the Financial Stability Board on decentralized finance. I can send it to you if you like. You can also get it on the Internet. So at the moment they think as D five, not as a systemic risk, but they have it on the watch list.
00:11:48.094 - 00:16:31.974, Speaker A: And as I mentioned, regulation in the financial space. Also that we have anti money laundry and all this stuff, or KYC is still a country specific thing. And in Defi we are just out in the Internet and everybody on the whole world can interact with those contracts. So there we are. On the one hand side, we are global, we are pseudonymous and when you think about KYC, there is some, some problems as I mentioned, the legal understanding of a smart contract and what we see is that a lot of products due to this lack of regulation, they think about self regulation because normally if you want to invest in such kind of product and you build up a company around it, then you don't want to be in the wild west and tomorrow the regulator says, well, it's illegal, you don't want to do this so a lot of people thinking in the industry think about how can we self regulate it and how can we also show that we people or users can trust in us I mentioned I want to look also on the traditional finance and I don't know if you're aware, but on the traditional finance also especially after those crisis we had recently and years before the beets or the Basel committee came up with a categorization of financial risks and Basel two was mainly three categories credit risk, market risk and operational risks now, after the financial crisis 20080 nine, they came up with Basel III and added additional risks like liquidity risk or counterparty risk and not only the risk categories and that the banks have to hold money for potential risks like Eigen Capital and at the moment we're in Switzerland just in this discussion about Credit Suisse and should we rise this from 13% to 20%? But beside this pillar one, we also have supervision and we also have this kind of market discipline and so the question is, can we learn from what happened at the traditional finance? I want to just come up with some of the challenges which are different in defi space compared to the traditional finance so first of all, we, as in the name, it's decentralized so we don't have a centralized control another important difference, when you look at the products in traditional finance, you have a lot of products that have some kind of maturity date so an execution date somewhere in the future when you look at decentralized finance and I just turn out staking but the other products usually don't have a maturity date so you can execute it whenever you want and they're the reason, that's the reason why for example, a bank run is much faster than in the traditional fines where you have some kind of bounding of a product to a date in the future execution date in the future we don't have any supervision from the regulator perhaps companies supervise their own products and have some kind of possibility to stop execution of the product but there is no official supervision and since we operate 24/7 well, this supervision has to be somehow automated. Otherwise there has to be somebody with a kill switch and waiting for something happening. We have code transparency.
00:16:31.974 - 00:18:16.806, Speaker A: Yeah, we can look into the code and that's I think also on one hand side a problem because when you ask the people who deal with decentralized finance products and say, well, did you really analyze the smart contract and what happens there and what could happen? Normally people say no. Well I read some description what this smart contract will do and perhaps it's based on a standard ESC 20 token or whatever, but I just want to invite you to have a closer look. So for example, if you look at teether stablecoin, which is an ESC 20 stablecoin, there is a stop functionality or pause functionality so somebody can stop trading teaser on the ethereum network. And a lot of those smart contracts have some kind of built suspension mechanisms. And it's always the question who is able to execute those suspensions? And is it a dao behind it or is it one person or is it a group of persons and what is their financial motivation on this? Since the smart contracts are executed autonomous, there is no safety net if you don't have really an implementation in this. And well, we challenge this from a risk perspective. Also is the usability, because I think the whole blockchain space lags on a really good usability.
00:18:16.806 - 00:20:06.544, Speaker A: And I don't mean usability for technical people. I think we all know how to deal with a wallet, but when you go out and want to go into public and ask somebody on the train station, so how do I handle or how do I buy a DeFi product and how do I sell it? I think there are the limitations. So the user group is a little bit small for this and mostly experts in a research project, we are just looking into this and also combining or combining traditional and finance and decentralized finance and we divided the risks on the systematic risks risk which I as a DeFi developer cannot influence. So the whole market risk, but also some technological risks like protocol risk. So if something happens to the Ethereum blockchain, I as a provider of a smart contract, of a DeFi product, I cannot do anything against this. Or if I rely on oracles and those oracles have some errors, then I also depend on this. And the other side is the unsystematic risks where we say with these risks I could handle or I should handle, I should look into governance of the product I should look into are there some requirements, for example from Finma that I have to provide a prospectus for my product because it's as a security token, I should do an audit of my smart contract from some companies.
00:20:06.544 - 00:21:24.054, Speaker A: I should look about reputational risks. What happens if there is in social media suddenly a sell announcement or some kind of bad reputation and everybody is going to sell my product? Potential solutions I think we're at the beginning of this whole and I'm really looking forward also perhaps for results from the hackathon, but also from the industry. In regards of risk management. I think we can learn from traditional risk management. It's not that we do have to do the same thing, but we can learn because this industry is a couple of years old. They had their mistakes in risk management, but also their gains. And I think a lot is about automation, about automation of the protocols, about reporting, about transparency, about bringing the governance into a decentralized area, not on a centralized that a couple of wallets can manipulate or can change the structure.
00:21:24.054 - 00:22:13.612, Speaker A: As I mentioned, the topic of maturity date, especially when you think of a bank run. And also how can we incentivize liquidity providers? Because when you look at the DeFi protocols, you always need some liquidity. That's the whole aspect around it, because you don't have a central bank that provides liquidity. So you have to have liquidity providers. And how can you incentivize them to stay in a protocol if something goes wrong and not pull out their money? And what we will see is the topic of KYC. Know your customer and this whole kind of identity. Where is the origin of the money? Anti money laundry topics.
00:22:13.612 - 00:23:16.250, Speaker A: I think there has to be developed some, something in regards of this. So coming to an end, I have six takeaways for you. Just still we're on the Wild west, but DeFi is on the watch list. I think self regulation from my point of view makes sense, but we really have to go in this direction and check how can we or how can the industry self regulate then I think we have to find a balance between traditional finance and define it's not all traditional finance, it's not all decentralized finance. But I think the truth is somewhere in between. And when you look at papers in the decentralized finance area, a lot of them are focusing on the technology risks. I think there are a lot of other risks in this space.
00:23:16.250 - 00:24:16.434, Speaker A: Not only errors in smart contracts, but those errors are one of the biggest risks. And the other I think is the whole topic of reputation. So what we've seen in a lot of those protocols that we have this kind of bank run, that there is some bad publicity and people pull out their money and then the whole system collapse. And yeah, since it's a new industry, I think it's important to get innovation in this space. I'm also looking forward to all of you, all of your solutions, and not only look at short gains or speculation, but also on a long perspective and with this, also risk management with this. Thanks for attending and sorry for the slides and looking forward for the break for some interesting discussions. Thanks.
