00:00:00.200 - 00:00:17.390, Speaker A: One around the regulatory side, where I think you have a choice between doing it in a very regulatory compliant way and then one which is sort of pushing the boundary somewhat. And I think we're going to test where those boundaries are in the next twelve to 24 months. Web three offers a brand new petri dish. Our job is to buy great tech at great prices.
00:00:17.462 - 00:00:21.790, Speaker B: AI is also libertarian right enable use case that people haven't been able to do today.
00:00:21.862 - 00:00:25.470, Speaker A: The next hundreds of millions of players, they will come to the market through mobile.
00:00:25.542 - 00:01:16.460, Speaker B: My personal reason why I could be bullish in the next twelve months is hey everybody, welcome back to another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. Now, stablecoins, as a lot of you guys know, are the biggest product market fit in crypto, without a doubt. And after the spectacular collapse of Luna just last year, countries like Singapore, Japan and the UK issued stablecoin guidance that will go into effect next year. So this is hurling more regulated variants of stablecoins, like PayPal's own PayPal stablecoin. But the stablecoin ban marches on. So now we have over $100 billion in circulating stablecoins between USD, Tether, USD, Circle, and binance own USD as well. Now, for subscribers to blockcount's vip, we've also covered extensively the different models of Defi stablecoins.
00:01:16.460 - 00:02:05.274, Speaker B: So these are things like over collateralized ones, like maker dynamically collateralized ones, like fracs to ones tied up to lending markets, like aaves gho stablecoin. So it is a deeply, deeply saturated market. So as an investor, I've mostly stayed away from stablecoin projects until I came across Athena, which I invested in last year as an angel investor. So Athena is creating the first Internet native bond. So they're aiming to be the first stable coin that has a fully crypto native yield, that does not rely on banking to get new treasury yields, and does not rely on unsustainable ponzionomics like Luna did to explain exactly what Athena is and why it may be the next generation of defi stablecoins, as well as what came before. And what's wrong with all the other stable coins out there. I'm excited to have the founder of Athena, guy Young, on the show with us today.
00:02:05.274 - 00:02:06.514, Speaker B: So guy, welcome to the show, man.
00:02:06.594 - 00:02:08.254, Speaker A: Thanks. Appreciate you having me on.
00:02:08.674 - 00:02:26.882, Speaker B: So you started Athena after reading a blog post written by one of the biggest ogs in the space, Arthur Hayes, who also happens to be one of the co founders of Bitmex. So Arthur himself now is one of the founding advisors and investor to Athena. So tell us a little bit about how that story played out. Like, how did that happen?
00:02:27.058 - 00:03:08.504, Speaker A: Yeah, it was really just me, basically. After Luna had gone down in 22, Arthur came out with a thought piece just describing how he would think about a crypto native dollar, and really built upon some of the behavior that you saw from traders on Bitmax all the way back to 2016. His basic idea was having a long BTC position on one side, and then you short the invest perpetual on the other, and that created a synthetic dollar out of those two things. Netting off. I read his piece, was quite inspired by the idea, thought there were a couple of ways that we could tweak and adjust the way that he was thinking about things, but, yeah, was inspired by it and quit my job to start thinking about what we're doing with Athena.
00:03:08.624 - 00:03:15.676, Speaker B: And before this, you were in tradfi doing investing. That is also tangentially related to what you're working on now, right?
00:03:15.820 - 00:03:51.174, Speaker A: Yeah, that's why I was at a hedge fund based in the US. What they specialized in was looking at financial services. So you're investing across the capital structure into banks, insurance companies, especially finance. And really, if you think about the business model of a bank of a stable coin, it looks actually very similar to banks, where you're taking some form of deposit that has some length of duration, and then you have some collateral or asset that sits behind it with a different length of duration. I think when you look closely at these different stablecoin business models, it actually doesn't look too dissimilar to financial institutions that you see in the real world.
00:03:51.594 - 00:04:27.472, Speaker B: Going back to your point about the BitMex dollar, I remember this back in, I think it was 2017 or 2018, I saw some tweets from traders who are trying to go on holiday. And if I'm not incorrect, I think BitMex at that time was only taking bitcoin deposits. So these guys have a bunch of bitcoin sitting as collateral on exchange, but they want to go chill on a beach somewhere. So they decided to just short the exact same amount of bitcoin on BitMex as they have as collateral. So basically neutralizing the exposure they have and having synthetic dollars. So that is the core concept for Athena. But obviously, you're applying that to Ethereum on staked ETH as well.
00:04:27.472 - 00:04:35.364, Speaker B: So can you help us understand, just first of all, how Athena works? And kind of why did you pick ETH, and why is now the best time to do something like this?
00:04:35.504 - 00:05:19.538, Speaker A: Yes. At a very basic level, the two adjustments that we made to Arthur's core idea were basically replacing bitcoin with staked ETH, as you pointed out. And I think the core reason for that is actually just thinking about two pieces. One is, how do you actually bootstrap this idea from zero? Because I think a lot of the time, we try to create interesting academic experiments within stable coins on chain, but never actually think about how a user is actually going to come into the stablecoin, or how are you going to distribute it. I think one thing we continuously see is that people respond to yield. Your ability now to have a positive carry on the spotlight of that transaction with stake deeds. Now, having some form of embedded yield allows you to basically put that together with the basis that you capture on shorting perpetual contracts on the other side.
00:05:19.538 - 00:06:12.884, Speaker A: And putting those two things together creates a pretty interesting unlevered deal, which has been running at roughly 12% this year. I think the other one is actually around risk mitigation, which is you do tend to get paid to put on those shorts. So, as I sort of said, it runs at roughly 8% annualized over the last three years. But there are periods where that funding does go negative, and you do need something in there which can potentially cover for those periods of negative funding. And so having the spotlight of that transaction, paying out a yield, not only sort of adds to the attractiveness of the product in good conditions, but then obviously adds, like, a margin of safety for when the conditions are not favorable. I think the second piece that we just took a slightly different approach to, the way that Arthur laid out his idea, was just thinking about the custody of the underlying assets. So in Arthur's piece, he outlined how we needed this to be accessing centralized liquidity in order to get this to scale.
00:06:12.884 - 00:07:03.170, Speaker A: So for your reference, sex, liquidity, or open interest versus dex, is still roughly in the order of like 25 to 30 times larger than what you see on chain. And so if you're going to grow this to any meaningful size, you basically have to start on the assumption that you're going to be accessing centralized liquidity. But after what we saw with FTX, I just was personally not comfortable taking users assets and leaving them exposed to the credit risk of exchanges. We've seen some interesting developments on the custodial side now since FTX, where you're able to disaggregate the custody, execution, and settlement in the same way that you see within tradfi, where you can now house the assets outside of centralized venues while still accessing the liquidity. Yeah, those are sort of the two key pieces that we changed. It's not to say that we won't explore bitcoin further down the line. It's just, you obviously do that, at worst, marginal economics, once you've addressed that cold start problem that I described.
00:07:03.282 - 00:07:52.534, Speaker B: Yeah. The reason why I'm so excited about this is because it's such a unique design that's really only possible within crypto, because you need the proof of stake yield for this to work. And just to synthesize what you said, you're basically allowing people to take their ethnicity to then stake their ETH and mint liquid staking derivatives and use that as collateral on an exchange to then short the ETH. So they have neutral exposure equal, basically dollars, but then they earn the staking yield on their staked ETH, but also the funding rate they earn from shorting ETH. And seems like historically, funding has mostly been positive, which pays out the shorts. But is this assumption, do you foresee this assumption to, to play out in the long term? Does it rely on people who are constantly. Are structurally bullish on ETH?
00:07:53.154 - 00:08:50.911, Speaker A: Yeah, that is right. There is a base level assumption that there is a greater demand to be long on leverage than there is to be short within crypto. And I think we have seen historically that is the case. And even during 2022, when you have a great test case to look back and say, how does this perform in extremely bearish conditions when every centralized entity in the space is going to zero, you actually saw that funding, on average, basically average zero for that year. So I think we can look back at the data itself and just get a bit of comfort around the behavior of that rate in the past, not to say it sort of continues into the future, but I think something you've even seen in the last few weeks. Right, which is where even a small increase in the bullish sort of conditions in the market, with people anticipating the ETF, that rate, like, popped up to north of 30% with just a little bit of a hint that there was sort of bullish conditions return. So, yes, there is a base level assumption here that there is a greater demand to be long than there is to be short, and that's usually expressed through the funding rate that you see within this contract.
00:08:50.911 - 00:09:13.956, Speaker A: There is another more technical explanation, which is the calculation of some of the funding rates on these contracts on most of the major key venues, has this concept of a baseline funding where it reverts to 10% if it's trading within a band, all else equal, if nothing's moving in the market, some of the major venues are just paying out that 10% as a base case without any change in leverage demand.
00:09:14.100 - 00:09:40.808, Speaker B: Yeah, and I'm just pulling up the funding rates on ETH right now. So if you analyze the current funding you need to pay to be long ETH on something like a binance, it's like 10% a year. On Oke, it's like 18%. So if you're shorting that effectively, you're earning the ten to 18% on the short leg alone. And I'm also pulling up the lido liquid staked ETH yield. It's about 3.6%. So if you combine those two yields, this is like 15% to 20% yield.
00:09:40.808 - 00:09:51.832, Speaker B: Do you think this type of yield for holding a stable coin, is that kind of the expected yield? Is that like a sustainable assumption, or does this yield kind of fluctuate quite a lot?
00:09:51.888 - 00:10:46.696, Speaker A: Yeah, it's definitely going to fluctuate through time, and it's a bit of a multivariate sort of problem that you're solving here about, because there's one. The most important factor is how much demand is there to come into the market to be long on leverage. So if you look back at 2021, when the market conditions were really heated, that number was actually closer to 40% at the beginning of 21, and it didn't matter really how much you were shorting. There was just an overriding and overwhelming sort of demand that was there. On the other side, equally, I think there has to be some consideration that if we are successful in growing into multi billions of size, there is going to be some compression within that rate. And I think when you look back at some of the test cases that we've done in the past, roughly in periods where you've seen extreme increases in open interest, the sensitivity of the funding rate to a $1 billion increase on ETH contracts has been just under 2%. So I think that there is a reasonable expectation that that rate compresses all else equal if this does grow into the billions.
00:10:46.696 - 00:11:19.678, Speaker A: But I think it's not something that we sit here and worry about and concern ourselves with. I think what we need to be worried about is putting the infrastructure in place that that arbitrage can tighten to wherever that equilibrium level is. And I think it's our view that whatever that level is, that's going to be a market set interest rate. And our job is to basically just put in the plumbing to allow the interest rate to converge to something that is an equilibrium. And I think that we view, providing that infrastructure as a vehicle to basically capture billions of dollars of value as that interest rate does converge.
00:11:19.826 - 00:12:11.782, Speaker B: Yeah, so I think that makes a lot of sense. So basically, all that yield that you earned on the stake ETH and the short leg get past, or most of it gets passed to the holders of the Athena USD, which I figured was probably a natural evolution of where stablecoins were headed anyway, because there was a lot of discussion about just the billions of dollars that USDC Circle and USDT tether have on the treasuries and how much they're earning just depositing these user collateral to earn treasury yields, but having none of it passed back to users. But on the flip side, if you look at the adoption that these stable coins have, we're talking about $100 billion, and they never once had yield passed through back to users. So what was the secret ingredient there? How were they able to get to this size without relying on yield? And can they still get away with not passing through all these billions of dollars of revenue that they're accruing?
00:12:11.918 - 00:13:28.802, Speaker A: Yeah, I think with stepcoins in particular, especially the first movers like tether, we just got to remember that I think data points are basically one of the strongest network effect businesses that actually exist, where when you become embedded as actual transactional money within these exchanges, as a transactional pair on the major trading powers, that's actually an enormous moat that takes a lot of time to unseat. And so you have seen a couple of exchanges pair up with different stable coin issuers, and in the background, there is some payment of yield there for the distribution that those exchanges provide. So I think Coinbase and USDC are a decent example. But the first mover advantage and the network effects that I think tether attained by basically spreading their liquidity across the market is actually a very powerful mode, and it's actually quite hard to unseat. And so I think to the question of do they ever change? I think USDC has basically of changed in some way already, and they've already started providing some of that yield either through to Coinbase or to users who are sitting on Coinbase itself. I have doubts around whether tether will actually do the same, because I just think they view themselves in a monopolistic position at the moment. And the moat that they've built around themselves, I think, affords them the ability to internalize all of that yield.
00:13:28.802 - 00:13:55.074, Speaker A: I think we've also just got to remember that stablecoins, for most of their lives, existed in a zero interest rate environment, so no one was caring or talking about this until this year, basically, when rates went to five. And then I think everyone started to realize that there was something amiss between that dislocation. So, yeah, I do think it is something that is quite entrenched for tether. And I think the pressure does come on other stablecoin issues who sit more within the network of us. Regulated issuance.
00:13:55.234 - 00:14:38.972, Speaker B: Yeah. And I guess focusing on the user, I think conceptually, if you don't factor in just artificial inflationary rewards used to bootstrap some of the newer stablecoins, I think Athena's design is probably giving you the most yield possible on any other design that I've seen. But how does yield rank on the priority for users? Because one question that I wanted to dive into, is Athena a type of vitamin, or is it a painkiller? And what do I mean by this is? If it's a vitamin, it means it's a cool primitive, and you're kind of building it to see. Let's see what else we can build on top of this. First, it's like a painkiller type of product, which is, okay, somebody is dying to use this today, and there's a very specific pain point we're trying to solve. So I'm curious how you think about Athena in the context of all these other stable coins out there.
00:14:39.148 - 00:15:52.876, Speaker A: Yeah, no, it's a really good question, because I think we sometimes just focus on the yield piece and actually forget about why are we here and what is the purpose of the actual underlying product, which for us is actually the synthetic dollar. So if we go back to Arthur's idea, he wasn't there sort of pitching something as a new yield product or an Internet native bond. It was actually just the core use case and how important it was to find a crypto native solution for money. And so that was something that I generally agreed with, which is, I think it is one of the most important problems in the space to solve, which is, can we create a self sufficient dollar that we can depend on? And I think the news flow that you've seen this year further reinforces that idea. Whether it's Paxos and Busd getting shut down with binance, what we saw with SBB and USDC, I think it's quite clear that we do need some sort of scalable form of money within crypto. And so I do see if we put that yield aside as just something that's sort of nice to have and an interesting way to bootstrap things, we do think it is a fundamentally important product that both exchanges and then users within crypto we hope find useful in terms of being able to diversify away from a single source of risk within fiat stablecoins. I think the second piece is actually just thinking about defi native application.
00:15:52.876 - 00:16:45.662, Speaker A: So where we see a lot of the backing for some of the stable coins that exist on chain at the moment is basically importing rwas off chain on chain to basically use that as a source of yield. And I think just taking a step back, it is kind of pointless. Everything that we're doing within DeFi, if the single most important instrument that we use within every application is completely centralized, I think yes, it does have a use case for certain individuals, but when we start backing DeFi applications with pure centralized assets, I think it does make the rest of all of the efforts that we're doing within DeFi. Some are pointless. So I do think that there is definitely a use case both within exchanges who want diversification from fiat risk that exists with normal stablecoins. And then b, I think that there's an enormous amount of interesting areas that you can start to take a yield bearing crypto native form of dollar and plugging it into different DeFi applications as a backing asset.
00:16:45.778 - 00:17:24.266, Speaker B: Yeah, and I think that centralization discussion is one that we should have later as well, because whenever I bring up Athena people immediate reaction as wow, is it dependent on decentralized exchanges? But then I think there's a lot of nuance to just how centralized so called decentralized stablecoins today are, which we'll dive into. But before that. So Athena was actually not the first delta neutral stable coins that we've seen. There was one called, I think called UXD on Solana that was using, I believe, decentralized Dexs to pull off the short leg. They were using mango markets, if I remember correctly, and I think there were a few others as well. So im sure youve seen these. Why do you think none of them really took off?
00:17:24.410 - 00:18:09.250, Speaker A: Yeah, I think theres probably two pieces to this. The first was just what I mentioned earlier around the capacity for the derivative markets on chain to actually absorb that size of flows. So as far as I recall, UXD were basically built on manga markets, which had a peak open interest of around $100 million at the peak of the market. Thats just nowhere near a scale that you can ever grow a stable coin into the size of billions, obviously. And I actually think from a risk mitigation perspective, its actually somewhat reckless to have a, a single venue that youre executing on and then b have it that small. Like, if we even look at not even the top exchange, like binance, mango at 100 million is not even like a 15th or a 10th of the size of an OKX, and by bit. So I just think from that perspective, the raw scalability of it was not possible.
00:18:09.250 - 00:19:03.426, Speaker A: I think the second piece is, again, around the yield bearing asset on the one side. So again, it was quite difficult to bootstrap that stablecoin, because there was really no upside to holding it versus everything else that was in the market, because they were too large as a percentage of open interest on the exchanges that they were trading, which actually pushed down funding into negative territories. On good days it would be earning zero, and on bad days it was pretty deeply negative. I think for us, the learning was you need centralized liquidity, and then you've got to walk back from that assumption to say, what can we build around the access to centralized liquidity to try and make it more trust minimized and more aligned with the ethos of what we see in Defi? I think that that custodial solution that I mentioned earlier is for us, an interesting middle ground where you can have the transparency of DeFi, show the assets there, twenty four seven, and then know that you don't have the actual underlying collateral sitting within the exchange servers.
00:19:03.530 - 00:19:39.934, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that makes a lot of sense, because if UXT reached even a fraction of the scale of something like makers die, they would be the majority of the open interest on something like mango markets, and the funding would just perpetually be negative, and you'll be paying to hold that stable coin, at least if the funding you're paying is higher than the yield you're earning on the stake side of the trade. But I guess the same problem could happen on Athena, maybe years down the line, hopefully months down the line. There's a good problem to have is when you guys scale so much that you become a significant part of centralized exchange, open interest, that you start to influence global funding. What do we do when that happens?
00:19:40.474 - 00:20:42.658, Speaker A: Yeah, the simple answer is we do nothing. We think these are like market forces that you should never sort of stand in the way of. And every time that you try and interfere with either an interest rate or try and fix your supply in some way, it's just going to lead to more painful breakages further down the road. I think if we just look at one example from Luna, they obviously made a ton of mistakes, but I think one key one was actually just fixing an interest rate with anchor at 20%, where it was actually at the tail end of the bear market, if you remember, where actually USD started to really grow, because you saw interest rates collapse in the rest of the market, and that just became the single source where everyone piled into. My view philosophically on these things, is the market is going to set where that equilibrium supply of the stablecoin and the interest rate is. And if people want to get out because the interest rate is going negative, that's actually a very helpful mechanism for us to be able to calibrate the supply of the stablecoin, because it's saying USD is too large relative to the size of the market it's operating in, and it needs to shrink. Then we sort of, we shrink and we get to a new equilibrium where that interest rate makes sense.
00:20:42.658 - 00:20:54.248, Speaker A: So I don't mean to sort of avoid the question in any way, it's more just saying it's really in the mechanism designed to say we want that exogenous interest rate to calibrate the supply. We never want to stand in front of those market forces.
00:20:54.416 - 00:21:31.760, Speaker B: Yeah, and I think it's important to emphasize that the yield numbers that you gave were just hypothetical. They're literally just based on the number we see, like this precise minute, which changes every minute, maybe less so for the ETH staking yield, but funding rates literally change like every 8 hours on exchanges. So for Luna, they were just guaranteeing 20% and just throwing vc money into this. But for you guys, it's more of a dynamic, kind of completely based on the market type of yield, which makes a lot more sense to me from an investor's perspective. And since we're talking about DeFi stablecoins as well. So obviously there's quite a lot of other models. There's maker, which is the OG, there's fracs, there's gho.
00:21:31.760 - 00:21:45.098, Speaker B: I know you have strong thoughts on each of these different designs. There are different vectors of centralization and the way they collateralize as well. We can start with any one of them. Why don't we start with the biggest one first? Maker. Any thoughts on how maker compares with Athena?
00:21:45.256 - 00:22:24.952, Speaker A: Yeah, I think. Well, firstly, before jumping into any individual projects, I think it's just worth saying a that they've done incredible jobs like building products that people actually want to use. And nothing I say is a criticism about these projects. It's more actually just a difference in approach, where I think anyone who's going to just try and describe something as better or worse than something else is just not being honest with the trade offs. So really here, I think it is just trade offs between what these other projects are providing and what Athena is trying to provide to users. So I think with Maker, obviously there's been a bit of a thesis drift in terms of what the actual proposition of the product is. I think before Black Thursday in 2020, it was supposed to be a crypto native, uncensorable dollar.
00:22:24.952 - 00:23:04.864, Speaker A: When they onboarded USDC, that obviously changed the course of history for that project, where now it's more of just a vehicle or a conduit through which you can export like RWA yields through the rest of DeFi. So the majority of the backing now for DAI is actually just bonds in the real world, rather than crypto native collateral. So it's obviously a useful product. It's sitting there in the multi billions of size, it's generating a ton of revenue and a ton of cash flows to not only the holders of the stable coin, but actually maker itself. And I think that's fine. There's clearly a use, and there's a need within Defi to try and access those yields. I think the bits about its design, which I think we've just taken a slightly different approach, is a around the collateralization.
00:23:04.864 - 00:23:48.744, Speaker A: You need to have around $2 for every dollar of DAi that's been minted. That's reasonably capital inefficient. And the way that the delta neutral design works is you only need $1 that's going in to create a dollar of stablecoin on the other side. So that's one piece that we just take a different approach. And then the other one is actually just thinking about what is the purpose of us doing this, and sort of circling back to this idea of crypto native collateral, and then crypto native yields as well, which is we want to provide something that is truly uncorrelated to risk in the real world. And having that censorship profile that backing yourself with RWAs or feared stable points has, is something that we're actively trying to provide a different and uncorrelated solution for. So again, yeah, I think it's just a difference in approach between ourselves and them.
00:23:48.744 - 00:24:39.238, Speaker A: And then I think if we maybe just talk about RWAs as a separate bucket, because I think that's just where most of these other newer projects that you've seen are sort of focusing their time. Again, I think it's a useful product as a user. I think that it's great that people around the world can get access to. To what is basically the most important financial instrument on earth, which is just saving your money in dollars and earning a yield in it. I think there is a difference though between, and we just need to distinguish between what is like a pretty interesting product and then b, is that what you want to spend your time building? I have a difference in opinion between the builders who are spending their time doing that, which is a few different pieces. I think one around the regulatory side where I think you have a choice between doing it in a very regulatory compliant way, and then one which is sort of pushing the boundaries somewhat. And I think we're going to test where those boundaries are in the next twelve to 24 months.
00:24:39.238 - 00:25:57.438, Speaker A: I think the regulated way basically looks like fully KYC'd and you can't throw it into care pools and allow anyone to access it. And then I think the other one is basically pushing a line which I'm not sure that people are going to have that much appetite to allow in the next twelve to 24 months. And then the second piece is just actually thinking about, are you creating a business model that's actually worth anything? Because if you're basically just bringing a bond on chain and then allowing the rest of the market to come in and collect that yield, that is by definition delivering beta, right? There's nothing in terms of alpha that you're actually generating within that process. You've seen hundreds of projects jump in and try to do the same thing. The second order question there is how do you as a protocol and you as a builder actually extract any value from what you've just provided over there? And so a lot of these projects are, they're clipping 20 basis points on the assets that they bring in. And if you think about what is a venture scale outcome in terms of fees that you need to generate for that to make sense, you need to have like $20 billion of assets sitting within this thing. And so the question is like, is your startup with zero distribution going to get to $20 billion of importing a bond on chain when there's 100 other startups doing the same? Or is it going to be someone like Franklin Templeton who's got this sort of setup on chain, has a distribution, has the brand and the trustworthiness sitting around it? So I think that, yeah, my difference in opinion there with RWas is I think they're useful.
00:25:57.438 - 00:26:15.368, Speaker A: I do have a question mark around the boundaries that we're pushing on a regulatory side. Then lastly, I think it's very difficult to extract real value as a protocol delivering that unless you're doing it at enormous size. And I'm just doubtful that we're going to see new entrants being able to provide it at that size.
00:26:15.536 - 00:27:05.364, Speaker B: Yeah, and I really agree with your point about different stablecoin designs mostly being different trade offs. And when I say that Athena is better than everyone else, it was more tongue in cheek, because I'm a huge fan of maker, and I do think they're a flag bearer for Defi as well. But I do remember a lot of the maker community being quite upset or surprised that maker took this turn from being like the crypto native or completely defi decentralized, almost like cypherpunk stablecoin, to a pass through vehicle for real world yields, where they're reliant on a lot of centralized custodies and banks and so on. If you look at Athena as well, there's also reliance on centralized players, centralized custodies, and obviously centralized exchanges where you're pulling on that short leg of the trade. So can you talk a little bit about how do you respond to people who say that while Athena is exposed to the credit risk of the next FTX?
00:27:05.864 - 00:27:44.414, Speaker A: Yes, I think that's core to the design that we had with getting the custodians in, which has been a massive lip, because this is quite a new piece of market structure that hasn't been around within crypto for a while. So it would have been orders of magnitude more easy for us to just take users assets and throw it on exchanges. But we've gone through the work to try and segregate that collateral risk away. The custodians that we're using are sitting all outside of the US, and the assets, as I said, are held off of the exchange. So if an exchange fails on one side, you always have those assets to give back to the user on the other side. That does not mean that you've reduced the credit risk to zero. I just want to be clear around that, which is you still hold the derivative position sitting on the exchange.
00:27:44.414 - 00:28:43.540, Speaker A: And so if an exchange goes down on one side, if we play through that scenario, ETH is probably falling 10%, 20% on the day. You have some p and l within that short, which you haven't potentially captured to get back to users on the other side, you are able to box around that risk and isolate it to single exchanges going down, and one day's worth of p and l, that's just sitting there. But I did just want to highlight that that small risk does still exist there on the centralization piece. I think it's really just think about what is the specific vector that you're trying to actually control for. For us, it was actually just saying, we do not want bonds sitting within a bank account or an SBB within the US, because for us, that is just really the thing that we're trying to solve for there, where a regulatory entity can come in and just say, shut that down immediately. For us, it was just creating something that was in the crypto ecosystem, defined more broadly, as in crypto custodians, crypto exchanges, and then living on Ethereum within a crypto network. We never claim to be decentralized fully in any way.
00:28:43.540 - 00:29:19.914, Speaker A: In fact, a lot of the setup, as you said, touches extremely centralized entities. But really, the pain point that we're trying to solve for is you don't want bonds sitting within a bank or SBV in the US. And we think that removing that piece of the equation means that when you see events like you saw with SVB at the beginning of the year, if you remember every single one of the stablecoins traded down in lockstep with USDC, it's because the market could look through and say they all have the exact same risk profile, which is just USDC sitting behind them. Right. And so really what we're trying to provide is that uncorrelated exposure, and that's what we've tried to solve for.
00:29:20.214 - 00:29:50.456, Speaker B: Yeah, and I'm usually a little bit of a party pooper and doomers. I'd love to walk through the worst case scenarios as well. So let's say we stake our ETH on Lido, and then we put the lido onto copper or whatever custodian, and then the custodian helps us open the short leg on a centralized exchange, on multiple centralized exchanges. And one of those centralized exchanges blows up what actually happens to the value of the Athena US dollar, because it doesn't just go to zero, because you still have the collateral on the long ETH side.
00:29:50.640 - 00:30:31.022, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly. So we can try to work through, like an example here. So if you had, call it 20% sitting across five different exchanges, the price of ETH goes down 20% on that day, and a big exchange falls down. You've essentially just lost the hedge position on that exchange, and it's only 20% exposure of the book, and you've lost 20% of the p and L that you would have been getting that day. Right, so 20% on 20%. And then one thing that's important to remember here is that we also have an insurance fund that sits behind the stablecoin. So you're going to have the collateral backing, which is long steeth short hedges that are sitting against it, and then a buffer of call it around 5% that also sits there as well.
00:30:31.022 - 00:31:12.224, Speaker A: When you really box up that risk to say, we've always got the collateral there to give back to the user, and you're just basically losing the hedged p and L on that day when the exchange has gone down. That's something that we think that you can basically box down into single digit percentage losses to the principle of the stable coin. And that's part of why we're sizing up an insurance fund to sit there and potentially cover for that scenario as well. So, yeah, as you point out, when things go wrong in this design, we think it's less of an event where it goes literally to zero, like what you saw with Luna in the space of 24 hours here, it's on the margin. There might be small points of principle that are lost if you have disaster scenarios with counterparties going down.
00:31:12.524 - 00:31:39.354, Speaker B: Yeah. So I guess that's for the short side. For the short ETH side. And I think I've seen and experienced enough exchange blow ups for a lifetime that I think I'm clearer on the risks on that side. But what about on the long side, on the lido side? Is there any risk to, let's say, if I post some ETH, if I stake some ETH, get my liquid stake derivative and post that as collateral, and then I get slashed, what happens to my short position? What happens to my Athena dollars?
00:31:39.934 - 00:32:20.421, Speaker A: Yeah, the short position will be fine because we don't use any leverage on what we're doing on the exchanges. So the collateral value there, under any reasonable scenario, is never going to actually get liquidated on that exchange because of the lack of leverage. Clearly, there is a principles risk there with slashing, or even if there's a more serious bug that exists within lido. But that is really fundamental to the risk of the collateral that you're taking on to put into the system. So we've made that pretty clear in the documents that you are taking exposure to not only lido stake deets, but then different LST providers as well. And that is really core to the part of why you're getting paid by it to be long spot staked ETH. There's no free lunch, it's not the same asset as ethanol.
00:32:20.421 - 00:32:27.334, Speaker A: And as part of sort of signing up for the actual product contract itself, we've just made that clear to users that that risk does exist.
00:32:27.374 - 00:33:05.660, Speaker B: That. Yeah, and obviously there's this concept of restaking. I know you've been following but I think very soon in the market, we're going to see things like restaked ETH, which is effectively staked ETH, that is also leveraging other protocols, like Eigen layer or like Celestia, or maybe not mostly eigen layer, to provide security for other protocols. So you're re hypothecating your ETH collateral as a security deposit for multiple different applications. So there's more compounded risk there. Yes, but it also juices the yield, which, you know, defi natives seem to love. What are your thoughts on that? Like, would Athena use something like restaked ETH instead of just liquid staked ETH as well for collateral?
00:33:05.812 - 00:34:05.102, Speaker A: I personally don't want to do that at all. I think the way I'm approaching this is you really want the base layer of what you're building to be as rock solid and secure as possible, and then you can allow that to be a base layer that other people can build innovative new ideas on top of. So even the idea of leverage, for example, you could be using the returns by doing interesting things with leverage, like underneath the actual stablecoin itself. But we think it's more interesting to just provide, really, a base level that is easy to understand and as secure as it can possibly be, and then allow that innovation to be built upon it. So I think with Argonne specifically, you had the keyword there, which is like re hypothecate, which is, if you're going to be posting this collateral to some exchange for someone to use as collateral, they need to understand that they can get their hands on it if they actually need to in some scenario. And so, to the extent that that stake deed is being used to secure some of the network, and there's another claim on the. On the underlying asset that obviously, you know, confuses the picture for an exchange to be able to get their hands onto it.
00:34:05.102 - 00:34:24.706, Speaker A: So I think for us, yeah, philosophically, want to keep as much of the dGen designs that you can start building upon a yield bearing asset outside of the core product itself. And we can never control that. These are permissionless markets. But I think at the very core base level of the product itself, want to avoid adding risks like that, I guess.
00:34:24.730 - 00:34:42.602, Speaker B: Speaking of djNs, who do you foresee are the main profiles of holders for Athena's dollar? Do you foresee funds maybe having part of their USDT, USDC holdings in Athena dollars? Or is it mostly degens? Is it institutions? What's the kind of demographic here?
00:34:42.738 - 00:35:34.950, Speaker A: Yeah, I think one interesting thing about it, from my perspective is it can appeal to a bunch of different people in very different ways. So if you go to an exchange, you can think about really, the fabric of the product itself has distribution with exchanges in mind, right? Because for us to create the product, we need to trade on the exchange, create fees, we bring flows into their stake deep products, and then it provides that uncorrelated exposure that I described earlier with the other stablecoins. We actually think of exchanges as a key user of this, and then we allow them to be distributing to their users. On the other side. Clearly, there's going to be a user within Defi which just wants to chase yield in the product itself. And I think we've seen, even with what happened with blast over the last couple of days, there is a reasonably strong appetite to just chase a small bit of yield within the market. And that is just something that's obviously provided through, through USD.
00:35:34.950 - 00:36:28.554, Speaker A: And then I think the third participant, which is probably less common in the rest of DeFi, is actually just hedge funds, who hedge funds have obviously just been doing cash and carry trades for the last, whatever, like 30 years, and they do that on 20 to 50 times leverage on bonds. And here you basically putting together the same type of thing that they understand and have seen their entire careers with no leverage. And so to them, it actually just looks like one of the most interesting carry trades that you've ever seen on an unlevered basis. And your ability to basically package that up. And because you have the underlying assets sitting within custodians, rather than smart contracts itself, it becomes a bit easier for institutional capital to engage with it, because you can actually look through to see that the assets are held within the same custodians that they are using day to day. And so, yeah, I think there really are sort of three different buckets and users here, each with a different angle, which I think they might find interesting.
00:36:28.894 - 00:36:49.206, Speaker B: I guess, for the cash and carry traders, what's the incentive for them to do this versus putting on the Athena trade themselves? They can just go and stake their own Ethan Lido and then use that as collateral to short ETH, and then they don't even have to, they don't have to give whatever take rate the Athena protocol might take. So what would the incentive be for them to hold the Athena USD?
00:36:49.390 - 00:37:52.908, Speaker A: Yeah, there's one which is actually just to set yourselves up with seven different exchanges with custodials partners and have the whole piece of infrastructure working and spreading the risk across all of these spaces is clearly not something that's just easy to, like, do tomorrow. You can obviously set up an entire desk that tries to do that, but it's not the easiest thing to get going immediately. The second piece is just around the use of staked ETH. So staked ETH as a collateral asset within these exchanges has not been something that has been possible or used before Athena came to market, and it's something that we've actually actively pushed for and have been given allowances to, to use. That's not to say it doesn't change through time, but as it exists now, we're the only counterparty that we know in the market that's able to put that trade on in size. And so I think for people, it really is. If you're sitting there in a tradpy desk, it's a bit of a pain to sit about setting up all of these different exchanges, having the counterpart of this deal, all of these exchanges, rather than having a one click solution, which you can basically come into and get out of whenever you want, that's just packaged up for you.
00:37:53.046 - 00:38:10.984, Speaker B: You mentioned earlier that you'd rather not verticalize and allow other people to come in and build stuff on top of Athena, but I'm sure you've thought out some cool shit that you can build on top. So what are some of the interesting ideas or most weird ideas that you've ideated or heard about people wanting to potentially build on this?
00:38:11.144 - 00:38:18.884, Speaker A: Yeah, just to be clear, there are some pieces of we're going to be actively building on top of USDe. I just wanted to keep the experimentation.
00:38:19.364 - 00:38:20.732, Speaker B: Not the crazy ones.
00:38:20.908 - 00:39:13.462, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly. So I think two really obvious ones, which become quite interesting, is the use of a perpetual is obviously a floating rate instrument in terms of the yield. So you have a floating rate with stake DT yield, and then the floating cost of financing that you mentioned with eight hour windows for the perp. But there are expiring features within crypto. It's a smaller market than perpetuals, but you have an ability to basically say, I want to lock in that hedge at a predefined maturity date further in time. So you'll look out and say, I want to buy the contracts in June of next year, and that's actually you locking in the yield that you're going to be receiving against that stake collateral. So you can sort of think about this as the first product is a floating rate Internet bond, where the yields sort of move around the whole time, and then the second one can be more of a structured product where you're actually locking in whatever it is eight to 10% yield six months out in time.
00:39:13.462 - 00:40:42.456, Speaker A: And I think what's interesting about that is experimentation that you've seen around fixed rates within DeFi previously, has always sort of missed the fact that you really need a large scaled asset to make it interesting, because doing small, little fixed rate things on, like, halfway loans or like, LP positions within some weird amm, it's just not big and scalable enough for people to get into in size. And so really, like the staked ETH market, and then the futures market that exists within sectors, that is, for the first time, the big, large sort of fixed rate market that you can actually tap into. So I think that that is quite interesting. And then the second one is just thinking about leverage, where you've seen some of these money market protocols, where you're posting an asset which has a certain yield on the asset side, and then your ability to borrow dollars on the liability side is a different rate. So if you remember back to 2021, there was that spell abacadaba thing, where you had assets that were yielding, whatever, ten on the asset side, and you could borrow dollars from the rest of the market at four to five. Your ability to then lever up that position in a reasonably safe and secure way, because it's obviously the same asset and liability in terms of currency, becomes really interesting, because then you can start to play that interest rate differential between the two assets. So what I think is really interesting about USD and how this could be very interesting next year, is that right now, that cash and carry trade isn't that interesting, because basically, there's only one source of yield, which is RWAs, basically, with SDI and SFrax.
00:40:42.456 - 00:41:03.584, Speaker A: And so really, the cost of borrowing dollars in the rest of the market should be converging to that interest rate of what you're getting paid for RWAs and the rest. But if you have something that comes into the market that is yielding, call it twelve to 15, and you can borrow it four to five from the rest of Defi. That really is the moment where I think the post leverage returns become interesting for these levered types of.
00:41:04.764 - 00:41:31.294, Speaker B: Now, Athena hasn't fully launched yet, but when it has, what would be the single most important thing to drive Athena to, let's say, a USDC parity, like to get, really get Athena to that scale? Is it to get Athena's us dollar to be listed against different assets on different exchanges? Is it to create Amm pools? Is it to get mom and pop to start paying every day with Athena? Like, what is that one thing that you think really can help Athena unlock.
00:41:32.074 - 00:42:01.814, Speaker A: In terms of distribution strategy. I really do think it is exchanges. So there has to be basically a willingness from exchanges to be embedding your dollar as actual transactional money within exchanges, and then distributing the product from that TBD. If sort of the incentives that sit around the actual product construct for us is enough to sort of eat into some of the share that you've seen on exchanges. But I think that that is definitely a prerequisite. I think the second one is, is actually just think about path dependency. It doesn't really matter how good the product idea is.
00:42:01.814 - 00:43:02.542, Speaker A: There's an enormous amount of dependency on external sort of conditions for most businesses. But then also especially what we're doing with Athena, which is you do need to underwrite some level of growth in the derivative market through the next cycle. So ETH perhaps atxed during last cycle, they went from 200 mil to 16 billion at the top. I'm not sort of expecting an ADX this cycle, but you do need to underwrite some level of growth within the derivative market going forward. And then you just need the cycle, I think, to align with your go to market. So if you're going to be launching at the bottom of a bear market when competing yields with RWas, or whatever it is, are above the actual yield that you're producing here, I think that that becomes quite hard to scale from zero. But there is also a situation where if you see what happened at what happened at the beginning of 21, or actually what's happened in the last month, where funding rates start to really push into quite crazy territory, I think that that's an interesting piece that you sort of need to work in the beginning to address that cold start problem that we described.
00:43:02.718 - 00:43:36.076, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, if the market continues to perform as it has in the past two months or so, this is actually an ideal time for something like this versus like 612 months ago. So, for our last question guy, I want to focus on the long term for Athena. So obviously, this primitive, this idea you're working on, can be replicated across any asset that has a native proof of stake, yield, and also a liquid enough perpetual market. So are there any plans to do Athena on other assets as well, and then maybe create a basket of these assets to even further diversify? Or is ethereum the kind of main thing right now?
00:43:36.220 - 00:44:20.986, Speaker A: Yeah, for sure. I think it is really just a question of sequencing and then think about both unit economics and then marketing conditions as well. So the bitcoin sort of point, obviously, the derivative market there is almost twice as liquid and large as ethereum. And so adding that just starts to add north to $10 billion in terms of the size that you can actually grow this product into. For that, I think it is really a question of timing the cycle, which is we think the Internet bond construct with staked ETH sort of works through the cycle where it looks even attractive at the bottom of a bear market. But you really need to be timing the bitcoin one. I think going into conditions where if the basis on bitcoin is sort of 15% to 20%, it doesn't actually matter that it doesn't have a yield on it, because that's like enough to attract people into it, if that makes sense.
00:44:20.986 - 00:44:50.064, Speaker A: And then, so really for us, BTC is just a question of timing around when we exhaust the opportunity for staked ETH. And then if market conditions align, then I think you just need to be thinking about how you time that launch. But it's very easy for us to add to the infrastructure that we have. And then the second one is obviously, yeah, Solana is obviously another proof of stake acid, which has a reasonably large derivative market. It's still pretty small compared to ETH. So it's like a 20th of the size of what you see with Ethereum. So again, it's definitely something that can be added.
00:44:50.064 - 00:44:53.324, Speaker A: I think it's just a question of sequencing in terms of priorities.
00:44:53.984 - 00:45:03.998, Speaker B: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And guy, this has been really wonderful for people who want to follow Athena and follow closely your launch and what you're working on. What are the best channels for them to do this?
00:45:04.166 - 00:45:15.246, Speaker A: Sure. We're at Athena Phi as a website. Athena underscore labs on the Twitter and then my own Twitter is a bit cryptic. It's leptocartic underscore. I think we can hopefully live in the show notes.
00:45:15.310 - 00:45:22.166, Speaker B: Yeah, we'll throw those in the notes below because that is a difficult word for me to spell out. But thank you very much for coming on, guys. This has been an amazing conversation.
00:45:22.270 - 00:45:23.582, Speaker A: Awesome. Thanks for having me.
00:45:23.758 - 00:45:48.186, Speaker B: Hey, thanks for supporting another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. If you've enjoyed this episode, please give us a five star rating on Spotify and Apple Podcasts or whatever platform you're listening to this on. It really helps us a lot. Or if you prefer YouTube, you can subscribe to our channel and YouTube as well. To not miss an episode. I'd love to hear from you guys as well. And I personally make sure to read every single comment on YouTube or tweets that are directed at me, so feel free to leave a comment there.
00:45:48.186 - 00:46:01.414, Speaker B: Let us know what project you want us to bring on or what trends you want us to talk about. Or tweet at Merj Mason Troy or at the blockcrunch on the platform previously known as Twitter, currently known as X. And thank you so much for supporting and I'll see you in the next episode.
