00:00:00.760 - 00:00:33.836, Speaker A: 24 hours ago, I declared the end of the Defi bear market and why I believe a new bull market is emerging before our very eyes. In this video, I'll explain why. I think that is through first principles thinking this is going to be the agenda for the video. Timestamps will be added in case you want to skip through sections. You know, it's going to be a longer video, but that's what you get when you subscribe to me. So in order for you to understand or to set the groundworks first, let's take a trip down memory lane and understand what caused the Defi bull market in 2020 in the first place and what ended it in 2022. Before I get into it, none of this financial advice.
00:00:33.836 - 00:01:01.710, Speaker A: I have no idea what I'm doing. I really don't. I'm just clicking numbers and hoping it goes well for me. So the 2020 D five bull market was catalyzed by this, you know, basically like the Fed setting rates to zero by them reacting to the COVID pandemic. And when people just are earning 0% interest rates on their dollars, people are going to seek, you know, higher sources of yield and capital eventually found their way on chain. And you can see this through the DeFi llama TVL chart. In 2020, Defi TVL was basically zero.
00:01:01.710 - 00:01:39.530, Speaker A: And then slowly and surely, over time, more and more money found their way on China. And we kind of had this parabolic melt up, you know, with crypto prices going up in general. And stablecoin liquidity is very, very important for crypto prices, because for every dollar that enters the ecosystem, some percentage of it trickles down into buying our tokens. This is called the multiplier effect in economics, where, for example, if you buy, like, a ten pack of beer for, like, know, that cost like, $30, then part of that goes to the manufacturer so they can pay their vendors. Some of that goes into their employees, and with the dollars that they earn, they buy stuff. And then you kind of have this multiplier effect. And this is very, very apparent in crypto.
00:01:39.530 - 00:02:03.650, Speaker A: And it's kind of like this idea of reflexive thinking where when price goes up, the yields go up, and then the perception of the fundamentals get better. And as people think that the fundamentals are improving, people buy up the tokens. And then if people buy tokens, then the yield improves. And then you kind of have this reflexive loop. And it's amazing in a bull market, but it also happens in a bear market. Dollar flows in, price goes up. Price goes up, yields go up, everyone's rich.
00:02:03.650 - 00:02:34.886, Speaker A: More speculation. But of course the reverse can happen. And when the Fed went on and like, went on this hiking rampage, right, like, it's like the fastest rate hike campaign in the history of the Federal Reserve. What happened to defi TVL? You guessed it, it went down, right? March 16 was when they first raised interest rates. And, you know, we have this mark here, and then it's only been down only since. And of course, we all know what happened with all the blow ups, right, through centralized lenders and various Defi projects. And, you know, like, yeah, we all, we know it way too well.
00:02:34.886 - 00:03:38.860, Speaker A: You don't need to explain it there. And if you kind of think about it, like, what can actually create a new defi bull market? People want like 10,000% APY that goes up only to make everybody rich. But before that happens, you kind of have to have more money flow back on chain, right? You can't just have Ponzi's go up before like, you know, some fundamental things are improving, like, you know, like on the base layer. And I think what actually needs to happen, and this is like the prerequisites of a defi bull market, until on chain yields that are perceived very safe can offer higher yields than the risk free rate, we cannot have a sustained bull market. But finally, I see a world where. World where this is possible because previously, yeah, sure, you can lp on curve convex stakes like stable coins on like random new applications, and you can earn 1020, 30%, whatever, but that's not really perceived safe, right? You're always taking some amount of risk, and most of the yield is paid out in the native token. So if the price goes down, yields go down, TVL leaves, and then that doesn't really create that much new economic value.
00:03:38.860 - 00:04:20.750, Speaker A: And I think that there's this new trend emerging under the real world asset sector, and I actually think it's going to save Defi. So the real world asset sector, its TVL has been up only. And so far, I mean, this chart from RWA XYZ says, okay, there's $600 million worth of TVL in tokenized treasuries, but this doesn't take into account maker, which owns like over $2 billion in treasuries. And this trend is growing. And I expect this trend to just be up only in the foreseeable future. And, you know, a bunch of Defi protocols are tokenizing ust bills on chain. So right now, if you log into fidelity, right, if you're like a us citizen, you can just take your dollars, put it in t bills, short term t bills, and then you earn like 5%.
00:04:20.750 - 00:04:45.928, Speaker A: Right. It's amazing. But right now, there's like, no way to, like, access that on chain in a permissionless manner. And, you know, like, defi yields are capped at like two, 3%, right? I mean, yeah. Like, how can you expect more money to flow when, like, you can't beat the risk free rate? And. But these DeFi protocols, they're buying short term treasuries off chain through a KYC counterparty and then transferring the yield to on chain participants. And Maker is, you know, a prime example of this.
00:04:45.928 - 00:04:56.816, Speaker A: If you go to makermoor.com, you can kind of see, okay, like, through this vault, like this. Monothelis, I don't know how to say this. There's $1.2 billion. Sorry, $1.1 billion worth of t bills that they purchased.
00:04:56.816 - 00:05:37.468, Speaker A: And then, you know, they take a 4% or, you know, 4% of $1.1 billion is going directly to maker, the protocol. And then also like, token holders and then Coinbase custody, I mean, they're flacing maker because Coinbase is click is like clipping 5%, but they're only paying maker 2.6%. And right now, they're the only project at scale executing on TVL purchases and directing interest payments to create value for its own token. And I actually think that this is like one of the prerequisites of a bull market as well. Right now there's a die savings rate where, you know, with the t bills that they purchased, they make money, right? And with the interest payments, they're giving it back to people that say, dai, the over collateralized stable coin. And right now it's only 3.49%
00:05:37.468 - 00:06:04.020, Speaker A: just because there's like no competition. But I expect this rate to increase in the near future. And of course, right, it's a, I mean, it's an amazing business. Maker issues stable coins. And with the dollars back in those stable coins, they're buying T bills, they're keeping most of the profits, not sending some to the treasury or, sorry, sending some to, like, the die stakers. But, you know, like, the profitability of these companies are insane. And right now, the annualized profit is like roughly $90 million.
00:06:04.020 - 00:06:46.612, Speaker A: And if you think about it, right, I mean, people often think about how if the fed raises rates, it's actually bearish for like, crypto and like, higher risk assets, like long tail assets, which is true on average. However, if you kind of just think about maker in a vacuum and other tokenized t bill projects, their revenues actually go up when the fed raises short term rates, right. Because if they buy short term treasuries, that increases the interest payments once those t bills mature. And right now, Maker is buying back its own token from the interest payments. $5,000 every 30 minutes. It's not going to be like this forever, right? It's going to go down over time. But in the short term, right? There's so much excess profits that the prop, that the protocol is generating.
00:06:46.612 - 00:07:29.482, Speaker A: And right now it's going, you know, I mean, it's not going to the token holders, but I guess it's indirectly going to them through these buybacks. And I'm not going to spend too much time on Maker because I spent like 20 minutes on this last week. But, you know, feel free to check this out before. Yeah, feel free to check this video out if you're interested. But let's go back on the original topic of how these real world assets and tokenized treasuries can catalyze a bull market. Because these businesses, like, they're kind of flacing retail in sense, because when you deposit dollars to the crypto ecosystem and you hold tether, for example, like, you're effectively being diluted, right? Like, you're not really earning the risk free rate if you're just holding tether. And tether literally takes your money, puts it in t bills, and then just pockets the profit.
00:07:29.482 - 00:08:12.082, Speaker A: And funnily enough, they're like, buying bitcoin and gold with it. But in Q one alone, they made $1.5 billion in profit, right? I mean, what an amazing business. And so tokenizing t bills on chain, like issuing stable coins, buying t bills in the back end, like, how can people not want, like, their share of the pie in that, right? I mean, it's free money, basically, right? As long as you go through, like, the proper regulation and like, all that. I mean, not everything is regulated on defi, of course, but, you know, like, some are more regulated than others. So, you know, tokenizing people's on chain, token. Tokenizing it and creating innovations and more efficiencies on top of it through DeFi, is, I think, a viable path for DeFi yields to eventually exceed tradfi yields.
00:08:12.082 - 00:08:37.690, Speaker A: Because tradfi yields are currently 5%. If DeFi can offer, let's say, 10% in a risk free rate, I can't see why more capital doesn't find their way back on chain. I can't see why capital would leave on chain. And that's the DeFi poll case I'm making, and I know what you're thinking, well, the dollar savings rate is 3.49%, but the risk rate is 5%. That's not high enough. And I get it, right? I mean, look at me, right? Like, I can do math, okay? Like, look at me.
00:08:37.690 - 00:09:07.530, Speaker A: But, you know, that's not the point, okay? I'm talking about DeFi, right? Like Defi. I mean, the dai savings rate is DeFi. But the point of DeFi is this idea of money legos and building things on top. And, you know, right now, the delta between the DSR, the Dai savings rate, and the risk free rate is, like 1.5%. Not great. But through financial innovation, you can actually improve on this. For example, when you stake dai in the Dai savings rate module, you can get a liquid wrapper in return called SDAI.
00:09:07.530 - 00:09:31.934, Speaker A: Right? SDAI is this token that's accruing the DAi savings rate, and you can use it for other strategies. It's not that liquid right now. The adoption rate is very low. But, like, large money markets like Aave, they're working to implement, like, SDAI into their protocol. It's gonna take weeks, if not months. But you can kind of see, okay, like, this is where the puck is going. And right now, Aave is.
00:09:31.934 - 00:10:08.058, Speaker A: I mean, Aave recently introduced its new stablecoin, called go. And because Aave is their own, like, or Aave is issuing their own stablecoin, they can charge whatever interest rate that they want that the market's willing to pay for. And right now, the fixed rate to borrow go, the over collateralized stablecoin is 1.5%. So, technically, even if the DAi savings rate is flat at 3.5%, you can create a strategy where use stake dai as collateral, borrow go at 1.5%, buy SDAI, recolateralize it, borrow, go. And then if you kind of loop this five times, you can actually get to a 10% apy.
00:10:08.058 - 00:10:24.026, Speaker A: I know it's not perfect because there's, like, loan to value ratio collateral. There's, like, all that. There's, like, additional fees and whatnot. But. But I'm kind of simplifying here. Let's not get too caught up into the details here. But, yes, it introduces some new risk because it introduces leverage.
00:10:24.026 - 00:10:54.340, Speaker A: But tokenized t bills, it's not going to fluctuate in value that much. Realistically, I'm sure you can loop it 20 times and not have. At some point, you have to manage risk. And this can be a slow process, but this is the path for Defi. To actually compete with on chain, uh, sorry. It's a path for, um, on chain yields to compete with the risk free rate. And if you think about governance tokens and, like, why DeFi tokens, um, have really underperformed, right? It's like this, this meme of valueless governance tokens.
00:10:54.340 - 00:11:25.750, Speaker A: Um, well, there can be mutually beneficial partnerships. For example, like if maker were to. Or, you know, if maker and Aave were to, like, let's say, you know, talk things out and then, like, okay, like, how can we, like, do this to create value for, you know, people using defi, then maker can technically maybe do a token swap or like, just buy Aave, right, and stake it to earn. Sorry, not earn, but get like a discount in the go borrow rate. So you can technically, like, lower the go borrow rate from 1.5 to 1.06% if they stake enough.
00:11:25.750 - 00:12:14.206, Speaker A: If they stake enough of it. So, yeah, I mean, governance tokens can actually have value. And like I said before, in the past, most of like, stablecoin yields, or just yields in general, is denominated in like, the native token. And if the, if the native token goes down in price, then the yields go down and there's like no new money being created, right? We're like, we're just printing tokens and like, hoping that it goes up. However, with this case, right, this can actually be a positive sum game, and we really need those in crypto because right now I still think we're relatively in PvP markets. And any positive sum game that we can, like, identify, I think it's worth our attention. And if you think about, like, where their yield is coming from, it's actually coming directly from the us government interest payments, right? It's not being subsidized by token holders.
00:12:14.206 - 00:12:47.038, Speaker A: It's not being subsidized by, like, the treasuries, right? Like the Dow treasuries. Like, literally there are external cash flows coming directly from off chain sources to on chain sources. And because this is true, right, it creates economic value because maker is going to be willing to borrow go, right? They're willing to pay 1.51, like, whatever the interest rate is. And you know, like, aave makes money, right? Dai makes money because they clipped the 5% rate, they pay 3.5%, right? Like, they clip that. But also it creates value for, like, anyone holding stable coins on chain.
00:12:47.038 - 00:13:27.180, Speaker A: And if you're like a Dow holding like $10 million worth of tether, right, in your treasury, like, why wouldn't they do something like this? Because if you think about like dilution, right? Like, if you just hold tether on chain being diluted by the us government, right? Because they're paying like 5% to everyone else. So that's one way you can kind of think about it. If you don't know the source of the yield, you're the yield. Well, we know the source of the yield. It's the government, right? The government is subsidizing our bags. I mean, that's kind of a meme, right? But, you know, that's kind of like a simplified way to think about it. Of course, looping strategy is not without risk, but like I said, tokenized t bills, it's not going to go down in value, like 30% overnight, maybe, like, on average, it fluctuates like one, 2%.
00:13:27.180 - 00:13:50.964, Speaker A: I mean, not really, right? So it's not that difficult to scale this. It's gonna take months, probably. It's not gonna be like immediate, right? Like, you're not gonna wake up and, like, see die mark cap go to like 100 billion. There's like, no way. It takes time for these systems to be built. It takes time for liquidity to flow. But if you take a longer term approach, if you take an optimistic approach, I don't see why this can't happen in the short to medium term, right.
00:13:50.964 - 00:14:42.504, Speaker A: Especially in the long term. Um, and yeah, if Defi can offer 10% risk free yields, right? Pretty, pretty low risk, right? Pretty, pretty low risk, what's the able coin outflow? Slow down? Would capital come back? I think so. And, you know, thinking back to the multiplier effect, this is how, you know, we can create a more sustained bull market. And, you know, of course, maker is like this meme, right? Everyone's favorite account, DJ Spartan, he often just like, you know, calls maker like a down only token. He like, whenever it goes down, he like, just, I don't know, like, yeah, like, he, like, pleases himself, right? But, like, how iconic and how poetic would it be if the real world asset implementation by maker actually creates a bottom in maker eat and helps revitalize defi? Because think about the psychology of the crypto market participant. They're conditioned to think that maker only goes down. They're conditioned to think that defi tokens only go down.
00:14:42.504 - 00:15:18.220, Speaker A: But what if maker starts to outperform? Well, that kind of changes the entire psyche of the market. Well, then, oh, if maker is going up, then maybe uniswap can go up. If uniswap is going up, maybe aave can go up. And I think that's how you slowly, you know, because like, a bear market is. It's a mentality, right? I mean, people think it's a bear market, so it's going to happen. But if people can slowly, you know, capitulate and say, oh, like, okay, like, this is actually happening, oh, like, this makes sense, then that's how you actually create value. And that's how, like, a new, like, a defi bull market based on fundamental, like, cash flows can actually emerge.
00:15:18.220 - 00:15:58.266, Speaker A: Of course there's regulation risk, but I addressed that in the maker video that I posted a week ago. So, you know, like, yeah, I'll talk about that. I mean, yeah, I've talked about that. And more importantly, as a content creator, this really excites, this really excites me because it's really hard to create content in crypto because if there's, like, no new money coming into the markets, then on average it's like PvP markets, like player versus player, where we're just trying to take money from each other. And ideally, as a content creator, I can promote player versus environment games where everyone, on average can benefit. I've shared this number before. Every time I upload a video, I lose subscribers.
00:15:58.266 - 00:16:34.406, Speaker A: No one's watching it. I don't run ads on my videos. So I don't really know how other content creators feel here, but I can't imagine it would be that good. And I run a defi focused channel, so maybe, I mean, yeah, if you're cynical, maybe you can say, oh, like, your videos are bad. No one cares about Defi, but this is true for other channels. So Benjamin Cohen, he has this dashboard, right, of, I guess, other YouTube metrics. And, you know, these people, like, cover bitcoin, ETH, XRP, like, whatever is hot, right? And, you know, like, even their videos are, like, not even, like, doing that well.
00:16:34.406 - 00:17:15.314, Speaker A: So it's not just defi, it's just like crypto in general. And over time, if crypto prices aren't going up, then people don't care. And then we enter this apathy phase and then money leaves the system and it just becomes a really, really place to just be active in general. And it's also kind of defeating at times where it's like, oh, no matter what I do, it's like nothing works. No retail interest, no capital flows. But if capital can flow from the us government directly on chain and this can be distributed to token holders, can't this create a positive sum game where we can all win? Of course. Like, not everyone can win, right? Because, for example, like, right now, maybe like half people win in crypto because they trade and, like, the other half loses.
00:17:15.314 - 00:17:50.294, Speaker A: But maybe through these government interest subsidies, maybe 80% of people can win and 20% of people will, like, lose because they use leverage or something, right? Or like, they get rugged or something. Like, whatever, right? Like I said, it's not going to be overnight. It's like you're not going to wake up tomorrow or even next week and then just like have coins up like three x. It's more of taking like a macro approach to what can actually bring the, like, bring capital on chain. And I think this makes sense, like, not going to lie. And, you know, obviously, right now, people love to speculate on the bitcoin ETF. And the CEO of Blackrock, Larry Fink, he's gone on like this.
00:17:50.294 - 00:18:27.526, Speaker A: I mean, he's gone on like CNBC and like, fox and like, all these tv shows, and he's just like, oh, yeah. Like democratizing bitcoin investing through ETF's. We're super bullish, right? And we love to take fees, you know, and, you know, like, if you don't read like, the headlines and you actually, like, listen to what he's saying, he also believes that the tokenization of securities are going to be the next generation of markets. He's super, super bullish, the tokenization of securities. And, you know, like, I mean, Blackrock literally invested in circle, which is a stable coin issuer, right? They're doing the same thing that tether is doing, but like a smaller scale. You know, they raised $4 million from Blackrock. They also raised money from fidelity.
00:18:27.526 - 00:18:55.482, Speaker A: If tradfi is going to buy crypto or invest in crypto, the first place they're going to look is probably going to be in like, the real world asset sector. So, yeah, tradify is bullish real world assets. Tether is a real world asset protocol, right? I mean, they're tokenizing dollars on chain, and they're buying t bills and they're pocketing a profit. Same for circle. And now I think we're going to see more and more, like, Defi protocols try to capture more of the market share. Right now, it's starting with maker, right, and the maker Dao token. And then there's like, other protocols.
00:18:55.482 - 00:19:28.790, Speaker A: There's like this catch 22 situation where if, like, a T bill protocol, right, is like, heavily regulated, right, then they're probably not gonna have a token. But if a T bill token has. Sorry, if a Tbill protocol has a token, then it's less regulated. So there's like, always a regulation risk. So that's something to be aware of. But I think until tokenized t bills hit crazy mass scale, I don't really think the government's gonna bat an eye. Maybe that's a hot topic or controversial, but that's personally my view, so you can feel free to disagree.
00:19:28.790 - 00:20:09.498, Speaker A: But for me, I'm bullish. Real world assets, and you kind of see this trend emerging. A couple days ago, binance research put out this, what? It's like research paper or whatever, talking about real world assets, you know, avalanche. Like, they're like, okay, like, they're trying to be, like, a real world asset chain now. And if you think about it, like, I feel like layer one should also, like, really push to be, like, the defect, like, real world asset chain. Because if, for example, if avalanche, right, becomes, like some real world asset chain and, like, onboards, like traffic and whatnot, then that's like, liquidity begets more liquidity. And I, like, I personally don't see, like, why, like, I more l one s or l two s.
00:20:09.498 - 00:20:35.562, Speaker A: Like, don't do this. I mean, it's like, pretty low risk, right? I mean, tokenizing treasuries. Like, tokenizing, like, I don't know, like, real estate, whatever. Like, whatever, right? I mean, that's, that's like an obvious growth factor, and I think it's inevitable. So, okay, so I've laid out my thesis on this medium to longer term bulk case for DeFi and the end of the defi bear market. So I'll try to wrap it up in, like, the best way possible. And.
00:20:35.562 - 00:21:15.206, Speaker A: Yeah, so I think, I think real world assets are going to be up only in TVL sector in the coming months, years, and decades. If you think DeFi is going to hit trillions in TVL, most of that is probably going to come in the form of treasuries, like real estate or whatever, tokenized watches or whatever these types of assets. And, yeah, that might not seem boring. It's like, oh, t bills. That's boring. That's not going to pump my bags indirectly, right? We talked about the multiplier effect. If billions and trillions of dollars flows on chain, then even if 1% of that goes and buys tokens, it's going to create significant amounts of wealth on chain.
00:21:15.206 - 00:22:06.660, Speaker A: And that really is going to create a reflexive cycle where everyone can benefit. And even thinking about creating value, how does the blockchain create value? Yeah, like, if you're, like, an american and like, most of my viewers are american, it's like oh, like, I don't care because I can go to fidelity and earn like 5%. But if you're not american, right? If you're not like a us citizen, there are like, hoops that you have to go through to actually buy, like, t bills. And I think the value of blockchain is going to be allowing permissionless access of treasury rates or the risk free rate on chain. And if you, if people can even, like, innovate on that and, like, exceed, like, the risk rate of, I think that's like a fundamental use case for crypto. And I think more and more people will buy into it. I even know a story of people that live in Turkey, they don't like their currency.
00:22:06.660 - 00:22:28.316, Speaker A: The Turkish Lyra is down only. So whenever people get paychecks, they convert to tether and think about, okay, what if these people can stake their tether and earn 4% or something? That's value. That's value. And, yeah, like, the multiplier effect. And as more money comes in, people buy tokens. Yeah, we already talked about this. It's super simple.
00:22:28.316 - 00:22:57.128, Speaker A: But I really think that this is how the defi bear market is going to end and how a new bull market can blossom. It's going to take time, but the point of the video is to see the light at the end of the tunnel. The grass is always greener on the other side, and just be optimistic. And, you know, like, I'm, I'm like a permeable when it comes to defi. So, you know, um, I will always give hopium. Right? Yeah, I'll always give hopium. Um, and I guess, yeah, like, a final thought, it's kind of funny that, you know, the defi bear market or.
00:22:57.128 - 00:23:37.870, Speaker A: Sorry, uh, the defi bull market ended when, like, these, like, c five companies like Celsius and Blockfi tried to bring on chain yields to off chain investors. And as, you know, things got competitive, and as money flood the system, uh, these, like, these strategy, like, yield strategies became riskier and riskier, and at some point, like, it, like, they all blew up. But now we're all trying to bring off chain yields on chain and maybe create leveraged products on top of that. Time is truly a flat circle. Hopefully nothing blows up this time. And if you're cynical, it's like, oh, this is so bad. But optimistically creating innovation on top of tokenized t bills, that's good.
00:23:37.870 - 00:23:59.362, Speaker A: I think that's good. If you think that's bad, then maybe you should unsubscribe to this video or to this channel it's not gonna be like, yeah, like, you're not gonna wake up tomorrow. You're not gonna wake up next week. You're not gonna wake up next month. And yeah, like, you know, see your net worth, like go up like ten x. But I'm just trying to lay out the groundwork. Like how.
00:23:59.362 - 00:24:26.850, Speaker A: Yeah, I already mentioned this. This is a very long slide deck, so I kind of repeat the same thing over, but that's how it is, I suppose. We did drop a long form research report on Makerdao a couple weeks ago, so if you want to watch the video, you can do so. Right. That I posted last week. If you want to read this, I'll also post a link in the description. You know, humble farm army, right? Like our research company, super bullish real world assets.
00:24:26.850 - 00:25:01.378, Speaker A: And we're constantly looking for other projects that can, I guess, like take and that can compete with circle, that can compete with tether, and, you know, increase the pie for other real world assets. And also, this is something I kind of struggle with. Right. People want me to talk about what I'm buying, what I'm selling, what I'm doing, and I'll try to do it as best I can. And I'll try to disclose whenever I do talk about things. For example, you all know that I own maker. I own the token.
00:25:01.378 - 00:25:33.518, Speaker A: But it also is, if I'm not making videos every single day, it's really hard to talk about things. Crypto moves too fast. So in the future, I'm going to be less reluctant or I'll be more reluctant to share what I'm buying. But if I do say something is bullish, or if I'm talking about something in a bullish manner, I will disclose that I'm holding. Hopefully you understand where I'm coming from. There you go. Okay, so that's the end of the video.
00:25:33.518 - 00:25:55.998, Speaker A: I'll provide a bunch of links in the resources below, including this newsletter. If you like the content, please like and subscribe. Leave a comment in the comment section below. And if you want to level up, I guess, your defi knowledge and get more videos out of me, feel free to check out the premium discord. I post three videos a week, daily updates. We have hundreds of humble defi farmers. Link will also be in the description below.
00:25:55.998 - 00:25:59.622, Speaker A: Thank you guys for watching. Let me know what you guys think and see you next week. Bye.
