00:00:00.170 - 00:00:44.650, Speaker A: Welcome to Chainlink Research Reports, a YouTube series featuring research across the web, three industry and academic fields with scholarship that expands our understanding of decentralized technologies. I'm Dr. Jason Anastasopoulos, a researcher at Chainlink Labs and a professor of public policy and statistics at the University of Georgia. This episode kicks off our series on the economics of Web three, which looks at research that asks big picture questions about the role that blockchain and smart contracts are playing in the global economy. In this episode, I sit down with Professor Ali Savinsky, the Arthur M. Oakn professor of economics at Yale University, to discuss his latest working paper on the economics of nfTs. This research uses advanced economic theory to better understand market forces determining NFT prices and demand.
00:00:44.650 - 00:01:02.830, Speaker A: As part of this research, Dr. Sivinsky and his co authors developed analytics and indices which capture aspects of the NFT market and valuation. To learn more about these analytics and NFT indices, check out bltindex.com link in the description and now here's Dr. Savinsky.
00:01:09.030 - 00:02:01.106, Speaker B: So, Jason, thank you for giving an opportunity to chat about my work and to talk broadly about it. So let me start with the question of why nfts and why nfts may be important. So I teach introductory macroeconomics at Yale. So this is one of the largest classes at Yale, and this is our foundational class for a variety of people who are going to go to business, to finance, but also to other things, to architecture, development, politics, and so on. And one of the key things that I teach, maybe in class number one or maybe class number two, is the importance of property rights. So property rights are a fundamental question that the economists care about. They're the underpinning of economic growth, innovation activities, and so on and so on.
00:02:01.106 - 00:03:18.230, Speaker B: And the reason why I get interested in nfts is twofold. Why I think nfts are important, is because nfts in some sense are not just the funny pictures of the semianns who are bored, but they represent at its essence, the fundamental innovation which the humans have done for thousands of years, which is the property rights. So we have the economy, which is transforming. So think about the process, structural change, transforming from agriculture to industry to services, and now maybe transforming to some other new things, the digital economy and so on, where we still don't have the well defined concept of property rights and the NFTs appear. And NFTs, the potential of NFTs is, in my opinion, is that they're going to provide the foundation for the property rights for all kinds of things which are digital, which are new, which are related to metaverse, et cetera. So my interest in nfTs. So that's the broad question of interest of me being interested in nfDs.
00:03:18.230 - 00:04:04.746, Speaker B: The second question is my long lasting interest in cryptocurrencies. So cryptocurrencies are also interesting because very rarely in the history of any person's lifetime, a new asset class comes on board. And there are different ways that you think about cryptocurrencies or nfts. One way to look at them is from the theoretical point of view. So blockchain technology is technology that allows you to record to unprecedented extent, all kinds of past dependent activities, things that happened in the past. We can record them, and we can do all kinds of interesting things with them. So there are theoretical reasons to think about them, technological reasons to think about them.
00:04:04.746 - 00:04:56.406, Speaker B: But there's also another way how to look at what cryptocurrencies or NFTs are. And that's from the point of view of classical asset price and classical finance. And if we look at the finance properties of it, the properties of the returns of the NFT cryptocurrencies, we can say actually quite a lot about them. So if it talks like a duck, walks like a duck, walks like a duck, maybe it's a duck. And if it doesn't do so, maybe it's not a duck. So my interest in crypto, and in particular NFTs, were to use some basic asset price and tools and asset price and ideas to figure out what crypto is, to figure out what NFTs are. Is it a duck? And I'm talking about soup ducks.
00:04:56.406 - 00:06:19.254, Speaker B: I'm talking about nfts in general, what they are. And the first question that comes about how to analyze this market and how to understand this market is the question of data. Most of the finance analysis starts with the data. And the important part of the analysis that I think we do in this paper, it's one of the things that distinguish it from variety of other things people have tried, is its comprehensiveness. So what we tried to do is we tried to create the most comprehensive collection of data on transactions of nfts. So we aggregated the data from essentially all of the major marketplaces, and most importantly, we cross validated them across with the underlying blockchain data, at least the center of this. So the analysis of any market, pretty much, and also any asset, if you want, starts with the high level or academic level data, if you want, and aggregation of this data, collection of this data, making sure that one could cross operationalize it put them all together is, I think, one important and interesting thing.
00:06:19.254 - 00:07:19.710, Speaker B: So we have 30 or 40 million transactions that span major changes, span most of the important time periods for the NFT, NFT data, and we keep updating them as time goes. So the first thing is to have this comprehensive, comprehensive data set. And then, okay, so once you have the data, one could say, well, you have the data. Why wouldn't we learn something about the prices? And if we looked at most of the other classes of assets, the question of how to go from the data to the prices is a pretty straightforward thing to do. So take different stocks, maybe put them together in some basic index, weigh them by how large they are, by market capitalization, by some other thing, and you have an index SP 500. Take different cryptocurrencies. Maybe it's a little bit more complicated.
00:07:19.710 - 00:08:05.640, Speaker B: Maybe you have to be careful about how to look at capitalization of them, different exchanges and so on. We've done it before, but you can still put them together and create an index or subindice. But then you have nfts. So each NFT is unique. Each NFT is often illiquid. We rarely see the transactions of the same NFTs. So how do you analyze this market? Well, if I were computer science person, I would say, well, how about maybe I'll train some machine learning algorithm, just try to figure out what the prices are.
00:08:05.640 - 00:08:43.774, Speaker B: Well, but again, so all of these things are unique. It's not like classifying cats versus dogs. So I cannot unleash 20 Stanford phds, try to machine learn the properties, the properties of the data. Well, that doesn't work. Well, the second thing I can do, I can say, okay, so I'm going to look at different nfcs, and I'm going to try to have some characteristics of them. Have a board ape with laser eyes, with a cute hat, or the size of the penguin, the cow, or something like this. Well, it also doesn't work because I have 30 million transactions.
00:08:43.774 - 00:09:38.310, Speaker B: I have all kinds of nfds, from small one to big ones. I need to have 30 million people maybe trying to guess the value of it. And the value is subjective in your eyes, Jason, maybe you're going to love the particular hat in my eyes. Maybe I like a little pin. So this is so called hedonic regression, so that tries to assign different attributes to different nfts, and it also doesn't work very well. So what do you do? Well, the good thing about being a classically trained economist, especially columnist at Yale, is that some of these questions were asked and answered, in fact, before for different asset classes. So in particular, what is the right parallel between NFT and some other asset classes? Well, think about real estate.
00:09:38.310 - 00:10:18.000, Speaker B: If we had this conversation, Jason, with you, circa 1975, would be having the same kind of questions. There is a bunch of houses. Each house is unique. You take a house in Manhattan, there is a million dollar house, which is a tiny studio apartment in a fancy building. There is a nice four bedroom apartment somewhere on the outskirts of Manhattan. So the houses are unique. The houses are rarely traded, they're illiquid, and we don't have the data.
00:10:18.000 - 00:11:03.950, Speaker B: Well, how do you price, how do you create an index of these kinds of assets? Well, the idea for this was, in fact, I think done in the 60s, maybe even earlier than that, by daily mouth and Norse. I think it's called BMN index. And was in, the idea was to say, well, let's look at the repeated sales. So I'm going to look at the house being bought and then being sold. In some sense, the price of a house incorporates all of the desirable characteristics of the house. I have, say, $500,000. I can buy a tiny studio, or I can buy a more palatial apartment.
00:11:03.950 - 00:11:58.654, Speaker B: But then depending on preference and so on and so on, the price summarizes, in some sense all of the characteristics of the individual properties. And then my colleague Bob Schiller here at Yale, together with case, essentially said, well, how about we just do exactly the same thing as Bailey at all, but apply them to the housing market? And the very famous, the standard, the most important index of real estate prices appeared. And that's the case in Sheila index. So what Bob did, Bob first collected the data for the individual transactions at the individual level of the zip code. And then he created an index of repeated sales. So what is this index? What is K. Shila index really? The case shower index is something very simple.
00:11:58.654 - 00:12:57.400, Speaker B: The k. Shila index just says, well, we have different changes in prices which were observed by different transactions. And the kshore index is the common component of this transaction. So think about the price of an individual house being driven by broadly two components. The individual characteristic, number of rooms, location, the exact building it is in, and the overall index, sale of real estate in the United States at a level down. Maybe it's index of the overall real estate in Manhattan or in San Francisco, then going down in a particular zip code. So that was the most important innovation, I think, in the real estate market that allowed all kinds of other things.
00:12:57.400 - 00:13:54.258, Speaker B: It allowed the explosion of all of the cmos cdos, all of the derivative instruments on the housing. It allowed, most importantly, the securitization of the housing market, where you had a bunch of different assets which were rarely tradable, illiquid, and so on, which all of a sudden became an asset. So suppose where I said 1975, you and I would be thinking of how do I get exposure to the real estate market? Housing Manhattan is expensive. Housing Palo alto is expensive. Should I buy a place in Charlote? Should I buy a place in Des Moines? It's just expensive. Maybe I can fractionalize it somehow. But instead, the idea was, okay, let's just have some exposure in some sense to the index or to something that allows you to bet on the housing market whatsoever.
00:13:54.258 - 00:14:45.170, Speaker B: So I strongly believe in learning from standing on the shoulders of the giants. In this case, it's Bob Schiller. And what we have done is we essentially implemented the repeated sale methodology that was done for all of these other markets, part market, et cetera, for the NFT market. For the NFT market. There are some certain peculiarities there because the data is more tricky to do. But I don't think it was easy for Bob Schuler to do this in the 1975, the Internet and so on. So once you have that, you all of a sudden start thinking about NFTs, not just as about board apes or not as individual cool things here and there, but in terms of the asset, and you can start thinking about what's happening with descendants.
00:14:45.170 - 00:15:53.680, Speaker B: How is the NFT market evolving? Did it increase? Did it decrease? Well, you can tell me. Well, but why wouldn't you do something simple? That's what people in the industry do. Like folks in the industry, for example, say, how about I just take the floor price, which is the cheapest price of several given collections, and track the index and create an index of this. So this does not seem like a bad idea. However, it doesn't work, and we know that these things don't even work in real estate markets. So imagine that you are interested in the prices of a real estate market in the United States. Well, are you going to track them by the price of the cheapest house in Manhattan? The cheapest house in Manhattan is probably the parking lot in a very fancy building, which is determined by completely different factors than a nice suburban house in Durham, North Carolina, which is a representative house in the United States.
00:15:53.680 - 00:16:24.998, Speaker B: Moreover, this little parking spot is not even representative of how the price in Manhattan afforded. Okay, so maybe the floor price, it's a common thing that people in the industry do. Maybe that actually doesn't work. And in fact, we show that it's indistinguishable from random voice. Well, how about I take the average. So I take the average of, say, the transactions over, say, last day. Well, in principle, it's also a good idea.
00:16:24.998 - 00:17:16.278, Speaker B: However, suppose that today a $50 million supermansion in Manhattan is going to be sold, and tomorrow just an average one bedroom apartment is going to be sold. But what you would see is the index falling from, say, $50 million to $1 million. So that also doesn't really work. So what you really need to do is, again, you need to go back, and if you think about this repeated sales index has done on the broad set of data. So once you have it, then you can say all kinds of, I think, pretty cool things. So, for example, you can look at whether this index actually explains a sizable part of the variation, whether it explains a sizable part of prices of fuel. It actually turns out that it does explain.
00:17:16.278 - 00:18:45.214, Speaker B: So the overall NFT index for a given NFT explains roughly 30% of the value of variation of the value. But let's not go into the details. It's akin to the question of whether the real estate prices, the index of the real estate price in the United States, whether they price a variation in the prices of an average house in. Well, if I look at the collection level, and the collection level is like a neighborhood level or a zip code level, then the index for that zip code actually explains even more or much more of the variation of the prices of a given NFT. For example, for born ape, the index itself values about 90% of the variation of the price. So the same way as if I go down to a tiny zip code, part of Manhattan or Palo alto or any other place, they will give you relatively precise value of the fluctuations of depreciation or depreciation of the house, then you can ask other things. Well, if now NFT is an asset, what are its characteristics? What, for example, is its sharp ratio? So the return to variance or some risk return ratio.
00:18:45.214 - 00:19:21.530, Speaker B: So recently we calculated this, and this is the data as of literally today. So the sharp ratio for NFTs was 68%. So what is 68% for stocks? It's roughly 40 50%. So it's slightly higher than the sharp ratio of stocks. Given the recent fluctuation of cryptocurrency market, it's actually higher than the cryptocurrency market of the bit. We also see all kinds of interesting properties. The NFT market, compared to the cryptocurrency market is much more skewed.
00:19:21.530 - 00:20:07.770, Speaker B: It has much more realization of the large events or small events as large fewness, large cortosis. All right, so these are some basic characteristics of the cryptocurrency market. So what can we say about the fluctuations of the cryptocurrencies of the NFT market? Well, one thing is that NFT and crypto are connected. Many of them are connected mechanically because they're denominated in some of the crypto. But more broadly, it's sort of the same class of assets. When people think crypto, maybe the next step. Once they drank the koolaid of crypto, they think about the nfcs.
00:20:07.770 - 00:21:18.542, Speaker B: So we find that indeed, the cryptocurrency market and NFC markets are correlated. So the correlation or r squared of one or the other is about 20%. So this says that while the NFT market and cryptocurrency market are tightly connected, a large part of the NFT market variations is still unexplained. NFTs in some sense is a standalone asset compared to cryptocurrencies. So while there is exposure, there is a bunch of, it is NFT specific. Moreover, and this relates to our previous work where we argued how to have a factor model of cryptocurrency market, we actually find that NFT market, beyond its basic exposure to the cryptocurrency market, is not determined, if you want, by the cryptocurrency market specific factors. So it is a distinct, maybe new asset.
00:21:18.542 - 00:21:42.926, Speaker B: Well, at this stage, we can have two discussions with you. We can talk about the properties of the asset. NFT is an asset. Or we can just say, well, it's a bubble. If it's a bubble, we can just, let's, let's live it this way. I think it's useful to still think about nfts from the point of the asset. Well, and there are other cool things that you can say.
00:21:42.926 - 00:23:26.010, Speaker B: For example, you can say, well, can we say something about the properties of, say, NFT related stocks or NFT related cryptocurrencies? If you know something about the NFT market index or NFT market performance alone, and we find, perhaps not surprisingly, that actually, in fact, the returns or the behavior of the NFT related cryptocurrencies and NFT related stocks, the stocks which potentially have significant exposure to nfts, they are predicted by the returns of the NFT market. So if you have a change in the NFT market, we can statistically significantly predict returns on this related asset. Okay, so these are about interrelationships of NFT with other markets, et cetera. So now let's talk about nfts as an asset in principle. So what drives the prices of nfts? So we have seen the run up of the prices of nfts. So according to our index, so we had about 365% increase from 2018 overall of the NFT market, and since the beginning of this year, about 50% decline. So can we say something about what drives the NFT, the NFT market? I already talked about the correlation with cryptocurrencies, but are there any NFT specific factors that drive NFT market? The first is volatility.
00:23:26.010 - 00:24:25.726, Speaker B: So the volatility is a significant predictor of the future returns. The high volatility leads to lower returns in the future. Well, okay, it's kind of interesting, but can we say something about the value of, and one way, how we think about the concept of value in all of the other asset is actually through another thing which Bob Schiller is responsible to, is the price to earning ratio. Well, we don't have the earnings for NFT, but really what this ratio captures, it's some kind of today's price to some index of value. So what we create is we create an index of NFT value, which is the market price to the number of transactions. And the idea here is to capture the network effect. The more people buy and sell nfts, the more broadly dispersed they are, the more useful they are, the more liquid they are, et cetera.
00:24:25.726 - 00:25:11.754, Speaker B: And we see that exactly the same thing as works for the stock market. The valuation ratio in the same way works for nfts. In this sense, it is a peculiar new, but still an asset which we can analyze with classic finance, and we can say a bunch of things that don't work. For example, for cryptocurrencies, attention is an important determinant of the price. So here, attention actually works statistically less well. So when people plot the Google trends on NFT, that actually is a little bit less informative than for cryptocurrencies. And then let me just tell you a couple of other interesting and cool things that we find about cryptocurrencies.
00:25:11.754 - 00:25:37.734, Speaker B: So, one thing that people say, for example, in the artwork, I don't know, Jason, whether you're interested in the old masters, but suppose you were interested in the old masters, and by the look of you, I think that you are probably interested in it. The bearded dutch folks are invoked. So the dealers would tell.
00:25:37.772 - 00:25:42.940, Speaker A: You told me that I look like a historian, so I take that as a compliment. So, yeah, I think.
00:25:45.710 - 00:26:31.722, Speaker B: The art dealers would give you the following advice. Buy the most expensive thing you can afford. Buy the masterpiece, whatever is the masterpiece, the most important print in the collection of Picasso, the most expensive. So it actually turns out that this is not a very good advice for NFT market. So it turns out that the masterpieces, the most expensive board dates, et cetera, et cetera, underperform the market overall and they underperform the penny NFT. So if you are an investor, you probably should have fewer of this master because maybe you can buy them for the pleasure, but fewer for an investment. And there is another thing which is also kind of interesting.
00:26:31.722 - 00:26:52.926, Speaker B: There is the reversal effect. If you have something that ramps up in price, then on average it tends to go down those nfTs. So don't buy the past winners, buy the past losers. By the way, nothing that I say constitutes investment advice. This is just some findings of research. So take this with a grain of salt, but there is a side effect, relatively small.
00:26:53.028 - 00:27:25.978, Speaker A: Can I just interrupt for 1 second? So that's very interesting that you mentioned that. So you're saying that the cheaper nfts are pretty much always going to be a better value from your research than the masterpieces, right. Is that because you think, at least from the perspective of your research, is that because they're overvalued already or they're in a bubble of some sort, or is it something else, something about the characteristics of them, or what do you think about that?
00:27:26.064 - 00:28:23.574, Speaker B: It's a very good question. But if you think about, say, stocks, it's a robust fact that the small stocks outperform the large stocks. And this can be for a variety of reasons. That can be the reason maybe because Tesla and apple, which are larger, overhyped, it may be because the smaller stocks are genuinely riskier, they have less liquidity, and so on and so on. So at this stage, I don't have a very good answer for this question, why this is, but what I wanted to do is I wanted to have a set of stylized facts which may be different from what folks talk about when they think about these kind of questions. And again, just want to emphasize this kind of things. Start with the data pricing and then the application of the basic finance goals.
00:28:23.574 - 00:28:31.760, Speaker B: So actually that's pretty much it. What I wanted to just broadly talk about the paper, and then we can just chat about. If you have any questions.
00:28:32.610 - 00:29:29.010, Speaker A: Yeah, I have plenty of questions. It's a really fascinating paper and there's so many different perspectives to take, and I'm sure the people who are going to be watching this, are going to be very interested in a lot of the answers that you have, and especially about this NFT index that you discussed in the paper. Maybe I'll start off talking a little more broadly about the data that you collected in this paper and kind of what that entailed. The first question I had is the clarification one regarding the data, and that is, well, what do you mean by kind of cross validating the data? How was that done? How was the NFT data you collected cross validated? And maybe if you could talk a little bit more as well about how you collected that NFT data, kind of from an on the ground type of like how was that pulled or anything like that would be helpful.
00:29:32.550 - 00:30:14.666, Speaker B: There is like a published release of the paper or the release of the paper. We have actually done a ton of new stuff. So it actually also is a useful opportunity for me to just chat about how I would like to have data. So the nice thing about the data on NFT, actually the nice thing about cryptocurrency data in general, is from the point of research point of view, practical point of view, is that it's something I talked in the very beginning. So we essentially have a public record of transaction. Very rarely do we have anything like this at this level of details for any other aspect. Class.
00:30:14.666 - 00:31:04.650, Speaker B: Maybe there are some proprietary data sources. The whole industry, the whole discipline of market microstructure research goes and tries to collect this detailed data. Here we have all this data available. So what we're doing now, actually, we're in the past and we're actually almost there. So we are now constructing, in fact, from the ground up, aggregating from the ground up, from the blockchain directly the data on all of the NFT transactions almost done in the prior version of this paper. What we have done is we aggregated the data from most of the major marketplaces. But then, because there's different marketplaces, at least from the academic point of view, it's always important to go to the source.
00:31:04.650 - 00:31:49.326, Speaker B: So I talked to a bunch of the historians here at Yale. So for them, one of the most important thing is did you go to the source? Did you check the source? So in this sense, what we wanted to do is we wanted to essentially statistically cross validate. We basically do the random samples of the data because we have this massive number of transactions and we check them sometimes actually manually check them with the blockchain data to have the high quality data set. I see now what we're doing is now what we're doing is we're doing actually the other way around. Now, what we want to do is we want to construct everything from the ground. And this is related because this is, again, aggregation of the data from different data sources. Let me give you a thought.
00:31:49.326 - 00:32:32.666, Speaker B: So my co author, Nicola Boris has this very nice paper, and Antoinette Schoar and Igor Macar, also in this very nice paper on cryptocurrency, where they look at aggregating data from a variety of cryptocurrency exchange. Maybe a couple of years ago it was published. So we basically do the same expertise of aggregating the set of transaction data from a variety of marketplaces. And it's important to have more than one marketplace, because what you're interested is not just, say, digital art and collectibles. You're interested in all kinds of other things. You're interested in lands. You're interested, especially if you're interested in smaller nfts.
00:32:32.666 - 00:32:48.578, Speaker B: I talked to you about, penny nfts, you need to capture not only the data from five major collections, you need to cover a variety of different things. So that's what we try to do. Got you.
00:32:48.664 - 00:32:57.640, Speaker A: That's very helpful. It sounds a lot like the, well, especially the cross validation method that you use is a lot like machine learning, but you're not doing machine learning, obviously.
00:32:58.090 - 00:33:18.362, Speaker B: Well, you can think about this machine learning, but our machine is on purpose, very artificially intelligent machine. So we use this statistical cross validation at the very basic level. Got you. So this kind of relates to data.
00:33:18.416 - 00:34:55.706, Speaker A: That you don't have. And I know you'll probably be very familiar with this line of questioning, because as a social scientist, this is always a question we ask, what's the missing variable, the admitted data that we're not taking into account? And so one thing that interests me about your research and the index that you're building is that the data that you collected, now, if you kind of did a classification of the types of nfts, let's say, that exist out there in the market, you would find that probably, and I don't know if this is true or not, this is just a guess, 90% or so are kind of collectibles and art and all this kind of stuff that's very niche market types of things. Right. But as you know from your research, and I'm sure your co authors know as well, I believe that there's a general direction that the NFT market is going whereby those kind of collectibles that are very popular now might or probably will decrease in importance as time goes on. So maybe rather in a couple of years, if nfts continue to exist, which we believe that they will, right, maybe the collectibles will be 50% of the market and then maybe a few years after that or maybe 20%. Right. And so especially if nfts become very popular in terms of, as a utility to trade assets for.
00:34:55.706 - 00:35:41.590, Speaker A: Like I mentioned this when I talked to people about nfts, like George Church and the genome that he stored as an NFT. And so, yeah, over time, you're going to see this shift, or I believe you're going to see this shift in the types of nfts that are out there. So I have two questions for you. So number one is, do you think that there will be a shift in the future of the kind of types of NFT or the samples of NFTs that you would have now versus, say, in ten years from now? And if so, how would that affect any of the results or the research that you've done here in constructing this NFT index?
00:35:41.930 - 00:36:13.682, Speaker B: That's a great question. So let me use about the future of nfts. I don't know, maybe that's not the grand question you wanted me, but if you think about, say, evolution of Internet or evolution of cryptocurrency. So what was the Internet in the beginning? It was some niche things. It was some cool stuff, cool dudes and they're doing some stuff and some interesting things. But then think about Amazon. Amazon was a bookseller, and now what is Amazon? Amazon is this giant super boring cloud business.
00:36:13.682 - 00:37:18.146, Speaker B: Plus, Alastair, if you think about cryptocurrencies, like if I had a conversation with you three years ago in 2018, would be talking about is bitcoin the new gold. But really now the conversation part of it is still this idea of the monetary, this cool idea of bitcoin, et cetera. But there are a bunch of other boring applications, things that change the shipping industry, things that change the healthcare, record management and so on and so on. And that's where the applications appear. And it's a natural, I think, start of many of the interesting asset classes. Now the focus is on the cool things, the hats, the eyes, the celebrities, Madonna or whoever issuing the new NFT. But my prediction is that the future of NFT is boring, meaning that if you think about the digital property rights, think about the gold rush in California in the 19th century.
00:37:18.146 - 00:38:14.166, Speaker B: So yeah, it was important. The gold, the nuggets and so on was important. Maybe pigs and shallows were even important. But what was the most important thing in the gold rush, it's whether you had a stake, whether you had a property right on that gold, barren piece of land that you have. And the NFPs, I think, have a much bigger potential, actually, even than cryptocurrencies, because they in some sense have a clear fundamental value as a proprietary. So I have no doubt that the current cool and exciting applications are going to still be there the same way as art is an asset, and all kind of cool things happen in that market. But I think the NFTs are going to fundamentally transform into a more mundane and more Boring asset.
00:38:14.166 - 00:39:06.634, Speaker B: The same way, actually, cryptocurrencies are transformed. If three years ago, you and I had this conversation, and if I told you that crypto is an asset that will be in the retirement portfolios, you just look at me like I'm semi deranged. But now we see major asset managers trying to incorporate them in the portfolio, because it's an asset class. It's an asset class the same way as commodities are, the same way as different real estate is. So no doubt the composition of NFTs will change. The nice thing about the index, as opposed to looking at the individual collections, is that it tries to capture the underlying factor driving the ask prices. So where do you live, Jason? What part of the United States?
00:39:06.832 - 00:39:08.134, Speaker A: Athens, Georgia.
00:39:08.262 - 00:39:44.262, Speaker B: Athens, Georgia. Wonderful, right? So look at Athens, Georgia. So if we look at Athens, Georgia versus Palo Alto, so Georgia is a great place, great barbecue, et cetera. Palo alto is very different, but still the changes in the prices and Athens and Palo Alto are driven by the same fundamental factor, even though these are in some sense very different, very different products. Maybe loaded is different. Maybe how close you are to the barbecue in Georgia is more important than how close you are to the barbecue in Palo Alto. But the changes in the prices capture this.
00:39:44.262 - 00:40:42.538, Speaker B: So that's the beauty of this. Repeated sales indices on the broad side of the markets. If I had an index, say, on a given exchange, which has a particular given marketplace, which has particular types of things, trading, if I had an index of one collection, then I think that would be more problematic because it's kind of hard to capture this overall trends. But I would guarantee that probably many of the results of this paper would in principle change in two years or in three years. In fact, we see the same thing with crypto. When we first had our series of papers on cryptocurrencies, we actually saw that crypto was virtually uncorrelated with other, with state stock market. Now, the correlation is much more important.
00:40:42.538 - 00:41:35.260, Speaker B: And the reason is that there is institutional money coming into crypto and that crypto is becoming just one of the asset classes. The same way, I think we will see that the institutional money are going to come to NFT market, and many of the boring applications are going to be developed in cryptocurrency, and they're going to be driven perhaps by different factors than the prices of the board apes. But at the same time, in some sense, the board apes are a stake in this future NFT because they capture also some of the ratio. The same way is that if you wanted to have early exposure to Internet, you probably would buy Amazon. If you don't know what is cool, whether it's Amazon or Yahoo or AOL, you would get exposed to that.
00:41:36.350 - 00:42:23.930, Speaker A: Yeah, I like this analogy of NFTs with the Internet, and I think it makes the kind of future of NFTs make a lot more sense to me at least, and I'm sure to others. So you mentioned the determinants of NFT prices. Now, I know there's of course, determinants that are unique to the NFTs themselves, of course, and there are determinants that are related to, as you mentioned, the cryptocurrency markets and traditional fluctuations in traditional assets. I'd like to ask you about both of those. But first, I'm really interested in hearing more about what some of the determinants of the NFTs themselves are that are most relevant to NFT pricing.
00:42:24.990 - 00:43:02.230, Speaker B: I talked a little bit about this. Let me just sort of refocus on them again. So what we find that two NFT specific factors, NFT specific characteristics rather that predict returns. So those are volatility and those are the valuation ratios. So those are two things that statistically work to predict the movements of the NFT returns. Bunch of things don't work, like attention, for example, doesn't work. So these are the NFT specific, specific factors.
00:43:02.230 - 00:44:12.642, Speaker B: Then also, if we say is NFT como or moves together with other markets, then indeed it moves together with the cryptocurrency market, broadly defined. However you want to define, however, the explanatory variable of cryptocurrency is about 20%. So about 80% are NFT specific factors. There is also commentment with the stock market. But interestingly, once you condition, once you take into account the movements in the cryptocurrency market, this relationship with the stock market disappears. So the stock market, you can think about this, affects cryptocurrency and only the same components that affect cryptocurrencies also affect the NFT market. So, for example, when we talk about the recent decline of both the cryptocurrencies and the NFTs, at least a sizable part of it is driven by also by the recent turmoil in the markets.
00:44:12.642 - 00:44:23.440, Speaker B: So that's to some extent not surprising. And you can think about just the institutional or other money and moving away from the riskier assets to the less risky assets in some sense.
00:44:24.950 - 00:44:45.640, Speaker A: Now, do you believe there's anything particular within the stock market from traditional assets that are most relevant to nfTs? Or have you just looked at the general kind of Dow Jones index and its correspondence to the NFT prices using your data?
00:44:46.330 - 00:45:53.226, Speaker B: That's a good question. So we have looked at the different stock market factors, so you can think about the things that determine the movement of the stock market. So the finance profession tries to group them into the factors that determine the risk of different stocks. If you're interested, for example, in a particular industry or in particular type of stocks, you can somehow decompose it into the different variation or different composition of different factors that drive the more holistic ways to look at whether there is any exposure either to cryptocurrency specific factors, factors that determine the price of individual coins or the stock market factors. And we found actually very low correlation with those beyond just the coin market, crypto market, or beyond the stock market. So what this says is actually there are two sides of the coin. One side of the coin, there is some correlation with the market overall.
00:45:53.226 - 00:46:17.170, Speaker B: On the other hand, NFT is a unique and different and different asset. I think the excitement of the folks who are interested in NFT is partially also driven by this. If it were exactly just yet as another coin or as another stock, then there would be much less interest, I think, in nfts specifically. Gotcha.
00:46:17.510 - 00:47:01.618, Speaker A: Now, going back to this idea of the NFTs as kind of like the Internet analogy, again, I really like this, and I'd just like to follow up on this a bit more. As you mentioned at the beginning of the Internet, I think we're both old enough to have seen the Internet develop from beginning to where it is today, Web 2.0 and then Web 3.0. It's coming up in the future. But I imagine both of us have had America online maybe at some point. I'm not sure if you're that old as me. And there were the first kind of version of the web, there were many static web pages, and you really couldn't order anything online.
00:47:01.618 - 00:49:09.930, Speaker A: I mean, so this idea of spending your time online socializing with people. Of course, we had chat and things like that, but you weren't able to do a lot of the things that we're able to do now, which are part of our daily lives, like shopping and things like that on the Internet, right? And the reason that we're able to do the things that we are now on the Internet is, I mean, there's many reasons, of course, but some of the major ones are the search engine, development of search engines like Google, right. And also the development of kind of infrastructure that facilitated high speed Internet transactions and developments in HTML and so on. So I would say those are kind of major things where the search engines, and I would say infrastructure, if I were to just pick out two, which are the major kind of aspects of the Internet that allowed it to become as important as it is today. Now, bringing that analogy to nfts, it seems to me as if what is going to happen in the future with nfts? And again, of course, this is always the speculation, but what is going to happen in the future is that nfts will become just a means of transferring property, right? And of course there's always going to be this niche market where you have art and it has a certain valuation, but nfts will become just a means of transferring property, which kind of makes sense. That's what they're for, basically. Right now, do you see anything similar to the Google search engine or the Internet infrastructure for nfts that might be important to them in the future? Like, in other words, is there some kind of technology that may not exactly be an NFT itself, but is related to it that can facilitate NFT types of transactions that will be very important for nfts in the future? And of course, this isn't know, I don't mean to put you on the spot, this is of course just speculation.
00:49:09.930 - 00:49:15.180, Speaker A: But from your research, is there anything that fits that type of.
00:49:17.010 - 00:50:02.326, Speaker B: Question? I thought actually quite a lot about it. So I'm not a tech guy, so I think about everything from the point of view of economics and finance in general. So if you think about. Let me make a couple of other analogies, I'll come back to Internet analogy as well. Think about the real estate market. And the real estate market is the biggest asset every one of us has, average american has. If you are in 1975, the real estate market did not look that different from the NFT market now, how are you going to get exposure to it? Are you going to trade it? Are you going to have type a button and going to get immediate approval for the mortgage.
00:50:02.326 - 00:50:56.794, Speaker B: Are you going to look at the valuation of your house? And everybody is going to have now the bidding wars everywhere, maybe even in Athens, Georgia as well, for every house. So from what I do, I think that understanding valuation, the drivers of the valuation and the index is the primary source of it. And that's actually what drove all the explosion of securitization in the real estate market. So I think that understanding the pricing phenomena, the pricing idea, the index, is one of the important things, valuations, et cetera, that's sort of directly related to my research more broadly. I was actually written recently about the history of the gold rush in California. You probably know much, much more about that. But if you were in California during the gold rush, no sense that NFT is the gold rush.
00:50:56.794 - 00:51:18.454, Speaker B: But I think it's an interesting point of the importance of the property. So what should you be doing? Well, some people made money from just finding a nugget. Okay. So that's wonderful. If you're very lucky. Luck maybe is a characteristic of some people. Maybe they were hardworking, more hardworking than the rest.
00:51:18.454 - 00:51:58.674, Speaker B: Some other people made money by selling picks and shovels. So picks and shovels to variety, whatever they call seeds that people use. So that was an important infrastructure for the gold rush. But really, what was the most important thing? Whoever was able to figure out the property rights, whoever was able to put together different plots of land, maybe rent them, have people buy and sell them and transfer them, these were the things that generate probably the most. That's sort of the second analogy. The third analogy is about actually Web 3.0 in some sense.
00:51:58.674 - 00:52:36.046, Speaker B: You and I are in Web 3.0 now. We are two hour flight away, but almost like we're sitting in front of each other. Maybe in ten years, instead of having different backgrounds, we will have a nice cafe or a nice office, which you and I would run for an hour, kind of like whatever is the rework of the future age. So I see the value to some extent in the metaverse, et cetera. But I'm actually less excited about metaverse. I'm excited about that.
00:52:36.046 - 00:53:49.074, Speaker B: But I think it's going to be only a small part of the applications. I'm going to come back to the same logic, as I said in the beginning, which is there are a variety of things which are exactly the same as with the Internet, which are fundamentally absolutely boring, which are going to transform, I think, the NFT market as we know, and we'll actually find the application. Think about Uber. And Uber is airbnb I mean, what is it? It's in some sense the Web 3.0 economy, right? So you have a tiny app which doesn't own anything, that allows you to completely disrupt the taxi industry or completely disrupt the hotel industry. And these are the kind of things which arise from the fundamental idea of fractional ownership, the fact that what Uber gives you gives you, or hiring a person for a gig, or fractional ownership for Airbnb. These are fundamental basic economic questions that the Internet allowed you to solve to some extent.
00:53:49.074 - 00:54:51.980, Speaker B: I think we'll see this kind of things growing from the NFT. And I think the art and all the cool things that are here now, they're going to be there and they're great to generate an issue with some. But the wave of talent, from what I hear and see, an important wave of top tech talent is moving to nfts. And I think we'll see all kinds of applications that allow you to do mundane, boring thing at a very different level. So this, in a sense, is the same as the Internet. Who would have thought that the bookseller from what is Seattle, Amazon, a bookseller from Seattle, is going to be a company know on the surface, will allow us to get everything delivered in two days, but even more is going to know half of the infrastructure for Internet computation, cloud computes and all kinds of things. So this, I think the evolution we'll see potentially in nfts as well.
00:54:52.910 - 00:55:31.970, Speaker A: Yeah, no, thanks so much. That's really helpful. I mean, who could have imagined, and again, I like this example that you're mentioning with Uber, actually. Who could have imagined that web browser technology plus app equals getting rid of taxi drivers and completely revolutionizing the taxi industry and the way that we actually see transportation in general, it's quite astounding. So certainly that's something we have to look forward to with nfts, in terms of the unknown things. There's a famous Rumsfeld quote. There's the known knowns, the unknown knowns, the known unknowns, and the unknown unknowns.
00:55:31.970 - 00:56:00.378, Speaker A: And there's lots of unknown unknowns, I think, with nfts that we're going to probably see appearing in the future. Well, that's all the questions that I have for today. And Ali, I really appreciate your time and for sharing this fascinating paper with us and for answering some of my questions and having this great discussion for Chainlink research reports. My name is Jason Anastasopoulos.
00:56:00.474 - 00:56:02.540, Speaker B: Thank you. Thank you very much.
