00:00:00.570 - 00:00:31.160, Speaker A: Chris Black. This is awesome. I'm just so excited to have this conversation. So this is the defined and DeFi watch presenting DeFi transparency. We have the absolute honor and pleasure of having Hester purse join us for this discussion. Of course, of course. Sorry about that.
00:00:31.160 - 00:00:38.474, Speaker A: Myself on YouTube, I had that open on another tab, and that was really throwing me off.
00:00:38.592 - 00:00:39.258, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:00:39.424 - 00:01:44.030, Speaker A: So, as I was saying, Hester Purse is SEC commissioner. She has been pushing and advocating for fair and good regulation of the cryptocurrency space with really novel frameworks and just, like, pushing the space forward in terms of regulation and transparency. And Chris is the founder of DFI Watch, and he has been very closely watching the D five space since 2019. Being a very loud advocate for transparency, for pushing to further decentralize the space and make sure that users are safe, I will drop off now and let Chris and Hester have a one on one, and then I will come back and we will hold a panel with other amazing guests that I will introduce.
00:01:45.650 - 00:01:55.620, Speaker B: Thanks, Cammy. Commissioner Pierce, thank you for joining kind of without really knowing what you're getting yourself into. I appreciate that.
00:01:56.150 - 00:02:14.610, Speaker C: Well, Chris, I appreciate the chance to be here, and it's certainly an honor to be on the defiant show as well, which I'm a fan of. And I just want to start with my standard disclaimer, which I have to give, which is that my views represent my own views, not necessarily those of the SEC or my fellow commissioners.
00:02:14.770 - 00:03:00.710, Speaker B: Right on. And my views are mine, all mine and nobody else's. So, like, before we get into to, because I know you're coming in kind of a little cold on what? We didn't discuss an agenda or anything like that. And the idea was we would just have a quick chat and then bring in a panel that we would be able to get some more diverse points of view. So I just wanted to give you a heads up on where I'm coming from, because I think you've done a lot of speaking on the topic, and we have good idea of where you're coming from on a lot of the topics, and I wanted to make sure you knew where I was coming from because I'm not an advocate or a cheerleader for DeFi. Okay. So you've been following a little bit.
00:03:00.710 - 00:03:54.040, Speaker B: Okay. I like to think of myself as an advocate for decentralization and trustlessness, and I think that DeFi has the potential to provide services that come close or achieve the level that bitcoin has reached of trustlessness and decentralization. But I also believe that a lot of DeFi entrepreneurs have chosen a different path, mostly because they want to create a business with this technology. And decentralization is always less profitable, slower, harder to use. So trade offs have to be made in order to make this into a lucrative business. And I think that's where I become a little polarizing for DeFi, because I call these things out, because my goal is to see DeFi reach that level that bitcoin has reached. I know it can and we've seen it happen before.
00:03:54.040 - 00:05:12.078, Speaker B: But regarding, just to set the table a little bit more, I'm coming from the point of view that regulation on DeFI through enforcement may work in the short term, but I'm pretty convinced it almost definitely will not work in the long term, specifically through enforcement, because decentralization is just going to keep getting better and better and better, and it's going to get harder and harder and harder to enforce the regulations that we all come up with. I also think a regulatory compliant DeFi is going to result in worse protection for users'privacy. It'll eliminate censorship, resistance and be bad for liberty in general. So just to sum that up, I don't think anyone, including the SEC, can really protect people from themselves if they have access to what they want. And you can't take away access to Ethereum. It's like taking away access to the web, right? So my focus has been on, and I believe that the only really intelligent path forward is to focus on education of users so that they have an expectation of transparency around risks. Because I believe, and DeFi watch the whole effort really is.
00:05:12.078 - 00:05:45.626, Speaker B: The idea is that every user has a different risk tolerance as long as they have a full understanding of the risks, including the risks that the Defi team doesn't want them to be aware of. As long as they have full transparency, they'll make their own educated decisions. And I don't see another way forward with a global permissionless blockchain. So it's really a focus on risk, on transparency around risks and education. So that's my take. It's a little polarizing in the space. I wanted to make sure you understood it so that it's much different from other interviews you've done, maybe in the space and stuff like that.
00:05:45.626 - 00:05:49.930, Speaker B: But regarding my take, yeah, I think.
00:05:50.000 - 00:06:01.760, Speaker C: Even just the fact that the feedback that I received on Twitter made it very clear that there are people who have whole variety of views about you. So I get that.
00:06:02.210 - 00:06:07.570, Speaker B: Do you think I'm off the rails? Do you think I'm on the right track? Do you share any of these views.
00:06:08.150 - 00:07:35.280, Speaker C: Look, what I've been saying is know we have to think as regulators about how to confront DeFi, which is something new for us. Removing central intermediaries and really having a peer to peer system that doesn't have central intermediaries is very different from what we're normally dealing with. Now. What you're saying is, no, actually there's still some central intermediaries that are there. You just have to look behind the curtain a little bit and you can see that there's some central intermediaries. I'm not a technical person at all, and I know you try to present your stuff in a way that's accessible to nontechnical people, but I'm not one to assess that question with respect to particular projects or whether particular tokens would be considered to be decentralized. But I think that the point that you make is a similar point I've been trying to make, which is that if you want to be decentralized, you really need to be decentralized, and that is going to then put you in a different category from the perspective of regulators, because that's just not something that we've dealt with before.
00:07:35.280 - 00:07:58.710, Speaker C: If regulators can find a centralized party or group of people that they can grab hold of, they will grab hold of them. So I think it's just good to be cautious about how you build things, because down the road it could have regulatory implications.
00:07:59.130 - 00:08:50.534, Speaker B: Okay, that's interesting point. It leads into something I wanted to ask you about yesterday with Chair Gensler's comments, because he implied that because of bitcoin's level of decentralization and trustlessness, that I think he said, it's real. And he gave a positive sort of tone about bitcoin. And the vibe I got from what he was saying was, it's okay because we can't touch it. It's okay because the regulators can't reach any choke point to affect it. So we're just going to treat it like gold. But then he also said, and I know his views are not yours, but I just want it for context, he also said, I wrote it down.
00:08:50.534 - 00:09:36.040, Speaker B: At the heart of finance is trust, and at the heart of trust is investor protection. But bitcoin only has value because there's nobody you need to trust. Right. So to me, these are like conflicting ideas. So is the idea that DeFi applications should strive to reach the same level of trustlessness as bitcoin, and then they'll be better off and they have nothing to worry about, or are they better off developing like they are today really cautiously and then running towards regulation early to try to make sure that they don't violate any rules, because they're two very different ideas. Based on what I just heard from you, it sounds like you're favoring the first, like they should try to decentralize as early as they can.
00:09:37.290 - 00:10:50.406, Speaker C: Well, I'm not going to tell people do things right. What I want people to understand is there's an existing regulatory structure that we've set up for the traditional CFI system, which is one in which any entity or person that is involved in the financial industry is probably going to come under some kind of at least one regulatory framework. And so know what those regulatory frameworks are that potentially will capture you and look to comply with them. And if you think that you're doing something that's new and different, that means you can't comply. Then come talk to the regulators and figure out if there's an alternate way for you to comply with those rules. Now, Defi is intended to be something different. It's intended to be something where people are cutting out those intermediaries, they're dealing directly with one another, and they're selecting to choose to trust the code and not to trust a centralized intermediary.
00:10:50.406 - 00:11:34.490, Speaker C: And that's fine from my perspective. I tend to approach things from a pretty liberty loving perspective, which is that if two people decide they want to enter into a transaction, they're doing so voluntarily, that should be fine. And they're doing so with full information. That should be fine. That should be the presumption that that's fine. Now, then we as a society can have questions, have discussions, and push back and forth on whether there should be regulation around that. I might come from one perspective, and some of my colleagues might come from a more regulatory perspective, perhaps, but we have to have that conversation as a society.
00:11:34.490 - 00:12:12.680, Speaker C: But I think the point is that if you want to make a case that you're something different than the CFI or tradfi system, then you have to show that you're doing something radically different, which, from my perspective, requires decentralization that would indicate that it's something all. If the trust is really coming from the code, that's something very different than if the trust is coming from one company or a group of people.
00:12:13.850 - 00:12:34.046, Speaker B: Right. What would have happened if Satoshi had come to the SEC in year one and said, hey, guys, I'm not sure if I'm violating any rules here. What should we do about it? I mean, we know that's a hypothetical. It's a rhetorical question, because we know.
00:12:34.068 - 00:12:47.010, Speaker C: What would have happened is that it's 2021 and it would be very likely that Satoshi would still be in the no action process at the SEC trying to get a no action.
00:12:48.390 - 00:12:49.234, Speaker B: Right.
00:12:49.432 - 00:14:04.698, Speaker C: So, I mean, I'm being a little bit cynical here, and this is no criticism of the staff of the SEC, but I think the point is that traditional finance and regulators work together, and they do so in this very slow, iterative process. Then you bring in something like crypto, which is there's nothing slow about it. There's definitely iteration, right? But it's this experimentation and this realization that a lot of things are going to fail, but they're going to be things that succeed. But that's all happening, and it can't happen with a regulator sitting, looking over your shoulder, approving every step of the way. So regulators need to do a better job of figuring out how to work with innovators to deal with innovation. And it's been a struggle for as long as I've been involved with the SEC, and I'm sure long before that. And that's part of the reason that our financial system is so concentrated, because the only people who can afford to wait to get the approvals are people who have a lot of money already and who have really good lawyers already.
00:14:04.698 - 00:14:14.590, Speaker C: And so that's something I'm trying to figure out a way around, that we can build a better regulatory system that better accommodates innovation.
00:14:15.330 - 00:14:40.902, Speaker B: Yeah, and that kind of goes back to what I was saying earlier, in that as far as I know, Us regulators have never really had to deal with a permissionless system before. That's globally permissionless. So it begs the question, like long term, how can you use the same tactics you've used for a hundred plus years, however long SeC has been around against.
00:14:41.036 - 00:14:42.902, Speaker C: Not quite that long, but almost. Right.
00:14:42.956 - 00:15:16.242, Speaker B: Okay, so against a permissionless global network where you have a hard time even identifying a person unless what country they're in or who's using it. So that's why I always say, go back, take a step back, be realistic. Transparency around risks and education of users. And that's where we should be focusing because it's a losing battle over a longer time frame. Like, over a shorter time frame. Yeah. There's VCs you can go after, there's projects with choke points that want to be regulated so that they can make billions of dollars.
00:15:16.242 - 00:15:21.380, Speaker B: But longer term, over five years, ten years, it seems like a lost cause to me.
00:15:23.190 - 00:16:02.186, Speaker C: Well, I mean, I certainly agree with you that transparency is really important. And I think that's one of the DFI. At least that's how it's been. When people talk to me about it, they talk to me about the fact that it is transparent. So unlike some of the more traditional financial arrangements, where it's hard to know where you stand, you should be able to tell where you stand in a DeFi transaction. You should be able to understand what will happen. Now, obviously, over time, you sometimes realize there are things that can happen that you didn't anticipate.
00:16:02.186 - 00:16:25.382, Speaker C: But in general, the code is open. Everyone can see it. People are all approaching on an even footing, and that's one of the beauties of it. So I think that transparency is a good thing around defi. And it is. I mean, I don't like to say it this way, like an advertising point or a marketing point, to go to the regulators and say, hey, this is all open. You can see it, we can see it.
00:16:25.382 - 00:17:36.510, Speaker C: Everyone is able to see what's going on. So I think that is a positive thing. But it is incumbent, I think, upon society generally to think a little bit occasionally to take a step back and look at the regulatory framework and decide whether we have it calibrated properly. And from my perspective, this is a moment when we can have that kind of a conversation, because things are possible now from a technological perspective that weren't possible before. And so the question we need to ask each other as a society is, are we comfortable with just trying to fit this new thing into our regulatory framework as we have it now, or should we reconsider that regulatory framework? When I come to that conversation about what our regulatory framework should be, one thing I come with is there's a real importance in individual sovereignty over their own lives. Right. They should be able to make decisions for themselves that are best for themselves and their families.
00:17:36.510 - 00:18:42.946, Speaker C: Sometimes regulators need to come in, but the presumption should be that people can make decisions for themselves. Another thing I come to the conversation about what the regulatory framework should be, another principle that I come with is this idea, which you mentioned, permissionless innovation. Right. There is a real value in people being able to try things without having to check with someone first. Another principle I come to the conversation with is financial privacy is a very important concept, and it's one that I think at this stage, at least in many countries, we've sort of devalued financial privacy. And a lot of people say, well, if you have nothing to hide, why do you care if anyone is watching what you're doing in your financial life? My counter to that is, your financial life is reflective of much about your inner life. It's very core to who you are.
00:18:42.946 - 00:19:27.620, Speaker C: And so we need to protect that financial privacy. And our presumption shouldn't be that financial privacy is not worth anything. So that's what I'm arguing for, is to have this broader conversation now, which is spurred by crypto and DeFi in particular, about how thinking about. So that's something that the SEC is part of that conversation, but it has to be a much broader conversation than just the SEC. And then you mentioned the international component of it, which I think makes this all more complicated and interesting. And that means that other countries better be having those same conversations. But I think the United States can lead that conversation because we do have a history.
00:19:27.620 - 00:19:38.840, Speaker C: We're built on the idea that individuals matter, that freedom matters, that privacy matters, that people should be able to be sovereign over their own lives.
00:19:40.730 - 00:20:24.142, Speaker B: Yeah, you're hitting all the marks with me as far as privacy and liberty and everything. I think one thing you mentioned was about transparency as a selling point for DeFi, which I agree it's important. It's a huge selling point. Probably the most important that you can read the code, you can see the transactions, it's all out there. But what I've learned over the two years I've been studying the space is that it's not as transparent as we think sometimes. Because for a few reasons, the code can be written in any which way the developer wants. Okay, so the code can be written on the blockchain to be completely trustless, autonomous, immutable.
00:20:24.142 - 00:21:26.120, Speaker B: And that's the way some projects, like uniswap, have deployed code where nobody can stop it. The only way to stop it or to change it is to turn off Ethereum because it's there forever. There's other projects that have governance, whether it's through tokens or through what we call an admin key, like a multi Sig key, which is basically just an Ethereum account that they can use to make changes. And in those cases, there's a variety of different aspects that are not transparent with token governance. In many, many cases, most of the tokenized projects in the top ten, as far as biggest DFI projects, have very consolidated ownership of these tokens. We're about to talk to Robert from compound, where? Compound, the top five token holders are all venture capital firms from Silicon Valley that control over 40. It's like 42% of the vote in the governance system.
00:21:26.120 - 00:22:09.430, Speaker B: Now, they couldn't just vote a proposal through on their own without maybe some pushback, but they have tremendous power to make considerable changes to the code. That stuff is being discussed in a dark, cigar smoke filled room. Okay, probably over Zoom, but it's being discussed without users being involved. Okay. So that's where it gets into the question of how much transparency, and I would like to talk about this when we bring the panel in in a second. How much transparency is owed by these projects, especially, and the safe harbor 2.0 proposal you put together is fantastic.
00:22:09.430 - 00:23:07.058, Speaker B: I can see a lot of your spirit and what you're saying in that. But I think that when we talk about transparency, we need to be careful because people can be misled by thinking everything is on chain. And I wanted to raise that with you and get your thoughts on whether or not the safe harbor should encompass some of these things, including, like, a multisig. If there's five developers that have keys that have the power to turn off an entire blockchain, or to change the code, or to drain all the funds out of a billion dollars out of a DeFi project, how do we gain transparency on that? And obviously, if we try to self police, we don't have any teeth. My take is, if regulators can find you and get you to use your multisig to fix things or to change things, they should do it. It's your fault for making yourself discoverable. But what's your take on those type of situations?
00:23:07.234 - 00:24:19.180, Speaker C: Well, I'm not sure that I would agree with your last point about that. It should be up to regulators to make those changes. I think the points that you're making about sort of shadow centralization are ones that anyone who's developing a DeFi project needs to think about. And anyone who's using one of those protocols needs to think about, because they have to assess, as you said, the risks and the vulnerabilities that they have because of their exposure to particular people or particular groups of people who have outsized control of that protocol. And so I think that's something that you've raised and is important for people to be thinking about. And I think the tie to regulation is when regulators see those kinds of things, they say, that looks centralized to me, and that then becomes the entry point for them to go in and regulate or bring in enforcement action or whatever it may be. And so people do need to be thinking about those kinds of things.
00:24:19.180 - 00:24:57.686, Speaker C: And I agree with you. That's something that it's worth considering in crafting any version of the safe harbor that I can convince my colleagues to take on to have as much transparency around those kinds of questions as know to sort of see down the pike of can one person or a group of people unilaterally or multilaterally make changes? What does that look like? I think that does make sense for me to take into account the other.
00:24:57.708 - 00:25:46.302, Speaker B: Thing to remember in those cases, my observation is a lot of those cases that we're seeing, and we're seeing this with 510 billion dollars projects, as far as what users have locked in the projects, as far as being liquidity providers and whatnot, the centralized control, what I believe, the reason I believe it's there a lot of times is because of regulatory uncertainty. So the regulatory uncertainty is actually causing the centralization to occur. And then the regulators look at the centralization and want to regulate everything based on that, even though it might not have even existed if it wasn't for the regular. It's like this crazy circle.
00:25:46.366 - 00:26:03.690, Speaker C: I'd love to understand a little bit more why that is. What is it about regulatory uncertainty that leads to that sort of more centralization as opposed to let's make it as decentralized as possible so there's no one that can be regulated.
00:26:04.350 - 00:26:58.606, Speaker B: So my take, and again, it's only my take, and I'm not a founder and these guys won't even talk to me anymore, so I don't really have the inside scoop. But without maintaining centralization to make changes to the project, to the code, to the token economy, whatever it might be, it's very hard to be a legitimate project in the eyes of a regulator. Right? Because if they come to you and they say, look, we've done all this, we have this protocol, it's capable of doing this, we can't change it anymore. Hopefully you like it. They're limited in what they can do and how far they can push it. They're limited in who will work with them. As far as traditional financial, you know, the stripes and the robinhoods and the e trades of the world, they want to partner with these guys.
00:26:58.606 - 00:27:32.070, Speaker B: So in order to get those partnerships, they need to have the warm embrace of the SEC, the, but they can't do that unless they're able to comply. And they can't comply if they don't have centralized control and they can't rely on a decentralized community of thousands of people to do the right thing. They need to maintain that power so that they're able to do that. So they're able to have a billion, a trillion dollar business working with all these different banks and tradfi organizations.
00:27:32.490 - 00:28:14.020, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, I think there's some sort of natural tendency to centralize things. And I certainly don't want to speak to any particular project because I haven't looked at the details of particular projects. So I'm certainly not making any kind of statement about any particular project. But I do think we need to, again, figure out a way for people who do work to get rewarded for their work. And so that's one of the things I actually think is most exciting about decentralization. I think it does allow for really new ways of rewarding people for work that they do. But I get your point.
00:28:14.020 - 00:28:50.850, Speaker C: There can be a desire to have some centralized control so that you can get more of a reward. But I also think that it's pretty natural that people who put in time and effort supporting a nascent project want to get something out of it at the end of the know. I think these are good conversations for the Defi community to be having. I think it makes a lot of sense people to think about the trade offs of different types of organization. And for me, those are exciting.
00:28:52.950 - 00:29:29.238, Speaker B: Agree. I agree. Cammie, you can come in and we can start bringing in the panel. But I'll just leave on this note. That's what scares me about a lot of this stuff, is that I think that the regulatory compliant DeFi projects will. I mean, if they do gain mass adoption, it will have a tremendous impact on privacy, censorship, resistance. It'll make it easier to regulate, easier to tax, easier for Elizabeth Warren to look at and say, you, you and you should give up half of your have.
00:29:29.238 - 00:29:43.966, Speaker B: And especially if there's tie ins with Mastercard and Visa and all these, there is a nightmare scenario out there that I put forward a lot of times, and I do it mostly to just be that gadfly who gets people thinking so that we can try to avoid it. But thanks, everybody, for joining.
00:29:44.158 - 00:30:37.940, Speaker C: That's been one of the big debates all through the crypto. The time that I've been involved in crypto, I came out early and said I thought we should have approved a bitcoin exchange traded product. And some of the feedback I got on that was, no, we don't want a bitcoin exchange traded product. We want to keep a distinct separation between traditional finance and what we're building over here, which is supposed to be something different. And so I think those are always going to be questions and maybe different projects come to different conclusions about how they want to balance those things. I mean, there are questions about how you balance security and trustlessness and immutability. There are all these kinds of questions and all these different things you're balancing, and different people will come to different conclusions about what the right balance is, and that's okay.
00:30:37.940 - 00:30:44.440, Speaker C: But it may have different regulatory implications. And, Chris, I think that's part of the point that you're making.
00:30:45.610 - 00:30:46.520, Speaker B: It is.
00:30:47.370 - 00:30:49.218, Speaker C: So thanks for the conversation.
00:30:49.394 - 00:31:26.450, Speaker A: That was fascinating. Thank you, Hester, for such an open discussion about these important topics that affect everyone in this space so deeply. We'll move on to the panel discussion. Now. We have Gabriel Shapiro. He is a US attorney who's been just deeply involved in the intersection of cryptocurrency tokens and regulation. Gabriel is the general counsel at Delphi Lab and leads Lexpunk Dao.
00:31:26.450 - 00:33:38.970, Speaker A: And we also have Robert Leschner, who is the co founder and CEO of Compound Labs, which leads the development of a compound protocol, one of the biggest and one of the first protocols of decentralized finance. So thanks so much, all of the guests on this stellar panel, and of course, Chris Black, who will be co moderating and leading this panel discussion with me. And I'm Camila Russo, the founder of the Defiant. Hopefully all of you are subscribed to our YouTube and the newsletter we are covering Defi every single day. So I wanted to start with talking about Commissioner versus safe harbor proposal, which I think really kind of moved the talk discussion on regulation and crypto forward with this framework that proposes that cryptocurrency and projects have three years in which they move towards gradual decentralization. And in this time, these projects are required to provide transparency and information about what they are building, about how their token holdings is distributed so as to give users as much security and safety as possible when transacting with these protocols as they become more and more decentralized. So, Gabriel, I know you've written about this proposal extensively and wanted to ask you specifically, what do you think this final point of being sufficiently decentralized looks like? And at this point, does this mean that protocols who kind of check these boxes, does that mean that they are no longer under the protection of securities regulations?
00:33:39.470 - 00:34:42.186, Speaker D: Yeah, it's a great question, and I'm a huge fan of the safe harbor and particularly the way that Commissioner Pierce has presented it by putting it on GitHub, allowing people to comment it and so on. I'm getting an echo. Okay, there we go. So I commend her for that. And let's just talk about the central problem, the insight that it's based on and the problem that it's trying to solve, which I think is a bit of a chicken and egg problem. Right. If indeed there is a point of sufficient decentralization, where there are so many unaffiliated actors adding value to a particular ecosystem that it just wouldn't make sense anymore to impose security style reporting obligations on any particular one, then how do you get to that point, right.
00:34:42.186 - 00:36:02.090, Speaker D: Since everything kind of starts out with a relatively smaller group of people, and if the securities laws apply in their current form, particularly the secondary market regulations or some of the underwriting restrictions, and the way they can be broadly interpreted, to basically forbid anyone who's closely involved at the beginning from distributing their stake without doing a normal IPO or something like that, then how would you ever get to the distribution? Right. So it's a chicken and egg problem, and I think the safe harbor, as proposed, is quite a good solution to that problem, because it says, look, you have three years. If you make a lot of the same disclosures that you would have made if you'd done a full IPO, get rid of all the information asymmetries, be open, make sure it's an open technology, and so on and so forth, then we'll give you a free three years to solve that chicken and egg problem. And so I think that's a very effective idea. As for when sufficient decentralization is achieved, an interesting thing is, is that going to continue to be the test? Right. Because under Commissioner Pierce's test, there are two possible ways. Either it's fully functional, or it's kind of like sufficiently decentralized, what she calls network maturity.
00:36:02.090 - 00:36:42.182, Speaker D: And under a recent bill introduced by House Rep. Don Bayer to regulate crypto, he also doesn't get into sufficient decentralization for his desecuritization process. Instead, again, he talks about functionality, but for whatever it's worth, under current law, I think it's really a gloss on the elements of Howie. Right. If there are so many different people who are meaningfully involved in contributing value, there's no longer one person or group of affiliated persons who are the source of the predominant efforts. They could go away and disappear to the Bahamas. Most of the value would still be there.
00:36:42.182 - 00:36:54.300, Speaker D: And so it's sufficiently decentralized. But it would be great to have more guidance, more interpretation, more case law or something to flesh that out a little bit more and give people confidence in it.
00:36:58.850 - 00:38:22.460, Speaker A: Yeah. With this respect of, like, okay, so the core lead developers can go to the Bahamas, and then the protocol continues running. And that's a measure of decentralization, but that's still kind of so vague. It's like at what point? Maybe they can go off to the Bahamas but still hold 50% of the tokens and they have the potential of affecting governance. So I'm wondering, for anyone in the panel, should there be some sort of fixed number, like, say, no individual token holder has more than 10% of the supply? And is regulation kind of moving that way of just getting very specific to the requirements that protocols should fulfill? I think that would be the ideal for this space to have just like this checklist that they can run through and be like, okay, I'm safe, I'm not going to jail, and I can continue building this thing. But it seems like we're still kind of so far away from that. Hester, do you think that's something that regulators are working towards, like giving just like, very specific guidelines of what sufficiently decentralized actually means?
00:38:23.230 - 00:39:22.990, Speaker C: I don't think it's something that regulators are moving toward. I think regulators are most regulators, at least based on some things that I've heard from colleagues. Yesterday, Chris mentioned Chair Gensler's speech, and I think he was pretty clear that he thinks the law is clear. So it continues to be something that I want to encourage us to think about. Now, I would be a little hesitant to try to have a very precise checklist, because that is what happens with regulation. And then what that ends up doing is it ends up tying regulation to a particular view of how things work or to a particular technology, and that ends up getting outdated really quickly. That's the reason that we have these broad principles based regulations, and that's why they tend to be fairly successful.
00:39:22.990 - 00:40:15.600, Speaker C: I do want to acknowledge the fact that Gabe has been really helpful in my thinking about the safe harbor. He's provided really great feedback and not always 100% complimentary, which I really appreciate. I need that kind of unvarnished critique, because you all know this space much better than I do. And so I think that's really how we have to go about this, is people who are space working in the space need to give feedback to me and other regulators so that we can think about how to build some kind of a framework that's going to stand the test of time and not embed any particular technology and not be very easy for people to game. Oh, I've hit the threshold, and so I'm good to go. So that's kind of some of the reason this is so difficult.
00:40:17.750 - 00:40:36.440, Speaker A: Robert, for you, as a builder and founder of, as I said, one of the biggest protocols in DeFi, what would you like to see in terms of regulation? So Gary Gensler said, what we have is enough. What are your thoughts on that?
00:40:37.130 - 00:41:30.146, Speaker E: Well, I think is not enough, because what we have is based on historical concepts, not recognizing that there's new technologies being created and that it's the job of society and regulators to, one, help usher in new technologies, and two, make sure that it's done safely and correctly. But recognizing that what we're doing now is completely new. The technologies that we're using, which is decentralized finance or computer programs, automating finance, is very different from how business has been done. The concepts in DeFi are analogous, but completely different from existing markets. And they're better. Right. In a lot of ways, DeFi offers faster, cheaper, more fair, more transparent, more trustless financial markets.
00:41:30.146 - 00:42:13.510, Speaker E: And so I think it requires different and new regulations that we can't try to just stick every new round peg into a square hole. Right. So I would love and hope that we can create, through Congress and through the regulatory structure, a recognition that this new technology isn't the same as all of the old ways of doing business. There's the opportunity for it to be better, and there's the risk that if we use all of the existing structures and make everything try to fit into it, that we stifle innovation and we move it offshore, and we don't allow an incredibly important new technology to flourish.
00:42:17.880 - 00:43:05.270, Speaker A: So for Gabriel and Hester, are regulators thinking in terms of creating new ways of enforcing laws into crypto? Because that seems to be one of the biggest discussions here. How can us regulators enforce securities laws that were designed for a completely different financial system than what's being built now? So how to reconcile those two things? And again, is that something that's feasible to do, to kind of make these kind of custom laws for this new space?
00:43:11.050 - 00:44:25.498, Speaker C: When you talk about enforcement, I think the answer is enforcement doesn't require too much tailoring. What the SEC or another regulator can do is just bring an enforcement case. And because a lot of our cases are settled, not litigated, we can take a theory of how the existing law applies, and we can put that in a settlement. And then people look to that and say, oh, well, must be the law, even though it was never tested in court. That's why I'm always sort of urging us not to use enforcement, not to have enforcement be our lead, but to think about these things from a regulatory perspective, to try to build some guidance out. We send messages in ways other than through enforcement cases that I think are more proactive and positive ways. And those are ones where we can then actually, especially if we're doing a rule, we can actually interact to get feedback from the public and have that conversation.
00:44:25.498 - 00:44:38.370, Speaker C: And then you enforce after you've already sent the guidance out. But so far in this space, we've not found it problematic to bring enforcement cases.
00:44:41.430 - 00:45:26.878, Speaker D: I think that the one of, like, there are sort of two categories of things, right? In one sense, yes, the current regulations sort of apply or make sense because they are principles based. Something like the howie test is very functionalistic. So you can look at it and you can get an answer. Right. And so in that sense, it makes sense you could get an answer as to whether a given token is an integral part of an investment contract scheme. And if so, then certain regulations apply, particularly disclosure regulations. On the other hand, if you look at things like secondary market transactions.
00:45:26.878 - 00:46:22.306, Speaker D: Right, and this seems to be if there is any shift as between the pre Biden SeC and the Biden SEC in terms of their messaging, from what I've been picking up on, it sounds like there might be a little bit more focus on the infrastructure, exchanges, money markets, this sort of thing. And unfortunately, the way that those things are regulated is premised on intermediation. And there is something revolutionary here in that defi blockchain, et cetera. The purpose of it is to disintermediate. Now, some people like Angela Walsh will look at the system and they will rightfully point out that disintermediation doesn't mean that everything just works automatically with no people having any discretion or power. And they'll still call that intermediation because there's some power. But it's just very different.
00:46:22.306 - 00:47:49.040, Speaker D: The role that a minor has and the power that a minor has and the incentives that they have are very, very different from what a traditional operator of an exchange or a money services business has. And so in that sense, the regulations are outdated. And if they wanted to fit something like uniswap under the same rules that Nasdaq complies with, because some of the tokens that are traded through the uniswap smart contract might happen to be securities, what will happen is that will just mean that it's the same thing as just prohibiting uniswap to exist in its current form, because it's not KYC gated, and it couldn't be KYC gated without changing a lot of the technological implementation around it. And so that is where I think Robert's point is a fair one, and where I do worry about some of the recent statements from the SEC commissioner and the CFTC commissioner, are a bit worrisome, because fully compliant DeFi, in the sense that a current retail commodities exchange is fully compliant, would not be Defi. And I think there are constitutional issues around just trying to prohibit the technology in its current form like that. And I also just think it would be a net loss to society and to the United States if that were the approach and taken. So I hope it's not, but we'll see.
00:47:50.450 - 00:49:12.860, Speaker B: I just want to piggyback on what Gabe said and what Robert said earlier, and just about the way that we think about this stuff, because a lot of what I hear from chair Gensler and others about applying traditional financial ideas to defi doesn't take into consideration, for instance, the fact that you can, in DFI, do anything you, as far as governance goes, you can separate the voting power entirely from the ownership stake of tokens if you want to. You can have a 50% owner, but they could make themselves entirely powerless as far as changing code, creating new code, anything like that. And I haven't heard any discussion around these new ways of thinking about this technology as it relates to regulation. It seems like a huge gap that could be kind of crushed if regulation is just pushed forth the way it's been done in the past with Tradfi. So Robert hit the nail on the head, and this also applies to what commissioner purse said earlier about everybody deserves to get paid for their work. Right. But getting paid for your work doesn't have to mean that you're a centralized choke point in a governance system that can materially change or promote or whatever this decentralized application.
00:49:15.710 - 00:51:14.030, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that's kind of the core of the discussion, how different DeFi operates from traditional finance and how do regulators adapt to this new system if they mean we're also seeing the same kind of tension in the infrastructure bill, which would potentially require operators in the cryptocurrency space to provide information about their users. And as we know in DeFi, that would be very problematic. The whole point of this is that it's permissionless, and people don't need to give any of their personal information to transact with these protocols, and it's just wallets against smart contracts. So if that's the case, and this is applied to DeFi, that could really limit innovation in the space and push it outside of the believe. So hopefully more people are thinking and listening to commissioner purse's argument in this respect. Robert, I wanted to give you a chance to talk about what Chris mentioned in his interview with Commissioner Pierce about how compound governance is still relatively concentrated, or could be argued that it's concentrated on a few token holders as still an important part of the compound community. As token holder of comp, how do you think the protocol should evolve to become more decentralized?
00:51:15.090 - 00:52:24.226, Speaker E: Yeah, it's a great question. So decentralization comes from a couple different factors, and we were talking about what is sufficiently decentralized. In my mind, there was two design goals when building a system. One was that our team could get hit by a meteor, and I call this the meteor test. And if a meteor came down from outer space, landed on San Francisco, and our entire team just vanished without a trace, would the protocol still operate correctly? And the answer at this point is know. And the second is, can the community have the tools to upgrade, modify and run the protocol without our team whatsoever? And the answer there is also yes. Lastly, there's a design consideration that was considered from the very beginning, which is, can the community feel safe knowing that changes to the protocol are going to be done in a way in which they can essentially opt out and creating a process where it's essentially slow governance? And all of these were the sort of primary considerations when designing the protocol.
00:52:24.226 - 00:53:12.230, Speaker E: The specific ownership of an individual, I think, matters less because they have almost no ability to make malicious modifications to the protocol. They have almost no ability to cause harm to users. And all of the token holders act individually, right. Me and my co founder disagree on proposals all the time. I've disagreed with a lot of investors on specific proposals all the time. People have made extremely controversial modifications to the protocol, and some have passed and some have failed. And the system itself operates in such a way that it doesn't matter if one individual token holder, like a venture capital firm, holds a decent amount of tokens, they're not able to cause harm to the users.
00:53:12.230 - 00:53:51.460, Speaker E: And all of the actions are completely transparent. And the process by which they exert that voting control is slow, transparent and in the open. So I am not that about an individual venture investor having a large token balance. I think there's a lot of fear within the crypto communities of like, oh, behind the scenes people are going to form alliances, include and do all of these potentially nefarious things. And I don't think that that's the case. I think individual token holders do what's in their own individual best interest. They oftentimes will vote against each other.
00:53:51.460 - 00:54:24.240, Speaker E: And in aggregate, the system is one in such that on whole it runs extremely efficiently. So I think fear over any individual having a large token balance or votes is overblown. In some cases, I think it's offset by the fact that token holders can even delegate their authority to others, to academic institutions, to community members. They can voluntarily reduce their effective control as well. And so I think it's a system in which it operates quite well.
00:54:30.880 - 00:55:10.650, Speaker A: Sorry. Okay. Yeah, I think that makes sense. Does compound survive if the team goes out by a meteor? And it does, I think that's a good kind of litmus test. But I'm still kind of not entirely convinced about the argument of having really concentrated token holders. Like the fact that that doesn't matter. But I guess it depends on each protocol, what they want their own governance to be.
00:55:10.650 - 00:55:21.580, Speaker A: And some protocols might be just governed by fewer parties and others might be just governed by a more decentralized structure.
00:55:22.000 - 00:56:32.470, Speaker D: Right. If I could jump in this actually, with the governance thing and token voting, this is one area where I have to say I think that the DeFi world has been a bit naive and does have a lot to learn from the traditional regulatory world, maybe more than the traditional regulatory world has to learn from the DeFi world in this regard, because there's a long history of corporate governance and other types of governance of organizations. There are elaborate sets of laws, some flexible, some rigid, some at the state level that are opt in, some at the federal level that are not opt in. And there's a lot of history there, and there's a lot of guardrails there. And they evolved from things that. Right. So one of the things we have, honestly, a public corporation is sort of like a, you know, except in rare cases like Tesla or know where a founder might continue to dominate widely distributed economic interests and control.
00:56:32.470 - 00:58:00.320, Speaker D: And so there are sometimes governance contests, right. And you don't know in advance how they will come out. And there's a lot of history of what's called green Mail and other types of nefarious shareholder activism, as well as good types of shareholder activism that dislodged management that was doing a poor job. And what evolved in response to that was a complex body of mainly disclosure based laws that requires people who might be colluding with each other to have a large interest or might be engaging in side deals that could be biasing certain people within the governance process, or vote buying or what have you, that these things are disclosed and that there's an independent watchdog like the SEC to make sure that they're disclosed, and that there's an incentive structure where they'll get sued for a lot of money if they lie about it or fail to disclose. And even Vitalik and other crypto native types have written a lot about in the context of delegated proof of stake systems and things like this, these risks of collusion and so on. So I do think that this is a major issue, and I don't think that the current cautions against off chain incentives and meetings and so forth that may be secret to other governance. I just don't think that it's sufficiently trust minimized at this point.
00:58:00.320 - 00:58:04.370, Speaker D: It's not trust minimized the way bitcoin mining is trust minimized, that's for sure.
00:58:05.460 - 00:59:06.550, Speaker A: Yeah, no, I agree with that. I think it's an interesting point that we have here. Earlier in the discussion, we talked about how regulators should adapt to this new system that works differently than traditional finance. But now we have a case where this new system should maybe learn from traditional finance and how governance is overseen and executed in just traditional companies. And we often kind of are in this bubble where we think Defi is always better and we do things our own way. But it is true that these systems have evolved from hundreds of years of experience in stockholder meetings and governing these billion dollar companies. So I do think DeFi has something to learn from how that's done there.
00:59:06.550 - 00:59:53.080, Speaker A: We're already past the hour, but if you guys have a couple of minutes for one final question. Yeah. Okay. So this is something that I'm personally curious about. In DeFi, there's this assumption that if protocols become truly decentralized and no power is given to any specific party, token holders are distributed, the development is run by a dow. Everyone is anonymous. The website is held in itss.
00:59:53.080 - 01:01:18.690, Speaker A: Everything is on chain, like, 100% truly open, permissionless, decentralized. That regulators can't touch a protocol like that. And that's kind of the holy grail that everyone, I think, is working towards because of their own principles of open, permissionless system, but also because it offers censorship resistance to regulators. I think that sounds great and radical and so cyberpunk, and I love that vision, but I'm always kind of wondering if that's naive from DeFi to expect this. Is it actually the case that if we have a truly decentralized system, that it's censorship resistant? I'm wondering kind of, can regulators still go after these protocols, and do they have the grounds to do that if a protocol is sufficiently decentralized to track them down, identify developers, shut down their website, I don't know, ban trading on centralized exchanges, find any way to kind of limit these, or when it comes to this space that they're fully decentralized, then regulators just simply shouldn't care what they do.
01:01:20.340 - 01:02:30.448, Speaker D: Well, that's sort of why I've been saying, I was saying yesterday, I wish we could skip some steps here, right? Because most of the front ends are very simple, stateless in the computer science sense, have no data, just like interfaces with Ethereum, for example. Right? And so it's a smart contract system. And so ultimately, the reason why that smart contract system works is mainly because there are miners who are willing to write the transactions to the blockchain in exchange for an award. And so at the end of the day, that system is going to continue to exist for as long as people keep mining, right? And so maybe we could just skip some steps and the regulators could just go directly after miners and then we'll see how that plays out, right. I think people will keep mining, right, because it's a game of whackable and the incentives are there and the service they perform is very valuable because it is censorship resistant. And so they'll continue to get paid well by the systems. And then I think society would have to have a rethink about how to approach this regulation.
01:02:30.448 - 01:02:39.976, Speaker D: And the rules would be probably a little bit different from the traditional ones. On the other hand, I will say specifically in the securities context, new value doesn't come from nowhere, right?
01:02:40.158 - 01:02:40.504, Speaker B: Yeah.
01:02:40.542 - 01:03:54.210, Speaker D: You can have a system that is running and it works and it's usable and it doesn't depend on any particular person. That's all great. But if it's ever going to increase in value, right, if the network effects are really going to grow a lot or it's going to have new features, that new value is going to come from people, right? Those people can always be a target of regulation, whether by trying to deprive them of the ability to get remunerated for network, which would disincentivize it, or punishing them on the back end. And I do think that's where a lot of the securities law action is, because you might have a governance token and you have some people who are improving the protocol even though it already works. And therefore that will make the value of the governance token go up in some cases. And does that always need to be regulated? Does it matter whether they have an entity and their venture capital back versus whether it's just a bunch of guys who are like rabbits and frogs and stuff like that and didn't raise really any capital and are just doing it and hoping the token goes up. There's a lot of debate to be had there and probably unfortunately, litigation to be had there, but it's a little bit separate of an issue from whether the thing just works on its own and can't be shut down.
01:03:58.080 - 01:03:58.744, Speaker C: Yeah.
01:03:58.882 - 01:04:08.530, Speaker A: So there are ways of limiting development, of course. Commissioner Pearson, I'd love your thoughts on this as.
01:04:10.820 - 01:05:50.332, Speaker C: I mean, I think that Gabe made some great points there. What I would say is why I want us to have a conversation on a broader level as a society so that regulators can be responding to what it is society decides it wants, rather than regulators tend to like to be able to intervene in things and protect people, which is a good impulse, and have oversight. If we decide that there's a subset of activities that we think shouldn't be subject to that same level of regulatory intervention, let's spell that out as a society. One thing I will caution is that often I hear from people that they don't want regulation, but then when they lose money, they come to me and they say, well, why aren't you helping me get my money back and why didn't you in the first place? So there's a responsibility that comes with the freedom to transact. If you want to live in a regulation free zone, then you also have to be prepared to take responsibility when something goes wrong. But again, these are conversations we should have as a society. I come back to the point that I think individual liberty and freedom are underrated in a lot of our regulatory discussions.
01:05:50.332 - 01:06:01.670, Speaker C: So let's elevate those principles and then communicate that to the regulatory so that they can incorporate that in the approaches they take.
01:06:04.220 - 01:06:13.050, Speaker A: Robert, do you have any kind of final words? Like, if you could deliver one message to us regulators, what would it be?
01:06:13.820 - 01:06:28.910, Speaker E: It would be that decentralized finance and autonomous finance is probably one of the most important technologies of the last hundred years and that it's too important to dentally kill.
01:06:32.580 - 01:06:35.360, Speaker A: I have to agree with that. Chris?
01:06:36.100 - 01:07:17.596, Speaker B: Yeah. Just a final thought. What you described earlier about the kind of ultimate decentralized finance, trustless, autonomous, immutable, potentially anonymous, I don't think it's naive. I think that that's going to be the natural evolution of the space. If regulation comes to us, that does not take the technology into consideration. I think if we try to apply traditional enforcement based regulation to what we're doing now, it's going to drive people into darkness. It's going to drive people to create more trustless protocols, which I don't happen to think is a bad thing.
01:07:17.596 - 01:07:35.830, Speaker B: I would love to see Defi made up of all autonomous, immutable smart contracts, but I think it's going to be a natural evolution. If we get the wrong kind of regulation, I hope we get the right kind of regulation. Thank you, Commissioner purse, for everything you're doing. And I know it must be a really frustrating position to be in, but.
01:07:37.480 - 01:07:39.190, Speaker C: Put the pressure on me.
01:07:41.720 - 01:07:58.744, Speaker B: I would love to know. I know we have to go, but I still want to know what we can do to help you to change people's minds because it feels like you're swimming upstream and I don't really know the answer to don't. Maybe that's a whole separate talk, but it's a question.
01:07:58.782 - 01:08:50.830, Speaker C: Well, we can have a separate conversation about that, but I think it is really important for people to be communicating with regulators about the power of Defi, the power of some of these other innovations and show people how it can actually improve people's lives. That's a really valuable thing for here because too often people just focus on the negative and then you see where that takes the debate. So come in and tell us how it really is changing people's lives for the better. And then be honest when you do spot things that are not working well and where people are trying to rip each other off or take advantage of each other, because that's where we should be focusing our regulatory efforts. But we can't do that if people don't come in and tell us those things.
01:08:52.960 - 01:09:57.888, Speaker A: What a fantastic talk. Thank you so much, Commissioner Pierce, for joining, Chris for organizing, Robert and Gabriel for the amazing panel discussion. This has been so interesting and I think we're all on the same page. I think decentralized finance is going to change the world for the better. And I am an optimist. So I do believe us regulators are smart people and they are learning about the space and they will come to the realization that this is actually a good thing that's happening in technology, and it will empower people to have a better financial inclusion and provide more transparency and provide even more investor protection than traditional finance can. So hope the right kind of rails are set for the space to continue developing and growing in the United States.
01:09:57.888 - 01:10:08.290, Speaker A: It would be a shame if it went elsewhere. So thanks everyone for joining. Thanks everyone who's live on YouTube and see you all soon.
01:10:08.660 - 01:10:09.150, Speaker C: Thank you.
