00:00:11.560 - 00:00:29.060, Speaker A: Awesome. Thanks everyone for joining. We have Tyson from Zora and some creators from the Web Three space who's going to give us a talk on building curation and community with Web Three. Thanks, everyone. One. Tyson, I'll hand it over to you now.
00:00:29.210 - 00:00:49.220, Speaker B: All right. Hello, everyone. Yeah. My name is Tyson. I'm one of the co founders here at Zora. Yeah, super excited to kind of be joining these folks up here to talk about this kind of new idea of curation and community that's kind of being uniquely enabled by Web Three. With us today, we have Patrick Rivera from Mirror.
00:00:49.220 - 00:01:25.830, Speaker B: Mirror is basically brand new, decentralized publishing platform. It's changing the way that writing can be shared. They've also, as of last night or maybe two nights ago, released a new publishing feature that allows writers to natively mint their NFTs using the Zora Protocol. We also have Jeremy from Catalog Works. Catalog Works is a music player digital record shop. Really cool space where artists can kind of press and sell songs as these single edition NFTs. And then last but not least, we also have Nikki and Paul joining us from I Am Sound.
00:01:25.830 - 00:02:01.490, Speaker B: I Am Sound is basically one of the top creative studios, record label artist management groups operating out there right now. And they've actually just curated a couple of huge exhibitions on Zora with some amazing visual artists and musicians. So welcome everyone. Wanted to maybe start by talking about how each of you have kind of been able to form your respective communities in each of your little spaces. Maybe Paul or Nikki, do you want to let us know a little bit more about how I Am Sound kind of came to be and then how you've been able to find these incredible artists to work with?
00:02:02.340 - 00:02:49.730, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, I Am Sound, we've been going for probably over a decade now, and Paul and I have been working together from the beginning, and we started as a record label and expanded into a creative agency and visual artist management firm. And I suppose just through the nature of the work that we do, which orbits around music, we've been involved with many projects with different musicians on the marketing side, on the recording side, and working in and around those environments. So I think for us, last year when we decided to do our exhibition with Zora, we had such a wealth of a community just through the nature of the work that we do, that it felt like a natural transition to move into the space.
00:02:51.220 - 00:03:41.360, Speaker D: And also I think that I am sound from the very beginning. Our ethos has always been about working with artists, whether it's musical or visual artists. From the very beginning, ground level, we work with almost all developing artists that we just really love and try and shepherd them throughout their career and really kind of shine a spotlight on a lot of artists who don't necessarily get that spotlight at the beginnings of their career. And so I think for us, when we learned more about NFTs and about what it can really offer to these kinds of artists, we were really excited. It's very much a tangible way of doing what we've always done, but I don't know, it just seemed really exciting and seemed like a natural evolution of our ethos.
00:03:42.420 - 00:03:56.084, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. And then, Jeremy, I know you've just basically just started to onboard the very first musicians into catalog. Maybe you want to just walk us through what that onboarding experience looks like and then kind of how other people can kind of get involved with your community.
00:03:56.282 - 00:04:33.296, Speaker E: Sure thing. So we started by handpicking a selection of artists that we think make really amazing music. This first drop was very tailored in that sense. We have seen a lot of people who like other musicians who are really interested in getting on. And that's something that super excites me about having a dedicated space for music in this NFT space. What we've been doing is sort of talking to each artist individually, answering any questions that they might have about the technology, demystifying any common points of confusion. But overall it's been a really amazing experience.
00:04:33.296 - 00:04:57.450, Speaker E: Everyone's eyes light up when they start to have that AHA moment with the underlying technology and it's been really great. It's something you can't unsee once you see it, you can't unsee it. And I love shepherding sort of artists and creatives through that process when they sort of realize that this is a new way for them to capture more of the value around their work.
00:04:59.580 - 00:05:21.970, Speaker B: Yeah, I think we're starting to see this very unique new approach with artists and their communities, this direct way of basically interacting with the community via NFTs. Patrick, I want to bring you in really quick because I know Mir is doing a very novel approach to kind of onboarding publishers into your community. Do you want to give us a quick overview of the right race and maybe how that works?
00:05:22.820 - 00:06:17.164, Speaker F: Yeah, so as mentioned earlier, mirror right now is a decentralized publishing platform. And in order to onboard people, we could have taken a few different approaches. We could have just let anybody join the platform in a complete permissionless way, but there's still a lot we have to do in terms of making our editor better and adding different features and getting certain contracts audited. And so instead, the other approach could also be just like slowly roll out and invite people we know. And we seem that that wasn't necessarily kind of the ethos of permissionless open protocols and so kind of this middle ground was building a community driven governance mechanism. And so it's basically Fancy way of saying allowing current writers on the platform and people interested in joining the platform to vote on who should be allowed to be onboarded. And so we do this game pretty much every Wednesday.
00:06:17.164 - 00:07:24.440, Speaker F: It starts at three Eastern and you go to our website, Mirror XYZ Race, you connect your wallet and then basically tweet out a link on Twitter and then that gives you ten votes to vote for anybody else that connected their wallet. And then we have this mechanism where the existing writers on the platform, they get more votes, they get 1000 votes and people that aren't on the platform get ten votes. And so that kind of drives this incentive for people that are onboarded on the platform to continue governing the community and making sure that people that get voted in the platform, they're going to have more influence of the next few people that are voted on. And so I've seen some creative things where communities like Tech Optimus, they have a Telegram channel and they're organizing and voting in people. And then this past week they voted someone in and he said that, hey, now, next few weeks we're going to decide who we should vote in. And they're pretty much creating this decentralized community driven strategy for onboarding people on the platform and then they have a lot of novel ideas for how to use the platform. And so, yeah, that was really interesting.
00:07:24.440 - 00:07:48.050, Speaker F: And in the future there's also other projects that want to use that similar functionality. And so in the past it's been deemed like a token created registry. So you can see it being used for different communities to decide, okay, what types of projects they should work on, what projects they should invest in, who should be onboarding to their community. And so we're thinking about ways to kind of abstract that in a way that other people can use it as well.
00:07:50.960 - 00:08:37.980, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it's interesting because I know, like Paul, Nikki, Jeremy, you have all kind of maybe not hand selected is maybe not the correct word here, but gone through a very manual process of deciding who is part. Of Im Sound or part of Catalog Works, which is, I guess, on the other end of the spectrum of what Mirror is doing with this fully community driven approach to onboarding creators. I'm kind of curious about how Paul, Nikki and Jeremy, how you all go through the idea of selecting creators to go into Im Sound or into Catalog works. And yeah, whether or not there is this path of maybe a community version of kind of collecting these communities or collecting these groups of creators together based on the community input.
00:08:39.280 - 00:09:27.708, Speaker E: Yeah, so right now it is somewhat selective. We reach out to each artist individually, but that's certainly not where we want to be going forward. It's mostly due to the nature of music being a bit more scrutinized when it comes to things like copyright and to avoid any kind of issues with major labels breathing down our necks, we wanted to make sure that we're doing this the right way. And as we sort of build out more features on the platform that allow for more discovery and that can support more creators. We're definitely looking to open our doors more. We're also big fans of how Mir is going about their onboarding process and being a platform that is slowly working towards becoming community owned. We certainly see the value in having those community picks and so not for this upcoming drop, but the one after that.
00:09:27.708 - 00:09:33.630, Speaker E: Look out for something that is a bit more curated by the community and more of that going.
00:09:36.240 - 00:10:57.380, Speaker D: Know for I'm sound, I think unlike Mirror and Know, we're not a platform, we're a company that's essentially working with Zora, just kind of helping Shepherd, I think, especially through the music and art worlds as they are now. And I think for Know, it's interesting because obviously our first exhibit was definitely one that was curated and it's a bit more on the more traditional, I suppose, gatekeeper model that everyone is talking about. But I think for us, the reason why we were doing it that way is just because there's so much content out there now, even in NFTs. Obviously things have blown up so much more in the past couple of months or so that we wanted to be able to group together folks in order to be able to make a statement together. And I think for us at the beginning of this, we're working with so many musicians who didn't know what an NFT was, didn't know anything about Zora, and we had to spend a lot of time kind of onboarding them and telling them about it and really kind of giving them all the right information. Everyone gets really excited once they learn about it, but I think that it's just the kind of thing where at the beginning we wanted everyone to be able to kind of enter this world together and tell the story together. Because right now I feel like there's quite a lot of folks if you just drop an NFT out there, unless you have a massive social following, it definitely can be a little bit hard to get noticed.
00:10:57.380 - 00:11:26.028, Speaker D: So I think for us, it wasn't necessarily us trying to cut anyone out. I think for us, it was just like finding a group of artists to make that first step forward and then once from there. For now, we're working with Zora on helping onboard a ton of artists, because I think we're super excited about this democratization and what this can mean for artists in the future that aren't coming in with a cosign from some giant company or a cosign from another influencer.
00:11:26.044 - 00:11:52.410, Speaker B: Or something like that. Yeah, definitely. I think there's this incredible work that you've all done kind of bringing these artists into the spotlight with that exhibition. One of the things I was kind of curious about as you were kind of onboarding these creators and bringing them into the space was maybe some of the issues that you found introducing these independent creators that may not have had any previous crypto experience and how you approach that conversation with them.
00:11:54.460 - 00:13:10.450, Speaker C: I think for the people that we brought on, some of them were visual artists that we represent that had been interested in doing something in the space because maybe they'd lost out on work, especially last year due to COVID. And I think with other artists, I think they were just sort of nervous about how it would be, the response. I think that's across the board with any artist, just how it would be received. And I felt like when we announced our project, it would just sort of hit when there were, like, Grimes was doing hers and there was like a huge sort of big ticket projects that were just sort of going up. And I think that a lot of artists were kind of just worried whether they were going to make any money or whether they were losing sight into really why the ethos to why Paul and I wanted to do this project. But I think overall, people were just excited because it was a way for them to express art that they may have had on their desktop for a couple of years or may have been in something that they'd wanted to do or experience. So I think that it really ran the gamut, but I think most of them were excited, but just also just quite nervous about just entering into this space.
00:13:12.500 - 00:13:42.008, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, it's definitely a brand new world out there with these very weird possibilities that have kind of been popping up. Like we've been seeing, for example, with what Mirror is doing, what catalog is doing. These are all brand new ideas of what platforms can be. It gets very confusing. I think it's been amazing having you two and your team kind of help bring these creators into that world. Had a couple of questions that pop up in this chat. Basically actually just website links.
00:13:42.008 - 00:13:58.050, Speaker B: I guess we should quickly post those in there. We can throw those in. Paul and Nikki, the IAMSOUND website was just iamsound.org. Co is our gallery. Do you have a URL for imsound proper?
00:13:59.220 - 00:14:03.024, Speaker D: Yeah, I'll Authore it in there. It's just imsound.com.
00:14:03.142 - 00:14:37.430, Speaker B: No, that's easy. Okay. Yeah. I guess as you two have kind of brought these creators into that space, there are these platforms like catalog Works, which is doing this incredible job of making this basically record store online. Have any of the artists that you're working with kind of been looking at that kind of model or that platform, or is there anything that intrigues them outside of just the NFTs by themselves that are getting interesting?
00:14:38.040 - 00:15:41.800, Speaker D: Yeah, I think just for the musicians that we work with, we've been telling everyone about catalogs. I think catalog for sure definitely represents the next step in NFTs. And I think right now it's very much Wild West and everyone is kind of writing the rules as we go along. I think that we did have some issues with some of the musicians on our exhibit just because some of them had publishing deals, some of them have record deals and it definitely got a little hairy here and there as we're trying to negotiate various things. The entertainment industry laws have not anywhere near caught up to technology, so it's definitely a lot to untangle. But I think it's something that at the very least represents a next step in something to at least kind of challenge the status quo of what's going on in the music industry. I think that especially with Nikki and I's background coming from the more traditional music industry, major labels are almost a definition of gatekeeper models.
00:15:41.800 - 00:16:22.550, Speaker D: They kind of handpick who they think are going to be the best ones, that they think can make the most money and sell the most records and that's what they do. But there was never really a way for artists to monetize beyond that. Unless you have not until just recently, the last few years with obviously social media and all that kind of stuff. But I think that it makes sense that now that there's another way for fans, for artists to be able to gain access to new fans and not just have to still stick to Spotify, still stick to itunes, all that kind of stuff. I think everyone that we've talked to has been wanting to get introduced to Jeremy and has been wanting to at least find out some more information.
00:16:23.660 - 00:16:47.490, Speaker B: Yeah, I think there's also another new model that's been pretty exciting coming out of Mirror, which is the crowdfunding model. Patrick, maybe I'll let you speak a little bit on that. But the general idea is basically allowing the communities of these creators to help fund new projects in a way to kind of help bootstrap them into this own independent world without having to rely on basically labels or these massive Spotify deals in order to put their works out.
00:16:49.060 - 00:17:41.136, Speaker F: Yeah. Yeah. So somebody described it as patronage plus model, where it's basically you have two components. One is the patronage side where in the past have been platforms like Patreon or even during the Renaissance they had guilds and actual very formalized patronage models where they would just pay people and wouldn't necessarily guess. It was in the past it was like a salary, but nowadays it's more so hey, we'll pay you this thing just because there's no other really great way to monetize. And so the thing that wasn't great about that was that the supporters didn't really have a way to kind of show their support and kind of have a way to also share in the upside as well. And so that's kind of where the plus part of this model comes in.
00:17:41.136 - 00:17:46.290, Speaker F: And so just as a quick overview of how the Mirror crowdfund works.
00:17:48.740 - 00:17:49.056, Speaker B: You.
00:17:49.078 - 00:18:40.784, Speaker F: Basically get to fund a project, any sort of creative project like today. We're focused on writers, but in the future, we hope to be able to help people fund any sort of creative project, whether it's music, documentary, or anything of that nature. And once you start the crowdfund, if anybody that has an ethereum address can participate. So it's global and permissionless, as opposed to being required to be in some sort of jurisdiction, say, in the US or in Europe or being accredited investor. So it's kind of one way it's different from existing crowdfunding platforms. And then also, whenever you connect your wallet and you send e to the crowdfund contract, in return you receive an ERC 20 token, and that basically gives you fractional ownership over whatever project comes out of the crowdfund. And so right now we're adding the ability to link.
00:18:40.784 - 00:19:14.860, Speaker F: The first iteration was you have one NFT, which was an essay linked to the crowdfund, and then the sales of the NFT flow to this crowdfund contract. And anybody that has an ERC 20, they can redeem their ERC 20s for a proportional share of the ETH. But then in the future, we would like to, I think, kind of the next wave is instead of these one off NFT drops, how do we allow people to kind of create an entire business where you're linking multiple NFTs to this one crowdfund contract? And I'm sure we can talk about it later at some other point, but that's kind of where we see it going and how we see the crowdfunding fitting into kind of future models.
00:19:18.420 - 00:20:17.924, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I think there's this very exciting new world where you can almost think of it as like erecting a statue in a public square where everyone's kind of funds or value can kind of accrue to this one spot to fund this brand new project that everyone gets to enjoy later. It's interesting, I think, because there's this model that's kind of thrown around with NFTs that people call the One True fan model, which is it just takes one fan for a creator with NFTs to allow them to support them. As long as a creator has one fan, there's one fan that would be willing to buy that NFT off of them. What's interesting with the crowdfunding model is it actually breaks that down back into the other routes, which is as many fans that would like to support the artist can in whatever way they're able to. So you don't necessarily need to be a very wealthy individual to help fund these massive projects. Instead, what you can do is just dedicate however much you're willing to, to help make these projects a reality. And I think it gets very exciting, this idea of this community fundraising to make these artists be able to create.
00:20:17.962 - 00:20:21.110, Speaker F: Whatever they'd like to 100%.
00:20:25.000 - 00:20:50.620, Speaker B: I'm curious, Paul or Nikki, if you're able to kind of extend on the idea of these crowdfunded approaches to funding projects as opposed to the original. I am sound drop for example, which know, one fan being able to own the NFTs, the idea of these artist communities perhaps being able to all own the NFT together by being these co sponsors, so to speak, of these projects.
00:20:51.280 - 00:21:57.948, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, I think there's one project from our first exhibit that I think taps into this model a little bit with whoopi he created a iOS game called Rhythmscape that he released as an NFT on the first week of our exhibit. And as far as I know, it was the first iOS game released via NFT. I think everyone who bid on it was able to or is about to be able to get access through test flight. And it was a really interesting experiment on how to release something like that. Not just kind of thinking of NFTs in a completely different manner, which, you know, obviously I think a lot of us think of NFTs as the whole digital certificate authenticity and having one owner, but I think whoopi really thought about it in a completely different model. I know that him and Dee were brainstorming a ton about how do you apply technology like that into an interactive medium like iOS games. And especially it's something whereby is an independent creator.
00:21:57.948 - 00:22:16.308, Speaker D: It's him and a couple of friends have been working on this game for months and months and months, and being able to release it as an NFT not only gives him such a democratic access to fans and people who want to play it, but he's able to fund this work. I mean, he has to hire animators.
00:22:16.324 - 00:22:17.064, Speaker B: To be able to help him.
00:22:17.102 - 00:23:19.356, Speaker D: He has to hire people to do it. And being able to release it as an NFT gives people who I think it's kind of combination of what you guys are saying, where it's not just like the one bands who have, hopefully, a bunch of money who want to help support the creators, but also the other fans who it's a combination of both where he was able to get a number of high bids, which was great, but then also ones who just kind of put in a few here and there in order to kind of add more liquidity to his NFT. And it's great. I think he's been really happy with it and it's just kind of the beginning of how to be able to think of NFTs in a completely different angle, which to us, that's the most exciting thing. I think that right now, everyone's been thinking about NFTs as it relates to art and it relates to a lot of traditional media. And I think it can really flip a lot of that with publishing and music, flip it on its head completely. But I think that there's a lot of ways to integrate NFTs into industries that we haven't even remotely thought of, which is I think that's why we're all really excited to be here at ground zero of all this.
00:23:19.356 - 00:23:20.590, Speaker D: NFT stuff happening.
00:23:21.360 - 00:24:29.590, Speaker B: Yeah, it really is like a brand new digital canvas to kind of be working off of an entirely new medium for creators to be playing around with. It's been amazing just to listen to creators kind of come to the realizations of all the things that are possible with just NFTs as the base unit and then anything else that you can build on top of that. For example, there's this group made by someone named Trevor Mcfredris, this token called the Friends with Benefits Token, which did this exclusive access into a community chat room. Basically very exciting because it allowed anyone to be a member of this group by just holding onto one of the tokens, I think, whoopi did something really magical with the iOS game. It didn't necessarily matter how much you bid into that game, as long as you put something up to support the artist. It was a tool that you're able to download from, I think. Yeah, there's a lot of really cool futures here with community curation and community creation that we're just starting to see happen.
00:24:29.590 - 00:24:39.408, Speaker B: Yeah. I'm curious, Jeremy, if you had any thoughts on how that kind of crowdfunding model works in catalog or if there's a future for that.
00:24:39.434 - 00:25:46.670, Speaker E: There certainly yeah, I think Mir has been really great about blazing these types of trails and we have a lot to learn from those early models. It's absolutely something that we're interested in adopting the concept of. I mean, record labels today are more or less providing that as a service, obviously providing lots of other things too. But one of those things that they're offering is fronting money to an artist for them to record an album or produce some body of work. And I think there is a really interesting opportunity where we can start to explore rather than it just being a single organization, a combined effort from either many organizations or individuals or some combination of those that is able to back artists in new ways and share the value from what they're sort of funding the artists with and what the artist is creating in return. So, yeah, it's definitely something that we're interested in supporting. There's a lot of things that we're trying to support right now, so it's kind of just choosing putting 1ft in front of the other and choosing the right thing at the right time.
00:25:46.670 - 00:26:31.530, Speaker E: But yes, I think there is a really I always tell people if I could have invested in my SoundCloud likes, I'd be very well off right now. And I think everyone probably feels more or less the same. And what's really interesting about NFTs and specifically with music is it is this sort of proof of culture. You can quite literally say I supported this however many years before everyone else caught onto this thing. And not only that, but you can also share in the upside alongside the artists and creators that you are supporting. Buying one of these things is really the most direct form of patronage that you can have with an artist that you're supporting and it really does unlock a whole new world of opportunity for both the fan and the artist themselves.
00:26:32.540 - 00:27:55.936, Speaker D: Yeah, we've actually in a lot of our conversations with an artist kind of explaining NFTs to them and kind of how they can really implement it into the traditional album cycle, recording an album into everything. On the music side, we've had a few artists who are really excited about the possibility of completely funding an album on NFTs, because you can make an NFT of your demos and then sell that, and then it's exactly what Jeremy was saying know? You're asking for your fans to not only invest in you, but it's something where everyone can win together. Because imagine if the song that you release all of a sudden blows up and then the person who has the NFT for that original demo, they gain a ton of value too. And obviously that's not going to happen every time. But I think it's a really interesting way of trying to crowdfund things in a more traditional industry that's not just someone handing over money and it's like you get one thing and that's it. The whole point of all this is that yes, there are payments happening there's monetization, but it ends at that transaction. There is so much more that can happen in hopefully the years to come for the value of the NFT, for the value of the campaign being seen as a trailblazer in the music industry.
00:27:55.936 - 00:28:53.012, Speaker D: I think the one thing I've really loved about the crypto community and the NFT community, that everyone a lot of the people that are buying these NFTs now are really rewarding creators who are taking a risk and they're rewarding people who are kind of just diving in head first. I think that a lot of people buying stuff now of course they might be speculating on value, but it's a dash of that. But also with being able to be like, you know what, I respect you for taking a risk and you're selling your rights with this NFT or you are remixing this or I don't know. I've seen a lot of really interesting proposals out there for NFTs and it's a really great community out there that is rewarding people for being bold and I think that's great because that really, I think, encourages artists to take that risk and it keeps people from being too conservative with the growth of their careers.
00:28:53.156 - 00:29:42.952, Speaker E: Yes, that's one of the things that excites me so much, not just with catalog, but with all of this, is that specifically to music, the incentives right now is that artists are making music that will get them a lot of artists are making music that will get them the most streams. The system is currently set up so that whoever makes the most played song is going. To be able to make the most money from that. And so in order to put food on the table or keep a roof above their heads, artists are quite literally being pushed towards making music that is more digestible and agreeable with the public. And that's not how I want music to be made. I want artists to be able to follow their creative passions and their vision and to make stuff that's weird and different. And that's the kind of music that pushes music forward, that takes us into new places that never existed before.
00:29:42.952 - 00:30:46.510, Speaker E: And I, for one, want to live in a world where artists truly can follow their creative passions and are not forced into doing things that they might not want to do. This doesn't necessarily solve artists having to use social media, but instead of having to offer a patreon sort of subscription or doing live streams on Twitch all the time, which artists may or may not want to do, this truly does allow musicians gets us closer to at least allowing musicians to focus on the thing that they love, which is making music. And like Tyson said earlier, I think it really just takes that one true fan, that one believer in what you made, for it to have longer. You don't need millions of streams for that song to be considered a hit. And some of the best music that I've ever listened to, some of the most powerful albums that have had an impact on my life aren't something that I listen to frequently. It's something that I access in those moments. So, yeah, it really does flip the script on that side too.
00:30:49.120 - 00:31:36.510, Speaker B: Yeah, I think you touched on something there. I think it's pretty interesting, this idea of not necessarily having to model your work around what's going to get you the most spotify streams, but really modeling your work around your community. And what's something that your community would be most interested yeah, be curious to know. Paul or like, I guess you've kind of worked with artists on building their communities and helping them kind of foster that relationship with their fans. Do you see a future where that kind of changes a little bit with this new model of being able to directly have your fans crowdfund and form that cyclic relationship with one another where they're able to help curate and then also help boost that media themselves because they're kind of part owners in it as well?
00:31:37.520 - 00:32:37.250, Speaker D: Yeah, I think so. I think what we've always expressed to musicians that we've worked with is the most important thing to us, I always say, is it's not necessarily the breadth of fans, it's the depth of fans. You want to be able to have fans who believe in you and they follow you on social media, they buy everything you put out, they go to all of your shows. Having 100 of those fans is worth more than 1000 fans who just kind of listen to you on a spotify playlist as it pops up. It's those kinds of people that really reward a career and allow artists to be able to actually make a living from making their art. And I think that this is like a natural extension of that. I think that's mainly yeah, this is just kind of another step to be able to work with maybe a smaller fan base, but a more passionate one and one where everyone can grow together.
00:32:40.100 - 00:32:42.396, Speaker B: Yeah. Sorry. Go on, Nikki.
00:32:42.508 - 00:33:56.600, Speaker C: No, I was just going to say that I think that we've over the history of I'm Sam released artists that have been kind of obscure but then also just been quite mainstream. And I think that there's always an album that happens every year that you're like, why did nobody buy this album? Or how come you've never heard of this album? It got completely lost because it didn't get written about on Pitchfork or any of these other blogs. And even as a fan of music, I miss stuff and I think that NFTs allow artists to have a real direct to consumer relationship where you can really be involved with your fan base. And I think that that is going to alleviate as we're all talking about a lot of stress, I think, with musicians that they have to get on New Music Friday or they have to do the dance at Apple to get playlisted. I mean, I think it just will liberate people to going back to being free and making music and putting it up online and just not having those sort of other aspects involved, which I think is so exciting, especially for musicians who maybe have been making music for X amount of years and brand new musicians who are just starting out in their career.
00:33:56.940 - 00:34:24.160, Speaker D: I mean, you don't know how many musicians have to go to radio stations and play and shake hands and kiss babies and all that kind of stuff. And for a long time that's just the game you have to play. And I just love that this is just kind of changing the rules of the game. I mean, of course it's never going to completely go away, but anything that democratizes access to essentially a viable career for artists is something that Nikki and I support.
00:34:24.310 - 00:35:08.400, Speaker C: Yeah, and I think also to that note, there's a tradition now with rollout of EPS and albums. It has to be three to four to six months to be able to get placement on these streaming platforms, also to get press. And I think now it really is like hand to mouth. You can just make something mix and master it and put it up online. You don't have to have this lag and if it connects, it connects. But as we're all seeing, if there is a rabid fan or a fan base that wants this stuff and can just purchase it immediately, then that just seems to make the most sense without having to do so much legwork on an artist's behalf.
00:35:10.500 - 00:35:18.290, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. And then, Patrick, how about in the traditional writing publishing world? Have you noticed a bit of a change there as well with the crowdfunding that you're doing on?
00:35:20.500 - 00:36:22.064, Speaker F: So I think it's interesting because with a lot of what we're doing, it's less like, say, like Random House or Penguin Books and more so these independent creators, just because the coordination costs are a lot lower, instead of having to talk to the manager and the manager's manager, you just talk to one person and they get to decide. And a lot of these independent writers, they have their own newsletter, whether on substac or do their own platform. And, yeah, it's a lot simpler to go to them and they have the freedom to do that. And I think that that's kind of where this type of change is going to happen first. And these independent creators that they just have the flexibility, they're doing these projects. And something that we're really interested in is how do we create these crypto native organizations? A lot of people know them as Dows. And so how do we make it so that people can have the benefits of being independent, such as working when they want, where they want, on what they want, but also have the benefits of working with a group? Of people where it's like diversified revenue sources.
00:36:22.064 - 00:36:38.750, Speaker F: The camaraderie of working with people, just like the sense of community and not having to feel like you have to be producing something constantly and get burned out that way. And so thinking a lot about that and trying to focus more on the independent creators as opposed to larger publishers for now.
00:36:39.920 - 00:38:03.496, Speaker B: Yeah, I think there's an interesting idea there where you kind of kind of have this future of creative houses that form an organization together. For example, something like I Am Sound, where the shared revenue or a portion of that shared revenue that each creator is making can go back into the total pool of everyone else, which does kind of like take the stress off having to actively be creating all the time for your community. Yeah, I think there's a pretty interesting future there where groups of artists can kind of work together as collectives. I know with I Am Sound with that exhibition, there's some I guess the base way that's done is using that sell on share mechanism in the Zora protocol to basically have Im Sound, the organization, take a cut of that. But yeah, there's this cool future where you can actually also have that perpetual equity being shared among all of the artists by just having a tokenized portion basically of that equity over time. Yeah, it kind of gets very interesting when you think about the future of collaboration or working together with other artists in that sense. Yeah, with catalog, jeremy, I don't know if you've maybe had the time yet to go into that product aspect yet.
00:38:03.496 - 00:38:18.908, Speaker B: But the idea of collaborations on catalog, especially with something like the music industry, which is full of collaboration from visual identity to the mixing and producing itself. Yeah, I'm curious what you think about that on catalog or how you think about it.
00:38:19.074 - 00:39:10.670, Speaker E: It's a huge unlock for us that we're very eager to implement. It's not something that we ourselves are actively working on at the smart contract level. We are in touch with another team who is making progress on that and could not be more eager to get that integrated. Like you said, so much of music is collaborative, whether it's from the musical standpoint or even we're talking about artwork or anything else that goes into the process. There's often, more often than not, many hands that go into the production of a piece rather than just a single producer. So we have been very limited in what we can support in these early days. All the artists that we've been talking to that have previously dropped on catalog are solo independent artists who fully produce their own music as we move forward.
00:39:10.670 - 00:40:27.540, Speaker E: Really eager to get if you have a group like, say a band, that is something that you can use as a workaround by just having that band use a single wallet where they are minting from that wallet and they all have shared access to it. But I think the ideal vision would be every person truly has their own wallet that represents their identity. And either using dows or multisigs or some other form of sort of shared identity, I think would be the best. Path forward for allowing people to sort of maintain their own identity and contributions and links to things, but also allow people to band together and group together and represent something larger. So whether that comes in the form of dows and multi sigs being the minters or fractionalizing NFTs and having a single NFT represented by many, ERC, 20s, similar to how Right Bounty works on the mirror platform, there's a lot of options to explore. And definitely, definitely curious how we can push that forward. Because, like I said, it does unlock so much music that's currently not able to tap into this properly.
00:40:27.540 - 00:40:52.940, Speaker E: You can always use off chain solutions for this kind of thing. But given that these records are permanent, I don't want an artist who collaborated on the song 100 years from now, 300 years from now to have to be chasing down the previous owner. This starts to fall apart once you go past our own lifetimes.
00:40:55.040 - 00:41:05.410, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. And then Patrick, just really quick, if you want to give a quick overview of Bounty, I realized we kind of glossed over that might be useful for people listening in to get a better idea of what that is.
00:41:06.180 - 00:42:00.896, Speaker F: Yeah, definitely. So that was one of the crowdfunds we did and that was kind of going to this area of trying to fund any sort of creative project. And so there's this dow called Mint Fund and they basically help underrepresented artists to be able to have a community. But then also they cover the gas fees because it can cost anywhere from like fifty dollars to one hundred and fifty dollars to mint an artwork. And so they also wanted to add functionality called a reserve auction. And so this is on foundation where you set a minimum price, reserve price, and if it gets hit, then it kicks off a 24 hours timer and if there's a bid in the last 15 minutes, it extends the auction another 15 minutes. They wanted to offer that functionality for the different artists in Mint Fund and so they decided to use Mirror to do a crowdfund and raise some money so they could hire a solidity engineer.
00:42:00.896 - 00:42:54.928, Speaker F: And so they ended up creating a spec or an RFC with what they wanted in the contract. And then did the crowdfund, where anybody that participated in the crowdfund, they could send ETH to the crowdfund contract and in return receive ERC, 20 tokens. And then we also had a feature where if you connected your Twitter account through Writerace, then your Twitter profile picture would show up in the list of contributors. And so it was cool to see people that had contributed to the crowdfund. You could see who they were and they were linked to their Twitter identity. And yeah, I think there's a lot to do to something I'm interested in exploring is how do we create kind of like a twitch like experience with leaderboards and badges for people that are funding creative projects. And so to what Tyson was saying earlier around now, instead of having three monetization options where it's like maybe you have one subscription, maybe you have a really expensive thing like live concerts and merch.
00:42:54.928 - 00:43:21.580, Speaker F: Now, you can basically just pay whatever you're willing to pay and you can receive some sort of, ERC, 20 or NFT in return. And then we have a way of kind of building this economic graph where you can see all the projects you funded, all the people that have funded your projects, how much you funded them, how much these projects ended up making, and what was your return and things of that nature. I think there's a lot to explore there when you think about an economic graph and not just social graphs with likes and shares and retweets.
00:43:22.720 - 00:44:19.810, Speaker B: Yeah, I think there becomes this interesting phenomenon that happens where early curators can kind of become rewarded for their curatorial prowess. So you can imagine a world where, for example, Iron Sound finds a soon to be very large artist before they become huge, and by actively funding that artist, or by actively supporting that artist, they would see some sort of return for helping them in that world. What also happens as a secondary effect there is the value of the identity of I am sound kind of increases over time. People realize just how good they are at curating. Just put words in your mouth. Sorry, paul and Nikki. But there's this idea of because everything is on chain and is auditable, you can kind of go back over the history of what actions people have been supporting and what people have supported in general to see kind of where their tastes lie and what they're interested in, which gets very interesting.
00:44:20.820 - 00:44:58.648, Speaker D: Yeah, I'm not going to pretend to be the most knowledgeable about the technical side of this. I think that this is something that we're learning more and more about every day and especially learning from people like you guys who are so knowledgeable on the tech side and also have a foot in the cultural space. We're coming in from the side of creators and the side of artists and people who see the value in this and kind of see how this can help them just in every aspect of their careers. But definitely I'm just learning just being here and wheels are turning now, so maybe we'll come up with some core.
00:44:58.664 - 00:45:22.230, Speaker B: Projects just from this chat. Awesome. And then just had probably one more question before I turn it over and see there's some questions in this chat that is going to address, but from maybe each of you. What's the thing that's most exciting you so far in this space and what kind of future are you most looking forward to with NFTs in general? Maybe Paul will start with.
00:45:24.040 - 00:46:38.684, Speaker D: Yeah, I mean, I think for me what's been the most exciting, which I know it's been covered before, but I think that there are so many incredible artists, not just on the musician side, even though that's kind of where we come from. We work a lot in digital art, we manage a bunch of visual artists who create incredible art for album covers and music videos and all that kind of stuff. And I think there's so many really talented people out there who make incredible art but have never been able to find a real way to monetize that and actually earn a living. Like the only way you can make money for four if you get hired by someone to create work for a brand or a musician or something like that, which is there's a lot of people who have made incredible careers from that. But it's a shame that the only way that you could really get rewarded for your work as an artist that's just as comparable as traditional artists out there is to go through someone else. And I think this is the first time that they're able to properly actually earn a living directly from people who support them and think their art is incredible. And I think it's really opened this up for creators to not have to think about who am I making this for? But they can think about, I just want to make art for the sake of making art.
00:46:38.684 - 00:47:12.070, Speaker D: And I can find people to support me because of course, technically they could have sold JPEGs. Everyone's always talking about that, but it's like, that wasn't really a viable market before, and now there's such a real way of doing that that we've talked to so many digital artists who are just really excited to be able to find a way to cut out middlemen and just sell directly to their fans and not have to be accountable to someone standing over their shoulder giving them notes on everything.
00:47:13.720 - 00:48:22.350, Speaker C: Yeah, I think conversations that we've had with artists who are wanting to get into NFT world, whether they're super large, know, kind of independent, but have their own brand, just different ideas, and especially using Zora's protocol of how they can create their own version of what these NFT platforms look like. I think with our exhibition, people were kind of blown away with how it looked and especially, I think when we announced it, we had so many people reach out to us, just asking us questions. But I think that I'm really interested to see how this affects live, how this is going to affect communities for large artists and fan clubs. I think there's so many interesting things that musicians who are brands in their own right can kind of use NFTs to really expand their platform and their audience. So I'm just interested to see even the conversations that Paul and I are having, but other artists that are dropping stuff now, just where we are going to be in six months time and what this means, especially for us in the music world, what this means for that space in general.
00:48:26.560 - 00:48:58.890, Speaker B: Definitely, yeah. I think the live experience is going to become very interesting as things start to open up again. Something that comes to mind really quick was the artist or the DJ's disclosure just recently minted a perpetual ticket to all of their live shows as an NFT, which I thought was a very interesting, unique way of having this canvas to work with. I think there's all sorts of new territory to be explored past the pandemic world, so to speak, where we go with that.
00:48:59.980 - 00:49:45.130, Speaker C: Two artists that were going to be involved in our project, both wanted to do live shows, so it would just be a private zoom link, and both were stopped in doing so by management and agents. So I'm just interested to see how this sort of levels out because I think it's going to take a large artist to really do that, to show the way, depending on or a smaller artist. But I'm fascinated because I think I personally miss live music all during 2020 and I can't wait for it to come back. But I also have been enjoying some of the live stream platforms and would want to see how that's going to change because it still feels quite personal some of those experiences that I've had.
00:49:47.420 - 00:50:00.030, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. Patrick, I know you had a very incredible blog post when you were just joining Mirror about NFTs. Maybe you want to fill us in a little bit on where you see the future going there.
00:50:00.960 - 00:51:05.888, Speaker F: Yeah, thank you. It's funny because I actually was working at a DeFi startup, decentralized finance, and yeah, I got kind of jaded with the experience because a lot of it was just around speculating on tokens and that wasn't really why I got into crypto. It was more so around this idea of permissionlessness and allowing people to participate and have ownership in kind of the value that they're creating. But yeah, when I was there, it was kind of a cynical experience I had. And so over the past few months, I was trying to decide what to do, got really interested in the creator economy and building tools for people to go independent and make a living writing or creating art or music, et cetera. And then about two months ago, I read the Zora blog post on the CryptoMedia WTF site and that really shifted my thinking around combined my interest in creator economy but also crypto. And it kind of showed me a way that you can actually combine the two and it just really painted a picture of the future.
00:51:05.888 - 00:51:59.632, Speaker F: And to that point, NFTs were really framed as just art. But I think really good thing that that blog post did was it framed it as any sort of arbitrary digital media file. And the other really interesting thing was basically tying together digital media with a market for it and creating the mechanic of ownership and allowing people to bid on it. And I think that the really cool thing was that technically it's not simple, but the mental framework for thinking about it and explaining it to people is actually quite simple. You say, okay, you basically mint this NFT, it's like a file, you store it on the blockchain and then people can bid for it and then the creator decides they're going to accept the bid from and people understand that there's different marketplaces and stuff that's similar to that. And so I think that once I saw that, I was like, oh yeah, this makes a ton of sense. I think that people are going to understand this.
00:51:59.632 - 00:53:02.090, Speaker F: And yeah, that really got me back into the space. And someone I used to work with, my previous company was at Mirror as the CTO and ended up talking to him and joining Mirror. And yeah, it's just been wild ride. The last few months have been pretty crazy. A bunch of friends just asking about NFTs and it just seems like, yeah, there's definitely going to be ups and downs. And thing I'm most excited about going forward is what do crypto native organizations look like? And so instead of having to create a stripe account and create a Delaware C Corp and set up a bank account and do all this stuff? How can you create an entire organization just deploying a smart contract with an ethereum address? I think it's going to take some time, but I think the thing is going to start with independent creators because like I said earlier, just coordination costs are lower, they have more flexibility, they're willing to experiment a bit. And so I think that's what's cool about people like Zora and hopefully Amir, we can enable that future where people can really just own more of their work and also allow their community to partake in the upside as well.
00:53:04.760 - 00:53:18.810, Speaker B: Yeah, that's amazing for anyone who's listening in. You should definitely go check out Patrick's blog post, by the way. It's a great read for sure. And then yeah. Jeremy, you want to round us out with where you see the future of NFTs going and what's exciting you?
00:53:20.140 - 00:54:11.210, Speaker E: I mean, the future holds so much, I think it's really impossible to fully predict exactly where everything's going to go. I'm sure there's going to be all kinds of use cases that pop up that none of us could even dream of right now. Something that really excites me about the space, though, going forward, and that sort of enables that is the openness of all this stuff is the fact that it's permissionless and all the tools that Zora provides make things extremely easy for developers to just come in and build their own versions of Think. Even with catalog, I don't think it's really a one size fits all model for musicians. And some people are looking at it as more of a place for demos and unreleased work. Some people want to use it for complete music and that's uploaded everywhere. And some people are interested in making something a bit more personal and exclusive and sort of locked behind a paywall sort of a thing.
00:54:11.210 - 00:55:05.930, Speaker E: And that's all really dope. I think there's so much room for experimentation. The fact that we can think of NFTs as these culture Legos, as these programmable composable assets, opens up so many opportunities for anyone to put their own spin on things. So while we have our own ideas for how we can make catalog as useful for musicians as possible, I'm sure there's dozens of people out there who are cooking up other really cool spins on these things and maybe there's going to be a version of catalog that's just totally vapor wave themed and that'd be sick. I think that everyone has the freedom to build on this stuff and to make things their own and that's a really powerful shift and we've seen that a lot with DeFi and it caused this insane explosion with all kinds of new ideas, like interlacing with each other. And I think we're going to see the same thing with NFTs, but what shape it takes, I think only time will tell.
00:55:08.540 - 00:55:38.292, Speaker B: Yeah, I think the future is going to be very weird as we go forward with this. It's kind of the nature of having something so open and so free to use. Yeah. I'm also just incredibly excited to see where this takes us. I know we only have a couple of minutes left and Andrew and Heather, I'm not sure if we're actually able to bring other people into this. If not, we can just kind of answer questions in the discord. But maybe if anyone in this room has any questions, happy to answer.
00:55:38.346 - 00:55:53.930, Speaker A: Yeah. Thanks, Tyson. If anyone in this call wants to pose a question to any of the speakers, feel free to unmute yourself and turn on your video and just jump in. Give people a couple of minutes just to see.
00:55:55.100 - 00:55:56.780, Speaker B: Putting everyone on the spot.
00:55:57.120 - 00:56:14.396, Speaker A: I know. No warning. Yeah, it looks like there aren't any questions from the chat so far, so if you want to leave it at that. I think this was an awesome call. Super inspiring, and I am excited for.
00:56:14.418 - 00:56:32.900, Speaker B: How weird it's going to get, too amazing. All right. Well, Paul, Nikki, jeremy. Patrick. It was awesome having you. Thanks for your will. Or at least I'll be in the discord for ETH Global for a while, answering any questions if anything pops up, but other than that, yeah, it was great chatting.
00:56:34.040 - 00:56:34.610, Speaker D: Thanks, everyone.
