00:00:10.400 - 00:00:23.969, Speaker A: Welcome back to the Infinite Jungle. On today's episode I have with me a special guest, Dmitry Gusakov. He is a Lido Dao contributor and the technical lead for the community staking module. Hi Dimitri, hello.
00:00:24.017 - 00:00:26.469, Speaker B: Hello. Glad to be here.
00:00:26.657 - 00:01:21.217, Speaker A: Great to have you on the show. For our listeners, we are going to get into what the community staking module is, CSM for short. Dmitry is the technical lead, which I'm assuming means that you built it, built the csm. So I'm excited to ask you all the questions about how it works, why it's important, et cetera. For those of you listening to the show that are curious to learn more about what it means to be a Lido Dao contributor, be sure to check out the prior episode of the Infinite Jungle where we had Dmitry's colleague Izzy on the show where we talked about the Simple DVT module. So very excited to hear and to learn more about the another iteration, another module on LIDO CSM that went live on mainnet recently. Before we get started with our conversation, here is a quick show disclaimer for our listeners.
00:01:21.217 - 00:02:22.085, Speaker A: I need to remind you to please refer to the disclaimer linked in the podcast Show Notes and note that none of the information in this podcast constitutes investment advice, an offer, recommendation or solicitation by Galaxy Digital or any of its affiliates to buy or sell any securities. So Demetri, about the csm, this is the very first time that LIDO is opening up for the ability for anybody to be a LIDO node operator. I think this term Lido node operator has been so coveted because LIDO is the largest staking pool on Ethereum and the rewards are so lucrative. And the fact that LIDO is the largest staking pool and historically it's been a slow moving process. You had to be vetted and through governance. It was through governance that you were able to become a lidonode operator. And is it true now that through the CSM now anybody can permissionlessly be a lidonode operator?
00:02:22.845 - 00:03:29.687, Speaker B: Oh well, yes, with a small exception. At least for now, for a short period of time. Because right now CSM is live on mainnet within the early adoption mode. Which means that right now only identified solo stakers can join with a limit of 12 keys per node operator. But this is done not to somehow limit this permissionlessness, but instead to allow community stakers to join a permissionless module, a module that would be permissionless very soon in future without unnecessary competition with the professional operators. Because the main problem of any permissionless system is that on One hand it is beautiful that it is permissionless. On the other hand, there's no guarantee that you would reach, for example, a desired distribution of node operators, or there's no guarantee that anyone would be able to join or anyone would be able to reserve a spot.
00:03:29.687 - 00:04:23.615, Speaker B: It is like with your local grocery. Your local grocery is most likely permissionless. Anyone can go to this grocery, but this doesn't mean that your favorite tomatoes would be available by the time you will go to this grocery, because someone can buy all of them just before you decided to go there. So the early adoption the main idea of the early adoption mode is to ensure that identified solo stakers would definitely reserve a spot and would be able to spin up decent amount of validators, I would say, because up to 12, it's a fair amount of validators for them. And after that, once the early adoption period is over, anyone would be able to join. And those who joined during the early adoption period would be able to upload more keys and spin up more validators if they wish.
00:04:24.155 - 00:04:46.155, Speaker A: Gotcha. So the early adoption phase, though there are quite a few heavy restrictions on who's able to join the CSM right now and how many validators they can spin up. It's to give solo stakers, say, a headstone start against everybody else that would be interested in getting into the permission or getting into the CSM at a later date. Is that right?
00:04:46.195 - 00:05:58.355, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah. It is some form of a benefit. And I wouldn't say that the restrictions are that high because if we look at the early adoption list, there is more than 20k addresses in the list. So as LIDO contributors, we did our best to collect as many information as possible from as many sources for sure relevant and trusted sources like for example list by rated network or lists by state cap or obeltechny credential holders and so on to extend this list as wide as possible at the same time, without compromise on the fact that we would end up with a lot of professional operators. So for example, all known addresses of the professional operators were explicitly excluded from the list, even though that's actually funny that we discovered that several LIDO professional node operators with the addresses that they do use in the curated set. So this is like an explicit fact that this operator is indeed professional, somehow managed to get into this solostakers list. So we did an additional filtration here.
00:05:58.355 - 00:06:14.645, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure to exclude them for now. But when CSM is permissionless, even though it is called community staking module and it is primarily for community stakers, anyone including professional Operators would be able to join CSM with no limitations.
00:06:15.305 - 00:07:04.577, Speaker A: Now, do you foresee that once the early adoption phase is over, the distribution of LIDO node operators in LIDO will reflect the distribution of node operators more broadly on Ethereum? So if we are seeing say 80% of professional node operators on Ethereum and say 20% solo stakers, I'm taking these numbers out of thin air. These are not actual numbers. You would imagine that after the early adoption phase, when it is truly permissionless, would you imagine that the distribution of the kind of people participating in the CSM do reflect and mimic the actual distribution of what type of entities and operators we're seeing operate on Ethereum?
00:07:04.721 - 00:07:38.665, Speaker B: Yeah, I think the likelihood of this is relatively high. That's why the early adoption period was introduced. Because unlike the base layer of Ethereum, the basic Ethereum staking where you have this entry barrier of 32 ethical with community staking module. First of all, the entry barrier is way lower, so you can start with as low as 1.5 ETH if you are in the early adoption list or 2.4 ETH if you are not. And then second and the rest of the validators would require only 1.3
00:07:38.665 - 00:08:20.991, Speaker B: ETH. So this is definitely way cheaper. So the barrier here is lower. And another important thing is that the rewards are also higher because you are only supplying a part of the validator stake which is this bond and the rest is delegated. You are not only getting staking rewards on the want part, but you're also getting a reward share on the delegated part of a stake, which results in the increase in the potential increase of the staking rewards up to 2.3 times compared to a regular staking. So I think these two facts, they kind of counter each other.
00:08:20.991 - 00:08:46.017, Speaker B: So for professional operators there's no problem to overcome this 32 ETH barrier, while there is a problem for community stakers. But at the same time this potentially increased rewards, they make CSM way more attractive. And again, that's why the early adoption period is here. Because with this potentially higher rewards, professional node operators are also very interested.
00:08:46.121 - 00:09:04.885, Speaker A: Could you explain just one more time why the rewards are higher in the CSM than for regular LIDO node operators? You had mentioned that it's partially because of the bond that they will be earning rewards on. Why is it that the reward is higher for validators participating in the csm?
00:09:05.705 - 00:09:59.335, Speaker B: Well, here we need to compare the rewards of not of CSM operators compared to professional operators. Because professional operators, they do not put ETH at stake. So they basically have no bond and what they put at stake is their reputation is their other business. And this was probably one of the most significant barriers to become lidonaut operator because one of the requirements was to have a business of your own of a comparable size if we compare it to a potential share within the lidar pool and this actually limits the number of them. So I would say that we should compare rewards in CSM to traditional vanilla solo staking. So imagine you have 32 ETH and you are running a full validator. You are getting 100% of staking rewards.
00:09:59.335 - 00:11:07.169, Speaker B: But if you are running, if you're using the same 32e as a bond in CSM, you can spin up much more validators. I would say 24 to be precise, or something like that, or maybe even 25 if you have slightly more than 30 to eth. And in this case you will definitely get your staking rewards on the capital provided, but also you will get reward share on the delegated part of a stake, which opens the potential to incredibly increased rewards. Again, it is important to mention that rewards are not guaranteed because they they do depend on the network and how network decides on the allocation of rewards. So the rules of the network might change, but the obvious thing here is that this is this additional part of reward share on the delegated state. And by the way, this share is 6% compared to 5% in the curated module. So it is technically, even by this share, the rewards in CSM are technically.
00:11:07.257 - 00:11:17.405, Speaker A: Slightly higher to try and encourage more participation in the CSM. Is that why the 6%, why it's a little bit higher instead of being 5% and 5%?
00:11:18.825 - 00:12:17.875, Speaker B: There's two reasons for that. So the detailed explanation behind the number of 6% is presented in the risk assessment research, which is presented on the research forum. But the gist is that first of all, CSM node operators, even though they are permissionless, they do put bond as a stake. Which means that in case of any issues or like any potential losses, or even slashing, there's no need for any actions from the DAO itself to communicate or from the DAO contributors to communicate. For example, as with the professional operators to negotiate the compensation, to perform this compensation, and so on, because this compensation can be done automatically. Which means that from the operational perspective, CSM is way more automated and way more autonomous than the curated module. That's the first thing.
00:12:17.875 - 00:12:50.951, Speaker B: And second thing again, having ETH at stake, guaranteed ETH locked within contracts to serve as the safety deposit makes CSM more appealing for ST ETH holders, for example, it basically safer to delegate your ETH to community staking operators. That's why the reward share here is slightly higher to. Yes, to make it more appealing and to somehow compensate for this extra safety provided by the node operators.
00:12:51.103 - 00:13:04.655, Speaker A: That makes sense. And just to confirm, because this is a little bit of a recap from the prior episode I had with Izzy, but the other 4%, or in the case of LIDAR professional operators, when it's 5 and 5, the other 5% it goes to the DAO, correct?
00:13:04.775 - 00:13:08.035, Speaker B: Yeah, it is allocated to the Dow Treasury.
00:13:08.375 - 00:13:57.105, Speaker A: Gotcha. Yeah. I am under the impression that the CSM has a cap on how much it can actually use to operate validators. Right now I was under the impression that it's only 1% of total eth staked in lido. Doesn't this make the number of, doesn't this also cap the number of participants that could potentially participate in the CSM? So if only 1% of total estate can be delegated to the CSM, then that effectively limits, you know, how much rewards the participants in the CSM can make and also how many would actually even want to operate validators. Is that, is that correct?
00:13:57.575 - 00:15:13.491, Speaker B: Yeah, that's totally correct, but there's definitely things to add here. So first of all, according to the staking router architecture, each and every module, except for the default one which is curated module, has its so called stake share limit. And I mean technically nothing stops having multiple default modules. But at the moment the default module is curated module specifically because of the fact that curated module always has a capacity, which means that there are some keys waiting for deposits each and every time. And if the other modules are not, I mean they are below the share, but they are not capable to accept those deposits because there's no keys in them, they would go to curated module. So this Target share is 1% for CSM, not because of a desire to limit CSM in general, but because of the safety reasons. Since we are launching a brand new product and this product that DAO has recently approved, even though it was battle tested on a testnet, it was still not battle tested on a mainnet.
00:15:13.491 - 00:16:24.225, Speaker B: So that's why the decision was made by the LDO holders back in November 2020 to start low with 1%. But at the same time, in the same vote, LDO holders approved that this limit can be raised up to 10% within the initial implementation of CSM. So the fact that we see this 1% right now is just to, just to ensure that nothing would go wrong. At a scale. And my personal feeling here is as follows. So once we will see the first Oracle report, which would arrive in 28 days, which would distribute this first portion of a staking reward shares and we will be perfectly sure that each and every beaten piece works fine on Mainnet this the proposal can be made to increase the limit, but the other thing here is the actual demand. So it makes absolutely no sense to increase this share limit if the current share limit is barely used.
00:16:24.225 - 00:17:11.435, Speaker B: So right now we see astonishing numbers. So it has been like four days since launch and one fourth of the capacity is already occupied, which is absolutely amazing. But at the same time we've seen examples like Rocket Pool for example, where for a very, very long period of time there has been a shortage of node operators. They've managed to fix it now with the cancellation pool and I'm pretty happy about them, they did a great job. But still back in the day they been seeing this shortage of node operators for a while. So I would say that 1% is here and it definitely limits CSM at the mom. But this limit has not been reached yet.
00:17:11.435 - 00:17:35.219, Speaker B: And once we will get closer to the limit and once we will be sure that every tech works fine, I would personally make a proposal to the DAO or I would advocate for LIDO contributors to help me to make this proposal to the DAO to increase share limit. But if the capacity would not be reached, it makes no sense to increase.
00:17:35.267 - 00:17:56.553, Speaker A: This limit, don't you think? The reason why the capacity hasn't been reached is because the early adoption limits it to solo stakers. If it was opened up to even professional staking entities, wouldn't you see more demand for the CSM being reached? I guess related to that then when will the early adoption period end?
00:17:56.649 - 00:18:56.881, Speaker B: Okay, so first of all, answering your first question, yes, if CSM would have been released as a permissionless from the day one, this 1% I think would have been occupied within like hours for sure. But at the same time it would mean that we would basically have like five to 10 entities occupying the whole module, which is definitely not ideal. So speaking of the end of the early adoption period, there's two factors here. The first one is, yes, as you've mentioned, we want to be sure that everything works fine from the technical perspective. From the smart contract perspective, I would personally say that it would be better to wait maybe slightly more, maybe two months. So something around new year just to just not to only check once, but to double check. So maybe two months from the technical perspective and there's another thing, the main idea again as I mentioned of the early adoption is to allow community stakers and solo stakers to join.
00:18:56.881 - 00:19:52.677, Speaker B: And as we all know, it is not a very simple task to spin up mainnet nodes. So on the testnet it will take you, I don't know, like less than 24 hours and your nodes are up and running, you're happy, you can join. But on the mainnet, my personal experience, I decided to use minority clients Lotstar and Aragon and Aragon took more than a week to get in sync. That's hilarious. Like more than a week. So what we do want to do here is we want to have a closer look at the increase in net new node operators, I mean in new just new operators within csm. And once we will see that for the last week for example, only one new node operator had joined or maybe only two operators have joined and that's it.
00:19:52.677 - 00:21:11.565, Speaker B: That would basically mean that the majority of those who were willing to join during the early adoption mode are already here. And if we combine it with this technical limit of two months, it would mean that people had at least two months to get everything prepared. And if they haven't joined yet, it means that they are either not super interested or they just do not need this extra benefit of this early access or being able to join early. And this would be the great time to make a proposal for the dao. They even might be joined. So I think maybe we will see the joint proposal to raise target limit plus end the early adoption period, which might make sense, but we'll see if the target share would be reached like say within a couple of weeks or within the next month and we would still be not 100% sure about if we double check or not all the tech the target share increase proposal might come first and then there would definitely be a proposal to end the early adoption period. So summarizing all said, I would say that very early Q1 2025 we would see CSM becoming permissionless.
00:21:11.565 - 00:21:31.383, Speaker B: And I think by that time in this vote, even if the share would be raised before, there would be a need to raise a share once again because when CSM would become permissionless we would definitely see a lot of professional and semi professional operators joining, especially given that there would be no limits on the number of validators.
00:21:31.559 - 00:22:22.175, Speaker A: That makes sense. I do appreciate the sentiment that you're really trying to give as much time as possible for people who are running their staking operations from home to be able to spin up these nodes and participate in the early adoption phase. If they want to. Curious though, if you have any concerns or if you're really scared or anxious about the potential that there are solo stakers or home stakers that for some reason can't get in to the early adoption period because of the criteria because they need to perhaps give away their identity or they need to meet these certain requirements. Like are you concerned at all that the requirements to even participate in the early adoption phase might disqualify some home stakers or home stakers?
00:22:22.635 - 00:22:59.703, Speaker B: I'm not concerned at all because first of all no KYC required. None of these sources, at least as far as I know requires kyc. Maybe Obel with their technic credentials do ask for something, but this is only one of the sources. This is definitely not the only source. The two main sources are the lists by Staycat and Rated which were collected purely based on the on chain data. It has no correlation like between the address and the identity. So the only correlation is between validator keys and the addresses on the Ethereum network and that's it.
00:22:59.703 - 00:24:24.621, Speaker B: So I do think that there's no reasons for solo stickers or for people who've been solo staking on Ethereum and on gnosis to be worried about like oh, I didn't get to the list because I never passed kyc. No, no one was asking for KYC for sure. And in addition to these existing lists we also understood that it would be too limiting to only include existing home stakers and do not allow people who hasn't been staking before to join. That's why there are two additional sources for the early adoption list. The first one is good performers from CSM TestNet. So CSM TestNet has been live since the 1st of July this year and the requirement was to spin up a node on a testnet even with a single validator or with as many as you wish and to participate with the attestation rate above the rate of this performance Oracle which IS network average -5% like it's super affordable for more than 28 days. So this is a very simple requirement and the reasoning behind this requirement is just to make sure that people are really capable of running validators and Haleski Network is a great place to do so.
00:24:24.621 - 00:26:00.835, Speaker B: So people were given a chance to participate on a testnet and on top of that the second additional source is the Lido Galax Holders or galx. I'm not quite sure how it is pronounced, but this somewhat identical to PUAP platform that allows you to claim pages and also gain points. And if some people were not able to participate on the testnet, but were highly involved in the events held by LIDO contributors, both online, offline and so on. They also were given a chance to get into this list just by the number of the points and the so you basically were required to participate like one significant event and a couple of node operator community calls during which we were giving updates and explaining what CSM is. So there were definitely multiple sources, not only by being a solo sticker but also just being an active community participants to get participants to get in there and this program with the OAUTH has been live since November 2023. The first OAuth were distributed in Istanbul last November, so there has been plenty of time for those who are interested to reserve their spot. And we actually see many people joining CSMainnet right now because they initially got to the list not only or exclusively by this points on Galaxy just because they were active community members.
00:26:01.575 - 00:27:06.285, Speaker A: I like the robustness of your answer, and that does give me quite a bit of assurance that this early adoption phase is not gatekeeping any solo stakers or home stakers that might want to participate in a permissionless way into lido. On the topic of Oval, I have to hark back to the fact that this is not the first module that LIDO has launched on top of its curated module. The DVT module was something that went live earlier this year. Now there's two can you talk a little bit about the learnings that your team has had from launching these modules? I know there's still you guys are waiting to see and testing a bit more on the CSM side, but the DVT one has been live for quite a bit. Any learnings from the launch of that module and also if you don't mind adding in any facts or data about how the decentralization of LIDO has grown since the launch of these two, I think that would be great.
00:27:06.365 - 00:27:59.285, Speaker B: Sure. So let's start with SIMpledVT module and first of all I want to say that it is not only about Hubble, it is also about ssv because simpledvt is purely split between these two DVT providers. Both of them are absolutely amazing. So speaking of learnings, let's start with pleasant learnings with things that we like about simpledvt. And the first thing is definitely the increase of number of node operators. So with Simpledvt, 220 net new node operators joined LIDAR. So before Simpledvt there has been 37 active node operators in LIDA with simpledvt we are now at the point where there's 257 independent node operators, which is astonishing.
00:27:59.285 - 00:29:07.949, Speaker B: This is like super cool. And the coolest thing is that almost half of this, or even more than a half, like around 120of these node operators are pure community stakers. So they are not professionals or semi professionals, they are pure home and community stakers, which is great. The second pleasant learning and the thing that I personally like very much is the performance of DVT technology and performance of DVT clusters. SIMpledvt module has been outperforming like most of the top 10 staking pools on Ethereum for a quite a long time. And right now it is more or less on par with the curated SAT and with the rest of the top performance, but the module itself, even though it is not displayed specifically as a separate protocol and weighted, but you can definitely check it out, it will be like in top 5 performing pools. If we consider simpledvt as a standalone pool, which is absolutely amazing.
00:29:07.949 - 00:30:19.355, Speaker B: So we have a beautiful combination of community stakers being able to join and amazing technology which results in the great performance. This is super cool, but these were the main pleasant learnings, I would say. And now about not that pleasant learnings. And I think the most painful thing about simpledvt and the thing that we definitely tried to improve in CSM as much as we can is the amount of work, effort and coordination required. Even though it might look like a beautiful picture that oh, simpledvt clusters are joining, people are coordinating, this is actually tons amounts of work. So William, or I mean you've probably heard of him, he's also one of LIDO contributors, Kim and Shannon. He spent this whole year exclusively working like 16 hours a day each day on coordination, on creating these clusters, on performance assessments, on testnets and so on.
00:30:19.355 - 00:31:17.223, Speaker B: This is a tremendous amount of work. And this is due to the fact that from the technical side, simpledvt is no different to curated module. So this is the same code but deployed as a separate module with some changes into the ROLES model. So some things might be performed by the SimpleDBT multisig, while in the curated module they only might be performed by the dao. And it all resulted in a tremendous amount of coordination and things and so on. So that's why, and this is what I've mentioned before, within csm, the majority of the maintenance operations are automated. The only thing that is not automated and that requires manual actions, I would say, or maybe not manual, but external actions is the reporting, detection and reporting the facts of MEV stealing.
00:31:17.223 - 00:32:27.565, Speaker B: Because the whole thing about MEV boost relays, builders and this out of the protocol PBS resulted in a pure lack of standards. So there's no standards, and given that there's no standards on how the blocks are built, no standards on how you request things. So each builder might do it differently, relays might do it differently. It makes this whole thing with MEV stealing slightly complicated. Just to give you an understanding of what MEV stealing even means, when you spin up an Ethereum validator on your own, there's literally no problems. You set withdrawal credentials to the address you want, you set free recipient to the address you want, and then you get your rewards. If you are operating with the protocol, when a part of a stake is delegated, like either full stake or part of your stake is delegated by the protocol, protocol can enforce the fact that you set the correct withdrawal credentials to make sure that the deposit, if the validator ever withdrawn, would land up on the correct address, which is one of the protocol addresses.
00:32:27.565 - 00:33:20.095, Speaker B: In lido case it is lido withdrawal vault. But the fee recipient is set on the consensus layer node. It cannot be enforced by the protocol unless protocol requires you to run a specific software, which lido I think would never do. And with CSM this is definitely not the case. So with csm, node operators are free to use any type of software, any nodes, any technology they are willing to do. So there's no way to control from the protocol side which address is used as fee recipients. And given that the block might be built in this sophisticated way, so it might contain me reward which would be collected over the block, then somehow within not the last transaction, but the transaction next to the last transaction transferred to some random address.
00:33:20.095 - 00:34:51.959, Speaker B: While the fee recipient of the block would be the correct one, it would still technically be stealing. So there's plenty of ways to, I would say, misallocate MEV reward. If you are operating on behalf of a protocol, and given that you are operating not your own stake, but a delegated stake, it would be unfair to fully capture or partially capture this reward. So this reward, all execution layer rewards should also end up within a protocol, so that they would be split according to the protocol rules. And this is the only complexity for which the CSM committee was created, which is made out of two LIDO contributors, one lido community lifeguard and three independent community members, with the signing threshold of four, meaning that none of the groups, no community members, no LIDO related people, can make a unilateral decision and this committee is responsible for detection of these facts and reporting them so that the negotiation period might be started. And if it was a mistake by the node operator, because you can accidentally set the incorrect address, node operators can compensate for the amount stolen or if it was done maliciously, this penalty would be proposed to the DAO via easy track motion to be confirmed and to be settled, meaning burned. So this is the only manual operation, the rest is automated.
00:34:51.959 - 00:36:19.615, Speaker B: So even the fact, even the reporting of the withdrawal balance, which is definitely crucial. Again, when you are operating not fully your own stake, but you're having a bond and if you for example your validator is exited with less than 32 eth, it means that the difference between 32 eth and the actual balance should be subtracted from the bond. Even this operation is done via EIP4788 and there's an open source software which is for sure operated by LIDO contributors for convenience of people. But they still can simply take this software or they can create software of their own to build a proof and to deliver this information into smart contracts. So we've been trying to minimize any operations that do require human intervention with csm and I think that with in protocol pbs, if we would ever see it with the standards, even this final operation would also be automated and CSM would function as a fully automated tool and that would be the main thing. So this is the requirement for manual operations is probably the most painful learning from simpledvt. But this is the cost that repaid.
00:36:19.615 - 00:37:14.813, Speaker B: So now with this 220 node operators, this is amazing. And again this is the price, I mean any protocol should be willing to pay to increase decentralization so drastically. And with csm, which is also important to note within these four days since launch, because CSM was launched last Friday, there's already 121 I believe node operators who already joined CSM. Some of them are still to get deposits, but 150 I believe already got deposits and their validators are even already activating. So my personal validators are already activating. They are performing, I would say worse than I been expecting. But this is again the price you pay for running minority clients.
00:37:14.813 - 00:37:21.935, Speaker B: I think that Eragon team would definitely ship some updates as well as lotstar team and my performance would improve.
00:37:22.715 - 00:37:44.535, Speaker A: That's spicy. We're going to definitely make that. No, I'm just kidding. We're not going to make that the whole show. I got to say though, I love the learnings from SimpleDVT. The fact that SimpleDVT did increase the decentralization of Lido so much CSM with 100, you said 21 already live and active. It's incredible.
00:37:44.535 - 00:38:22.207, Speaker A: The SimpleDVT was the very first module, so the learning to be able to automate so much for the for the next one. I think that's a great learning and it is very cool to see Lido continue on its decentralization journey. Thank you for listening to this episode of the Infinite Jungle. This was part one of actually my interview with Dimitri. I am going to be sharing the rest of our conversation which is focused on the future viability of home staking on Ethereum. Next week. Our conversation got quite long and I thought it would be good to split out this interview into a two parter.
00:38:22.207 - 00:38:56.775, Speaker A: So please stay tuned for the second part of this interview which I am going to be publishing in one week time. Thank you for listening to this episode of the Infinite Jungle. I hope that you learned something new about Ethereum. I am signing off from the concrete jungle that is New York City and Dimitri, as he will say in the next episode, which is like the last second part of our interview, he's actually signing off from Barcelona in your explorations of the infinite jungle that is Ethereum. Stay safe out there.
