00:00:00.480 - 00:00:25.154, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano. And today's the 25 March 2021. Right, everyone, let's get right into it. A lot happened over the last 24 hours or so. So I think the biggest thing that a lot of people were talking about was, I guess, like, I put a tweet out here, beeple rugged us, like a 2017 ICo scam. And this was just like a pure joke.
00:00:25.154 - 00:00:59.958, Speaker A: But basically the context behind this was that b pool actually, you know, ended up selling, I mean, this piece a few weeks ago for $69 million. Right. He's NFT. He sold it for ETH. And then he basically, you know, the proceeds from that, like, not all of that was proceeds, obviously had to pay a fee to the Christie's, the auction website that he kind of did the, the sale on or the auction on. But yeah, essentially there was this article from decrypt that basically said Beeple immediately sold all of the ETH for USD. So 53 them million dollars worth, which.
00:00:59.958 - 00:01:33.680, Speaker A: Yeah, which was kind of disappointing, right, for a lot of people. But I mean, I don't blame him, right, for doing this. You know, half of that is taxes for sure, since he's in the US. But also, you know, it doesn't make sense for him to keep the money in like an extremely speculative asset and all that sort of stuff. So I get it. But I guess in the article there's also, you know, a bunch of comments that he made as well about kind of like NFTs in general and like the crypto kind of like community and stuff like that. That kind of rubbed me the wrong way where he basically was just like, he obviously, he kind of says like, you know, nFTs are in a bubble and I make, I mean, yeah, okay.
00:01:33.680 - 00:02:16.164, Speaker A: You can argue that for sure, and that's, that's fine. But like there was, there was kind of like, you know, stuff like this. You know, he says, I'm not a remote, I'm not remotely a crypto purist. I was making digital art long before any of this shit. And if it all, if all this NFT stuff went away tomorrow, I would still be making digital art. So it's kind of like, I mean, maybe I'm reading too much into it, but it's kind of like he doesn't respect the fact that, you know, people, you know, he was able to do this and he was able to do these kind of things because he has a platform to do it with, with Etherium, you know, with, with NFTs and stuff like that. So, yeah, I mean I just kind of felt like that was a bit of a, kind of like, you know, a bit of a shit thing to do for someone who I guess, you know, was, you know, I guess like someone who got a lot of money out of people in this ecosystem, right.
00:02:16.164 - 00:02:45.784, Speaker A: And, you know, people bought it because I was speculating on it too, right. And I totally get that, but I don't know, I just kind of rubbed me the wrong, wrong way then. I didn't want to harp too much on about this. But as I said, I totally don't blame him for selling it for USD, you know, half of it for tax, half of it to do whatever he wants with. That's obviously, you know, more than life changing money for, for him and his family and everything like that. And, you know, good, good on him for that. But I think, you know, it was kind of like biting the fan, the hand that kind of fed you sort of thing and, you know, that's what rubbed me the wrong way.
00:02:45.784 - 00:03:14.004, Speaker A: But in general, you know, good on him for, you know, for being able to do this. And, you know, he did bring a lot of people into the ecosystem as well as a positive note. Right. A lot of people learnt about Ethereum and NFTs and stuff through people. He was kind of one of the first people doing this in a really big way, at least the art NFTs and he, you know, he obviously exposed ethereum to a lot of people. So from that respect, it wasn't like, I mean, I'm not going to say he was a net negative for the ecosystem or anything like that. He was definitely a positive force there.
00:03:14.004 - 00:03:55.104, Speaker A: But yeah, I hope, you know, I hope that he does more stuff within the ecosystem on a more positive note as well, rather than kind of saying stuff like, you know, it's all in a bubble and, you know, I mean, sure you can argue that, but at the same time it's like, you know, even if you think it's in a bubble, you should kind of work to, you know, put a light on what's not in a bubble and what the value is here and what, you know, what the lasting value is. And, you know, I hope he does something with that money where he gives back a little bit to the community, whether that be donating it, donating it to charity in general or like giving to get coin grant or something like that. That'd be cool. But yeah, we'll see. We'll see how it happens. But honestly, he can do what he wants with his money, right? Just like all of us can. But, yeah, I hope that he definitely, you know, sticks around and he's more of a positive force in the ecosystem going forward.
00:03:55.104 - 00:04:19.166, Speaker A: So Elon Musk did it today. He tweeted out about defy. So he said, don't defy defy, which is, which is quite, quite cool to see. I mean, you know, yesterday or the other day, he kind of, like, announced that Tesla would be accepting bitcoin for, for their cars and stuff like that, which is obviously a big deal. I think that was yesterday, actually. And then today he's tweeting about Defi. He didn't mention Ethereum, unfortunately.
00:04:19.166 - 00:05:05.444, Speaker A: I mean, I think at this point it's sad, but, like, you know, you know, defy isn't, doesn't just exist on Ethereum. And then people kind of just say defy is like this general term, and then, you know, refers to all of this stuff. But obviously, DFI was born on Ethereum and most of it, you know, not, you know, pretty much almost all of it happens on Ethereum still, all the innovation and stuff like that. But, you know, I think we're getting to a point now where people are just not going to say ethereum when they mentioned Defi. And that's, I think that's okay because, like, in the end, people going to Google defy, they're going to find Ethereum anyway. So not, not a huge deal there, but really cool to see him tweeting about this. And I actually went and looked at the Google trends and I saw that, you know, I did, I searched by hourly and I saw that the kind of minute that he tweeted, the Google trend for the term defi just shot up, right, which is natural.
00:05:05.444 - 00:05:53.984, Speaker A: And actually look at the Google results, and they weren't that encouraging. I mean, if you just Google Defi, there's like a Forbes article about it, which is just not that great. There's like a few coindesk things, which are okay. And then there's something about, like, other blockchains that I'd never heard of that popped up in the news section. So I was just like, you know, that's just weird, you know, and Defi pulse was one of the top results, which is, which is nice. But, you know, it was just a bit of a weird thing to see there because I never, like, obviously, I'm not going to just Google the term defi, right? Like, I already know what it is, of course, but I think, you know, we, we could do a better job at kind of getting these pages ranked there. I mean, you know, Google rankings work in very specific ways and, you know, if any of you have had experience with like SEO before, you know what I mean? But essentially, you know, I hope that we can kind of like clamp the rankings there with legit things.
00:05:53.984 - 00:06:25.496, Speaker A: You know, I'd love coingeckos. What is defi kind of ebook to be, to be ranked highly on that page? Ideally it'd be the first link. Right. But yeah, I just think that, you know, that this isn't the way it is right now and it's unfortunate, but, you know, Elon's doing some pretty good free advertising right now. I mean, he has, as I mentioned yesterday, he has 50 million followers. Pretty much almost 50 million followers. And, you know, he's tweeted about a theorem before as well, I think, you know, actually quite a while ago, it wasn't recent, you know, I think a few months, if not like years ago at this point.
00:06:25.496 - 00:06:37.632, Speaker A: So, you know, next thing was Defi. He's played about nfts before as well, of course. So he seems to be pretty plugged in. But of course, you know, he's doing a bunch of other stuff. So he's just got like this, this surface level understanding. Right. Of a lot of this stuff.
00:06:37.632 - 00:07:00.482, Speaker A: Obviously he's tweeted about dogecoin and things like that, but I think that's okay. Lots of new people seeing this, lots of new people coming into the ecosystem. So just a positive note all round, I think. So Sigma prime, one of the ETH two developers. So for those who don't know, Sigma prime is building, I guess like an ETH two client called. Man, the name has kind of like Lighthouse. Lighthouse.
00:07:00.482 - 00:07:36.318, Speaker A: That's what it's called. Sorry, the name escaped me for a second there. But basically they announced today that they produced the first ETH one and ETH two merge transaction. So this ETH transaction that they produced is using only proof of stake validators, which is a step towards, you know, dropping Ethereum's energy consumption. Now they're saying, you know, while this is exciting, this isn't like ready for production or anything, obviously. It's, it's, it's, it's done like as a prototype on, on test nets and stuff like that, which is, which is still really cool. I mean, the fact that, you know, I've talked about how the merger is like top priority right now and the ETH two teams are working on them and of course the ETH one teams are working on it, too.
00:07:36.318 - 00:08:01.954, Speaker A: And the fact that we already have this kind of stuff going on is just really, really cool and really bullish. So yeah, kudos to Sigma prime for doing this and showing their work here. It's really great to see. And I mean, I personally just can't wait for this, this, this future. I mean, like we can't say technically that we have proof of stake today. I mean, we do have a proof of stake network, but Ethereum itself is kind of like both right now. So I'm really longing for the day that we get rid of the proof of work.
00:08:01.954 - 00:08:34.970, Speaker A: Go fully proof of stake, drop that issuance by a lot, you know, and drop that energy usage, usage, usage by, by even more here. And we can finally say that Ethereum is a proof of stake network. So yeah, for those wondering, I'm pretty much like all of the smartest people in Ethereum and all of the, the most important kind of core developers are pretty much working on, on the merge right now. So, you know, I would say that I don't know if it's going to happen by end of this year. I think that's a, that's pretty optimistic. You know, I would say there's, there's a pretty high chance that it could happen q one next year, as I've mentioned before. So we'll see how that goes.
00:08:34.970 - 00:09:20.488, Speaker A: But yeah, really, really cool update here from Sigma prime today. So Rainbow Wallet tweeted out this kind of like teaser here today where they basically tweet out a picture of kind of like a wallet and they have like the op logo next to the ETH kind of asset and next to the DAI asset here. Now what that means is optimism. So basically, I guess what Rainbow is showing here is that they're going to have optimism support when optimism goes live on Mainnet, of course, which is, which is awesome. I mean, the fact that they've got like a little logo here to show you where your assets are as well is really important because obviously people want to keep track of their assets and, you know, when they're, when they've got like either their wallets or like dashboards like, like Zappa and stuff like that. And you need to know what network your, your kind of assets are on. So I think this is really cool here.
00:09:20.488 - 00:09:48.666, Speaker A: And, you know, I'm kind of wondering when optimism is going to launch at this stage. Like, remember they put out a post saying they'd be live in March. And as I've said, like, there's only a few days left of March, so maybe there's going to be a delay here. I did do a recap of all the L2 stuff happening in today's deliberate newsletter. It's actually, you know, pretty, pretty dense. So definitely go give that a read. You can kind of see what's happening in the L2 ecosystem because, you know, sometimes it might feel like not much is happening because we're so we're also glued to our screens and glued to this ecosystem.
00:09:48.666 - 00:10:23.822, Speaker A: But, like, as I was writing it and going through everything, I was like, wow, holy crap. Like, so much is happening right now in the L2 space that, you know, even though I follow it every day, I had kind of forgotten because of the fact that, like, this space moves so fast. So, yeah, we'll see if optimism goes live this month still. If not, I'm sure they have, like, a pretty legit reason for delaying to maybe April. We know that, you know, uniswap v three is gonna go live, you know, in May or May 5, and then shortly after that, they said they're gonna have an optimism implement implementation. So maybe we won't see it till may, but I don't think so. You know, Synthetix is already working with optimism and has been for a while.
00:10:23.822 - 00:10:54.360, Speaker A: I'm sure they have some other apps building on them and stuff like that. So they could, you know, still launch either this month or in April, still have usability, and then hit know the big guns coming out in May with, with uni v three. But, yeah, good to see rainbow supporting, you know, supporting this already on, I'm sure this isn't on, obviously, the wallet you can access on your, on your phone, but in their own testing environment. So, yeah, really cool. And for those of you who haven't yet, definitely go check out this, this wallet, the rainbow wallet here. It's actually really, really pretty and it works really well. I mean, lets you track addresses as well.
00:10:54.360 - 00:11:38.154, Speaker A: You don't have to just, you know, create a wallet on it. You can actually watch your existing wallets and it's a really cool way to display your nfts as well on your phone. So, yeah, definitely go check it out. So loop ring. I mean, I've talked about loop ring a lot before, of course, and they've been doing a lot in the L2 space, so they basically kind of put out a tweet today saying that, you know, there's a, there's a divide between ZK roll ups and optimistic roll ups, right? Well, no, not really, because what loopring is doing is that they're saying that now that their smart contract wallet is in the process of compiling to optimism as well. So, you know, on l one, on multiple l two s, it's your choice. So, so basically with your existing loopring wallet, you don't just have to use, I guess, loop rings kind of like technology, you can also use optimism.
00:11:38.154 - 00:12:24.458, Speaker A: And I'm sure they're going to add support for other, other kind of L2 solutions as well here. This is amazing to see. I mean, I've talked about them to no end, but loopring is just so ethereum aligned, which I really love. And the fact that they're just like not saying, oh, we're just going to work on our own solutions, right? We're just going to work on our own ZK roll up and screw everyone else is amazing. I'm glad they're adding support for more kind of solutions here because that's critically important. It's, it's important that we don't have like, I guess, a time where it's like L2 maximalism, right? Where, you know, someone's like, ah, you know, I only liked optimism or I only like loop ring or I only like stockware or whatever, right? I feel like, you know, there is inevitably going to be some tribalism there because, you know, people have their own favorites and, and whatever. And there already has been between, you know, especially the developers working on this solution saying, you know, my solution is better.
00:12:24.458 - 00:12:46.246, Speaker A: No, mine's better. But at the end of the day, that's all noise, right? What really matters is the tech. And I'm just glad to see Looper in kind of supporting the real tech that's existing today or it will exist in the future as well. So, yeah, kudos to them. You can go watch this kind of video here where they give an overview. It'll be linked in the YouTube description for you to check out. So another L2 update here today, arbitrum.
00:12:46.246 - 00:13:41.172, Speaker A: So for those who don't know, arbitrum is basically, I guess, very similar to optimism in that they're, in that they're building optimistic roll ups. The major difference here is that they don't have their own virtual machine, whereas optimism does. They have the optimism virtual machine, whereas arbitrum is promising just straight EVM compatibility out of the box. Now, what they dropped today was pretty hype, and I didn't see many people talking about it, but basically they dropped a new testnet. But it's not just any testnet, it's their main net release candidate. So what this means is that this is the code base that will be going on to mainnet in a short while because, you know, they're obviously going onto testing at first because they want to test everything, make sure everything's okay, you know, make sure, you know, there's no critical bugs or anything like that and just let it kind of stew for a bit. But, you know, they say in the post shortly, you know, after today where they released this kind of testnet deployment onto Kovan, they're going to be doing their main net release.
00:13:41.172 - 00:14:39.814, Speaker A: And once that goes live, I mean, you know, developers can already build on this technology because you can do it on the testnet. But once that goes out live on Mainnet, that's when it gets real, right? Everyone's going to be, you know, checking it out. People are going to be experiencing these kind of like cheap transactions for a bunch of apps. Like, I'm sure Arbitrum has a bunch of launch partners that they're going to be launching with. So, yeah, I mean, another L2 solution coming, you know, a pretty big one as well because, you know, as I said, arbitrum is very similar to optimism, whereas they do promise to have, like, full EVM compatibility without the, the need for a new virtual machine, or at least like a virtual machine that's very similar, like the OVM, for example, which isn't a knock on optimism or anything like that. But it's going to be interesting to see how this plays out and see what solutions, you know, kind of like work better than others or what solutions kind of have different trade offs and who picks what, you know, right now, I think we're at the point where we have like, a bunch of solutions. You know, arbitrum, starkware, you know, optimism, like these kind of generalized solutions where anyone can kind of build on them.
00:14:39.814 - 00:15:09.142, Speaker A: And there's more than that, of course. But basically it's now like a race to kind of get the apps on board right on your solution now. And it's going to be fragmented for quite a while. And the solutions there as well, like connects network and hop protocol that I've spoken about before. But for the time being, I guess you could call it the short to medium term, there's definitely going to be fragmentation, which is going to have to be worked through. And, you know, we'll get to a nice point, I think, especially with those bridging solutions. So speaking of Starkware, they raised a lot of money.
00:15:09.142 - 00:15:40.196, Speaker A: So they, it was announced that they raised a series B yesterday and that they raised $75 million in a funding round led by paradigm. Now, funny thing, Paradigm is actually the, you know, one of the main investors, or at least the lead investor in optimism as well here. So, yeah, they're funding, I guess, like Starkware, too, which is. Which is really interesting because I guess stockweight isn't. I mean, you could say it's a competitor to optimism in that they're building L2 tech, but they're actually building very different L2 tech. They're building ZK roll ups, right. Not optimistic roll ups.
00:15:40.196 - 00:16:02.500, Speaker A: And they're going for a bit of a different approach here. But, yeah, I mean, this is a massive round, right? $75 million that gives them a lot of Runway, a lot of kind of, I guess, money to. To recruit a lot more people onto the team. And, you know, other than paradigm, they have a bunch of other heavy hitters on board, I guess. Oop, there's an ad. I guess there was a. There were some names up here.
00:16:02.500 - 00:16:34.066, Speaker A: Here it is. Sequoia, founders Fund, Pantera and new investors like three Arrows Capital and Alameda research here. You know, I think, you know, this. I kind of assume that paradigm kind of took most of the round, considering that they have a lot of money now that the Uniswap investment alone is worth billions of dollars. So they're not strapped for cash. And, you know, paradigm is known for making big bets on these teams that they think are going to be, like, critical to Ethereum's kind of, you know, future. Are they very Ethereum aligned? And Starquare is obviously one of them.
00:16:34.066 - 00:17:11.834, Speaker A: Right? I mean, L2 is critical to Ethereum's future. Starkware has some of the best tech out there today. They are a killer team. They're on the bleeding edge of this sort of stuff with CK roll ups at least. So, yeah, it makes sense for them to get a big race here. You know, obviously a lot of people are thinking the same thing I am when token at this point, right? I mean, you know, inevitably, I think everything's going to have a token, whether that is like something that looks more like equity or whether it's like a staking token or something like that. I do think that Starkware is going down the path of becoming, I guess, like a L2 kind of like network that looks like a layer one, but inherent instead of like obviously, you know, pulling its own security.
00:17:11.834 - 00:17:30.286, Speaker A: It gets a security from Ethereum, but there's definitely going to be a token there for sure. So we'll see how that goes. And it's going to be one of the more hyped launches, I think, of this. Yeah, I would assume it's going to launch sometime this year, so we'll see. But yeah, congrats to Stark. We're on the rays. I mean, I've heard literally nothing but good things about Starkware as a company, as a team.
00:17:30.286 - 00:17:46.086, Speaker A: And they keep shipping. Right. They ship the Dy DX stuff the other day. They're working with immutable X, they're working with a bunch of other teams as well. So, yeah. Really, really cool to see this. In other news, a new kind of Defi protocol called Handle Finance announced that they had closed their seed round.
00:17:46.086 - 00:18:45.992, Speaker A: So they raised money from a bunch of different investors. You might, may have heard of them, you know, distributed global, Lemniscap, Dacum, CMS holdings, one block, orthogonal trading, Apollo Capital, Moom Ventures, Hard fork Ventures, the Lao and double peak. So, yeah, I mean, for those who don't know, handle finance is building a non USD stablecoin platform, basically a foreign exchange kind of platform. And the reason why, I guess, like, I'm very interested in this protocol and is that, you know, I don't like using USD because of the fact that it exposes me to, you know, risk where the USD AUD pair can drift and I can either lose money or I can and I'll. Or if I gain money, I incur like capital gains taxes, which is just like super annoying to account for and all this sort of stuff. So, you know, I'm actually locked out a lot of the, of a lot of the yield farming stuff, you know, any kind of like, I guess, fiat that I have, I have to kind of take to my bank account and. Cause it's just too much of a risk to keep it in, in USD.
00:18:45.992 - 00:19:33.724, Speaker A: So from that perspective, I like what handle finance is building here where there's going to be. It's going to be a similar model to kind of like maker where you collateralize the position with, with ETH and or other kind of like tokens and mint, these, these kind of like synthetic stable coins. Um, and there's going to be obviously, you know, synthetic AUd. There's going to be like, you know, JPY, like all the top kind of currencies, Japanese Yanya, Korean won, all that sort of stuff on the platform. So yeah, congrats to them on, I guess, the seed round close here. And I'm looking forward to seeing them grow because I would love to be able to use a very liquid, you know, high market cap Aud stable coin to do yield farming. And, you know, without exposing myself to the massive risk of the, you know, the US, the aud kind of like trading pair and also the, the capital gains tax headache that comes with that.
00:19:33.724 - 00:20:15.288, Speaker A: So the block added a new dashboard today, which I thought was very interesting. So this dashboard tracks ICo treasuries. Now, the funny thing is about this is that I remember there was a dashboard for this back in the day, and I kind of made a comment here about it on Da newsletter here. They basically had a dashboard tracking ICo treasuries way back in, like, 2018 and stuff. And obviously back then, there was still a lot more Ethan, these treasuries. But now, you know, the blocks dashboard here, you can see that most of the, I guess, ETH is in. I mean, my camera is blocking it, but basically on the left is the Ethereum foundation as first place, Gollum second place, gnosis third place, and then a bunch of others following that as well.
00:20:15.288 - 00:20:46.434, Speaker A: It's funny, you know, looking at the names here, you know, Cosmos, which is obviously, I mean, I don't know if they're an ethereum competitor, but they obviously, another layer, one blockchain, still has a bunch of ETH. You know, ten x, a literal scam, has a bunch of ETH there. You know, the other ones, I mean, are old names like Bloom and Ripio, like old 2017 kind of icos here that I haven't heard of from quite a while. But, yeah, interesting. I mean, the ETH foundation one is whatever. Like, we obviously know where that's going. You know, Golem still having 300,000 ETH in their treasuries is quite insane.
00:20:46.434 - 00:21:11.294, Speaker A: They were one of the first icos. You know, I know they've been doing a bunch of stuff lately, especially, like with L2 and things like that. So, you know, there are, they are still building, but, you know, I think that project was very, very early. And they have such a large treasury that they can just keep building forever at this point and building towards a solution, which is, which is fine, I think. And then, you know, you have, I guess, gnosis here, which is obviously very ethereum aligned. You can't see it on the, on the video. Sorry.
00:21:11.294 - 00:21:38.464, Speaker A: But, like, they've got almost, I think, 90,000 ETH, kind of, I guess, in their treasury. And they're building a lot of different products as well. So, yeah, definitely. I guess, like, very, very cool to see that. But, yeah, not nowhere near as much ETH as that was in treasuries. Kind of like back in the day, I remember during 2018 and 2019, there was a ton of ETH in these treasuries. And they were very, I guess, what, how can you call it? They were very, I guess, like, dumpy.
00:21:38.464 - 00:22:11.902, Speaker A: I guess you could say they were dumping ETH like, no tomorrow. I mean, you could see the flows coming. And, like, obviously, eos ended up raising, like, allegedly $4 billion worth of ETH. They dumped every single ETH they had and they actually put it into bitcoin. So if you're wondering why during 2018 and 2019, the price of ETH got so brutalized and we hit $80, a big part of that was because icos were jump dumping their ETH on. Sorry, the treasuries were dumping their ETH on the market. But on the flip side, a big reason why ETH went up in 2017, especially, like that's Omega rise, was because it was being used for icos.
00:22:11.902 - 00:22:55.088, Speaker A: So I guess, like, if you were to say what the fair market price was for ETH during 20, 1718 and 19 without the kind of like, extreme buying pressure for ethanol due to something that was extremely kind of fleeting here in kind of like icos, you could say that the fair market price was between 100 and $200 at the time. Right now, obviously, I think it's a lot higher than that. We have, like, the bustling ecosystems like Defi and NFTs and ETH two is like, you know, the first phase is live. We've got the merge coming. We've got 1559 coming. I mean, obviously, it's a very different time to what it was back then. But I think during those three years, the fair market price that, you know, I guess the wider market was willing to pay for ETH was definitely the one to $200 mark there.
00:22:55.088 - 00:23:17.536, Speaker A: And that was a great place to scoop up a lot of ETH. Right. You had a long time to buy ether between that, between 100 and $200, which was, you know, obviously, I think a lot of, you know, a lot of you would have. Would have scooped some up there, especially if you were around back then. You know, obviously I bought as much as I could back then. But at the same time, it's always hard buying during a bear market, right? Especially when you don't know, right. You don't like Ethereum, man.
00:23:17.536 - 00:23:41.080, Speaker A: I've gone through it before. I'm not going to rehash what I said, but it was just a different time, put it that way. Very different time. But glad that the community kept building and we got over this kind of, like, hurdle of ICO, ICO treasuries kind of selling here. So Etherscan dropped a new feature today. Basically, you can go to this page, etherscan IO airdrops, and you can actually see which projects have done airdrops. And you can actually.
00:23:41.080 - 00:24:01.524, Speaker A: You can kind of, like, see all the details about it and you can go to where you need to to claim it as well. Now, I think this is really cool because there are airdrops that people just don't know about right there. There are so many of these that you just, you look at and you're like, okay, you know, since when did this happen? Right. Well, I have money sitting here. Holy crap. Like, I'm gonna go claim that. So, yeah, I mean, I think we're gonna see a lot more of kind of like.
00:24:01.524 - 00:24:26.382, Speaker A: I mean, the page is what you see in front of me, right? There's a bunch of projects on there, but I think there's a lot more that people just don't know about. And they've got, like, tokens for. So, yeah, kudos to etherscan for putting this out there. I think it's this kind of really important to letting people know about what they've got. And, you know, I guess, like, maybe you've got some of the. Some kind of stuck in these projects. I mean, like, just looking at this list here, ruler protocol and mask network and mural.
00:24:26.382 - 00:24:57.056, Speaker A: I guess those three projects are something that I don't see talked about too much on, on crypto, Twitter. And the other ones, like, pulled together and furu combo and tornado cash one inch and Uniswap. I mean, obviously, everyone knows about the Uniswap and one inch and tornado cash airdrop, and maybe not so much about the furrow combo, airdrop. I actually didn't know that they did an airdrop, so I. There you go. But, you know, the other ones up there, I guess, pulled together people or people also knew about. But in general, there's a lot of these ones that you just don't know about, especially if you're not in the ecosystem every day and there's just free money kind of sitting there for you, for you to claim, basically.
00:24:57.056 - 00:25:25.044, Speaker A: So, yeah, really, really cool feature from Etherscan here. And I've said it before, and I'll say it again, we don't deserve either scan. They provide such an amazing service across a bunch of different things that they do on their website. So, yeah, thanks to them for putting this out there. So last thing here is Dennis from Kyber Network put out, I guess, a new podcast called the ETH Life podcast that he's launched here. So this podcast is dedicated to the countless ethereums passionately building on the best blockchain in the world. In Deniz's words.
00:25:25.044 - 00:25:52.834, Speaker A: Here, inspired by bankless and ethub, they aim to amplify the Ethereum community's voice, spread awareness, and champion the decentralized cause. Really, really cool. I mean, obviously a lot, there's a lot of podcasts now, right? I mean, you know, some of you are probably listening to kind of this, this refuel on, on, on a podcast version. But I don't think that's a bad thing that we have more. And I think there's always stories to be told here. Unfortunately, at Ethub, we had to kind of pause the guests that we were doing. So now we only do the weekly recaps.
00:25:52.834 - 00:26:27.324, Speaker A: And obviously, you know, bankless and the defiant do a lot of stuff as well there. Defy dad does stuff as well with real tv. But I think there's always room for more here and talking to, like, the everyday ethereums as well. Right? The people that you don't necessarily hear from too much. You know, there's the, I guess you could say there's like the famous Etherians, then there's like the everyday ones that are just grinding, building really interesting stuff that aren't like, quote unquote, Twitter thought leaders and stuff like that, that definitely need a spotlight. So I think this is what, what Dennis is trying to do here. So, yeah, if you haven't checked this out yet, be sure to it'll be linked in the YouTube description like everything else in today's refuel.
00:26:27.324 - 00:26:37.964, Speaker A: All right, that's it for today, everyone. Thank you again for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
