00:00:00.240 - 00:00:41.982, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gwei refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 14 March 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So actually, before we get into it, I guess just wanted to kind of like speak about what I spoke about last week on last week's refuel episode where I asked you guys for kind of like feedback on what I should do when I'm in Amsterdam or just traveling in general about the refuel. Had a lot of great comments both in the Discord channel and on the YouTube comments. And I think kind of like a general consensus is that you guys are happy with me. Kind of like just enjoying the coffee and everything like that and not forcing myself to get an episode out every day and either doing like a mega episode at the end of the week or doing little episodes here and there or maybe some interviews at the conferences.
00:00:41.982 - 00:01:09.982, Speaker A: We'll see. We'll see how it goes. I think I'm just going to play it by ER and see kind of like what position I'm in when I'm there. The videos, if I do them, will probably come out at different times than what they do when I'm, when I'm here in Australia, definitely. But I. Yeah, I think I can probably fit in like shorter ones, maybe just kind of like talking about what I, what I did during the day or who I met and things like that, or maybe just kind of like the most, I guess, pressing things or biggest kind of news from the day. But I think no promises there, obviously just going to play it by air and see how it goes there.
00:01:09.982 - 00:01:27.398, Speaker A: So just wanted to address that. And also the last few days I actually was at the beach. So I was kind of like offline in the, in the discord. But I read through all the comments when I got back home today. But yeah, if I wasn't active on there and, you know, you kind of like pinged on there and I missed that. Sorry about that. I was just taking some much needed time off.
00:01:27.398 - 00:02:04.398, Speaker A: Uh, I guess like after the craziness, especially during COVID times. But yeah, I'm very excited to get back into the travel more generally here. But anyway, on to what happened over the weekend. So I know I spoke last week about, I guess I spent ten minutes last week talking kind of like about the fact that I don't think governments are going to outright ban crypto and things like that. But I did forget to, I guess, talk about one thing, and that's proof of work. And proof of work's kind of like place in the world of crypto, the world in general. And how I've said for a very long time that I think proof of work is that one thing that governments are going to go after due to its energy usage.
00:02:04.398 - 00:02:34.042, Speaker A: Now, I'm not here to tell you that its energy usage is bad or is good or if anyone can even say that. Right? I'm not, I'm not debating that. But there was this news that came out of the EU that said from the block that says new amendments on EU crypto legislation put forward could limit proof of work cryptocurrencies. And from what I've seen, it seems some of the wording looks like this could be, I guess, kind of a ban on proof of work in, in the EU and things like that. And this, again, is just a proposal. It's not a proposed legislation, it's not law yet. It hasn't been kind of like, put in yet.
00:02:34.042 - 00:03:07.318, Speaker A: But I've been talking about this for a while now. If you've been listening to the refuel, about how I thought proof of work was going to come under attack, you know, due to the ESG concerns, due to kind of like, I guess, you know, wanting to get off kind of like using so much energy, wanted to get to more renewable energies and things like that. And now, of course, due to the conflict with Ukraine and Russia, the EU definitely wants to speed up its, you know, getting off russian oil. Right, which I guess is totally fair. Right. When, when you consider the circumstances. Um, and then, you know, I saw some people saying that if they do this to proof of work, they're coming from proof of stake next.
00:03:07.318 - 00:03:31.988, Speaker A: I don't think that's the case. Um, you know, maybe they come for proof of stake under a different kind of like pretext. But I don't know, I just don't, I don't, I just don't see it. Like, you can't go after proof of stake for energy usage, of course. And if you, if you were to go after proof of stake as a government, you'd be doing it under some other kind of like pretext. But I'm not sure what the government would come up with to kind of like, justify it. Maybe they'll, they'll say that, you know, but basically they would have to say that they don't want these networks to exist at all.
00:03:31.988 - 00:04:12.334, Speaker A: And then that becomes maybe an outright ban on crypto. Obviously very hard to police, especially with proof of stake, because the one benefit, one major benefit of proof of stake is that it's very hard to track down the validators. Now, obviously, a lot of people are going to have validators in the cloud and things like that, and they're relatively easy to shut down. But, but all the homestakers, I mean, how do you really track them? I mean, you know, as law enforcement, you probably have, like, an easier job, but there are ways to kind of like hide your presence and things like that and make you pretty much untraceable. And the funny thing is, with proof of work, with the mega mines you can easily find, though, you just look for the things drawing the most power. It's either a, you know, a drug operation or a crypto mining operation. Very easy to find it based on heat signatures, too.
00:04:12.334 - 00:04:50.024, Speaker A: Whereas with proof of stake, with, with validators, especially in Ethereum proof of stake, it's much, much more difficult. So I guess, like, this is still consistent with what I was saying last week and kind of like what I've been saying for a while now about proof of work. I don't know if this would pass like an outright ban. I feel like it might be a bit of a cat and mouse game where certain countries within the EU basically say, no, we don't want miners here, just kind of like what China did and kind of like kick the miners out, but the people are still able to use crypto, right. So from that point of view, I wouldn't call a crypto ban or anything like that. I wouldn't even call it a proof of work ban. I would just, I would just say that, you know, these countries are basically like, well, you're using too much energy.
00:04:50.024 - 00:05:30.650, Speaker A: We're going to basically tell you to, you know, to leave the country. Right. Um, I don't even know if ban would be the right word there. And maybe, you know, it's kind of like, funny when you think about this sort of stuff because it's like, okay, well, you know, I'm not trying to defend proof of work here. I've actually been a pretty big critic of proof of work in the past. But, you know, if you start regulating things based on how much energy they use, it gets murky because then you kind of look at all the other things that are using energy, and, you know, a lot of them use more than bitcoin. And then you kind of, like, way up, okay, well, you know, what's that value to society there? Uh, and then you kind of get into the subjective view of things and you start policing who gets access to energy, and who doesn't? Uh, and you kind of start interfering in the free market of, of energy, which is obviously one of the biggest markets in the world.
00:05:30.650 - 00:06:06.670, Speaker A: And everyone, you know, needs electricity, needs energy. So it becomes very, very murky there. So I'm going to keep an eye on this, see what happens here. You know, a few of the lawyers out there on crypto are definitely concerned about this. But, you know, the funny thing about the lawyers is that some of them, like, they're really smart and really like them really good guys, but they tend to take the most extreme position on any issue. I think that might just be the nature of kind of like, the way they look at things, whereas I like to take the more maybe pragmatic approach to things and maybe more optimistic view, where I don't believe that they think these things are going to play out. And if they do play out in kind of like a similar way to what's proposed, it's never as bad as people make it out to be, like, the bitcoin mining.
00:06:06.670 - 00:06:32.670, Speaker A: Bam. I mean, that results in a pretty big dump and all that sort of stuff, but it hasn't killed bitcoin. I'm pretty sure bitcoin's hash rate is still at all time highs. The miners just moved out and kind of, like, continued on from there. Uh, I I don't, you know, I don't think these things are ever as, uh, I guess, like, bad as people make it, make them out to be. And that's kind of like a universal rule that I go by, whether it's stuff like, you know, governments cracking down on crypto or anything got to do with crypto or just things happening within the industry itself. Whenever you.
00:06:32.670 - 00:07:11.380, Speaker A: You kind of, like, see people kind of like, uh, I guess try to sell you a narrative, something's gonna be way worse than what it ends up being. You know, I kind of think that it's kind of like our white two k moments that always happened. And I think if you kind of, like, view it like that, you can stay grounded and you won't kind of, like, get scared. I mean, at the end of the day, people, everyone's trying to sell you a narrative, especially because there's markets that revolve around these things. Bears are trying to sell you a narrative saying, oh, look, this is gonna crash the price. Bulls are trying to sell you a narrative that says, this is gonna pump the price, and then we obviously reach the fair market price at any given time through an equilibrium of all that information being kind of inputted into the market. And then when, when there's an information imbalance, you see kind of like the volatility kind of uh, spread out.
00:07:11.380 - 00:07:38.888, Speaker A: You see kind of like opportunities and you see what we call Alpha. Right. But that's I guess going off a little bit off topic here. But I did want to just mention this because it was relevant to what I was talking about last week. All right, so speaking of, I guess proof of work and proof of stake, uh, some updates on the merge. So Marios from the Geth team has kept us updated on what's happening with the, the killing testnet, I guess, merge testnet here. So this was on March 12, I guess like on Saturday or Friday or whatever that was.
00:07:38.888 - 00:08:11.188, Speaker A: And he said we need to push the TTD back. And now I explained last week what the TTD is. It's basically the terminal difficulty when the merge happens. It's not based on a block number, it's based on the difficulty getting to a certain point and then the merge happening from there. So you know, due to some miners on the testnet mining with GPU's, it's, it's kind of like, I guess I sped up the merge too quickly. And essentially from what I understand the merge, or at least the TTD on the proof of work chain would hit before the beacon chain went live. Before that, you know, the kill and testnet beacon chain went live.
00:08:11.188 - 00:08:41.984, Speaker A: And as Mario says here, this is a good drill for, for the core developers and researchers as it tests how an issue on mainnet in the last second can be mitigated. And then there's a bunch of kind of like uh, uh, uh, updates in this thread or I guess like information in this thread from Mario so you can read through. Uh, but this is, I mean this is really cool. I actually like that we've been able to test it and this is not something that I think can happen on Mainnet given the fact that we already have a live beacon chain. Right. This can only happen on the testnet because the beacon chain wasn't live yet. It hasn't, hadn't reached its genesis period yet.
00:08:41.984 - 00:09:23.570, Speaker A: So I think when you look at, look at it like that, this is not something that I'm pretty sure it's impossible to happen on Mainnet, but still it's good to test these things. It's good to kind of like get them out there, test all the possible edge cases, everything, you know, everything surrounding it, even if it's impossible to happen on main net because then it just informs different things later on and forms things around testnets informs developers on any kind of like future things that are happening here. So very cool to see this and definitely go give this thread from Mario. So read for more information on that. And speaking of the merge as well, Tim Bico here announced that they're calling the execution layer merge client Paris. So the consensus layer merge clients were named. That's Balatrix.
00:09:23.570 - 00:09:57.084, Speaker A: Now the execution layer client name will be Paris here. So just a quick announcement there. And last thing about the merge, we have a great post from super fears in on Reddit called five indicators that the Ethereum merge will occur in June 2022. Now the first one is that on February 19, 2022, Ethereum researcher Danny Ryan gave a talk at ETH Denver title ethereum proof of stake in our solar pan future. It's the one I told you guys to watch last week. And then superfuse says here at minute 1330, he asks himself the question, so when, and proceeds to answer it. And then he goes on about like the difficulty bomb, when that's going to be set off.
00:09:57.084 - 00:10:25.008, Speaker A: And you know, sometime in June, of course. Right. And then there was another call on March 10, 2022 about the consensus layer call here. And then Ben Edgington asked Danny Ryan why the kill and testnet was pushed back ten days. And you know, Danny said just a quick recap and why it was pushed back ten days or so because. Oh no, sorry, Ben said just a quick recap and why it was pushed back ten days or so because this is not what we agreed at the last meeting. Then his answer is that they were completing some technical items and needed to engage the wider community.
00:10:25.008 - 00:11:02.860, Speaker A: But it's really the question that's more telling. As superfizz says here, the fact that the implementers accounting days tells us that they are working diligently to meet the June goal. The merge mainnet readiness checklist is nearing completion. Another comment on March 10 here from Marios, who announced the launch of the Killen public merge test merge Testnet, which I've said before, is the widely expected final testnet here. And the difficulty bomb is specified in EIP 4345 and suggests that the time between blocks will begin increasing around June 2022. Because the bomb goes off slowly and is based on block numbers, it's difficult to predict what the slow motion explosion will look like in real time and blah, blah. More information about the difficulty bomb here.
00:11:02.860 - 00:11:27.358, Speaker A: So these are really good indicators, all things, obviously, I've mentioned on the, on the kind of like refuel before. Actually not all of them. I don't think I mentioned the first one here about Danny Ryan making that comment and then the, and then the question being answered on the, on the second point here. But you know, that's, that's some good sleuthing there from superfizz, that's for sure. But yeah, I mean I'm with him here. I think it's. It's more than a 50% chance that we're going to see the merge in June at this point in time.
00:11:27.358 - 00:11:58.622, Speaker A: I think the kill and testnet is going well. Obviously we had a bit of a speed up there with the, the TTD and stuff like that. But as I said, that doesn't, that doesn't affect anything on Mainnet. It's just getting the merge kind of like done on the testnet in the proper way. And you know, I just have know as the days go by I get more and more confident in a June merge day. But that doesn't mean that I, you know, we can't kind of like get, I guess, so to speak, rugged that the last, at the last kind of like second there and the devs and reaches say no, no, unfortunately we can't do it in June and it's going to be pushed back to July or August. So don't be surprised if that happens either.
00:11:58.622 - 00:12:13.798, Speaker A: But I'm still pretty confident in June at this stage. Would I put money on it? Maybe. Maybe. Depends how much money. Right. But you know, the closer we get, I guess the better it is. And I wonder if there's a prediction market for these because the way they work is that the closer you get and the more the odds kind of like turn.
00:12:13.798 - 00:12:40.140, Speaker A: It's kind of like you can, you can sell or buy shares based on that. So I'm wondering if there is one right now. If there is and you know of it, definitely link it to me somewhere. Discord, YouTube, Twitter, wherever. All right, just a quick, I guess, note on client diversity here. So as I mentioned, DAP node was working on client diversity last week. So and this is an update from Eduardo here who says client diversity on DAP node is going to happen very, very soon and they can't be more excited about it.
00:12:40.140 - 00:12:57.780, Speaker A: Now this was on March 12, 2022. And you can see as a screenshot here of the different clients you could use within adapt node. I'm sure this is coming, it could come this week, right. Could come next week, but very, very soon. Usually. Usually doesn't mean, I mean he's put a tm here, but usually doesn't mean too much longer than one to two weeks, I would imagine. So.
00:12:57.780 - 00:13:28.464, Speaker A: Very cool to see that. Looking forward to that. To seeing that. Go live. Alright, so Ismail here from the Nethermind team shared a blog post announcing Nethermines full pruning mechanism that is here now. For those of you who don't know what pruning is, it's all described in this blog post here. But there's a quick kind of like, I guess, TRDR and what it is basically ethereum, kind of like full nodes or, sorry, full archive nodes are, I guess, more approaching ten terabytes or have exceeded ten terabytes in storage at this state at this stage.
00:13:28.464 - 00:14:13.964, Speaker A: And, you know, obviously that's not feasible for most users to run, so instead users will run a pruned node instead. So that prune node is still considered a theorem full node. It just doesn't have all the data or I guess, all the information available that an archive node had, has. And I guess the simplest way to explain this is that the Ethereum full node will still tell you that everything you know is working, is working fine, all the data is correct and everything like that, but it won't tell you, kind of like, you know, what happened when. So, for example, ethereum full node will not tell you what the token balance of your wallet was at some date in the past. It will tell you what the current token balance is to say you have ten ETH right now, and it'll tell you that you have ten ETH in your wallet. Or it'll say that there's ten ETH in this ethereum address, but it won't tell you that maybe there was five ETH in that address six months ago.
00:14:13.964 - 00:15:06.870, Speaker A: But an archive node will. An archive node will literally show you everything, every state of the blockchain at any point of time, at every block, essentially. So that is obviously useful for things like block explorers and infrastructure providers, but not use, not useful for the everyday person. Like I personally, besides needing it for maybe tax purposes, which you can just get from, from Etherscan, I don't need to run an archive node because I'm never really caring about that information outside of that. And then, you know, a full, kind of like prune node works just fine. But the reason why this is a breakthrough from Nethermind is that traditionally to activate a prune node, you would have to kind of like go offline, you know, do the pruning on your full node and then come back online. Whereas with what Nethermind has been able to kind of like put together here, their client can now perform full pruning, keeping the size of the database only as big as completely necessary, all while running the node in full capacity.
00:15:06.870 - 00:15:35.270, Speaker A: So no need to take your node offline or anything like that. It just happens all in the background while it's running. So that is a huge breakthrough, guys. I don't know how technical a lot of you guys are, if you're aware of this thing or kind of like you've been monitoring this, but take it from me, this is a very, very big deal. And this is actually going to help Ethereum kind of like continue to grow and continue to scale as time goes on as well, and allow us to maybe even increase the gas limit too, right on top of the AIP that are coming in and stuff like that. So just wanted to kind of highlight that for you guys. Definitely go check out the blog post.
00:15:35.270 - 00:16:06.274, Speaker A: It's more technical than everything that I've said here. It gives like a full breakdown of everything, you know, the background of pruning, how, how, never mind's full pruning works and all that sort of stuff here. So very, very cool to see this. As I mentioned before, nevermind is a kick ass team. They're doing a lot of great work across not just Ethereum core development, but a bunch of other verticals there. So great to see them continuing to, to put out more stuff that helps the Ethereum ecosystem. All right, so optimism has put together a blog post called on our pragmatic path to decentralization.
00:16:06.274 - 00:16:47.430, Speaker A: So this is basically what, you know, they're kind of like part path that they're taking towards decentralizing the optimistic ethereum network. They go through, I guess a bit of background about why the altus are not decentralized right now. Obviously because of the training wheels, the multi sigs, the admin keys, all that sort of stuff. They look to Ethereum, but you know, in how kind of like a theorem has done it. Um, and it seems that, uh, optimism wants to essentially do like a multi client architecture approach, which is pretty cool. I mean, I think that, uh, I don't know if any other l two has kind of like talked about this or announced this before, but it seems like optimism really just wants to basically follow exactly what ethereum is, except as a roll up. Instead of kind of like a layer one consensus engine or sentiment engine.
00:16:47.430 - 00:17:20.346, Speaker A: It wants to just do this as an execution layer, but basically stick as close as they can to Ethereum in all aspects, not just the code, but also kind of things like multi client architecture, development process, all that sort of stuff. There so that's, that's very cool to see. And then, you know, they talk a bit more about other things, kind of like, you know, how they're decentralizing now and stuff like that. And obviously there's going to be a token at some point in here somewhere, which is, which is going to, I'm assuming, be used to further decentralize things as well. But this is cool. I mean, it's cool to see. Layer two is kind of like taking the multi client architecture approach as well and not just sticking to one client here.
00:17:20.346 - 00:17:43.914, Speaker A: As I mentioned before, Ethereum's multi client architecture makes a theorem one of the most, if not the most resilient crypto networks on the planet. Like if there was a major bug in, for example, Geth, we still have other kind of like core clients out there that could be run and could keep the network alive. And this is kind of like happened in the past. Obviously, Geth is like a big part of the network and that's why client diversity matters and things like that. And we're working on that. Right. Especially with the beacon chain.
00:17:43.914 - 00:18:21.020, Speaker A: But, but I think looking at all of that holistically, it's, it makes a lot of sense for optimism to, to do this. So I'm hoping other kind of like l two s follow along with this. I'm sure they will. Right. I'm sure that they're kind of like going to pay money for developers to build these sorts of stuff to maintain it. The long term viability and health of these clients is also something that I guess needs to be incentivized. You remember that the Ethereum foundation put together a client incentive program or client diversity incentive program where they, you know, gave a bunch of ethos validators to the, the different beacon chain, kind of like client teams and also the execution layer teams to encourage them to keep building it out, to keep sustaining it, and to have a vested interest in it with ETH.
00:18:21.020 - 00:18:48.684, Speaker A: And not just with ETH, but also with validators. So that was really cool to see as well. I think the same thing is going to have to happen for the l two s where I'm sure they'll have their native tokens, they'll give them out as kind of rewards or they'll pay them out on and they're kind of like keep them happy, keep them funded, because that is the most important thing. Like the funny thing is, is that we did have another major client in Ethereum called parity a while ago. Maybe some of you aren't even aware of that. Like parity was from day one. And parody actually saved Ethereum's ass in, in 2016 during the Shanghai dos attacks.
00:18:48.684 - 00:19:22.118, Speaker A: And then what ended up happening is that the parody company started building Polkadot. They became more focused on that and they kind of like, I guess sunsetted parity, and they tried to, and then gnosis tried to kind of like revive it and keep it alive and things like that. But then that ended up kind of like fizzling. And then they changed it to, to another Ethereum client, uh, kind of, kind of called Aragon now, which is still being maintained. Still. I mean, sorry, it was open Ethereum first, which has also been deprecated, and now there's Aragon, which is kind of like a mixture of the, of things there. But yeah, I mean, there's been a journey there, that's for sure.
00:19:22.118 - 00:19:47.490, Speaker A: And I think that's obviously funding, you know, what was involved there as well. But it was also the fact that parity just had a conflict of interest. Now, the Polkadot obviously is, it is a separate blockchain that I rather work on that than working on aetherium. That's just the way it is. But we had others step up on to the plate, such as Nethermind, Besuit and Aragon, which was cool to see. And obviously, you know, on the execution and consensus layer side as a whole, we're going to have to keep incentivizing that to happen. But cool to see this from optimism.
00:19:47.490 - 00:20:02.994, Speaker A: Definitely. Go check out the blog post. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so Sudatheos has announced that he will be putting together a newsletter called Resync, which is going to be a bi weekly update. Zksync newsletter out. Bi weekly. Right.
00:20:02.994 - 00:20:27.320, Speaker A: This is cool. I mean, I mentioned Swagdemus's newsletter about Starkware recently, and now pseudo Theo says, I want about Zksync. I think there's a few out there for arbitrary optimism at this point. But yeah, I mean, it's just crazy. I'm subscribed to all of these things. I get them in my inbox and I go through them like, holy shit, like, I don't even have time to keep up with everything happening. And I mean, I know I've talked about this to death, but really guys, like, it's just crazy.
00:20:27.320 - 00:20:44.216, Speaker A: The l two space. I mean, keeping up with each of these l two ecosystems at this point is like keeping up with an entire ecosystem in of itself. And all this stuff is built on Ethereum. So, like, I'm trying to keep up with Ethereum. I'm trying to keep up with optimism. Arbitrum, cksync, Polygon, Starkware, every other bloody l two out there. It's impossible.
00:20:44.216 - 00:21:06.686, Speaker A: I know I do a daily show, but I mean, I could literally extend this out to at least an hour these days on the show if I individually covered everything and it's just obviously not feasible there, but crazy. So highly recommend subscribing to this new resync newsletter from pseudotheos. I've talked about pseudo theos before. Highly recommended. Follow as well. Let's get them to 10,000 followers, guys. They're at 6752 right now.
00:21:06.686 - 00:21:32.404, Speaker A: They do a lot of great work, not just with kind of like this recent newsletter, but also with a bunch of educational threads about sharding L2 stuff. Kind of like, I guess statelessness and things like that as well. So definitely go give them a follow. Let's get them to ten k. I would really love to see that because anyone who spreads knowledge like that deserves more followers in my mind. Um, so yeah, go ahead and do that. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below.
00:21:32.404 - 00:22:09.706, Speaker A: All right, so this was, I think, the biggest news of the last few days from Yuga Labs. I think that's how you say it. The creators of ordinate Yacht club, they have purchased or acquired the crypto punks and me bits collections from lava labs. Now the first thing they did is that they gave full commercial rights to the NFT holders just like they did for bored Ape yacht club and mutant ape yacht cub, which I think is a cool thing to do. But this caused a lot of division in the, I guess, NFt community. Some really liked this, some thought it was really bad because it just means things are consolidating. I don't have a strong opinion on this at all because I don't have a strong opinion on nfts in general.
00:22:09.706 - 00:22:33.630, Speaker A: I think that. I think that the bought ape stuff was like absolutely crazy. I saw it kind of like grow from, from basically nothing to where it is today. It was, it kind of became like a bit of a cultural phenomenon for better or worse. But I think I just wanted to focus on how funny it is that lava labs have made so much money off of all this sort of stuff over the years and now they're just noping out. Right. They did nothing with me bits.
00:22:33.630 - 00:23:04.954, Speaker A: I think they made like $80 million from me bits from selling them. They also owned a lot of crypto punks which they have sold now to Yuga labs. They sold I guess like their, their me bits and crypto punks collections and not the auto glyphs, but, like, those sorts of things that they've made so much money from this. And, like, I don't know, I've seen some reports that they're, they're basically made billions from all of this, which is just crazy. And now they're kind of, like, noping out. They're like, well, okay, let's just sell to Yuga labs, and then we don't have to do anything anymore and, you know, let's go up into the sunset. I mean, cool.
00:23:04.954 - 00:23:52.878, Speaker A: Like, I don't, you know, necessarily think there's anything wrong with that, but I think this speaks to a broader kind of, like, thing within crypto where there are some teams that make too much money or raise too much money, and then they lose all motivation to actually build the product that they set out to build. This has happened time and time again within crypto. Obviously, it hasn't happened recently. It's been, it hasn't just happened recently. It's been going on for quite a while, especially during the ico mania. But put it this way, if you raise $100 million in your first raise, and this happened quite frequently during the Ico mania, what incentive do you have to build the product? Like, unless you're some kind of, like, founder who really has something to prove and they really want to build an amazing product and, you know, you don't care about money at all, you just raise the money to kind of, like, build your product, then fine. But those people are few and far between.
00:23:52.878 - 00:24:49.950, Speaker A: You raise $100 million, you put a skeleton crew on it to make it look like you're actually working on it, and then you go and sip kind of like martinis in the Bahamas, right? Like, that happens so often and just, it doesn't happen loudly. It happens quietly, and you probably don't hear about it too much, but it definitely happens, guys. And I think that this is the number one mistake a lot of teams make. And I actually like it when I see teams during their early raises. Like, obviously there are mega raises in the, in the kind of like later stages, like series some Series A, but Series B and Series C, but in kind of like the pre seed and seed and maybe even series C. Series A, kind of like, I guess, raises that you should not be raising as a team more money than you need for at least like a few years Runway, because it just becomes kind of like a thing of, well, I have all this money now, you know, let's just go off into the sunset, especially if you raise from the public, and, you know, you're not, you're not very accountable to the public. You're very accountable to VC's and funds and things like that, they may have legal recourse, but you're not accountable to put the public at all, really.
00:24:49.950 - 00:25:14.022, Speaker A: And that's another reason why a lot of public sales don't happen these days, is because, you know, it gets messy because the public can band together and sue you and things like that, and you have to go through the whole court arbitration process. But generally, yeah, I mean, you, dava labs is not like, they sold the me bits. That's it. Like, I sold $80 million with the me bits. They're not, they have no obligation to do anything for the community. The community can't sue them for it. Can't say, oh, you promised this.
00:25:14.022 - 00:25:34.836, Speaker A: You promised that. Because they didn't really promise anything. People assume that they did. So even if they promise to do something as part of a roadmap, it's not legally binding or anything like that. So there's nothing really people can do at the end of the day. So, yeah, I guess, like just a bit of general, I guess, observations, maybe, advice to first time founders out there. Don't raise too much money in your first kind of like, rounds.
00:25:34.836 - 00:26:06.952, Speaker A: You know, try to keep it nice and lean and tight, because it just gives you the motivation to kind of like, stay hungry, to keep building the product out, to make something great. And if you're a founder or a developer, you know, wanting to be a founder or anything like that out there, and you just want to build something, you don't give a shit about money. I mean, more power to you. You are, I guess, like, you know, the people, the people we want in crypto, but, I mean, 99% of people aren't like that. And that's why most things kind of, that's one reason why most things fail. Most projects fail. But, yeah, obviously there's a lot of other reasons, but, yeah, just wanted to kind of, like, give some context there.
00:26:06.952 - 00:26:21.394, Speaker A: As I said, don't have strong opinions about the acquisition itself. It's cool. It's whatever. This stuff's going to keep happening, guys. So whether you like it or not, you got to have to learn to deal with it, maybe. But, yeah, I think on that note, it's going to be it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching.
00:26:21.394 - 00:26:29.394, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet. Give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter. Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
