00:00:00.160 - 00:00:49.196, Speaker A: Crypto only venture fund operating out of Amsterdam. We've been active in this space since around 2016 2017. I've been co hosting the modular summit for three times now, which is also why my coworker gave me the almost of giving the opening statement here. Thank you for that bother. So I figured it would be nice to explain a little bit how we got involved with Celestia, then how we have seen sort of the events change over the last three years or four years, maybe even, and then where I expect us to be heading, and then I'll wrap it up with some practical information around the event. So how did we get involved with Celestia? Well, I've been telling the story a thousand times over the last year, so one more time won't hurt. We ran into Celestia when I got a research newsletter in 2019.
00:00:49.196 - 00:01:28.518, Speaker A: This was around the summer, and the goal of this newsletter was to send all the academic research that had been published that week around to people interested in it. Now, one of the papers in there was called lazy Ledger. It was written by Muztfah al Bassam. And I read it. I found it quite interesting because it featured like this data availability sampling feature, I would almost say of the blockchain where it allows you to hold the validates accountable by running a light node on a very lightweight device, such as the phone that matts is holding right there. So you could run a light node. And that was quite unique in the crypto space.
00:01:28.518 - 00:02:17.990, Speaker A: So I started stalking the lazy ledger team back then on GitHub a little bit. I ran into John Adler and I found his telegram handle on his GitHub. I reached out to him and as soon as he noticed that I was an investor, he told me to reach out to Mustafa, which already made it pretty clear that John Adler would not be doing the investor relations at Celestia. However, we did get in touch with Mustafa and we started talking about the product and the project. And eventually, as Balda put it back then we jumped on the lazy ledger train around end of 2019, start of 2020, and we've been working with Celestia teams since then. So then onto the sort of things we do with them. And one of them is event planning, which at that point we pivot from venture investor into event planners.
00:02:17.990 - 00:02:48.930, Speaker A: The first event we did with Celestia was in Lisbon in 2021. This was, I think, sort of the fall, and it was an evening event. There were in total four talks and one panel with the people who gave the talks. Maybe as comparison, over the next three days, there will be 100 talks here and I think over 20 panels. So you could say it has expanded a little bit since then. But we kind of liked it and it was in general well received. So that's why we hosted Mojo summit one around Devconnect in Amsterdam.
00:02:48.930 - 00:03:37.694, Speaker A: This was a one day event, was in April 2022, sort of for crypto timeline, just before Terra blew up. That's what people will remember, and was again, a very, well, adventurous sort of the right people. However, one thing that stuck with me, especially back then, was that it was all quite conceptually and academic, right? Like, hey, if we ever build this, then we could do that, and then users will benefit from this. At the same time, it was all on paper and not at all like in practice. I think that already started to shift a little bit with the second Mozilla summit that we hosted in Paris last year. That was a two day event, featured a lot of tracks, and you could sort of the first inklings of an ecosystem were starting to take shape. So there was a CK track hosted by CK validator, it was an MEV track hosted by Flashbots, and a gaming track hosted by Argus.
00:03:37.694 - 00:04:36.710, Speaker A: You could already see like, hey, there's something more happening here than just people thinking out ideas in the background. And that brings me sort of to the year that has happened, right? Obviously the big thing was the Celestia main net launch in the past year. I think what that caused is also the theme for this conference, which is modular expansion. So what we have really seen is that a lot of use cases and actual applications have started to take off. Celestia is now live. There are some applications on it, there's traction on it, things like Lyra, Avo and the DeFi ecosystem, things like ancient ain't in the gaming ecosystem and their format chain for like nfts, art, etcetera. I think what's going to be even more interesting in the year ahead, and what I think it also shows what you can do if you sort of build whatever and give developers and users a lot of freedom, is the celestial native or ecosystem native projects.
00:04:36.710 - 00:05:15.078, Speaker A: So the modular ecosystem is expanding and things like Inisha Austria, sovereign rollups through sovereign labs. I'm also mentioning a lot of portfolio companies here, but allow me please, are now being built and being deployed. And what I hope that what that leads to in the next few years is that we actually build better applications for users and developers, and therefore we bring more attention into crypto. I think a lot of people at this conference have said, hey, we want to see more applications. Well, I think now the Mozilla expansion is sort of happening. That's the time when we can start doing that, and I hope to see more of that over next year. So then onto the more practical stuff.
00:05:15.078 - 00:05:43.350, Speaker A: This is obviously a three day event. There's buses going through and from the venue every morning, and in the evening they take you back into the center of Brussels. Then there's a boat, which I highly recommend. It's a 30 minutes boat ride. Not the quickest way to get here, but I do think it's very enjoyable, especially with this weather. On the website of Modules summit, you can find the locations where you can be picked up and the entire schedule for it. There's lunch, snacks and drinks on the rooftop there.
00:05:43.350 - 00:06:12.780, Speaker A: So I think all in all, you should have a good time here. And finally, I would also like to thank Yas and Nat from the Celestia team. They've been realistically the ones who put a lot of this together. We like to take credit, but they've been working very hard at it. So I think all credits to them, the rest of Celestia team, and also all the amazing sponsors that happened to to make this possible. I hope you have an amazing three days here and I'm sure we will. Thank you very much.
00:06:18.360 - 00:06:27.260, Speaker B: All right, thank you, Matthias. Next up is going to be Anurag and he's going to talk a little bit about avail Nexus. Please take the stage. Everybody give him a hand.
00:06:31.970 - 00:07:32.530, Speaker C: Thank you. So apparently I'm the one kicking off the summit with the first talk. Okay, quick introduction. My name is Anurag. I'm founder of Avail builds data availability scaling solution that that implements databuty sampling using validity proofs, slightly different from Celestia, which uses fraud proofs. Although I'm not going to talk too much on the data availability part today, what I'm going to cover today is solving the issue of l two fragmentation with availnexis, which is a component that we build on top of availability. Some background of avail before I get into the meat of the topic.
00:07:32.530 - 00:08:49.796, Speaker C: So what is really avail, as most people might have heard of avail, as I myself also said that the Bayes layer is the availability part, which is this state of the art databuty layer which implements datablood sampling with validity proofs. But we don't stop at that because we've built this base layer with validity proofs. We are also able to build something called Nexus on top. And what is Nexus? Nexus? You can think of Nexus as this permissionless verification hub so that roll ups that operate on top of a whale can also verify, you know, like proofs, for example, on top of Nexus. And that allows us to kind of unify these roll ups and chains together to enable interoperability and async composability between these roll ups and chains. How we do this, I'll get into the details of that, but we do it with this mixture of proof aggregation, ZK proof aggregation, and data availability sampling proofs. We also have a component called Fusion that I'll not get into too much detail.
00:08:49.796 - 00:09:36.170, Speaker C: You can look up our website for more details, but I will cover some of it from a availability perspective, just to start off the presentation. As I've already said, state of the art data availability layer implements databuty sampling with validity proofs. So what we do slightly differently is we do not have fraud proofs. We use KZG polynomial commitments to implement this. This is similar to the primitives that Ethereum wants to implement on its dank sharding roadmap. And we've gone ahead and already built that, and the mainnet is coming out pretty soon. So that's what avail da stands for.
00:09:36.170 - 00:10:33.582, Speaker C: Nexus is this permissionless verification hub that, as I said, employs this ZK proof aggregation technique. So imagine Zksync proof execution proof and a ZK polygon Zk EVM proof. We kind of aggregate these proofs together, combine them into a single aggregate proof, and then get them verified on the availability itself, but also permissionlessly on the lite clients. So we also embed Nexus proof verifiers on our database sampling lite clients that can independently verify these proofs. Optionally, these proofs can also be sent to something like Ethereum for added verification guarantees. When we actually started to build out avail, and this was during 2020. So just to give some background, Awail was actually started within Polygon.
00:10:33.582 - 00:11:50.988, Speaker C: I actually previously founded Polygon and Awail started within Polygon back in late 2020. And that was a time when the roll up centric roadmap was taking shape and we realized that for the roll up centric roadmap to come true, you really need this infrastructure that would support roll ups at scale. And we looked at all the possible combinations. Of course, Celestia has been doing great work in general, but they started on this roadmap of the fraud proof route and we took a very alternative route. We went on the royalty proof route because we at that time in 2020 when we began efficient KZG polynomial commitments had already where possible. And so we went out route and it has proved very beneficial for us. And that allows us to actually build out avail nexus on top because we are able to now combine execution proofs on the roll up side with data availability checks just to complete the avail product suite.
00:11:50.988 - 00:13:03.380, Speaker C: We also have a component called fusion security. The problem with each new l one blockchain bootstrapping is that there is limited crypto economic security at the beginning, and that's the whole reason for the roll up centric roadmap. The roll up movement has grown so much because rollups inherit the security of the base layer. And so when you're building a Bayes layer yourself, you need to be thinking about ways to increase the crypto economic security. So of course we rely on the native avail token for crypto economic security, but we want to go beyond, we want to kind of increase the crypto economic security of the base layer sooner. And so we kind of leverage newer primitives in the space to kind of use alternative assets like ETH, BTC and other tokens to complement or augment the crypto economic security of the base layer. And so you can think of fusion as additive crypto economic security that essentially helps increase crypto economic security or shared security for roll ups in that sense.
00:13:03.380 - 00:14:44.226, Speaker C: So, I mean, hopefully I've provided a brief overview of the entire avail suite, but let me kind of dive into what avail Nexus really is, and I'll just start off with like the brief vision that we have in mind, like what principles are we building out from? So from a web two perspective, like if you kind of look at how applications work at scale, apps on the Internet really work on microservices. Like there's a bunch of microservices that talk to each other and do a bunch of stuff. So, for example, if you're doing buying a product on Amazon and when you want to purchase it, it really makes a call to, let's say PayPal or a stripe, for example, and which in turn maybe also talks to a visa microservice, for example. And so all of this is a very asynchronous sort of flow. It happens so fast with minimal latency that most users don't even know that there's a lot of complex backend engineering that is going on. And I think what we are able to now do with rollups, hopefully in the next few months and years, is that instead of this whole ux around individual chains and rollups, we are going to get into this phase where there will be more application specific roll ups, which will look more and more like microservices, where you kind of specialize in each service, for example, you specialize in payment, you specialize in payment coordination, for example. Specialize in logistics, for example, and so on.
00:14:44.226 - 00:15:35.968, Speaker C: And all of this is going to play out in a very asynchronous manner. And so that's the kind of end goal that we are kind of building all this infrastructure for at avail. This is currently how most interop solutions work in practice today in web3. So bridging assets specifically is like this sort of mint and burn mechanic. Essentially, there is some message passing mechanism that is implemented and on top of which you implement things like asset bridging, for example, and so on. And generally there is this mint and burn lock and unlock sort of mechanic that is there. And how it plays out if we increase the number of chains is there is you have to have a connection between each chain in the ecosystem.
00:15:35.968 - 00:16:21.690, Speaker C: And as we know, because of the bundling of unbundling of monolithic blockchains into this whole modular future that we are doing a three day summit. For in general, the number of chains are increasing day by day. Even today, if you see there are probably 100 odd l two s that are in production and that number keeps on increasing because the trend is that these roll up stacks are commoditizing. It's now very easy to spin up this chains. The cost of spinning up a chain has become lower. And I'm just talking about general purpose chains like EVM and Stack, Cairo based vms, the application specific roll ups are still to come into production, like sovereign labs, stacker labs, for example. And so the number of roll ups is only going to increase.
00:16:21.690 - 00:17:40.472, Speaker C: And so essentially what this is going to look is akin to something like this, right? Like, I mean, it's going to be a very messy sort of a universe. And so essentially what Nexus, you know, if I want to simplify it down to the very basics, is this concept of nexus where we kind of aggregate different sorts of proofs from different ecosystems, from different types of roll ups, for example, and then aggregate it into this one single unified proof. And so this of course requires a bunch of tooling that is production ready today or will become more efficient in the coming months and years. But even right today, as of today, we have been able to do a prototype of taking a ZK sync proof and a ZK EVM polygon, ZK eVM proof and aggregate it into a single proof. And this is something that we will releasing probably in the end of this quarter as the MVP. But I. The idea is generalizable.
00:17:40.472 - 00:18:22.920, Speaker C: Like we build Nexus to be this generalized verification layer which can verify different proofs. Why we do this is because we kind of want to move away from this world where each chain has to verify each chain's state transition and basically default to the possibility of each chain just verifying this one single proof, because that single proof has already verified the state of other change in the ecosystem. We focus on ZK rollups for now because it's easier to do this orchestration on ZK rollups at the moment, but we are also working on.
