00:00:13.920 - 00:00:48.194, Speaker A: This is a man who needs no introduction. He brought us way back in the day, anchor, the preeminent open source framework to write Solana programs in rust that's still widely used to this day. He brought us Madlads earlier this year. He brought us a backpack wallet, the XNFT standard. And now the most recent announcement and centralized exchange called Backpack Exchange. Armani Ferrante, thank you so much for joining us. This has been on the docket basically since we launched a show.
00:00:48.194 - 00:01:02.504, Speaker A: I think you were actually going to be our first guest way back in April. And incidentally, that was the day mad lads was dropping. Or around that time, things got super hectic, and six months later, we're finally getting around to rescheduling you. So thank you so much for joining us today.
00:01:03.604 - 00:01:10.864, Speaker B: Yeah, that was great introduction. Thank you so much for having me. I'm super happy to finally be here. I suppose after six months. Sounds horrible when you put it that way.
00:01:12.324 - 00:01:37.804, Speaker A: You know, we got to get the receipts out, we got to make sure people know. But, no, I think the timing is funny, too. It's like back then you were just launching. I mean, just mad lads on its own. Is it broke? It's either going to flip D gods or it already did. To top across all chains, top NFT collection will probably be kind of the juggernaut of Solana. And now, I mean, that feels like an eternity ago.
00:01:37.804 - 00:02:13.664, Speaker A: That was only in April. And here we are, you know, ex FTX engineer trying to take another stab at centralized exchange. I mean, that, that's a journey that I think in a storyline, a lot of people are getting really dug into. And I think it's super interesting. Obviously, to the untrained eye, it feels like a lot of different types of projects and things. But from your perspective, like, how does this all tie together, the wallet, the standards, the NFT side, as well as now essential exchange? How does this all tie together to a unifying vision?
00:02:14.314 - 00:03:18.290, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah, super good question. So we really started the company, or the coral off of the back of all the open source work that I had done when coming into Solana in September 2020. So for about that entire year, September 2020 to about December 2021, worked on a bunch of different stuff, wallets, defi and developer tooling, as you mentioned in that beautiful introduction. And that stuff was pretty successful and the network really started growing pretty exponentially, and Solana really started blossoming into this incredible network. And I think a lot of people at the time were just kind of looking at me and were basically saying, Armani, keep doing this. And so we created the company basically from a lot of that encouragement. I mean, to be honest, we didn't really have, like, a specific goal at the time other than, well, let's just make useful things in crypto.
00:03:18.290 - 00:04:04.204, Speaker B: I think there was a lot of important problems to solve at the time. A lot of, you know, in crypto, honestly, there's just all these things to do where you look around the world and you're wondering, well, why aren't people doing this stuff? And so we thought, okay, well, we can get some resources, hire some awesome devs, and build a nice organization to tackle some of these problems. And so that was really, like the starting point. It was really December 2021 when I started figuring out how to build this company. And really the starting point, there's a bunch of ideas I was going through at the time. And really the first big idea that I was really gung ho and excited about was xnFts, where the idea was really simple. Instead of tokenizing images or really in addition to tokenizing images, we can tokenize code.
00:04:04.204 - 00:04:57.424, Speaker B: And off of that very simple primitive, we can build a next generation wallet. And with those two things, we can really build a next generation web3 native crypto application ecosystem, kind of like a web3 iOS Android, if you want to put it in those terms. Saga was being developed at the time, and we were building this kind of more or less at the exact same time. And so we kind of thought this was a really awesome idea and decided to go forward with it. But it was really from the perspective of on chain applications and really the wallet as the vehicle to distribute those applications. And it was an NFT protocol. And we thought, well, what better way to build the product than to eat our own cooking? Why don't we just build an NFT project? Because it's one thing to build for other people.
00:04:57.424 - 00:05:28.042, Speaker B: People. It's another thing to build for yourself and to really intimately understand the process of what it's like to build one of these NFT communities. And so we kind of looked around at the space at the time. We thought, okay, well, I think we can do it. I really felt, I mean, not to sound too, too confident or too egotistical, to be honest, but I really felt like we could do it. I don't know why. I just really felt like we could build a good NfT project, and Xnfts were the perfect vehicle to do it.
00:05:28.042 - 00:06:09.318, Speaker B: And so that's really where those three things kind of came from. So we decided to launch madlads. It was really product motivated. And then obviously, in September of or, excuse me, I'm getting my times mixed up. November, November of, I guess, 2022, that's when the world collapsed. It was really on the flight back home from Lisbon, from Breakpoint, we were in the Solana conference giving talks on XNFT and what we were building. And that's really when we learned, alongside the rest of the world, the catastrophe at FTX and all the horrible things that happened there.
00:06:09.318 - 00:06:40.274, Speaker B: And it was really kind of from that point until the launch of Mad labs about six months ago, we were really just heads down, tunnel visioned, thinking about how to survive the next day. It was really a defining moment, I think, for us, and honestly, just for a ton of people in the industry. And it was really about just staying alive, I think. I think it was the block that described. I think I described it as cockroach mode. We were in cockroach mode. And to be honest, we were just.
00:06:40.274 - 00:07:04.504, Speaker B: It was crazy. It was chaos, stressful in so many ways. And it wasn't until we launched Mad lads where we hit that milestone. We launched madlads, we launched XNfts, we launched backpack, and we really stopped and really reflected on the world because, you know, we, you know, we hit those milestones. We were alive. The company didn't collapse. We still maintained a lot of the core team.
00:07:04.504 - 00:07:48.316, Speaker B: And it was that point we really reflected a bit and stopped and thought, okay, well, the world is obviously so different in a million different ways. And it wasn't just FTX. It was also the traditional banking system that was having problems. Silicon Valley bank, there was the USDC deep. There was all these banks that were having issues and were getting acquired instability throughout the system, or the worry of it, at least. The world was just a very different time, in a very different place than when we first started the company. We thought, okay, how should we adjust scores? And there was a bunch of exchanges really being started up at the time.
00:07:48.316 - 00:08:32.640, Speaker B: And as an engineer, I felt very confident in the engineering side of things, I felt very confident in the product side of things, I felt very confident in the marketing side of things. And I was like, okay, well, I could do those things. The things that I cannot do that I know nothing about is compliance. It's international law. It's the crazy complexity that is involved with building one of these financial institutions, not just in the US, but all around the world. And so really, the magical moments was when I met my partner, Ken. We were basically, we've known each other for quite a long time, and we basically talked to each other and he told me a bit about what he was doing.
00:08:32.640 - 00:09:55.524, Speaker B: He was really kind of working with regulators around the world, helping various exchanges get gets stood up, really trying to figure out from the compliance point of view, how do we solve the FTX problem. And it just made sense that I can come and help alongside that journey. And eventually we basically decided, you know what? I think with backpack, we have an incredible brand, we have an incredible community. And then obviously he had the whole expertise on the compliance side of things where I felt like together we can actually build one of these things properly and without him, we certainly would not be even attempting this. I think the days of building these exchanges that are not under compliance or brought into compliance, I think those days are over. In order to build one of these institutions, you really have to do it right from so many different verticals, not only from the engineering side, with all the cool kind of cryptography that we use, but also from the operations side, from the licensing side, from the regulatory side, from the legal side, from just the million different details that is involved with building an international financial institution. And that was really kind of the point in which we pulled the trigger and decided, okay, I think we can make this happen.
00:09:55.524 - 00:09:58.814, Speaker B: Let's build one of these things. And we were off to the races.
00:10:00.234 - 00:10:35.726, Speaker A: Wow, what a fantastic way to give us an overview of your entire journey. We appreciate that. Certainly a lot of topics we could get into. I think it makes sense to just start with the exchange. It's the most recent. I think a lot of eyeballs are on that right now. And you brought up a lot of interesting points, which is that you're architecting this in a different way, in a way that's probably a little bit easier to give other stakeholders, auditors, just customers assurances that the funds are there right just after FTX? I mean, that.
00:10:35.726 - 00:11:24.234, Speaker A: I can't believe we have to literally say that. But that is now a question with a lot of exchanges out in the crypto world. One question I want us to start with is, how hard is it to build an exchange? They've always felt to me like this just, just giant behemoth, an impossibility. There's so much that happens behind the scenes to secure the assets, to make the matching engine efficient and get liquidity, so that people have decent access to a wide variety of assets at good prices in whatever size they want, and even just ignoring the compliance side, which is an entire burden in and of itself. I mean, tell us, like, what has it taken to get to this point where the exchange is about to be launched. How many people, people are working on this at your company? Give us the lowdown here.
00:11:24.974 - 00:11:47.160, Speaker B: Yeah, it's an enormous task. It's trite. Everybody says it, but every founder goes through that exercise of thinking, oh, yeah, it's simple. I can do it. And then they go through and they're like, oh, my gosh, if I had known the journey I would have gone through in order to get to this point, I never would have done it. And certainly that applies to us. There's been tons of different challenges.
00:11:47.160 - 00:12:34.030, Speaker B: I mean, the engineering side is certainly what I find comfort in. It's something that I think is challenging, but I think something that I think we're lucky that we were prepared for, just having been in the industry for so long, and I think we felt confident that we had the expertise to do it and the chops to do it. But there's many different components. It's like a really unique mix of skills. So obviously, there's the foundational set of skills where you just need solid engineers that can build a solid, fast performance system that can stay up all the time and have low latency, high throughput, and low jitter. This is table stakes for building any exchange. There's common techniques for building this stuff.
00:12:34.030 - 00:13:11.572, Speaker B: I think it's more or less well known by the majority of engineers and Silicon Valley tech companies. We know how to build these things. But then on top of this, these kind of web two skills, I would describe them, there is obviously the finance knowledge. How do you build an order book? It's not necessarily super well known, but it's also well understood by the people that are in the industry. We know how to build these things. We know the builder books. But then you get into more esoteric things, like how do you build a liquidation engine or a risk engine? How do you calculate cross collateral and margin fractions and do this for a wide variety of assets and.
00:13:11.572 - 00:13:50.914, Speaker B: And have orderly liquidations that are fair and robust. And so that's an interesting piece of knowledge. But then layering on top of all this is not just finance, but, well, you're in crypto, so there's also the domain specific knowledge in the crypto space. And what's really interesting about this is, well, on the one hand, cryptocurrencies are so interesting because, well, they're verifiable, they're unforgeable, they're censorship resistant. You can't reverse a transaction. And this is what gives them these incredible properties for transacting financial value. But on the other hand, from the perspective of building an exchange, it's an incredibly scary thing, right? You could think about something like a withdrawal.
00:13:50.914 - 00:14:26.828, Speaker B: It sounds so silly, but a withdrawal is very scary. If you go through the user experience for any of the major exchanges, there's a reason why they make you jump through all these hoops, right? You have email, OTP, you have a two Fa app in addition to email and password. Then maybe it might have a withdrawal password or some other kind of authentication mechanism. And it's because when that withdrawal goes out, while it's game over. So when the withdrawal goes out, well, you have to be certain that that is correct. And so we've put a lot of work purely into that side of things as well. And so the way we built the whole system is on top of the previous two kind of categories of things that I talked about.
00:14:26.828 - 00:15:18.058, Speaker B: Well, you know, we also apply kind of modern techniques that are widely used in blockchains, right? You know, things like, you know, state machine replication and having no single point of failure. Right. We basically have these different validators that independent instances of the exchange that all run in parallel. You can imagine all three of us were running our own versions of the exchange, where not only do we have computational integrity guarantees on the execution, but also all the validators control the custody solution as well. So if any one of us gets hacked, if any one of the validators gets hacked, then, well, we can detect that discrepancy, we can detect a malicious withdrawal and then stop the bad thing from happening. And so you start layering on these type of techniques as well that are widely used in blockchains. Right? And every message that goes into the system, right, every transaction and blockchain terms is authenticated.
00:15:18.058 - 00:16:18.044, Speaker B: It's signed with an ED 25519 key pair. So we have a globally kind of ordered, linear, authenticated log of messages that are archived and replayable so that we know for every state transition, exactly how it occurred. And those private keys might come from us, we provide API keys, or they might come from you, where you can bring your own key pair, which I think is kind of cool, but it's effectively running its own mini private blockchain that combines a lot of these techniques together to have these nice, robust computational integrity guarantees on the state of the exchange and the custody of the funds at any given point in time. Then, on top of this, it's like never ending on top of this, we've been working with otter security. So they're an incredible group of folks. They're one of the biggest auditors on Solana and crypto in general. They're really awesome security engineers and security researchers, and we've been working with them to bring to market a new set of zero knowledge proofs for reserves.
00:16:18.044 - 00:17:00.954, Speaker B: So our goal, basically, is to have proof of reserves every single day where I can go into a webpage, look at like a calendar UI, if you will, and just see all of my balances for every single snapshot, where each snapshot, each proof is attested to on the blockchain every single day. And then I can pull up my phone or my extension or the website. I could literally go look at the verification code and run verification proofs where I can check. Okay, yeah, that's right. The balances in this, in the exchange system do map to the balances that are on the blockchain. And that's really the point that we want to get to. And that's a really hard problem, combining all these things, three all these things, these things together to build kind of a next generation cryptocurrency exchange.
00:17:00.954 - 00:17:21.794, Speaker B: And it really gets to the first principled reason for why blockchain technology is so interesting. It's purpose built for this stuff, and we're really excited to apply it not just to permissionless crypto networks, but now to a centralized financial institution. And so, yeah, that's kind of like the many layers from the engineering point of view.
00:17:26.734 - 00:18:29.746, Speaker C: I'm just wondering how groundbreaking this is, because if you, from an outsider's perspective who doesn't know very much about building an exchange tradfi, it feels like the tech only goes up to a certain level. And then after that, you're sort of relying upon these checks and balances, reporting to the various regulatory authorities. Then you had sort of the early crypto exchanges, binance, things like that, where they basically had the same tech, as far as I can tell, as these tradfi exchanges, but they didn't have all of those checks and balances. It was more an unregulated market. And that's how we've sort of ended up with FTX. Whereas what you're describing seems to be almost like the future of all exchanges, both crypto and tradfi, because you're now starting to leverage crypto techniques to ensure the veracity that the funds are there, that everything has been done in accordance with the rules without having to rely upon this three months delayed reporting upon what's actually happened, which is very inefficient system. Is that how you see it? Can this be the sort of the.
00:18:29.770 - 00:18:56.080, Speaker B: Future of all exchanges that's exactly right. I think this applies not just crypto exchanges. It really applies to any system that's tracking a ledger. Right. That is why blockchains are so interesting. And it's really like the perfect technology for creating auditable, verifiable computational kind of systems. Right.
00:18:56.080 - 00:19:26.632, Speaker B: Anything where you have this deterministic state transition function that can be computed from a authenticated stream of inputs, that you can apply these techniques. Right. And so totally agree with everything that you're saying. I think it's kind of funny because I don't. On the one hand, you say it's groundbreaking, and it is because, well, as far as I'm aware, I don't think there's many crypto exchanges that are actually built like this. Maybe you can point at Dexs. Dexs certainly are the closest thing because they're quite literally on a blockchain using smart contracts.
00:19:26.632 - 00:20:11.324, Speaker B: But on the other hand, it's not particularly new stuff. It's just, we're just doing it. It's like what I said in the beginning of the call, it's like you look around the crypto space, you're like, well, why don't people do this stuff? And it's like, well, a lot of the obvious things, whether it's anchor, whether it's mad lads, whether it's xnft, and I guess not the exchange, a lot of it's just obvious. I wouldn't consider it groundbreaking research or particularly insightful, although the zero knowledge proof stuff is pretty novel research. But the general architecture I would not describe as groundbreaking. It's kind of just tried and true stuff that we've known as a general kind of, I don't know, set of software professionals. And it's just like applying it to the domain in a way that I think is just appropriate.
00:20:11.324 - 00:20:51.406, Speaker B: And even in traditional finance, like NYSE and like these kind of exchanges, they use a lot of these techniques, right? They use state machine replication and all these things. They just don't have the crypto part of it, right. They don't have the proofs, and they don't have the independent validators and things of that nature. And that's why they have the long settlement times versus when you use a blockchain, you have instant settlement, and you have consensus at the speed of light. You want to use the Solana tagline. That's what makes it so awesome and also so scary and why you need a lot of these very kind of challenging modern crypto techniques to do that in a secure way. I don't know what the future holds.
00:20:51.406 - 00:20:54.394, Speaker B: But I'm super excited about all this stuff, and I think it's the future for sure.
00:20:55.414 - 00:21:24.214, Speaker A: Where does this exchange fit into the competitive landscape? And I guess the geographical landscape, which is to say, there's a lot of exchanges out there. It's been a tried and true business model for crypto. But where does this slot into, compared to your finances? Coinbases, krakens by bits, Kucoins, okxs of the world? Is there a specific market you're going to focus on heavily? First specific fiat currencies that will be supported. How does this kind of fit in?
00:21:25.994 - 00:22:18.078, Speaker B: I think, morally speaking, the way that we are just oriented in the world is pretty different than all of those institutions. I think we are primarily looking through the lens of the l one itself, through the lens of self custody as a wallet, through the lens of open source developers. The exchange obviously is an open source, but I've spent a lot of time working on open source, and that's pretty meaningful to me. And I think, yeah, I think, just morally speaking, I think we come at it from that point of view. How do we build a great institution to build the broader crypto economy? Right. I think the role that exchanges play, I mean, everybody loves to talk about trading. I think trading is super important.
00:22:18.078 - 00:23:17.238, Speaker B: Definitely it's super important, don't get me wrong, and we'll have a great trading product. But I view the general role of the exchange is more of an auxiliary service to the l one. It's really this gateway, or this bridge from the traditional financial system into the parallel financial system. To put it in Anatoly's words, it's really that gateway, right? It's doing all that hard work of connecting to tradfi, doing all the compliance legwork, integrating into that system in a way that will require a ton of money. It requires a ton of compliance and expertise, tons of talent, tons of operational overhead, and doing all this stuff all around the world, not just in one country, but in every country kind of on the planet. And that's a ton of work, and somebody's got to do that, and then that unlocks a ton of value. The first thing you get, as you mentioned, is just fiat.
00:23:17.238 - 00:24:06.704, Speaker B: And that's probably the most important thing, global banking and fiat rails. If we do nothing but make it really easy and fast and cheap to convert any fiat currency anywhere in the world into your favorite gas token, to get that into your wallet, and we do that as cheaply, as fastly as possible, then we've done our job pretty well. But in order to do that, you really need that compliance component nailed down. And if you take a look at any wallet or any team that doesn't have this compliance component nailed down, you go look at the fees or the latency or the size restrictions. It's crazy not to pick on anybody in particular. It's not like we should not be charging users the fees that some of these products are charging. It's because they don't have that piece.
00:24:06.704 - 00:25:07.804, Speaker B: In order to do this well, you really need to solve that really hard problem, and there's no shortcut to it. You really need to hook up into that system and be able to do things like international wire transfers, and that's super important to build a great product. But then you look at companies like Circle. Circle is one of my favorite examples of this, where, I mean, they don't call themselves an exchange, but they do a lot of the same stuff as an exchange. They have this really challenging compliance problem, they have this great custody solution, and they combine these things together to tokenize fiat, where they take this asset from the traditional economy and they bridge it over as USCC into the crypto economy. And that creates a ten x better product, something that truly has product market fit that just creates a great service for the world. And I think that's like a really great example of how a lot of this stuff can be used in a really effective way to just build great stuff that's just groundbreaking for the world.
00:25:07.804 - 00:25:28.274, Speaker B: And so I think that compliance piece and this role that this crypto native financial institution, as I like to call it, is just super important for folks that really care about the crypto economy. And I think we're very much trying to fill that role. And so, yeah, that's kind of like how we're oriented, and we're really trying to provide that service.
00:25:34.854 - 00:26:29.834, Speaker C: When you talk about this link between tradfi rails and crypto rails, it actually reminds me a bit of the analogy of AOL at the beginning of the Internet, where basically they were just having these walled gardens. They didn't really want people to actually leave the AOL site and go off into the wider Internet. And it's a little bit like that at the moment with the centralized exchanges, with binance, whatnot. They just want to keep you on binance, but the way that you are doing it and sort of how circle, I suppose, integrate into crypto products. You're trying to, like, unleash people onto crypto rails far more seamlessly, predominantly in your case, by having it all as part of the same app. So you can have all of your crypto stuff in one tab and then another tab being the centralized exchange. Is that what you see potentially happening with this app that is just going to really help seamlessly flow users from tradvo rails basically onto crypto rather than staying within the walled garden?
00:26:32.014 - 00:27:00.274, Speaker B: Absolutely. I absolutely love the way you frame that. I think that's totally what we're trying to do. And I think if you look at the app, you really see that where the UX of the exchange is actually, it's the same wallet UX as the self custodial wallet, and it's really making it seamless to go back and forth between those two worlds, I think, is something that we really want to do really well. That sentiment is very much shared with us and it's how we kind of view the product.
00:27:01.734 - 00:27:34.852, Speaker A: A follow up question on that, because what you're seeing right now with centralized exchanges, Coinbase put out base this summer. They have the wallet, Coinbase wallet, which is a pretty, I guess, seamless way to go between fiat and on chain applications, then. Now OKX is doing something with an l one. Kraken rumored to be doing this to, or, sorry, with an l two. Kraken's doing an l two. So from their perspective, they've always been these centralized beasts and they want to get more on chain. You've always been on chain.
00:27:34.852 - 00:27:54.304, Speaker A: You grew up on chain and now you're doing the centralized exchange. Talk to us a bit about, like, to your point, how the product is going to look. It seems like you're trying to make this look like you're already on chain, but in the background, you guys did all this hard work to actually make those rails pretty seamless. Is that kind of the vision for this?
00:27:55.004 - 00:28:33.908, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I view the exchange, honestly as like another network. And so, I mean, it's quite literally a private, I mean, if you want to call it a private blockchain, it's like another network. And so when you actually, you see that in the app, when you're picking Solana, Ethereum or the exchange. Yeah. I don't really know how to interpret a lot of the trend of exchanges moving to l two s or creating their own l two s. Like, I think, I mean, OKX, Coinbase, bybit, finance, they all have their own networks now. Yeah, I guess I don't really have a good sense.
00:28:33.908 - 00:29:03.222, Speaker B: I think roll ups are certainly one approach. I guess it's challenging to see how that'll play out because these are like, Coinbase is a great example of this. I mean, Coinbase is an incredible institution. I have so much respect for what they've done. They're like the shining bright light of compliance and high integrity in the US. And I really just. Yeah, I just respect that whole institution a ton.
00:29:03.222 - 00:29:54.166, Speaker B: But I guess base really confuses me as a, I don't know, somebody looking at both these worlds. Because it's supposed to be like a blockchain, right? It's supposed to be like decentralized, and you have Defi. And all these things in there, right? But it's run by a centralized institution that needs to be regulated, compliant. So it feels like in this really awkward middle ground to me versus my view of the world. And again, I'm not picking on the base team, I just honestly don't know. Or it's kind of like conflicts with my view of the world, which is I feel like you'll be on one, two sides of the spectrum. Either you'll be totally decentralized, fully private, fully private, totally decentralized, no single point of failure, nobody that controls anything, nobody that can single handedly halt the system, nobody that has upgrade keys, nobody that controls a token distribution.
00:29:54.166 - 00:30:39.446, Speaker B: And this applies for l one, it applies for l two, s, it applies for token projects. I view it like you either extremely decentralized, maximally decentralized, or you're totally centralized and you're compliant with every rule, every regulation, every law, and you're just like any other kind of financial institution in the world. A fintech company built on crypto rails. And I feel like that is the end state for basically all crypto products. And so what we've done, right, is we've gone to both extremes, and we, for each product, whether it's a wallet or whether it's the exchange, we do not sacrifice the integrity of the other. Right, the wallet. We don't track the wallet, we don't throw them into a database, we don't ask the user for information.
00:30:39.446 - 00:31:31.424, Speaker B: The wallet's the wallet. It's a great wallet. Similarly, on the exchange, we're not playing flat, fast and loose. We have an incredible compliance team, and we go through great efforts and a lot of stress to have a very rigorous adherence to the rules in all the countries that we serve users in. And so, yeah, I don't really know exactly how that will play out, but I think the charitable view, and I think this is true, is that things like base will certainly expose people to a lot of crypto tooling, which I think is an incredible thing. I think Coinbase has probably onboarded more people to self custody than the majority of decentralized apps, maybe all decentralized apps, if we're being honest. So major kudos to flowers, if you want to use that term.
00:31:31.424 - 00:31:35.716, Speaker B: To those guys, it's great stuff. Yeah.
00:31:35.780 - 00:32:10.264, Speaker C: I think the l two strategy, to me it just screams that it's part of this walled garden strategy as well. They've got you in the centralized exchange, and then they want you to go and use their decentralized l two. They don't want you to go off and just use crypto at large. So to me, it's just trying to maximize value capture, basically, whereas you're going about it in a different way. You're not saying I want to own an SVM roll up, and that's where you should live. You're saying the sort of part of the journey you want to own is the wallet itself, which to me makes far more sense, and then just sort of let people go off and explore where they. Where they choose.
00:32:10.264 - 00:32:44.194, Speaker C: One thing I wanted to raise was the it's really part of your go to market strategy, which is using mad lads. Suddenly you've got this fervent ecosystem of thousands of people basically doing free advertising for the exchange. And it feels to me like maybe the first truly, I don't know, intelligent use of nfTs, maybe, and of the marketing potential that they have where it's for a real product coming to market, rather than just the advertising being the NFT itself. So, yeah, if you could just tell us more about your mad lads strategy.
00:32:45.334 - 00:33:37.854, Speaker B: Yeah, so I think one of two things is going to happen with the history of mad lads. They're either going to write business books about this, or it's going to be known as the silliest idea ever, and we never should have done it. And it was a big mistake. I think, in either case, we're having a ton of fun and we've met a lot of incredible people, and it's just like a really rabid, just incredible bunch of people around the world. And so maybe it's a win win regardless. But ultimately, Madlads has always been, you know, I mean, it's a community, right? And they're simultaneously a community of people with their own agendas, their own interests, their own incentives, their own things that they care about and that they do. And then they're also kind of customers and folks that we build stuff for.
00:33:37.854 - 00:34:24.424, Speaker B: And like, the way that I describe it, and this might sound kind of silly, is just like, they're just like 10,000 of our closest friends on the Internet. And when your friends do cool stuff, you tend to want to support them. And if your friends do really well, you tend to be happier in whatever way you live your life, right? And I think that is, like, emotionally, I think how we feel about it, and it makes for a really terrific way, I think, to build a product. I mean, there's all sorts of negative things that you can point out, right? It's like you, you know, no matter what you do, whether it's crypto or, you know, a traditional silic valley company, right. There's always going to be people that are like, you know, making you stressed out. You know, whether there are people asking you to do a token or there are people asking you to, you know, do something. You know, I don't know.
00:34:24.424 - 00:34:56.777, Speaker B: You know, somebody like, you know, Sam Alton deals with or whatever, not to compare myself to him. He's just like that first figure. And in Silicon Valley, that came to my head. But, you know, I think there's a pros and cons, right? And I think it's. It's just been terrific to just, like, be, being able to go to in discord, be like, hey, guys, what do you think of this? Should we do this? Do you like this? Does this make your life better? And to have some smiles along the way. And I think that has just been really just tons of fun. And I think, honestly, we just try to mix all those kind of things together, right? It's like a combination.
00:34:56.777 - 00:35:28.504, Speaker B: It's like a weird combination of just like, maximum fun, maximum just like, you know, product feedback, and also trying to just make people's lives better. And I think it's like, why build alone when you can build with other people and having a symbol in the form of a piece of artwork to represent that collective, I don't know, Brandon vision alignment, whatever you want to call it, is really a great way to go to market. And, yeah, I don't know, that's kind of maybe a bit about how I think about it.
00:35:30.244 - 00:36:33.104, Speaker A: So I think, obviously, you're kind of like a mainstay of the Solana ecosystem, and certainly a lot of people view this move with the exchange and pretty much everything you've ever built, even just dating back to the dev tooling as like, yes, this is going to help Solana accomplish more. How are you thinking about, though? Because I never believed in monogamous relationships with blockchains. They're just tools to do things on. Certainly, I think Solana is the most technically robust approach, but you can't ignore the capital on ETH. So with respect to the exchange, are you guys going to support, you know, all kinds of tokens? Do you expect this to be an on ramp just to crypto broadly? Because I do remember when backpack even first dropped it, I believe, either teased at ETH support or it did support ETH. And so, like, how do you think about that? How do you think about the Ethereum ecosystem and how this kind of dovetails into, into that world?
00:36:34.044 - 00:37:03.204, Speaker B: It's funny because everybody on Solana thinks I'm an ETH maxi, and then everybody on ETH thinks I'm a Solana maxi. So I'm like, in this weird middle ground where I have no friends. But I think, luckily, at least the folks that have been in both ecosystems for a while are all pretty kind people. And there's not a lot of maximalism, I think, amongst the builders. But no, I mean, backfac's had ETH support since the beginning. I started my crypto career on ETH. I have a lot of friends on ETH.
00:37:03.204 - 00:37:29.016, Speaker B: It's a super important ecosystem. I don't think it'll ever go away. I think, obviously, Solana is close to my heart. It's, you know, I would call it like a second home for me, friends and family kind of thing. It's an awesome ecosystem. We've just gone through so much as a company, as a community at the madluts level. At the Solana level, yeah.
00:37:29.016 - 00:38:05.250, Speaker B: I just have so much admiration and respect for folks in both ecosystems. I'm obviously spending a lot of time in Solana, and that's very much our starting point. It's the people we spend the most time with, but we want to build products for the entire world. I think it would be a disservice to Solana to ever be a maximalist. I think the reason why I worked on Solana in the first place is because I cared about other blockchains. It's like, by definition, I went to Solana because I'm not a maxi. The whole maximalism thing is dumbed me.
00:38:05.250 - 00:38:32.204, Speaker B: I think the whole alignment meme is just so absurd. I get it. People have incentives. You see this amongst developers and web two. Everybody cares about react or vue or chakra or tailwind or whatever flavor of the day it is. Obviously, in crypto it's much more potent because of the financial element. But it's all silly.
00:38:32.204 - 00:38:55.164, Speaker B: I'm not aligned with anything other than just awesome people building cool stuff on the Internet. We love Solana. It's a second home we're building awesome stuff for the network. We hope to expand to ethereum. I don't know how to answer that question. Then, yeah, people are awesome. Build up stuff for awesome people, for sure.
00:38:55.164 - 00:39:49.764, Speaker B: I do think that, like, a lot of the exchanges do fade Solana, though, and kind of treat it as a second class citizen. I think we see that pretty clearly. You see in terms of listings, you seem to see it in terms of public sentiment, you see it in terms of just like, how they communicate publicly about problems in the space. I think a lot of the engineering work on Solana is just like so foreign to people, for whatever reason, that they just don't believe it's true. They think there's like some weird shortcut or something, and it's like, no, it's just like, really impressive engineering work and you should give it a chance. And I think from that point of view, we certainly want to be in exchange. That alignment, again, is such a dumb word, but we're just, we haven't loved Solana and we want to support it in ways that other exchanges don't.
00:39:50.094 - 00:40:05.954, Speaker A: It's our best shot to get a ton of capital into Solana through fiat rails. That's always been one of the biggest headwinds I've seen. So, you know, it's. We totally respect this. Adding that to the fray of tools that people have to onboard.
00:40:07.734 - 00:40:37.934, Speaker C: How do you think about abstracting away some of the complexities? Because obviously you're going to have centralized exchange, you're going to have the Solana rails, and then you're going to have all of these, at the very least, ETH rails, maybe the l two rails. Do you think wallets have gone as far as they can? Or do you have plans in the future to try and further abstracted way and also tagged onto that? Can you imagine a future where you can just do something on the centralized exchange and then it's going to come onto the decentralized stuff and it's all going to happen in one transaction. Is that all part of the future as well?
00:40:40.314 - 00:41:44.052, Speaker B: I think you have to think about it in terms of what does the end state of all these crypto networks look like? And my sense is that there will be a couple things that happen. I'm just speculating here, but here's my sense. My sense is that there will be a small number of very high valuable, of high value general execution layers. So things like Solana, what Ethereum originally was what it is today, but I don't know if it'll continue to be this way, but where there's the maximum amount of shared state that can be atomically composed with each other. And the reason for that is that it's great UX and people want to have shared, stay on the same system, and there's network effects in that. And it's really hard to build these decentralized networks. And the more, you know, there'll just be network effects, and it'll be.
00:41:44.052 - 00:42:22.524, Speaker B: If you want to build an unbreakable world computer, I think there's probably only going to be a couple of these things. So I think there will be a small number of those. Right now, it's basically Solana and it's Ethereum, and then there will be ecosystem specific, or app chains. I love the cosmos view of the world. I've always loved cosmos because I always felt like it was very, in my view, very intellectually honest for a lot of things. Of course, there's going to be multiple chains. We want different chains for different use cases.
00:42:22.524 - 00:42:57.380, Speaker B: I would argue bitcoin is an app specific chain. It was built for cash. It's not cash now, but it's a store of value now. And it's the most important store of value, I think, in the world. But that is like a singular use case. Whether you're storing bitcoin to store value or nulls in terms of art, it's really like a very specific ecosystem versus a general purpose computer like Solana. And this is totally the roadmap of Ethereum and celestia of others.
00:42:57.380 - 00:43:20.234, Speaker B: They want to be a settlement layer so that all these roll ups kind of build on top. And the problem with that? Well, there's trade offs. There's trade offs in everything. There's no perfect solution. But the downside of that is, well, each roll up is fragmented. And so composing the state of rollups between each other is very difficult. That's not particularly insightful.
00:43:20.234 - 00:44:06.206, Speaker B: Maybe there's some theoretical solution to this that people will point to a blog post or paper about, but as far as I can tell, I haven't seen any kind of implementations of this where they can actually abstract away that complexity. So you basically have different blockchains for each roll up. I could be wrong there. I'm not super up to date with the modern roll up research, but I look at a roll up and I'm like, okay, from a UX point of view, the user sees a different blockchain, whether it's optimism, arbitrum, or polygon or whatever. Polygon, I guess, technically isn't a roll up, but, you know, what I mean, they're different blockchains. And so that's going to create fragmentation. And so none of those systems will ever be as valuable as ETH mainnet or as Solana because they're fragmented.
00:44:06.206 - 00:44:52.016, Speaker B: They're all competing with each other, and they're not going to ever be as decentralized or scale in the same way that, like, ethereum or Solana will. And so what you'll see with rollups is purpose built chains. In the event of. In the case of, like, base, I suspected it'll be like, you know, finance, defi, or whatever. You might have app specific chains for, you know, a game, for example, or, you know, specific use cases. Like, I don't know, like if I have a consortium of banks, I want to use, you know, a roll up as a, you know, internal bookkeeping mechanism, whatever it is. And so that's kind of the view of the world.
00:44:52.016 - 00:45:47.884, Speaker B: And so to circle back to your question, how does this translate into wallet UX if you have a couple high value general purpose chains with all the value in it, and then you have a long tail of application specific chains? Well, then that basically means you have apps, and it means you have a couple of base layers that you settle into or that you use actively for apps. I think there's two ramifications of this. The first ramification is, well, to handle the base layers, you kind of need ux, maybe similar to what we have today. In backpack, we have a couple of chains that are highlighted as the main use cases. And you drive users there and they have their assets, and you have a wallet user experience. But then for all the roll ups and all the app chains, it's an apple. So in the same way you use Venmo, when you use Venmo, what do you do? The first thing, you go into the app and you deposit money from your bank.
00:45:47.884 - 00:46:06.704, Speaker B: You use plaid to transfer money in and out. But it's a deposit and a withdrawal interface. It's the same thing as an exchange and app chains, roll ups, whatever. Similar UX, right. You're going into an app, you're depositing money into the system, and you're withdrawing money out of the system. And that's like convenient Ux that we all know. Right.
00:46:06.704 - 00:46:14.614, Speaker B: And so I think that is kind of more or less how we're structuring the wallet and kind of how we view the world. So I hope that answers the question, the UX question.
00:46:22.194 - 00:47:32.164, Speaker A: So you brought up a good point, actually, in that answer that I want to dive into a bit or a couple things, rather. The first is, and you kind of alluded to this, l two s or even app chains in the cosmos ecosystem, the utility that is always posited is that you can customize it to your app. What I find, just taking that to the extreme is I've never heard of a really good reason to have an app chain other than if you're doing something like a orderbook perp Dex that needs, like a tendermint blockchain. Like it needs the performance guarantees of that. Other than that, it feels to me like you could probably just do this on the l one, like Solana at least like a fast l one, you know? And so it's just odd. It's just odd that it almost feels like it's just a pitch to get people to use the chain rather than thinking from first principles. Like, why would you want to have a separate chain to do something? I mean, is that kind of how you view it? From what I see, at least it's either control or, or, hey, we have an l two, so you just build here because we raise a lot of money and we're going to give you some money and everyone's happy.
00:47:32.164 - 00:47:34.484, Speaker A: How do you view that?
00:47:34.904 - 00:48:06.424, Speaker B: Yeah, so I think I agree with the sentiment that it's a lot of work to run your own l two or your own app chain. And I think, I mean, one way to put it is just in the programming model terms, right? One is serverless. It's very easy. You just write a little smart contract, solidity, rust, whatever, you throw it on the chain, it just works. That is a great programming model. It is an incredible opportunity to leverage your skills as a developer to do the minimum amount of work for the maximum amount of value. It's a great experience.
00:48:06.424 - 00:48:30.764, Speaker B: But on the other hand, you have building your own blockchain. Even if you use something like tendermint, which makes it really easy. Cosmos SDK is awesome. You still have to do that hard work of running those validators. And then depending on what you're doing, you might want that to be centralized. You might want it to be decentralized in the event that it's decent, decentralized. Oh, my goodness, you have a whole other problem, and that is so difficult.
00:48:30.764 - 00:49:11.210, Speaker B: So it really depends on what you're doing. I think there are certainly use cases, like an exchange is the perfect use case, where you really just need control, where if you want, especially if it's centralized, that's a great use case, like for private blockchains, for example. And so I think it really depends. But I think there are examples where, well, you grow so big, you outgrow the network, and you need to go onto your own chain. And I think that is certainly would be the case for companies like Facebook or Instagram or even something like pith. Right? Pith has its own l two, or I don't know what you call it. It's his own app chain, but it uses Solana's virtual machine.
00:49:11.210 - 00:49:38.284, Speaker B: I think they're one of the first ones to really have that in production. And I haven't spoken with the pit team about it, but I can only assume it's because they're just doing so much on the network that they are just literally sending just tons of transactions where eventually you outgrow it. Right. And so I think that is one reason as well. And I think that's a pretty reasonable use case.
00:49:38.904 - 00:50:18.918, Speaker A: That's actually a really good analogy, is if you're just building on the l one, as a developer, you're offloading all of the complexity, the DevOps complexity to an AWS or what have you. If you're not, it's like you're building in 2001, where you're just setting up the servers, you're communicating, setting the databases, handling all the connections to the Internet, all the syncing. It's just an insane amount of overhead to want to take on. I mean, it's a lot of extra glass at you. One other thing I wanted to touch on, at least during this chat we're having with you, is x nfts. I mean, they were super. It was like the hot announcement of last breakpoint.
00:50:18.918 - 00:50:39.194, Speaker A: And I would say, at least from my perspective, adoption probably isn't quite where maybe a lot of us thought it would be. What's been your read on that situation? This idea of putting code on chain, tokenizing code, and executing it inside the wallet. What have been your learning so far from that experiment?
00:50:39.934 - 00:50:59.874, Speaker B: So I think a couple things. So the first thing is that Xnfts really are great. It's really great. Ux. It's really what made the Madlad's mint so special. It basically turns the NFT into an app. Basically, it's like you solve all the token gating right then and there.
00:50:59.874 - 00:51:46.652, Speaker B: But I think there's two challenges that need to be overcome for it. So the first challenge is really the ability for creators to build them without engineers. So it's a very low level primitive, right? It's like, go build an app, and that's hard for NFTs to do. We were able to do it as mad lads, right? But your average NFT kind of project would be pretty hard for them to do. And so that's the first thing. And then the second thing is distribution, right? Ex NFTs really are valuable, you know, proportional to the distribution of the wallet or the platform. And so you really have to solve that problem, because once you have that distribution, then you are able to build network effects.
00:51:46.652 - 00:52:38.652, Speaker B: You have people that will build the XNft for the platform, and then you have the people that will use the X NFTs because all the cool X NFTs are on the platform, right? Whether it's Solano or it's a wallet or whatever. And I think that's really a tough chicken egg problem. And I think those are really the two reasons that I would describe that or that make it challenging. Then the third reason, which I think is the other really important reason, is mobile, where it's really hard to get Apple to be okay with it. I think the way that we have gone about it is basically to treat them like websites, so that it's the exact same UX as ADAP browser. It's kind of like a shortcut for getting in there. But I think those are kind of the high level kind of.
00:52:38.652 - 00:53:10.824, Speaker B: That would be like my take. And I think everything that we're doing with the exchange and obviously with madlads, I think just creates more primitives that we can bring to ex NFT developers. So it's a bit of a tough line to toe. But I think ultimately the wallet is like the. It's a key management system, but ultimately it's like the financial service provider for application developers. And that's kind of like the way we see the end state of that ecosystem that we want to build out.
00:53:12.284 - 00:53:37.694, Speaker C: Do you think that they're broadly, I don't know, equivalent to PwAs, which we saw popularized by Friendtech, because obviously there's also been saga with their own App Store. I think Android App Store maybe has started accepting crypto apps. So, yeah, just wondering how it compares, I suppose, to traditional App Stores and how it would compare to PWA and what are the sort of additional features which can be leveraged.
00:53:39.274 - 00:54:17.284, Speaker B: I think there's two things that are interesting about it, or two problems that they solve. The first is in the case where you want a decentralized app, you need a decentralized front end. And a great example of this is something like Uniswap, where you have a decentralized protocol that's controlled by nobody and used all around the world. Some immutable smart contracts. I actually don't know the status of Uniswap's immutability. I'm guessing it's immutable just based on what I know about the team. But don't take my word as truth, I actually don't know.
00:54:17.284 - 00:55:07.960, Speaker B: That is a great example of a very simple front end that makes a ton of sense to tokenize, put on a blockchain and have that distribution of that app controlled by a decentralized token or an NFT if you want to put in those terms. I think that is the first thing. If you need a decentralized front end where you really have this serverless programming model where the backend is just a smart contract, and if you're in this world where everything is decentralized, you have to tokenize the UI, otherwise it's centralized, somebody go take it down. And that's a point of failure. So that's the first thing. The second thing is really about token gating. And mad lads is maybe the best example of this, where in order for you to.
00:55:07.960 - 00:55:45.914, Speaker B: We have this staking mechanism for mad lads where you click on the mad lad and you can stake it and basically lock it up, accumulates. It's like World of Warcraft gold we took inspiration from there is like copper, silver, gold and diamond. And it's just a point system that's bound to your wallet that is basically tracking your loyalty to the community. Right? A loyalty tracker basically. And the NFT literally is the apparer. It's like a bearer app if you want to put it in those terms. And I think on that primitive you can build really cool stuff and that's just engineering work that needs to be done.
00:55:45.914 - 00:56:38.300, Speaker B: It's like this going back to what I keep saying, there's all these cool ideas, actually few people that will actually go execute on them. But a cool example of this is this sole abstraction idea that I came up with a bit ago. I wrote a thread on Twitter and explained the idea. But basically what you could think about is airdropping, a primitive to airdrop programming instructions onto wallets. And that's a really cool abstract primitive that you can build stuff on. Where for example, if I wanted to build like a rewards platform, or maybe I'm like a pizza shop, or maybe I'm a clothing company, or maybe I'm like Coachella and I want to advertise to an NFT. Maybe it's an entire community at once, maybe it's a specific NFT because I saw what they were doing on the blockchain and thought it was relevant.
00:56:38.300 - 00:57:12.384, Speaker B: And, well, I can airdrop an app to you, basically, where you can open up that app and do stuff with it, and you can do that all through the blockchain. It's a delivery mechanism. I think these types of use cases really are under explored, and I think these are really the two primitives that you get, decentralized front ends and bearer programmability. And I think those are really the two kind of value propositions to lean into with the XNFT experiment that are, that we would love to continue to explore as time goes on.
00:57:14.004 - 00:58:05.304, Speaker A: That's awesome. One actually topic I wanted to dig into is because you founded a lot of things that are pretty different. One is just like, do you have any advice for founders? Maybe they're crypto, but maybe not. In just figuring out what gets them going, what gets them curious, what to focus on. It looks like you started off doing a lot of open source projects, and maybe you didn't have the intention to turn that into a company, but eventually a lot of people found it useful and you did. Like, how did you figure out, this is what I want to work on and kind of kept pushing through because you guys went through a lot of headwinds, especially with the FTX thing. But I'm sure certainly a lot of others, just having been in Solana for so long, tell us a bit about that.
00:58:07.444 - 00:58:43.572, Speaker B: So I think, I mean, there's a bunch of ways you can take this conversation, I think, the most. I mean, it's not super. I mean, I guess it's common advice in the startup kind of world, but I think, I think I might have heard Brian Armstrong say this. I saw somebody say this where he basically said, just go do stuff. Like, it doesn't matter what it is, just go do it. Because action just provides information, and when you get more information, you can get more insight and do more interesting things. And so whenever these types of questions come up, I basically like to tell people, well, just, it doesn't matter, just go do it.
00:58:43.572 - 01:00:06.574, Speaker B: If you want to build a wallet, go build a wallet. It doesn't matter that there's like a million wallets, right? Because when you're in that process, our wallet led to a bunch of stuff, right? Led the XNFTs, led the mad lads, you know, even the exchange to some extent, like, you know, it allowed us to get out into the world and communicate with people where, you know, people, you know, came to us and said, oh, I want to do x, y, and z with you right? And that all came from just action. And so that's maybe the first thing, right? It's just like, go do stuff. It's super tempting to want to, I mean, to want to be inside your apartment just like, you know, researching and reading research papers or playing video games or getting inspiration, whatever way you get inspiration. But it's, you really got to be out there in the world and executing in public. So, yeah, I don't know if the question is how do you get inspiration and creativity? I think the answer, it's tempting to want to think of oneself as, like, a fundamentally and intrinsically creative person, but I think at least the way I work, I suspect many humans work this way, is more, you know, reactive or it's as much reactive as it is, you know, introspective, where you really need to be out there bumping shoulders with people and feeding off of the energy of people to really kind of get, you know, inspired and learn what to do.
01:00:07.834 - 01:00:38.814, Speaker A: Do you think your past has had any influence on you just being in crypto? I know you just brought up in the previous question, like some analogies to World of Warcraft. I find that a lot of people in crypto, including myself, I used to play runescape back in the day, played a lot of mmos, and you just kind of learn about markets and digital items, digital gold and things like that. I feel like it probably influenced me for sure. Like, I just grasp things a lot quicker, especially nfts. Have you found that to be the case for you?
01:00:39.154 - 01:00:56.960, Speaker B: Yeah, totally. I think, I mean, I'm a huge World of Warcraft nerd. I love World of Warcraft. If I wasn't, you know, if left of my own devices, I'd just be playing World of Warcraft all day, probably. But I'm lucky I'm not left to my own devices. I think it totally had an influence. I think.
01:00:56.960 - 01:01:29.456, Speaker B: I think creating online community and bonds and making friends with people all around the world that you've never met before, but you feel like you know them deeply and intimately. It's like that's, that's all World of Warcraft stuff. Like, it's such a social game and it's very much the same. It's weird to say, I guess I never thought about this. It's the same thing that we're doing with, like, crypto on crypto, Twitter and NFT and stuff, and building these communities. Right. It's like a guild and so, yeah, that's a really cool kind of thing to think about.
01:01:29.456 - 01:01:30.724, Speaker B: And I think you're right.
01:01:31.904 - 01:01:35.564, Speaker A: There's something there. There's some pattern matching here that I'm noticing.
01:01:37.064 - 01:01:50.084, Speaker C: Love it. And Armani, maybe as a closing question, but you've pushed us back twice, so maybe in return, what's the alpha? What should we be looking forward to? What should we look out for going forwards?
01:01:51.724 - 01:02:19.484, Speaker B: Yeah, great question. I assume this isn't going to go out before tonight. We're looking to launch the exchange very soon, looking to within the next week, basically, and looking to list the first markets. And we're super excited to get the ball rolling. There's tons of really important work to do and a lot of work. But yeah, we're getting that ball rolling this week, and that's probably the most exciting, exciting thing happening.
01:02:20.424 - 01:02:56.904, Speaker A: Amazing. I think a lot of us are looking forward to this. It's been, I don't know, it's been a long year since Solana collapsed and then bounced back post FTX, and it's a weird kind of story arc that I think I'm just seeing in all these publications, but it's a rebirth in some ways. So we're super looking forward to everything that's going to come out of backpack exchange. I appreciate all your contributions to crypto and the ecosystem. It's truly just incalculable. And, yeah, again, thank you so much for telling us about your journey, your story, what you're working on, and joining us today.
01:02:57.724 - 01:03:01.204, Speaker B: Yeah, thank you so much for having me. It was a pleasure. And, yeah, I guess I'll see you next time.
