00:00:10.760 - 00:00:19.410, Speaker A: Welcome to the infinite Jungle. On today's show, I have Matt Cutler, CEO and co founder of Black Native, on the show. Hi Matt, thank you for being here.
00:00:19.830 - 00:00:21.790, Speaker B: Hi Christine. Thanks so much for having me.
00:00:21.950 - 00:01:06.960, Speaker A: I'm very excited to talk to you about the recent presentation that you gave at the modular summit about base fee volatility. But before we get started with our conversation, here for our listeners is a quick show disclaimer. I need to remind you to please refer to the disclaimer linked in the podcast show notes, and note that none of the information in this podcast constitutes investment advice, an offer, recommendation, or solicitation by Galaxy Digital or any of its affiliates to buy or sell any securities. So, base fee volatility for our listeners that are not super familiar with what the base fee is, and yada yada, can you give a quick one to two sentence kind of precursor of why it matters for users?
00:01:07.860 - 00:01:44.952, Speaker B: Matt so the challenge is going to be two sentences. But first off, the base fee is the minimum fee for inclusion on Ethereum L1, and it is intended to reflect current demand for block space. And so what happens with the base fee is you can't get on chain unless your transaction includes the base fee and the base fee is burned by the network. So those, those fees go away basically as a, like a buyback for ETH holders. It's governed by a mechanism called EIP 1559, which we can talk about, but it's the minimum price to get included.
00:01:45.116 - 00:03:09.140, Speaker A: And it's kind of funny because most people, when they're, like, transacting on Ethereum, they think, oh, man, you know, the eth price is so volatile, and the eTh price itself is, of course, an important part of how much, how expensive it is to send your transactions. But I don't think people realize it's not just the price of eth volatility that's impacting how much you're actually paying. It's also the network giving you a fee, giving you like, a price for the block space that also jacks up sometimes how, how expensive it is to, to transact. And one of the takeaways from your presentation that really caught my eye was that base fee volatility is increasing as the number of private transactions on ethereum is increasing and as the, I guess the amount of timing gains that are happening on Ethereum increases. But based on the research that I did when EIP 1559 went live, there was quite a bit of base fee volatility that was happening when the base fee was introduced, when the network took over and started to set a fee rate for Ethereum, there was a ton of volatility. I think it was like 12.5% per block for baseval just moving up and down, of baseviv being low, and then people trying to jam in their transactions in that block, and then Basev spiking up and coming back down.
00:03:09.140 - 00:03:25.890, Speaker A: Can you talk a little bit about, you know, the change in volatility from that? Because I believe the volatility was already quite high because of how EIP 1559 dynamics work. But tell me a little bit more about this additional volatility that you're seeing.
00:03:26.510 - 00:03:58.550, Speaker B: Sure. So a couple of thoughts. First off, gas price, which is basically the price of underlying block space. So to get into the block, it's supposed to be a function of spot demand. So how much demand is there for space? Price is responsive to that. Two is it has historic historically been volatile, because demand is volatile, right? You have surges of traffic, you have collapses in price, you have NFT drops, all of which create sort of big fluctuations in spot demand. And that gets reflected in spot price.
00:03:58.550 - 00:04:23.990, Speaker B: 1559 has an interesting mechanic. It's sort of targeting 50% full blocks. So each block has 30 million gas available. And the idea is you target 15 million, and if you're above that, the price goes up, and if you're below that, the price goes down. And the maximum that the base can change block to block is 12.5%. So in the event that you have 100% full block, base fee goes up by 12.5% to the next block.
00:04:23.990 - 00:05:32.190, Speaker B: In the event that you have a 0% full block, no transactions, that is, it's too expensive and no one wants to pay it, it goes down by twelve and a half percent. So one of the things you'll notice right away is you're way more likely to have 100% full block than you are to have a 0% full block. So it turns out that some of the constants in 1559 basically make it more likely for the base fee to rise than to fall. And this basically creates sort of escalation and decay effects. Now, the phenomena that we uncovered a couple of weeks ago and that we were discussing at ECC in Brussels, at modular Summit, and actually just yesterday we published a blog post on, was two sort of unrelated phenomena in the network, coinciding in creating additional and what we would consider sort of unnecessary volatility in the base fee, and in particular, the sort of detachment of, does the base fee actually reflect spot demand? Or are we starting to see some deviation from that, and that's the part that we think is somewhat worth paying attention to. And these two separate effects are really interesting. One is the rise of what's known as privately transmitted transactions.
00:05:32.190 - 00:06:06.250, Speaker B: So to get on Ethereum l one, you can submit a transaction to the public mempool. Everyone can see it, it's inspectable, and everyone can sort of understand sort of what spot demand looks like in the public mempool. Now the downside there is that it's public and therefore amenable to things like meV. So now you have external agents, searchers, etcetera, that can front run, back run, sandwich that. And that basically can be not great for users. They basically suffer less favorable settlement. And so there's been for a while now this ability to transmit transactions privately.
00:06:06.250 - 00:06:43.214, Speaker B: So rather than going to the public mempool, it might go straight to a builder, it might go to something called an OfA, an order flow auction. And this basically shields the user transaction from these sorts of MEV effects. At least that's the idea. Well, for a long time, about 10% of the network was transmitted privately. So 90% shows up in the public mempool on any given day, 1012, maybe a little bit more, goes privately. Well, it turns out that for a variety of reasons, that's now like 30%. So 30% of all transactions today on Ethereum l one are transmitted privately.
00:06:43.214 - 00:07:41.050, Speaker B: And that's a pretty significant rise and seems to be increasing. And we can talk a little bit about that. Phenomena one. Phenomena two is the way that blocks actually get constructed on the network that most people know and now know, that what happens on Ethereum post merge is 90% of validators outsource blocks to this sidecar called Nevboost, and these entities called block builders that are professionals at basically assembling valuable blocks and reordering things. And so those are mav boost blocks. The external, these outsourced blocks tend to be a lot more valuable, tend to have all these private transactions, and tend to be generally viewed as better for validators economically, but maybe subject to builder censorship and things like that. Okay, what about the other 10%? Well, it turns out that 10% of blocks on Ethereum are self created, self built, also called vanilla blocks.
00:07:41.050 - 00:08:31.980, Speaker B: And it turns out that those 10%, because they're using just the local resources of the validator, only have access to the public mempool. And so what that means today is they only see 70% of demand, because 30% of demand is private, isn't accessible to the public mempool, and is only accessible to the professional builders. And so one out of every ten blocks or so, maybe it's slightly less than one out of eleven, basically doesn't reflect the full demand of the network. And what happens with these altruistic self built blocks is that they have artificially low gas consumption. So instead of being 50% full, they're like 20% full. And what happens? Well, of course the base fee drops because the block is less than 50% full. But all that pressure builds up on the other side, on the private side of things.
00:08:31.980 - 00:09:08.138, Speaker B: And that pressure gets relieved in the block that immediately follows. So what you have is a block that's artificially low, followed by a block that's artificially high, that is artificially full. So you might have a 20% full block, followed by a block that's 95% full, or 99% full, because all those private transactions weren't able to get on the prior block and show up in the next block. And so what you get is this dip and then rise in the base fee. And this is what we describe as this additional volatility. And then we have 1559, where that then doesn't drop back down to baseline. It decays because of the nature of the mechanic.
00:09:08.138 - 00:09:39.050, Speaker B: And so what starts to happen is this price, which sort of impacts everything on the network. No matter who you are, you deal with gas price, and gas affects every price. Highly levered metric winds up getting slightly detached, maybe very detached, from spot demand, because it starts to no longer reflect the actual demand on the network, and instead starts to reflect this nuance of how blocks are built, self built versus outsourced private transaction flow. And we think this is something that everyone should be aware of and is worth studying further.
00:09:39.590 - 00:10:32.090, Speaker A: Yeah, I think it's an interesting trend, but I'm also kind of not understanding why it's so important or like, what the deal is about this. Because for private transactions, these could be searchers, these could be builders that are willing to pay more, that identify a very lucrative mev opportunity and can pay that higher price. Whereas for locally built blocks and for validators that are nothing in it to try and maximize how much fees they're getting in revenue, they probably don't care either, because they're already kind of losing in the game in terms of like, how they're altruistic. They're altruistic by nature. So why does this matter? Why is it that, like, the volatility is other than being kind of an interesting thing to note? Why would the volatility be bad for ethereum?
00:10:32.830 - 00:11:39.486, Speaker B: So okay, gas is this highly levered metric. So it doesn't matter if you're a user or you're a builder or you're an l two, you have to deal with gas prices, but in particular, if you're an arbitrageur. So arbitrageurs basically equalize price across venues. They're very sensitive to gas price, meaning there's a price displacement, let's say, between binance, a centralized exchange, and a dex on ethereum. And is it worth the arbitrageur to basically balance out that price difference? Well, it's a function of how big the price difference is and the gas price, the fee to do so, because no arbitrageur is going to equalize that if they lose money on it. So it turns out that the more scatter you have in the gas price, the less precise gas price is, the more scatter you have in arbitrage, and therefore the less precise every price of every asset on the entire network becomes. And so this is this fundamental source of inefficiency that basically the whole network, every exchange, gets less efficient as there is less precision in the gas price.
00:11:39.486 - 00:12:05.204, Speaker B: And, oh, by the way, let's take a step back. We're building ethereum. We're trying to build the foundation of the next economy. It's going to be fundamentally more efficient than the existing system. Well, the definition of an efficient market is that people have access to good price data. And so this very base, and it's funny, I use this base fundamental metric of the base fee we kind of all assume is like ground truth. Like this is actually reflective of reality.
00:12:05.204 - 00:12:35.676, Speaker B: And it turns out that if there's scatter uncertainty and what the base V is reflecting, oh, and by the way, like maybe the base V can be manipulated in this way, then it has this massive echo effect through everybody else. So we think it's critical that the base V be reflective of demand, and we think that there are trends underway that make it less accurate, and we think this basically makes the network less efficient for all participants. And that's not great. And so that's why we at block native are really focused on bringing attention to this and coming up with potential solutions for it as well.
00:12:35.868 - 00:13:27.430, Speaker A: I see. So let's then talk a little bit more about private transactions, because very intuitively, when you think that there's more transactions that are happening outside of the public mempool, it is going to be a lot harder for the network to be able to assess demand for its block space. You said that private transactions have increased from 10% of overall transaction load to 30%. And I did a little bit of digging on this after your presentation, which we will definitely link in the show notes of the presentation, as well as the post for our listeners who want to dive deeper. And there was a pretty big drop off, or like I shouldn't say drop off, I should say increase, a pretty steep increase from ten to 30% starting in May 2024. Do you have any inklings of what caused that kind of major rise of 20% in the past, just like few months?
00:13:28.410 - 00:14:28.814, Speaker B: There's a lot of speculation out there. I think the good news is the industry has done a pretty effective job of basically letting users know of the dangers of MEV and the challenges of that. And so I think what we're seeing is the education efforts that have been underway for, I would say, years now starting to kick in. And so what does that mean? That means, one, users are more aware that this is something they should be paying attention to, which is quite healthy. To the rise of mev aware applications that basically say, oh, if you use cowswap, for instance, you get protected, and that's why you should use cowswap as opposed to other things. You have upgrades to existing applications like Uniswap with Uniswap X, and now you have wallets that are making features here as well. And so I think you have a variety of factors that are contributing to, hey, we're going to take it on to protect users transactions, and that those are really coming to light now.
00:14:28.814 - 00:14:48.602, Speaker B: The question is, is that going to slow down? And my sense is probably not that this trend will continue. And the interesting question is, what happens to this base fee volatility as private transaction volume goes to 40% or 50% or 80%, and that starts to get even more potentially concerning for the network.
00:14:48.786 - 00:15:35.220, Speaker A: Well, so if one of the main driving reasons for why private transactions is going up is because users want to be protected from these searchers that are trying to like front run their transactions, back run their transactions, are there solutions in your mind where instead of using a private, instead of sending over a private transactions, instead of hiding it from the public mempool, are there other ways in which users can be protected while still going through the public mempool? Is the solution? Is the kind of the trend to mitigate some of the space fee volatility to change the way that users are thinking about protection and kind of lead them into ways in which they can send their transactions to the public mempool and still somehow be protected?
00:15:36.320 - 00:16:06.980, Speaker B: It's a really interesting question. And first, I would say, and I've said this many times before, MEV is sort of a fact of life. Anytime you have a transaction system, ordering matters. An MEV is basically the extraction of value through manipulating ordering. Right? It exists on SEO, it exists in airline tickets, it exists in concert sales, and unsurprisingly, exist in web3 systems. Not all transactions carry with them meV. So, for instance, if I am just transferring ETH to you, there's no MEV in that transaction.
00:16:06.980 - 00:16:55.552, Speaker B: And so I think one of the things that we'll see is local inspection and estimation of MEV of transactions, and then basically dynamic decisioning of, hey, this one doesn't really reflect anything concerning. It's safe to transmit publicly. The challenge is that the more complex your transaction, the more interesting it is, the more likely it is to contain MeV. And there are, you know, generally what happens is searchers are quite sophisticated. So I may not think there's any MEV in my transaction, but someone who is quite clever, who knows more, may find MeV, or maybe my transaction doesn't, but my transaction combined with your transaction, combined with somebody else's transaction does. And so it can be quite difficult to sort of know that a priori. So I think in general, there's a sentiment that there is a will be a decline in public mempool volume.
00:16:55.552 - 00:17:37.340, Speaker B: How quickly that decline happens, I think we'll see. I think one of the big questions in my mind is sort of how rapidly do wallets adopt these sorts of technologies? And I would say they probably will continue to do so. And so I think we're going to need to look elsewhere for potential solutions. And, you know, in this regard, you know, one of the obvious things we could do is reduce the incidence of locally built blocks, which has other negative consequences to it. Or maybe what we could do is expose private transaction flow to local builders in ways that doesn't sort of violate some of the principles of vanilla or self built blocks. Right. And some of the technologies that are being discussed right now, like pre conformations and partial block building, could enable that.
00:17:37.340 - 00:17:48.940, Speaker B: So anyways, I think there's a bunch of ways that we could start to address some of this stuff, and I think we'll have to see, is this a curiosity or is this something that the network really needs to be concerned about?
00:17:49.640 - 00:18:09.320, Speaker A: Is one of the solutions when you were talking about pre conformations and trying to make it so that local builders, people that are on Ethereum as a validator but not directly going through Mevboost, is one of the other solutions that, that you're thinking about enshrined proposer builder separation?
00:18:10.860 - 00:19:23.852, Speaker B: Well, the EPBS research is pretty far along now, and there's a lot to it. I think that they're, you know, there's certainly nuances to it. So one of the whole ideas of using the current setup is that you protect private transactions from being stolen by malicious validators. And so there's this interesting question of, is this even possible to sort of go forward? I think the EPBS research that's happening right now is pretty low level and pretty deep in sort of signing roles and commitments and things like that, but they generally assume the role of the builder as an actor. And so there's this, you know, the question is, what happens when there's no builder present, which, of course, has to be contemplated by the network and to the private transaction flow that therefore isn't accessible to the altruistic self block. So I think that these issues are sort of emergent right now, and it's not clear to me that the research which is currently underway sort of tries to take into consideration these effects. I think part of the things that we are advocating for is this is a real phenomena, and this is something that needs more eyeballs on it.
00:19:23.852 - 00:19:31.460, Speaker B: Like we're noticing it. We're alerting folks to say, hey, this is something that we think is concerning. Do you think it's concerning what are the sorts of ways that we could get after it?
00:19:31.620 - 00:20:11.230, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I agree with you that I think the number of private transactions will only continue to increase. But it doesn't seem. I think it doesn't seem clear to me that the solution would be to try and lower the amount of local block building because of the ramifications that would have on Ethereum. Censorship resistance. And also doesn't seem clear to me that there's quite a promising kind of, like, avenue in trying to figure out how to. A promising avenue in trying to expose more. To expose more, like, private transactions to local builders.
00:20:11.230 - 00:20:22.710, Speaker A: Obviously, the EPBS research, like you said, is quite far along. Do you think that there's solutions, perhaps, in changing EIP 1559 dynamics?
00:20:23.170 - 00:20:57.802, Speaker B: Well, so a couple of things is one, I saw earlier today that one of the major block builders that was previously censoring is no longer censoring. Unconfirmed. It was on Twitter. So take it for whatever x, you know, take it for what it is. But maybe there's a. We can lower the gap between, you know, the censorship resistance characteristics of vanilla blocks versus builder blocks. Two is certainly there is, I think, room for optimization of the 1559 constants in order to particularly reduce this sort of slow decay effect.
00:20:57.802 - 00:21:51.654, Speaker B: And so, you know, my concern about this phenomena is, all things being equal, if the number of selfdevelop built blocks remains constant, but the percent private transaction increases, that you have less time and less room for the decay effect to occur. So in particular, instead of 30% private transactions, imagine 50% private transactions. We have this same issue where now you have an artificially small, self built vanilla block followed by a recovery block. But because more than 50% of transactions are private, it the block after is 100% full, but hasn't cleared the pent up demand. And so now the recovery block is two blocks or maybe even three blocks. And that has two effects, which is the base fee will continue to climb. So it goes up more, increasing volatility, and it covers multiple slots.
00:21:51.654 - 00:22:41.810, Speaker B: And so now you have less time for the decay to kick in until the next time this volatility happens. Right now there may be a natural sort of relief valve here, which is known as mid bid, which we can get into, but net net is, I worry about kind of uncontrolled base fee escalation as a result of this growth in private transactions. I think this is something we're going to need to pay attention to and monitor. And one of the ways to address this would be a faster decay on the way down of 1559. Now we're working, you know, we're in contact with many of those ethereum researchers on this and they're very aware and I think receptive to the feedback. And so I don't think anybody's asleep at the switch here, if you will. But there are obviously many factors and this is just one of them.
00:22:41.810 - 00:22:52.670, Speaker B: So I think this is an area of active conversation and research, and I think we'll continue to see ideas for how the 1559 mechanic could continue to be improved.
00:22:53.330 - 00:23:24.040, Speaker A: Seems like also another topic that we might see featured at the upcoming Stanford blockchain conference. I believe Tim Roughgarden, who did a lot of analysis on EIP 1559, is also speaking there. So there might be a lot of discussion on post. I can't remember when London happened, but several years later, looking back, is the fee estimation of ethereum significantly better than it was before EIP 1559? And will it remain that way based on these changing dynamics of meV?
00:23:24.630 - 00:24:04.526, Speaker B: For your listeners who are interested, I also recommend checking out Max Reznik's research on this. He's part of SMG now, part of consensys and he basically has published a lot that says the idea of 1559 is to smooth everything out, and it hasn't really done, so it's actually quite choppy. And so he has ideas about how to address it. I think some of that's above my pay grade, to be honest. But I do think that there are a bunch of smart people who are looking hard at this and saying, hey, we do want to reduce volatility in the gas markets, because that does basically make it harder for everybody to transact. And so I'm confident that there's some good solutions that will come out of this. But, you know, this is the infinite jungle that we're in.
00:24:04.526 - 00:24:28.210, Speaker B: We push on one part of the problem, which is, hey, there's censorship resistance. Okay, we're going to do self blocks. Hey, there is, you know, mev. We're going to do private transactions, and then these two things interact in this unexpected way, and it affects us. What probably most people would feel is an unrelated but quite critical metric. And so that's why it's fun to be a part of this ecosystem. That's why it's super fun to be doing what we do.
00:24:28.580 - 00:24:42.220, Speaker A: Yeah. I want to double click on one thing that you mentioned in passing. The Minbid part. Is that part of the EIP 1559 dynamics now, or is that a proposal for trying to change how EIP 1559 works?
00:24:42.380 - 00:25:36.930, Speaker B: So Minbid is actually part of MeV Boost and part of the block building network, so it's somewhat independent of 1559. And so Minbid basically says, hey, the validator has some discretion as to whether or not they use an outsourced block. And so what Minbid says is, hey, look, unless the block. So the concern about an altruistic, self built block is some blocks are really juicy. Like, some blocks are hundreds of eth. And, look, I want to do the right thing by the network, and I want to support censorship resistance, but I don't want to forego a lottery ticket worth, you know, hundreds or maybe even thousands of eth. And so what Minbit allows a validator to do is set a constant and some other parameters as well that says, unless the outsourced block is worth more than a minimum amount, I'm going to self build because I'd rather support censorship resistance, and I'd happily forego ten or $15 of difference.
00:25:36.930 - 00:26:34.140, Speaker B: What would occur? What may occur, and we need to look more at this, is, should this phenomena start to grow, this base fee volatility due to private transactions, what should happen is the disparity between altruistic self built vanilla blocks and outsourced blockbuilder blocks should grow. And so these minbit parameters should be exceeded more often, and then the net result of that is a reduced incidence of these vanilla blocks. And so there is, we're pretty sure that there is some self regulating aspects to this driven by Minbid. But I think that's, again, another area of further research, like how long does it take for the min bid to be exceeded? What are mid bid settings and who's using them? So that's another area that we think is interesting just to dive deeper on.
00:26:34.300 - 00:27:26.620, Speaker A: But that's a good one to note. I think the idea of min bid, of more local builders already having this mechanism to be able to build more valuable blocks with mev on them and potentially be able to step in when the private flow overflow is very high for the next block that they build. One last question, though, because we're talking about self built blocks, and we imagine them in our heads as people that are very altruistic, people that are just like in their basement running a note and who knows what. You know, they're not a company or a business. But one of the things that you said in your presentation was that a lot of these self built blocks are by the big players, like lido, like the big staking pools. That was really surprising to me because I would have imagined I, that no blocks at all from them are self built. Can you talk a little bit about why we're seeing self built blocks from major companies?
00:27:27.440 - 00:28:01.544, Speaker B: So this was a surprise finding for us as well. So, by the way, what happened to us? We operate this thing called ether now, which basically allows sort of ether scan for mempool data, and we introduced an update to it that made. In particular, if you click through on ether now, you get a thing called transaction explorer, much more gas centered. So basically, it's like a new telescope focused on gas. And right away, we're like, wait, we're seeing unexpected results. So you get a new telescope, you observe phenomena you can't see, and then you develop new theories, right? And so. And by the way, anyone out there, this is publicly accessible? It's been possible by the Ethereum foundation.
00:28:01.544 - 00:28:24.188, Speaker B: I encourage you to check it out. And so we start to notice this phenomena. While they're these altruistic self blocks, they're 100% public. They have these different characteristics. And what we do inside of that is we look up who the fee recipient. And so you can see, basically, we decode that and show you who the builder is. And we were surprised that Lido shows up and other major staking pools show up.
00:28:24.188 - 00:29:02.136, Speaker B: And what we've learned is, and you can, by the way, use tools like rated network, and you can actually see by major provider what percentage of all their blocks are vanilla blocks. And for Lido, it's shockingly high. At least I was shocked, like 810 percent, maybe like seven and a half percent, something like that. You can see the stats. And if you click through on rated network, there are specific providers who are like 70% to 80% vanilla blocks. And so one, we think this reflects the preference of specific staking pools. They just say, we're not really on board with, you know, outsourced blocks, we're going to do it ourselves.
00:29:02.136 - 00:30:20.080, Speaker B: Two, I think many of these groups do care about the censorship resistance of the network and do believe that providing a certain percentage of altruistic self built blocks basically helps reduce the overall censorship resistant characteristics. And three, it could be lack of sophistication or misconfiguration. And it's sort of hard to justify. I can't really get into who, but I did speak to one major provider, sort of the lead person there, and they said, oh, you know, we reserve 1% of our staking supply to self built blocks specifically for censorship resistance. So I do believe that, you know, these big entities do care about this and are willing to make sacrifices on behalf of what they believe is the greater good for the network. Now, the good news about that too, is if this were to become a problem, if this were to be something that really does create instability, that there's also some obvious relief valves there from some of those actors as well. I know it's easy to vilify some of these folks, or to say these giant staking tools are bad, but I think in our experience, and the data would reflect that it's not so black and white, and that many of them really do think quite deeply and care about these issues as well, that's, I think, great for the overall alignment and ethos of the ecosystem.
00:30:20.580 - 00:30:56.410, Speaker A: I think that's a perfect note to end this episode on because that is so surprising. I did not expect to see such a high percentage of locally built blocks from these providers, especially because they're businesses, they're trying to maximize their profit. They're trying to make a business out of staking. But it's really interesting to hear about the ways in which the values of building this ecosystem, this infinite jungle, is changing behaviors in more ways than the protocol can enforce. Like the social values are actually in the norms, are impacting behaviors.
00:30:56.790 - 00:31:35.656, Speaker B: Yeah, I think these are really smart businesses and savvy businesses. There's short term gains and there's long term considerations, and I think they're all being pretty pragmatic about balancing them out. I think the biggest thing is observability. Like our ability as a network, as a community to see what's going on and to understand that we think is really critical. And that's what we do at block native is contribute tooling and infrastructure and data so everybody can see what's happening. We are as surprised by some of these findings as anybody is, and it leads to really constructive conversations and I think also can inform future policy, future upgrades, future modifications to things. So we're thrilled to be in the middle of this all.
00:31:35.656 - 00:31:49.900, Speaker B: I really appreciate the opportunity to share some of these findings, really encourage everybody to check out our results, question them, reach out. DM's are open as always, and very much looking forward to continuing the conversation on this topic and others as we go forward.
00:31:50.200 - 00:32:38.070, Speaker A: 100%. Thank you Matt for being on the podcast and I will make a shout out to listeners to also please participate in monitoring the behaviors of major actors in this space. And check out ether now to see what kind of real time mempool activity there is. I think one of the benefits of interacting with an open source technology like Ethereum is that you really can see everything that happens on chain is so transparent, so long as you have the tools to decipher what the heck is going on with a tool like Ether. Now please. So thank you listeners for tuning in to this episode of the infinite Jungle. I hope that you learned something new about Ethereum in your explorations of the infinite jungle.
00:32:38.070 - 00:32:39.870, Speaker A: Be sure to stay safe out there.
