00:00:09.280 - 00:00:28.050, Speaker A: Hi everyone. I'm Federico. I'm the co founder of Evmos. And today I'm going to present you evmos 2.0 on the decentralized applications of the future. So, my journey in Cosmos has been very long. I've been interacting with every one of you and the different projects that we can see today.
00:00:28.050 - 00:01:12.358, Speaker A: I started my career as an intern, building the first user interface for the ones that have been here since 2018. The project was called Voyager. I built a lot of components of the stack going from the Cosmos SDK. I participated in some improvements in ten domain core. I was core team of the Cosmos hub and Gaia, and then I transitioned to IVC. In the past two years, I've been working on the infrastructure that is going to power the interoperable smart contracts of the next century. So we built a great piece of infrastructure and technology today.
00:01:12.358 - 00:01:52.530, Speaker A: The common sentiment is that Evmos has a really great technology, but we need to make it resilient, we need to make it elastic and malleable to the different conditions of the network. And for that, today we're introducing evmos 2.0. Evmos 2.0. And I haven't shared my vision of the interchange with you guys so far. So I'm really excited to present this today. My vision for the interchange is, and particularly for EVmos, is to build a financial infrastructure for the next century. The next century, applications that are going to be powering every single user experience.
00:01:52.530 - 00:03:14.976, Speaker A: And today we're building the infrastructure layer that is going to power all these decentralized applications. So our goal at EVMos is to be able to deploy applications only once and use everywhere, completely forgetting the limitations of deploying multiple instances, and instead focusing on interoperability and composability use cases that are going to be creating new functionality for these smart contracts and decentralized applications. So we looked into this problem in terms of filters for adoption. So every single user, when they come to our ecosystem, they face different filters that they need to overcome in order to have a successful transaction. We've categorized these into four main filters for this user adoption, the first one being onboarding. When you transfer a transaction via IVC and suddenly you don't have the native token, you can't really move from that unless you transfer the native tokens to be able pay for the transaction fees. That's the main limitation right now that users are facing, particularly on ethmos.
00:03:14.976 - 00:04:20.894, Speaker A: How do we engage with them and fix the onboarding user experience so that they can move to the next phase, which is like, okay, I have an intent of going to evmos in the first place. Now we can start using and having all the utility that Atmos provides. Then we have liquidity and discoverability. Today, I'm going to be focusing on the first three ones. So the main one is onboarding, and we're building unparalleled onboarding through our application by having a copilot that is going to be guiding the user in their onboarding journey, so that within five minutes, they're able to successfully onboard from every ecosystem into evmos and the interchange. So the onboarding user experience is key for the user to start interacting with the decentralized applications or interacting with IVC or interacting with cosmos altogether. If we don't fix onboarding, there's nothing else left because it's the first barrier and filter for the adoption of the users.
00:04:20.894 - 00:05:42.790, Speaker A: So onboarding through ermos from fiat, or onboarding through different cryptocurrencies and different ecosystem is the main challenge that we need to face as an entire ecosystem, and particularly on EVMos to be able to build this next generation infrastructure. Then we've been working on utility, the utility of what is going to be powering all the decentralized applications in the next century and the amazing applications that are going to be using all the interoperability components from IVC and compose with one another. So now I'm going to go deep dive into the components that we're building, that are going to be creating this unmatched utility in the entire ecosystem. So we want to enable, we want to enable the next decentralized applications of the future. And this is exactly the pitch deck that Ethan Bachmann was saying to their investors when they were racing for cosmos. We don't know what types of applications are going to be created with this interoperability protocol or with this ecosystem altogether called Cosmos. But we know that there's going to be a huge demand for these interchange applications, and they're going to be able to talk to one another and compose with one another and build new use cases that we don't know today how these were, how they were.
00:05:42.790 - 00:06:49.660, Speaker A: So this was back in 2015. So Evmos, in the same way, is going to enable the same application, the same functionality for decentralized application. So the first one, the integration EVM extensions, is our newest functionality that is going to be powering seamless integration between Cosmos core functionality and EVM smart contracts. So how EVM extensions work is that through a predefined address, a precompiled address, these smart contract applications can interact today with staking accessing new functionalities for DeFi. They can interact via IVC and immediately access liquidity that is available across the ecosystem. We're also going to be introducing governance EVM extensions so that daos can directly vote on the protocol level governance components. So enabling that access for smart contracts is going to be powering new use cases.
00:06:49.660 - 00:07:54.868, Speaker A: The second one is composability. This unparalleled utility that's going to be powering new use cases for the entire ecosystem is going to be given via these outposts, cosmos outposts, ethereum outposts, etcetera. So this is the osmosis Dex outpost that we're building. And notice a slight difference. Here in the corner, you're using an ethmos address for the same user interface, so you can directly onboard to osmosis and every single interchange application via EVM wallet. So right now, if we think about it, the major limitation for this entire ecosystem on the maximum number of users that we can access is limited by how many users are interacting with Kepler today. If we're opening those borders, they're going to be able to access all the interchange applications through metamask on any other EVM compatible wallet, including wallet connect.
00:07:54.868 - 00:08:59.680, Speaker A: So enabling this functionality is going to access a whole lot more of utility for everyone. And how it works we built an innovative design that basically allows any smart contracts to interact with this EVM extension through this outpost and provide liquidity or swap tokens directly with a different set of instructions. Send over the token, perform the action on osmosis, send it back to evmos and the smart contracts, or the user will have the newly available token instead of sending three transactions. For that, it's only a single transaction using a completely different wallet and only one single account. So you can abstract all the user experience into one single transaction and enable smart contracts to access liquidity that is not available on the Evmos chain right now. And this will happen with all the other smart contract applications. So this is now live on Mainnet.
00:08:59.680 - 00:10:20.802, Speaker A: We've been building a few use cases that are interacting through our EVM extensions, but soon we're going to be abstracting it, making it easier for smart contracts today to access this outpost functionality and access all the liquidity and functionality that is available in the entire industry interchange ecosystem. The next innovation is dynamic IVC. So a major limitation today when we have the interchange stack for IVC that I was able to participate as a core engineer. So there's different layers for the core protocol that involve clients like clients connections and channels that are part of the core primitives of IVC. But as a smart contract developer, you don't want to know how to build a channel, how to be able to call the IVC call box. All those components are really complicated and very technical for a developer that is coming from a completely different ecosystem. So how are we able to abstract all those primitives away from the development layer, in this case a smart contract application, and be able only to focus on what's the data that is being sent over to the destination chain.
00:10:20.802 - 00:12:04.904, Speaker A: And so that's when dynamic IVC comes, is that it's a wrapper around the core component of IVC, the channels, connections and clients, so that you're able to effectively onboard the entire ethereum ecosystem into the entire interchange. So today we're saying welcome ethereum developers to the interchange by abstracting all the IVC functionality and only having them to define what's the data that they're going to be sending. And this is massive for the interchange ecosystem because now they can build a whole new set of IVC applications for the interchain that is going to be increasing the development cycles, is going to bring way more innovation, and they're going to be interfacing not only with smart contracts, but also with layer one, an application specific blockchain in the ecosystem. So this is onboarding an entire, the largest development minesher development miner in the entire blockchain ecosystem to the cosmos by abstracting the IVC components. And the next one is, and the final one in terms of utility that is going to be powering the decentralized applications of the future, is how to experiment, how to build new use cases besides the interoperability ones that I just mentioned. So EIP is Ethereum improvement proposal standards that live on Ethereum. So today there's like a massive, massive need for onboarding new primitives into a new eips into new L2s and new EVM chains.
00:12:04.904 - 00:13:01.580, Speaker A: There are more than 150 evm chains. Not all of them are integrating these eips that developers desperately want but can access because of the slow development cycles of go ethereum. So there needs to be a space for innovation, there needs to be a space for them to be able to develop new account obstruction models, new elliptic curves, a new functionality that they require to build their next generation applications, the decentralized applications of the future. So today we're introducing evmos as the Ethereum Canary chain. Evmos 2.0 will become the Ethereum canary chain by implementing most of the eips that developers truly want and being able to hook them up with interchange IVC composability and interoperability. Ethereum will be welcomed by the entire interchange ecosystem through evMos.
00:13:01.580 - 00:14:08.572, Speaker A: The next major limitation that I mentioned was, besides onboarding on utility, is the fact that today, liquidity is completely fractionalized and spread across entire ecosystem. So even though you might have one single token, that token today is available on osmosis, on stride. It's available on a liquidity pool on evmos. So the problem right now is that the total value lock metric, the TVL, only represents the amount of tokens that are currently available in one single chain, when in reality they're completely spread out. So today we're introducing the total reachable liquidity. How much liquidity can you access from a single chain or from a single smart contract in the entire ecosystem? And this, we believe, is a new metric that is going to be powering the entire liquidity ecosystem. I'm going to make the entire osmosis ecosystem, stride, etcetera.
00:14:08.572 - 00:14:57.420, Speaker A: So how can we enable these decentralized applications to access more liquidity for their needs? And as part of this, we're introducing omni liquidity, all the liquidity that is available in the ecosystem now suddenly available via FMOS 2.0 through the outpost EVM extensions on dynamic IVC. That's the new liquidity standard that we want for the next generation applications of the future. Omni liquidity is a new narrative, is the next narrative for how to access all the liquidity that is available. TVL is gone. TVL is 2020. Let's look forward in terms of how liquidity is going to be accessed by all these decentralized applications.
00:14:57.420 - 00:15:21.320, Speaker A: And as part of this FMOS 2.0 and why FMOS 2.0 is different is our leadership team. Our leadership team is going to be able to take on these responsibilities and take evmos and decentralized applications and these financial applications that we're building to the next level. Please welcome the team. And it's time to build. It's time to build products.
00:15:21.320 - 00:15:34.352, Speaker A: We'll build the entire infrastructure. And now it's time to build products that are interacting with this infrastructure layer that we built for so long. So thank you very much and looking forward to be working with.
