00:00:00.360 - 00:00:13.398, Speaker A: Yep. Sounds good. Let's see. Ashwin, could you mute the microphone on the particle account? Oh, getting some feedback. See? Is that a little bit better? All right, I think. I think we're good to go. Perfect.
00:00:13.398 - 00:00:54.480, Speaker A: All right, so let's see. We are waiting for cow swap and then we can go ahead and get started. But I guess while we're waiting for cowswap, what I can do is for the audience that's already here, give a quick introduction to kind of what we're doing today with the intent of WTF space. So to build some quick context while we're waiting here for the next four or five minutes. Intent WTF is essentially an event that we're going to be running out in Istanbul around Devconnect week on the 16th. I believe you can actually find the Luma page linked to the announcement of this Twitter space. So if anybody here will be out in Istanbul around that time, definitely recommend stopping by.
00:00:54.480 - 00:01:30.764, Speaker A: We basically a sort of one day community event. We talk about all things related to intense, sort of diving into the intense space where we're at right now. Some of the emerging technologies in intense, the different utilizations of intense, intense design, as well as, of course, what we've been building up particle regarding intense centricity. So there's going to be a lot covered at intended WTF, the in person event. And these spaces are essentially meant to build context following up to that in person event. So this is our second episode. We ran one about two weeks ago with propeller heads.
00:01:30.764 - 00:02:08.394, Speaker A: They were running, of course, the one this week with cowswap as well as Enzo. And you know, I got to say, I'm super excited for the episode today. I took some time researching Enzo and cowslip, of course, over the course of the past few weeks, but especially today. And I got to say I'm super excited. I'm impressed with a lot of what I saw. And I have a lot of questions as well, though. So I think basically the goal today will be, number one, to understand a more clear picture of both what Cal swap does, what Enzo does, as well as the potential overlap there as we might get into in a moment.
00:02:08.394 - 00:02:43.634, Speaker A: As well as of course, we want to bridge this understanding and this picture over to some insights and kind of gathering some opinions and some ideas regarding the intent space and specifically how Enzo and Cal swap interact with intensive design, how they implement it, and contextualizing that with intended WTF. So that's kind of the main agenda for today. Let's see. We have Connor from Enzo up here. Are we still waiting on Anna from Cal swap. Let's see here. I believe we have the Cal swap account in the audience here.
00:02:43.634 - 00:03:20.604, Speaker A: Perfect. Okay, Ashwin, could you invite the Calsop account? I don't believe I can do it, because I'm actually. I am on the browser version of Twitter on my desktop, and it works. Now, it's functional with Twitter space, but it is still a little bit buggy sometimes. So, Ashwin, if you could throw an invite over to the cowswap account, and we can throw them up here and.
00:03:20.764 - 00:03:22.704, Speaker B: Yeah, I'll send an invite to them.
00:03:23.444 - 00:03:40.328, Speaker A: Perfect. All right, let's see. Well, while we're waiting for that, I guess we already have Connor up here. Connor, can you still hear us? Does everything sounds good on your end?
00:03:40.516 - 00:03:41.724, Speaker B: Yeah, that's good.
00:03:42.904 - 00:04:10.132, Speaker A: Perfect. While we're waiting for some of the technical issues to be sorted out with the Caslib account, could you maybe start with an introduction about yourself? We'll talk more about Enzo specifically and the API and stuff like that in a moment. But from your side, could you maybe tell us about your position at Enzo and maybe how you got into web3, how you got to the point that you're at today, just like, a quick introduction into who you are and what you do within the space. Sure.
00:04:10.188 - 00:05:02.144, Speaker B: So I'm Kona how, the founder of Enso Finance. I've been in the EVM ecosystem for the last seven years. Prior to starting Enso, I was a solidity developer. So from the early days of 2016, a lot has changed in the ecosystem ever since then, and it's been great to see the evolution of it. And prior to starting Enso, I worked at a fully regulated and licensed digital asset bank, where I helped create a fully collateralized stablecoin secondary exchange, multisex cold storage, hot storage, and all that fun stuff. Enso was generally created of a vision for aggregating all of the decentralized finance ecosystem within one simple and intuitive API. We're also a solver on the cowswap site.
00:05:05.804 - 00:05:40.256, Speaker A: Perfect. Yeah. And we'll definitely talk a little bit more about sort of the intersection between Enzo and cowswap in a moment. And, of course, I also want to talk a little bit more in a second about specifically, I think Enzo and you guys take an interesting philosophy to defining intents and how you sort of conceptualize that. And I like the term that you guys used called shortcuts. And we'll talk about that in a moment, specifically how that ties into things like your bundler API and the different products you guys have. But I believe we have Cal swap here.
00:05:40.256 - 00:05:58.448, Speaker A: Now. We're actually going to have the Anna on her account. That's working. Let's see. Ashwin, if you could accept the request. It looks like there's a little bit of a technical issue. All right, well then let's keep moving then.
00:05:58.448 - 00:06:39.644, Speaker A: That's been sorted out. So I guess while we're waiting, Connor, could you tell us a little bit more about Enzo when it comes to products? I guess there's two verticals here that I want to touch on and I want to learn more about. The first is, of course, at least as far as I understand it, sort of like the flagship part of Enzo, which is your collection of APIs. And if I'm correct, these are mostly distinguished as what you call shortcuts. And of course, you also have the Enzo app. Could you maybe start by telling us two things? Number one, what Enzo does and your goal at a high level, but also maybe a little bit more about the specifics of your flagship product, in this case, the API.
00:06:40.304 - 00:07:25.232, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. Enso was actually created from a problem that we had from creating a first version of Enso. Enso started off actually as a social trading platform where anybody could create a strategy and others could invest into the strategy. It's kind of like an open yearn or etoro on EVM chains. Whilst building this, our users wanted more defi integrations. Now, ultimately, there was no solution that we found to be able to integrate into other DeFi protocols easily. So for a developer, as of today, if you want to integrate one DeFi protocol, you need to write one smart contract adapter, you need to write your own indexer, your own metadata service, and also go through the whole audit cycle.
00:07:25.232 - 00:08:22.364, Speaker B: So you'll look in a couple of weeks, even months to be able to do this. And this is generally where our API was born. So our API aggregates all of decentralized finance, tokenized and non tokenized positions, so we can also do state changes. This is one part of the intent ecosystem that we're more pushing towards on the smart account area, as most of the intents as of today are purely token, whereas Enso is available to go into one position or many positions in one transaction. And also, for example, you can say, I want to lend on aave, borrow on aave, then hedge your position on ipor all within one transaction. So high level, where we want to get to, we want to create a convenience API to enable all developers to interact with DeFi easily. One vertical of this is providing our DeFI routes into the intent ecosystem such as cowswap.
00:08:25.584 - 00:09:10.524, Speaker A: Gotcha. Makes sense. So, I mean, I guess, could you maybe, like, I kind of see this as, like, specifically before we kind of dive into the app and these different components, specifically on. Let's focus on the. I know you guys have a few different APIs, like the router API, even the metadata API, stuff like that, but the bundler API, and I believe this is primarily what you guys categorize under these shortcuts. Could you maybe tell us a little bit more? Like you said, organizing multiple different types of defi interactions into one atomic transaction, maybe that's the right word for it. Could you tell us more about how this works and specifically the backend implementation of this, the use cases of this, and how that fits into the ecosystem?
00:09:10.864 - 00:09:51.148, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. So most of the listeners probably know about account extraction of four cc seven bundlers. So the way that these bundlers work is saying, I would like to do step one, this transaction one, transaction two, transaction three. However, you're not able to use the return values of transaction one into transaction two. So ultimately we had to create a bundler API that had the similar functionality of bundling many transactions into one. So you would just call our API and say, I would like to do these actions. It could be lend on AavE, borrow on AAvE, deposit on balancer pool.
00:09:51.148 - 00:10:30.314, Speaker B: And you just specify your end state or your end token that you'd like, and then you get all the call data back. How we build this in the background, we have different routing algorithms, we have our own indexers. We have standardization of how to interact with protocols. So every single protocol has a different function signature. So to add to a pool on balancers, join pool morpho is very different. Uniswap is very different. However, we've standardized this in a way that you can say just deposit, so you don't need to know the underlying function signatures to how to interact with this protocol.
00:10:30.314 - 00:10:57.418, Speaker B: So you can simply call our API, say what actions you would like to do. We find the best route, the best path. We simulate this using our own open source simulator, which I know Kaiswap is also using in production. It's called tempur. This is built in rust on top of foundry. And then we also leverage tenderly for this as well. So we simulate to ensure that our routes can pass the expected amount out and also the gas cost.
00:10:57.418 - 00:11:38.724, Speaker B: That stage, we return you the call data, and then the user can execute that on their behalf. What's interesting with this bundle endpoint is it's available for not only EOAS but also smart accounts. With smart accounts such as gnosisafe safe and so forth, we're able to do state transitions. Particular protocols such as Aave are allowing you to delegate borrowing. So if you borrow, you can say, okay, I would like to delegate my borrow to this address, but protocols like liquity and many others do not allow this delegation. So all of this combined together creates one simple API to be able to interact with Defi.
00:11:41.504 - 00:12:18.694, Speaker A: Makes sense. Yeah, I'm actually looking as you're talking about this, looking at some of the examples that you guys have on your docs, and this is super cool, basically being able to say I want to defining a protocol, defining an action based upon these natural language descriptions. Like you said, route, deposit, harvest, borrow, redeem, all these different things, and then being able to string these together. And then of course I think it's super cool having that cross compatibility between EOAs and smart accounts. Then I believe I also right on your documentation somewhere, do you have your own custom smart account implementation for Enzo or did I misread that?
00:12:19.354 - 00:12:53.984, Speaker B: Yeah, we have our own smart wallet. We prefer people come with their own smart accounts. So if they come with safe, I think the de facto standards should be safe. However, whenever we started building this API and this infrastructure about a year, year and a half ago, the safe SDK didn't enable delegate calls. If you don't have delegate calls, then the state will not be stored within the smart account itself. So we had to create our own smart wallet. Generally our users come with zerodev wallets, patch wallets, biconomy wallets, safe wallets, and many others.
00:12:53.984 - 00:13:27.324, Speaker B: And whenever you do make this call, depending upon the address, the from address that you specify, we detect if it's an EOA or if it is a smart account. Depending upon that, the call data you get back will be delegate calls or just a normal account transfer and approvals. It's a very convenient tool to be able to just aggregate all of DeFi. You can build strategy platforms on top of this yearn could be built fully just using this API itself. It's a full Lego block building of the defi ecosystem.
00:13:28.704 - 00:14:17.804, Speaker A: That's dope. Yeah, that's super cool. I'm looking at all these different endpoints right now, and I see these examples between the, the EOA and the smartwall compatibility, how that looks, the difference between that on the actual endpoint side. And then of course you also have this metadata API for things like, I see one of these endpoints here to return. In this case, when specifically referencing the Enzo smart account, like returning those address details and stuff like that. Could you maybe tell us about apart from the bundler API and of course the underlying pathfinding routing algorithms that go into some of those, could you also tell us about the external additional API endpoints that you have? Of course. Like I mentioned, the metadata API, multi chain API, stuff like that.
00:14:17.804 - 00:14:34.296, Speaker A: I guess maybe you'd categorize them as assistant APIs. Would you say that the bundler API is the primary driver here or how would you categorize these additional APIs within the tech stack? Yeah, I mean, if you think about it.
00:14:34.320 - 00:15:03.422, Speaker B: So we have a product that launched last week using Enso. They're a Defi aggregation interface called concero IO. Check them out. Really, really good team. They need to present to their users metadata. So APY, TvL, dollar value, logos related to defi protocols. So the user needs to come to an application, see all of this information about a defi protocol before they can make the choice of an execution.
00:15:03.422 - 00:15:41.602, Speaker B: So by providing this metadata API, we give this full suite of defi information and also execution. So they can present this information based upon what the user selects from our metadata API presenting to their users. They can then call our bundle endpoint, that stage. They will get all the call data to then give to the user and the user can then submit it. It's a full holistic stack to be able to build a Defi super app. So if you can check out EnSo finance dashboard, this is our example application. We don't actually support this ourselves.
00:15:41.602 - 00:16:15.164, Speaker B: Going forward, we're more focused on infrastructure. But everything you see on this defi super app, you can also build yourself within your own application. So if you want to offer one to one vaults, you want to offer one to many, you want to offer state changes, you want to even show portfolio tracking. We show balances of ERC 20s, liquidity provisioning pools and so forth. So I think they go hand in hand. The user needs to know information to be able to make a choice of execution onto a protocol.
00:16:16.584 - 00:17:28.634, Speaker A: Yeah. And then I think like hearing all this, the one thing I want to understand more of is the positioning here. Like you mentioned, these different APIs combined together create this toolset to enable the development of something like a, like you mentioned, a DeFi super app with these highly advanced functionalities, being able to do this across multiple different verticals, smart accounts, eoas, multiple different implementations of smart accounts, stuff like this. I think this is super cool, but I guess purely from this side, I know that you guys typically describe it as being able to access, for example, the taglines you guys have here is access all DeFi primitives, metadata, cross chain smartwater routing through one API. When it comes to what you guys want to actually achieve and enable on an ecosystem level, in an application level, typically, what are you guys trying to sort of target in terms of the types of apps and the verticals of Defi that tend to use? Enzo, I know you gave an example earlier, but could you maybe dive more into the exact positioning for the overall sort of API stack that you guys have here?
00:17:29.854 - 00:18:29.966, Speaker B: We are the gateway to interact with decentralized finance. We are the full abstraction layer that lives on top of the chain. The way that people interact with the chain as of today, they all build their own manual integrations, their own silos. We basically eradicate all of these silos and we go right in the middle so they can interact with us and then interact with the chain itself. So for any ecosystem player, whether you're a cross chain routing protocol, whether you're a cow swap that wants to offer Defi positions, whether you're a wallet, whether you're defi super app, whether you're yield aggregator, Ensor can kind of give you access to the Defi ecosystem. Our vision of Defi itself will be hundreds of thousands of applications that will operate on all EVM chain layers. And we would like to be in the middle for all developers, all applications to be able to interact with this wider ecosystem.
00:18:29.966 - 00:18:36.034, Speaker B: It's a convenience tool. This is awesome. Anna is also a speaker now.
00:18:36.734 - 00:18:39.434, Speaker A: Great, let's see. Anna, can you hear us?
00:18:39.974 - 00:18:43.514, Speaker C: Yes, I think it's finally working. Amazing.
00:18:44.534 - 00:19:06.242, Speaker A: Perfect. There we go. Yeah, I saw the, I was watching our telegram chat here. I think Twitter spaces, I love Twitter spaces and they're great for what they do, but they are not the most technically smooth pieces of tech that have ever existed. There's always an issue. So hopefully it is all fixed and good to go. Now let's see.
00:19:06.242 - 00:19:09.734, Speaker A: I actually just had, I'm seeing some pop up here. Can you guys still hear me?
00:19:10.394 - 00:19:11.814, Speaker C: Yes, but right now.
00:19:12.194 - 00:19:56.804, Speaker A: Okay, cool. Yeah, now as soon as I say that, my screen is all messed up here. Okay, cool. So I guess so what we talked about so far within the space, we've been running for about 20 minutes and we've kind of dove already into end zone, specifically the goal of end zone and of course these specific API endpoints, I think, Connor, what you just said being this gateway of DeFi and existing at the center of hundreds of thousands of applications that leverage DeFi on multiple different levels, multiple different types of integrations, wallets, deFi, super apps, things like gal swap. I think this is a super cool vision that you've just created for us in a picture that you painted. So now I kind of want to shift it. Now that, Anna, that you're here, maybe we can kind of shift gears a little bit.
00:19:56.804 - 00:20:05.544, Speaker A: Anna, could you start us with an introduction of yourself and kind of your role at Cal swap and maybe like a brief about your journey in web3 and stuff like that?
00:20:05.844 - 00:21:11.244, Speaker C: Yeah, for sure. So I joined blockchain in 2017, and back then I joined gnosis. And obviously, Gnosis was already working on a lot of different things. Gnosis has. They have multi signature wallet prediction markets back then, but also because of prediction markets, there was this need to find a solution to more efficiently trade assets that have low liquidity. And I think also back then, one issue that wasn't very discussed in this space at all, which is now very highly discussed, which is MeV, was mentioned by a few people only. I think Vitalik mentioned it already in 2014 the first time, and kind of Martin Koppelman, the CEO of Gnosis, picked up on it and saw that there can be more sophisticated solutions that kind of can prevent these negative externalities of what was the normal transaction execution management back in the day.
00:21:11.244 - 00:21:58.654, Speaker C: And so we kind of started being on the drawing board and coming up with different UX designs, or like generally different designs for dexs. And it took us some time. We first worked on something that was called dutch exchange. It was extremely slow. It took 6 hours for a transaction to be executed. And so we kind of iterated a few times, launched multiple different dexs until we finally went back to the drawing board and decided, okay, we actually need to work on something that is providing UX for users who we cannot expect to really know how to do transaction management. And this was kind of the beginning of cowswap, and I can dive deeper into this later.
00:21:58.654 - 00:22:32.264, Speaker C: But so we started working on Cowswap, we launched it, and it was actually quite successful. And then me, together with Felix, the technical co founder of me, decided to take this out of gnosis spin off, become independent. And yes, since a year and a half, since February 2021, we are independent with cowswap and continuously trying to push on the boundaries of making the UX around dextrading better and more efficient.
00:22:33.484 - 00:23:22.386, Speaker A: Yeah, it's awesome. And I love the name Cowswap and specifically its reference to coincidence of wants. So I did a lot of research into cow swap and the underlying architecture today. And over the past few days. So I'm interested in learning more about kind of how you guys sort of articulate some of that. So I guess could you get us started with a high level overview for our audience? Maybe kind of from a less technical perspective about Cal swap and specifically like number one, the goal of Cal swap and kind of what you guys aim to enable over other sort of like defi trading protocols, for example, or versus something like an aggregator or whatnot, as well as maybe a brief overview into how you guys actually achieve this goal in terms of best prices and stuff like that. Could you get us started with an overview like that?
00:23:22.570 - 00:25:24.014, Speaker C: Yeah, for sure. So I think to describe it very simple, we kind of are like the search machine, you know, of like in the north, like, I don't know, like the outside world. If you look at for how do I get my best flight, Google search, like Google Flight search or whatever, there's like all these different engines, right, that try to optimize a path to find the best possible, in this case, price for flights for whoever is searching. And so with cowswap, we are basically, we described ourselves as the aggregator of the DeX aggregators, because with one inch there was already this aggregation layer existent that was able to, if a user came to one engine, they were like, okay, find me the best possible execution for 50,000 or whatever many amount of my token, how do I get the best price? And then one inch was already capable of splitting this trade across multiple different on chain liquidity points in order to provide better execution for the user. Then here comes cowswap that is essentially sitting on top of that and is able to get even more different liquidity sources involved because we can aggregate also different APIs that are doing this search engine optimization. Essentially. At the same time we figured we also want to provide a solution that is really optimally protecting the user because again, like the UX currently on Ethereum is okay, maybe for those who are like more expert or who are more familiarized with how transaction management works, but the average Joe who wants to just place a simple swap, they're usually a little overwhelmed if it comes to oh, what slippage tolerance should I be setting? How do I protect myself against risks? Or probably they don't even know what risk are out there.
00:25:24.014 - 00:26:40.774, Speaker C: And so even something that seems simple like a slippage tolerance is already complicated because if I place a too low slippage tolerance, it might be that Metroid doesn't get executed if I put it very high, it can be that values extracted from my order and cowswap is abstracting this away. Like, usually what normal Dexs do is they create a default setting, but a default setting is rarely optimal, and it's basically impossible to get it right at the moment of the transaction submission. You need to really adjust the parameters when you actually execute in a transaction. And so what we did was basically always to put this user protection first when we make any decisions about how to develop our product. And so we decided to create this fully intent based, decentralized exchange where car sub users only submit intents, which is essentially a signed message that enables users to only express their goals. So they express, this is my cell token, this is my buy token. This is the period of order validity.
00:26:40.774 - 00:27:35.034, Speaker C: And then this is the maximum tolerance I'm willing to give. And then we engage with third parties, we call them solvers, that are competing on finding the best execution route for these users. And so they basically choose the best computational path on behalf of the users. And the highlight from cowswap is really that the way how it's chosen which server wins this competition is based on who of the servers is maximizing the benefit for the user. This is essentially a model that Carlswap initiated two years ago. And I think now it was also adopted first by one inch, by one inch fusion, and this year also by Uniswap X.
00:27:37.674 - 00:28:36.684, Speaker A: I love the model here. And I think the transition to, of course, the way that you guys do it, by creating this sort of expressing an intent, like you mentioned, with these different parameters that gets executed by solvers, like Enzo, for example, is super interesting. And I think, like, the specific point here that I think is maybe worth diving a little bit further into is the different mechanisms in which, like, these transactions can actually be solved and executed. So, like, at least from my understanding, feel free to correct me. But like, the main three mechanisms of actually getting a transaction, like, when a solver decides what best path is, it goes through one of three things, which is either coincidence of wants, which is, as far as I understand, am I correct? And that's a peer to peer trade. Then you also have ring trades, and then, of course, direct to amm. Could you maybe tell us a little bit more about how this works, especially in regards to things like trades and questions of wants?
00:28:37.264 - 00:29:41.734, Speaker C: Yeah, of course. So basically, on CoSwAP specifically, and that's actually something that's still unique to Carswap and is not yet embraced by one inch or by uniswap, is that so we collect, essentially orders in an off chain order book. And then we asked solvers to batch these traits together. So we have the opportunity to actually leverage existing orders in the order book to match trades against each other, and hence even optimize prices further. Because obviously, usually, let's say you would try to set a $50,000 trade on uniswap. There's obviously going to be some price impact and obviously you also pay protocol fees and you also pay execution gas costs. And if you find a counter trade, obviously this happens more frequently on the popular token pairs such as wealth, USDC, DAi, etcetera.
00:29:41.734 - 00:30:35.484, Speaker C: But if you find a counter trade, the servers are able to batch these two trades together, match them against each other, and then only leverage the excess amount. That one order is 50,000, the other one is 55,000. Then 50,000 can be matched against the other 50,000, but 5000 is excess amount. And that one gets then settled on an on chain liquidity pool. But that can significantly make trades more efficient, offer users better prices, and it also avoids this risk of mev that usually is available in on chain execution. So this is exactly what we refer to. And this is why the name is cowswap, because it stands for coincidence of ones like you said, that we are able to find these matches between different existing orders.
00:30:35.484 - 00:31:21.902, Speaker C: And yeah, that's very unique to cowswap. And what servers can also do is even like the simple example is that you have to trader A against Trader B, and they are matched. But there's also way more complicated scenarios where you could have ten different traders and maybe trader a matches B, B matches C, C matches D, and D matches a. And that's what we refer to as ring trades. So you don't only have to look at a binary order book, but basically a multi token order book. And yeah, that's possible with Carswap specifically at the moment. And then what everyone else also does is that you can of course also match against private liquidity.
00:31:21.902 - 00:31:28.994, Speaker C: Some of the servers have collaborate together with market makers. And then lastly tapping into on chain liquidity.
00:31:30.334 - 00:32:16.664, Speaker A: Gotcha. That makes sense. So I mean, I guess like the, like, and feel free to correct me here, but like, so what my understanding from what you've told me at least, is that like at the start of the user journey here with Cal swap, is that initially a user or multiple users express an intention as something they want to do within defined parameters. Like for example, like you mentioned, I want to swap token a for B, and I only want this maximum amount of slippage, stuff like that. And then this then gets multiple orders, get batched into an off chain auction, which then gets put into, of course, a solver. I believe Enzo runs a solver, and we'll talk more about that in a moment. Which then gets matched between either direct coincidence of wants is, I guess maybe cows would be the better way to say it.
00:32:16.664 - 00:32:38.864, Speaker A: Peer to peer or things like you mentioned, ring trades between multiple different orders, pulling liquidity from multiple sources, or even pulling remaining liquidity from amms and stuff like that, and then sort of batching all these into a single transaction, executing it on chain, and then is that on chain execution? Does that happen through a private mempool for map protection?
00:32:39.944 - 00:33:34.114, Speaker C: So this is actually up to solve us. Actually, at the moment it's still somewhat centralized component. It goes through a Carswap driver that is executing the transactions on chain. And they are currently all submitting via Navblocker. This RPC endpoint that we have also worked on that secures additionally protects any type of on chain transaction against MEV. But we are currently working on what we call driver server co location, which is potentially already going to be tried out in production this week, Friday, which then allows servers to handle their own on chain execution. And then it's entirely up to servers to decide how exactly they want to execute their transactions, whether they want to continue using MAF blocker as RPC endpoint, or however they want to execute the trade on chain.
00:33:34.974 - 00:33:54.394, Speaker A: Gotcha. So that's actually the perfect segue, because Enzo, Connor, I actually have a question for you. So of course you guys run, and feel free to correct me, of course, in this as well. You guys run like a pretty decently sized solver for Cal swap. Could you maybe tell us a little bit more about what that looks like from the set of Enzo and how you guys participate in Cal swap?
00:33:55.414 - 00:34:32.793, Speaker B: Yeah, so we're one of the solvers in Coswap. We do base swaps, but also defi positions. So I think one area in intense that's made a massive, massive improvement in this ecosystem is user experience. So simply expressing your intention of where you would like to get to. So, for example, if you would like to go into beefy vault. Beefy vault requires an aura vault, which requires a balancer vault, which requires two, three tokens. That user experience journey will be many different approvals, many different transactions, many different interfaces.
00:34:32.793 - 00:35:10.814, Speaker B: Now, with EnSO being a solver in cowswap, this user can simply just go to the cowswap interface and express their intent to deposit into this lp position. And with us being one of the solvers, we will find the most optimal path, which will require within one transaction, to buy the underlying tokens for the balancer pool, deposit the balancer pool into aura, then deposit the aura pool into beefy, all within one transaction. So that's kind of our specialty. Within the solver ecosystem, we like to focus on defi itself. However, we do offer the base token swaps as well.
00:35:12.234 - 00:36:10.554, Speaker A: That's awesome. Yeah, that's great. Yeah. I mean, I think here, from what you guys have told me regarding, of course, Enzo as one of the main solvers for calculus, then of course, the actual architecture of Cal swap that we've discussed. The one thing that I want to do before we move on to a more general discussion around intents, is wrap all this up into a takeaway of what Calsop actually enables for the end user through doing all of this, through enabling this intent interaction, abstracting away a lot of core complexity to achieve. In this case, would that be, what would the difference in terms of, for example, the end price for the user? I know you guys, I believe a number that I read somewhere was $82 million in surplus saved for users or something like that. So, Anna, could you maybe tell us a little bit more about the actual results and the benefits for an end user from all this abstraction and all this architectural complexity?
00:36:11.234 - 00:36:48.102, Speaker C: Sure. I think I would essentially summarize it into three core components or core goals that we are trying to achieve. One is exactly that. We are providing not only a smoother user experience for users, but also offering better prices. And the better price comes from multiple points. One is that through the batching, essentially, we are able to give prices that are even better than when settling a trade simply on chain. This is what I explained before.
00:36:48.102 - 00:37:58.224, Speaker C: If you have a coincidence of once and you're able to match multiple user orders together, you usually have less price impact, and you save also on protocol fees and on gas costs. And this is essentially when you look at the total surplus we have generated for users, this is essentially how we achieve this. And then there's also another. And of course, in general, by finding more elaborate, sophisticated execution routes, by having the strong solver competition of really optimizing for what's the best outcome for the user. That's one major area. I think a second area is also that we are tailoring a specific market that other exchanges cannot tailor as well to, which is specifically daos. Because if you are trading from as a DAO, usually if you do votes on chain before you are able to execute a trade, it takes a long time from initial vote creation until final execution of an order.
00:37:58.224 - 00:39:30.784, Speaker C: And this is something where an intent based models obviously much superior compared to the traditional transaction execution dexs. Because here as a DAO, you're for example, capable of setting a fairly high slippage, knowing it's protected, because servers will, in the moment of execution, compete for finding the lowest slippage tolerance possible, not extracting or not exposing your entire slippage tolerance that you initially said you would be comfortable with. So it opens like a door for new types of trades that are purely governed on chain that were previously not possible because they would be too risky. And I think lastly, I would say one, or what we really see as our core mission and achievement that we are striving for, is that it is batching orders and providing a unique single clearing price, which is essentially what we are doing through the batching, is that we ensure that all orders that go via cowswap and that they're settled within a single batch, they all receive the same clearing price. And this is a way of how you can avoid MeV before even exposing it to the blockchain. Because what is causing MeV, what's causing causing it is that you have a lot of different price points for a single token and a single Ethereum block. And it's sometimes ridiculous.
00:39:30.784 - 00:40:24.024, Speaker C: For a token that's highly traded, such as USDC or ether, you sometimes have 10% price difference in a single ethereum block, which is significant. And this is of course then attractive for external parties to extract this value from user orders by essentially reordering it in a block and extracting value from it. And if you batch orders together, what Carswap does, it's impossible. You do not have these different price, these price differences within a single block. And that avoids MeV. And I think this is a much sophisticated solution compared to some of the other solutions that are out there that are currently trying to reduce MeV or redistribute MeV. Our goal really is to minimize MEV as much as possible.
00:40:26.004 - 00:42:14.754, Speaker A: Makes sense. Yeah, I love it. I think from everything that of course you've told us about the underlying architecture of cal swap, everything from the intent centric initial interface, so then gets let into solvers, which can leverage cows ring trades, even pull liquidity from amms like that to eventually, like you said, through all the mechanisms that we talked about, execute trades on chain also together, as well as of course with things like participation on the solver side from Enzo, and even like what we talked about in the beginning with Enzo being the sort of like gateway for DeFi throughout a ton of different applications, right. Trying to be this sort of like, all in one unified API for interaction with Defi. I think all this put together, you know what, as we start to approach the end of the space today, there's one question that I really want to ask both of you guys, specifically surrounding intent central design. We've talked a lot about that today, so I guess maybe we can start with Enzo, what I want to understand, I think this is a question that a lot of us are asking, especially within the intent space, but kind of, and I'll ask this to take us up as well. But, like, what do you, how do you see the future of intent centric design evolving? Like, do you think that intense centricity and sort of taking an approach to interaction that is inherently based upon intents, do you think that will be the standard for all web3 interaction? Do you think that's direction that we're going into? Do you think that we're just, you know, years away from everything on web3 being intent centric? Do you think that it'll be left for specialized use cases? So, Enzo, kind of, what is your standpoint on kind of the state of intense centricity as it is right now and kind of the direction that we're moving into in the future as the technology evolves? From your point of view.
00:42:16.454 - 00:42:57.770, Speaker B: It'S a great question. Many different layers to this. Ultimately, intents are the most common sense approach to interact with the chain, similar to what Anna was saying earlier. Skyscanner, you want to find the most optimal path. You want to get to your end destination as fast as possible. You don't want to need to do many different transactions, go to many different interfaces, manage many different order flows. Ultimately, for user experience, intents need to be here within this ecosystem where intents are going to and what they are as of today.
00:42:57.770 - 00:43:51.086, Speaker B: Generally, they're just swaps. People either aggregate from on chain liquidity, people start taking maybe some of their own flow, maybe they do some sex arbitrage, whatever it may be. The ultimate thing with intents is the user doesn't care. The user just wants this end state or end result, and all of the logic should be abstracted away for the user. One area that I think the intents need to look into a lot more that we're focused on a lot within ENSO is state transitions. So tokens are only one part of this ecosystem, but state is a whole other ballgame. How do you start doing validation on state? You'll need to have individual protocols getters for validating that state has been changed.
00:43:51.086 - 00:44:37.114, Speaker B: You'll need new transaction simulation tools to verify that the state has been changed. What type of permissions are you giving to these solvers, these protocols, these intent protocols, to be able to change your state? Because it's a lot more than just a token. So I think intents are the natural progression of this ecosystem. Where it gets really interesting is centralization versus decentralization. The more traditional market makers come into this ecosystem, they're going to offer better price execution than dexs. Maybe one stage, and the chain would just turn into settlement layer. But intents ultimately, for us, are shortcuts.
00:44:37.114 - 00:45:22.924, Speaker B: That's how we named them about a year, year and a half ago. There's shortcuts to get to your end destination. You don't care how you get there. That's just where you want to get to. I think anyone that knows intents, as far as we can understand them right now, there's many different layers, such as expressions. How do users express their intent? Is it defining your end destination, or is it defining saying, I would like APY, I would like to generate 20% APY? That's also a different type of intent that hasn't generally been done. You have people that are building, let's say, language models to build these interpretation layers.
00:45:22.924 - 00:46:28.300, Speaker B: So you'll have, one, the executional layer of intents, two, the interpretation layer, and then three, also the data layer, because the interpretation layer needs the full data layer. So where can you generate 20% APY for USDC? Where intents get a little bit scary, to be honest, is recommendation engines. So the more we go into human psychology and trying to understand, based upon your previous interactions, you'll start having recommendation engines. And then if you start scanning your eyeballs using the world coin and so forth, which I don't recommend doing, then it gets a little bit scary in that way of intentions. But generally speaking, I think we're still in the early days of intents. I think cowswap are the ogs of intents, right? And they're leading the force within this area. I think we still have a long way to go to fully understand what intents are, because intense.
00:46:28.300 - 00:46:37.864, Speaker B: The word implies intention. There's so many different parts inside of this, and we're only just starting to really see the cusp of where this can go.
00:46:38.924 - 00:47:16.694, Speaker A: 100%. Yeah, I totally agree. I think that the potential of just the philosophy of switching from, usually the term that I use is moving from sequential base level interaction with the blockchain to, like you mentioned, you have an end goal that you want to achieve. You have something that you want to do and you just want the shortcut. You want to achieve it in the best way possible. And applying this throughout the ecosystem has a lot of nuance to it. And of course, this is actually a big part of what we're trying to tackle with particle network v two, which, by the way, if anybody wants to learn more about that, we actually have it pinned on the top of our profile.
00:47:16.694 - 00:48:08.160, Speaker A: You can see it on the particle network account as the host. But I think intensive design is a very, you know, like you mentioned, a very new vertical within web3. But I think its potential to shift ux, especially when being used with things like account abstraction. Especially when being used with things like abstraction. You know, the potential there is massive, and we're super excited about that. And of course, you know, like Connor mentioned, cowswap is definitely an OG in the intent space, and has been kind of pioneering intents for a long time. So, Anna, I'd be also interested to hear your take on this question, kind of how you see the existing landscape of intents and your opinion on kind of what that'll look like in a year or two years, given kind of the continual evolution of the technology and what that'll potentially change for the ecosystem in general.
00:48:08.312 - 00:49:21.194, Speaker C: Yeah, Kanner was already quite elaborate in his response, but to add my two cent to it, I def. I mean, we 100% agree we are still at the very beginning from intense, and it's definitely also very hyped at the moment. So I think it still remains to be seen whether it's more of like a hype that will pass or whether it will actually find widespread adoption. But right now, if you would ask me, I think it's just intense, extremely powerful, and it's also a very needed way of improving user experience. And I think we will probably all agree that we are not where we are yet with user experience in the space yet in order to really obtain the mass adoption that we all hope we will get one day. And so I think the likelihood of intense getting more adoption outside of the existing areas of where they're currently being used is highly likely. And we also received already from a few different projects requests as to like discuss more how intense infrastructure could look like in the future, whether there's some room for collaboration with Carswap on this.
00:49:21.194 - 00:50:56.372, Speaker C: But even if you look into Coswap itself, there's already so much more room for innovation than what we currently offer. Simple things that are now possible with Kaoshop is that you also basically batch different intents from users together, right? Like for example, a user wants to repay a debt and then swap the assets and use the receiving assets to stake, or they want to permit swap and bridge. Bridging is a huge area, right. Also for user improvement, like, do we think that we will have a world down the line where users will have to decide that they're actually trading on polygon or on binance or on ethereum, on gnosis chain? Or will this be all obstructed away? And I assume it will be all obstructed away in order to provide a superior user experience and for that intense, huge factor to make this happen, because you could, for example, as a UI, as a casup UI, you could just ask the user for what do you want to swap? And then you could show them the best price, but just show them the best price price across all existing blockchains. And then the solvers, they could go take this intent, bridge the assets for the user, execute the trade on a different chain where you get a better price because there's deeper liquidity. Bridge back and execute the trade for, give the user the assets that they ultimately want. So there's definitely a huge room for innovation.
00:50:56.372 - 00:51:01.134, Speaker C: And I think we are at the very, very beginning of it, 100%.
00:51:01.214 - 00:51:42.210, Speaker A: And the topic of what's possible with intents, like you mentioned, just the depth of potential here is massive. And of course, this is a big part of what we're trying to explore with intent. WTF, of course, with this space series, as well as with the event that we'll be hosting in Istanbul. So for anybody here, if you're going to be in Istanbul around the 16th, then we'll be hosting the intended WTF community centric event out on the 16th. So definitely check that out. That is again on the Luma page linked to the announcement for the space today. We're also going to probably be hosting another space or two similar to the one today following up to that.
00:51:42.210 - 00:52:01.362, Speaker A: But I think before we end it off here for both Enzo and Cal swap, I love to hear about how both, of course, myself as well as the audience, can stay up to date with what you guys are doing. So, Enzo, could you tell us about the best way to engage with your community and stay up to date with everything that you guys are shipping? Yep.
00:52:01.458 - 00:52:27.720, Speaker B: You can join our discord, follow our twitter. And if you're a developer looking to interact with Defi, we also have a dedicated developer telegram group. So if you go into our docs, Enzo Finance, you'll then see in the top right. Dev chat. Join there. Ask any questions you have, whether it's about intents, whether it's about Defi. If you want a particular defi route to be on cowswap, ping us.
00:52:27.720 - 00:52:32.324, Speaker B: We'll add this route, and then you can go to cowswap and use it on their interface.
00:52:33.744 - 00:52:42.604, Speaker A: Perfect. And cowswap, what's the best way that we can sort of stay up to date with everything that you guys are building and kind of interact with the community?
00:52:43.184 - 00:53:17.892, Speaker C: I would say to stay up to date is probably best to. To follow our Twitter account. But if you have any questions, if you want to engage with us, if you want to talk about collaborations, best would be to go to our Discord server. We have an amazing moderator who's also on this Twitter space right now called Mastercal. So this is somewhere where you really easily can get in touch with us. And then we also have a grand style program. We are currently financing a lot of different, very awesome, innovative projects built on top of Carswap.
00:53:17.892 - 00:53:37.744, Speaker C: So if you have any ideas how to work with us, how to work with cow hooks, like any sort of integration with cowsop, reach out. You can also just reach out on Discord, and we will point you at the right direction and have funding to support you in your innovations.
00:53:39.024 - 00:54:01.736, Speaker A: Well, perfect. Um, Connor, Anna, thank you guys so much. Uh, this was the second episode of the intent of PFSpace series. I can never say that properly. Intent at WTF. Um, and, uh, we will have, uh, like I mentioned, the in person event on the 16th, also be having, I believe, another space or two following up to that, uh, over the next few weeks. So we're super excited about these, uh, different space and these events.
00:54:01.736 - 00:54:32.514, Speaker A: We're probably going to be actually continuing them after in person event, so keep an eye out for that. Um, thank you guys so much for hopping on today. Amazing discussion. I think you guys are both building some incredible solutions, and I can't wait to see what kind of, what the future holds for both you guys, as well as the intent ecosystem in general. Um, for everybody in the audience, thank you so much for hopping in today and listening. Uh, definitely. If you want to learn more about v two and that we're kind of building in regards to the intent space at particle, go to the, uh, the particle account that you can see here in the space at particle network and check out our pinned tweet.
00:54:32.514 - 00:54:47.174, Speaker A: Also, make sure to follow Enzo finance as well as Cal swap. They are building some incredible things and it was awesome to have them on the space today. Other than that, I think that is about it. Thank you, everybody, for hopping in, and we'll see you on the third episode of the intent WTF Space series.
00:54:48.674 - 00:54:49.466, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:54:49.570 - 00:54:49.954, Speaker A: Bye bye.
00:54:49.994 - 00:54:51.234, Speaker C: Thanks so much for having us.
