00:00:01.520 - 00:00:25.674, Speaker A: Like I said, steve, I believe, is back. Let me see if I can find him again. Yep, he's back. So our next speaker is Michael Harris from Columbia University, and he will speak on ramification of supracuspital parameters. Go ahead, Michael, whenever you're ready.
00:00:26.714 - 00:01:02.434, Speaker B: Well, thank you very much for this invitation. It's great to have an opportunity to thank Steve in one way or another. And there will be. I missed that ten years ago, so I have at least the live version, and there will be a reason to do that. But you won't see very many theta functions in this talk, and I have to apologize to the organizers for that. So this is work in progress that started just about. Just a little over a year ago.
00:01:02.434 - 00:01:33.666, Speaker B: I noticed one of my collaborators is in the audience. You can tell me. So this one has a moral, and then it's going to have some substance. I'm going to start with, with the moral. It has to do with the local language correspondence. So it's about everything in the title except Theta series, representation theory, geometry and arithmetic. And one of the things I like about it is that it's about all of these somehow.
00:01:33.666 - 00:02:23.413, Speaker B: It's about all of these at the same time, but without really about the data series. And the moral is that a very simple application of a deep theorem in geometry has surprising consequences for representation theory. Or at least it seemed surprising, and not only surprising, but welcome consequences. And I'll say something about that, and specifically for the representation theory of groups over local fields of positive characteristics. So there is something more to be said these days about local language correspondence for a local field of positive characteristic. And the applications are consequences of the expected local language correspondence, which is fortunate. Don't contradict what's been expected, but what is expected.
00:02:23.413 - 00:03:07.854, Speaker B: I have to go through that slowly. But I should say that even though there aren't going to be any theta series, my obsession with the local language correspondence was a direct outgrowth of my work with Steve on the Theta correspondence. Well, it says a direct outgrowth, as I said, not directly, but it still was a direct outgrowth. In fact, I looked. If you look at our paper on the triple products, you can find two very obscure allusions to local angular correspondence. It was around that time that I started thinking that it was something I ought to understand better. That's my explanation.
00:03:07.854 - 00:04:05.478, Speaker B: And in case I didn't understand why, what I meant there. There was a stage direction, in case. Anyway, this picture was taken in Japan in 1983, and you can try to recognize the people in the picture. Some of the people. Anyway, the surprise answer is that there is no local language conjecture. Well, or another way of putting it is that there are several local language conjectures, and I'm going to explain why they should all be compatible with each other, but nevertheless, they don't together amount to a local Langland's conjecture, not a meaningful one. So g is a connected reductive group over a local non archimedean field with residue field of positive characteristic characteristic p, but not for the time being.
00:04:05.478 - 00:05:05.410, Speaker B: F is not assumed to be, it can be p adic. And unfortunately, I've introduced some notation which was going to disappear. It's PI of g over f is a set of admissible representations with coefficients in some algebraically closed field of characteristic zero. And then a Langland's parameter is a pair, this a v deline parameter. So you have the v group parameter, which is the homomorphism into the l group, and then this unipotent element of the Lie algebra, they satisfy the usual relations, which I won't recall. So there, the set that we have the representations, and we have the set of parameters, the equivalence classes, I won't remind you of the equivalence relation is denoted phi of g over f. So there are two objects, phi and PI, PI being the representation, and phi the parameters which are on the galva side.
00:05:05.410 - 00:06:07.214, Speaker B: So here's the first version. There is a canonical parameterization which goes from the PI mapping from the representations to the parameters, such that what I call the l packet, which is not necessarily the proper terminology. The fiber over a given, the inverse image of a given phi, that's what this notation is supposed to be, is finite, and furthermore, it's non empty. But all the work, all the work in this conjecture is in the word canonical. Problem is who's canon, because, as Andre Weill might have said, might have deigned to say, that both sides have the same cardinality. You can even partition them in such a way. And the Bernstein components, they also still have the same cardinality.
00:06:07.214 - 00:07:06.784, Speaker B: So, as stated, it's a vacuous conjecture. So I'm going to clarify the conjecture just for the tempered representations, and we'll sometimes, probably even always, forget the superscript. So let's try to understand what the conjecture says about tempered representation in temporary l packets. Well, first property, there's a list of properties. I'm going to go through these pretty quickly. When g is a torus, the parameterization is given by class field theory, particular for gl one, and generalizations. If you, I won't, I won't read the details if you have an isomorphism of fields, then the natural diagram with the, where you have the change, change of field on the gala side and the change of field on the representation side commutes more conditions.
00:07:06.784 - 00:08:19.284, Speaker B: Let's take a homomorphism of algebraic groups to a torus, and then we get a dual map of l groups, and then this parameterization is compatible with twisting, where here you've got to take the language correspondence for the character. Here you just tensor the representation by the character. This is the multiplication. It's compatible with taking contragradients when sigma is any homomorphism, when you take, when you take the homomorphism of algebraic groups, because you can compose the parameter with a homomorphism, and you can decompose the parameter with the homomorphism on both sides. Central isogenes, I won't say the details, it's compatible with central isogenies and then some more properties that it will go through very quickly. It's compatible with products, it's compatible with normalized parabolic induction. That's a big one, but it takes up too much space on the slides, so I won't write it down.
00:08:19.284 - 00:09:29.096, Speaker B: Compatibility with restriction of scalars that means if you see the same group, if you view the same group as a group over two different fields of field, and by restriction of scales over a subfield, then the correspondences are compatible. Now some substance is compatible with a Satake correspondence for spherical representations, which is where the whole thing started, which is part of normalized parabolic induction. And now suppose the representation belongs to the discrete series, specifically super cuspital, which are going to be the ones I talk about. Then the quotient of the centralizer of the parameter by the invariance in the centralizer of the dual group is finite. That doesn't say very much about it, but it's important. This long list still does not get anywhere near a characterization of l. And the real issue is the supracuspitals, because if you just have a bijection of super cuspitals, that's the same cardinality on both sides.
00:09:29.096 - 00:10:11.538, Speaker B: Oh, super cuspital with irreducibles, and whatever that means, let's continue. There are also some automorphs. Those were structural conditions. There are also some automorphic conditions, so very vague. Suppose there's an order, a theory of automorphic functions attached to the group g over the field f, and this homomorphism to a general linear group. So, for example, so f could be a local field, but it really should be a global field as well. It should be a local field viewed as, as a completion of a global field.
00:10:11.538 - 00:10:42.858, Speaker B: So, for example, the Rankin Selberg method or the Langlin Shahidi method, any, any method you like to construct automorphic l functions, then whenever you have a. There's this additive character in there, which is. Which I forgot to explain. Maybe it's on the next slide. So it's compatible with endoscopic transfer. It's compatible with. Oh, yes.
00:10:42.858 - 00:11:43.106, Speaker B: I think at the end of this, I erased it because it was taking up too much space. What I want to say is that there's compatibility with l and epsilon factors. Local l and epsilon factors. One on the gala side and one on the automorphic side should also be compatible with cyclic base change. This is another, this is a version specific, particular version of endoscopic transfer, twisted endoscopic transfer, and then local global compatibility. So that is, this is an automorphic condition that says if you have in addition a global Langlands parameterization, if you're starting with automorphic representations or cuspital automorphic representations, and if you can attach to that a global Langland's parameter, then the restriction of the global language parameter to the decomposition group of a given place gives you, is equivalent to the local correspondence that one would take up two slides. I didn't.
00:11:43.106 - 00:12:28.948, Speaker B: Anyway, it's an important, it's an important property that is known in all cases. So point one, which was the thing that was erased compatibility with ln epsilon factors, together with some of the earlier conditions, actually suffice to characterize the local language correspondence for GlN. So there's only one that satisfies those conditions. That was proved by Ner. So we can talk, it makes sense to talk about the local language correspond, the local language correspondence for GlN. For general linear groups, point one is, as far as anybody knows, useless for e eight. Nobody has yet found a theory of automorphic l functions for e eight.
00:12:28.948 - 00:13:11.664, Speaker B: So that's not going to, that's not going to get us past the ambiguity. So, .3 on the other hand, makes sense for every group in positive characteristic, because Vincent La Forg has given a global parameterization and moreover. But what he's given is a semi simple parameterization for global representations. And Dinesti and Lafourgue have proved that the local, that the global parameterization has the purely local definition, but the original. Michael. Sorry.
00:13:11.664 - 00:13:37.156, Speaker B: So your point one. All right, so you said e 8.1 doesn't do anything. So do you mean for other exceptional groups you can actually use 0.1 to characterize? I don't know whether you can characterize it, but at least you can, you can hope to characterize it. For the other exceptional groups. There are both Rankin Selberg and Langland Shahidi l functions for e six and e seven, well, not for f f four.
00:13:37.156 - 00:14:19.354, Speaker B: You may be able to sneak by with the endoscopic transfer. And g two, well, g two. There are other automorphic l functions. And so let me remind you of the original conditions. That is, there's a canonical parameterization that means that it better satisfy all those conditions, and that means, in particular, that the conditions are not mutually exclusive. And we want to know that the l packet is finite, and then that the l packet is not empty. So the results of them going to be talking about with my collaborators do not yet help with B and C, but they suggest a few directions.
00:14:19.354 - 00:15:10.746, Speaker B: They eliminate some of the worst possible pathologies. So that's what I'm going to get to. But let me talk about. There are a few other canons. There are other canons that are, or purported correspondences or parameterizations, at least, that claim to be correspondences, that Fargenscholzer for p adic fields has a construction that is completely parallel to the geneste la fog parameterization. But in general, there's no corresponding global correspondence, nor would anybody in the present decade likely to find one, although we never know. So there's no, you can't ask about local global compatibility.
00:15:10.746 - 00:16:23.114, Speaker B: And that's really important, because that, that is, that has a lot to do with characterizing the correspondence. So finiteness of packets and surjectivity of the parameterization are not known for either fault Schultz, nor for in principle, it's possible that infinitely many supercospitals, this is the sort of thing that if you were the sort of person who's kept up at nights worrying about these things, we might worry about this. It's possible that infinitely many supercospitals have completely trivial parameters in either case. But we can exclude that by our methods. So at least that is not going to be worry in most cases, practically. Or there's Tasha Kaleta's parameterization, which is based on a completely different principle, based on the construction of JKU, which gives most supercospitals the domain. It doesn't give a complete parameterization.
00:16:23.114 - 00:17:34.434, Speaker B: The domain is only the set of regular and non singular supercuspital representations. But by Jessica Finson's results, this does include all supercuspitals for almost p. And if you're willing to admit that for classical groups, everything can be handled by, by transferred to GLN, that this really only for exceptional group this only leaves p less than or equal to seven. And furthermore, the three of them, the three authors listed there, recently proved character formulas that imply compatibility with endoscopic transfer and thereby give a unique characterization of the parameterization, except for a small p where the methods don't apparently don't work. Nevertheless. So there you've got a canon. Is it the same as either falch, Scholzer or genestee la for.
00:17:34.434 - 00:18:15.834, Speaker B: So it would be really uncomfortable if there were two cannons that gave that in different keys. And I don't know. It's a question whether this sort of thing is accessible by Lefchitz trace formula techniques. Maybe somebody in the audience knows the answer to this. Well, here's another question. Suppose you have a p adic field and then a local field of positive characteristic. And suppose they are close of enclose, which means an isomorphism of truncated integer rings.
00:18:15.834 - 00:19:13.998, Speaker B: Deline showed that the Vae group parameters of the corresponding depth, which defined in a natural way, are in one to one correspondence, a natural bijection. Now, suppose g is split connected. Maybe this is not strictly necessary, but at least it's necessary. It's useful to make the statement concrete. And suppose you have the standard congruent subgroups of level prime to the rth power. Then you can define the corresponding heca algebras, the heca algebras for these congruent subgroups for the two fields. And Kaujdan proved that if they, f and f sharp are n close for some n that's larger than r, then the irreducible representations of depth are in correspondence.
00:19:13.998 - 00:20:04.904, Speaker B: Okay, so here's an exercise. If n is bigger than r, this, this diagram with the correspondence on top, the Ferg Schultze correspondence on the bottom, the Kashdan correspondence on the left of the correspondence on the right commutes. And the challenge is to prove this conjecture. Okay, I don't know whether that's, that's an accessible question or not. This is, this is Steve looking very pensive, maybe thinking about the challenge in the background. But actually what this is is just that the photo is blurred. I think his eyes are actually open.
00:20:04.904 - 00:21:19.514, Speaker B: Okay, let me now review Vincent Forg's global results. So now we're going to be working over a smooth projective curve with a field of q elements, and l is a prime different from p. In order to avoid complications, let's say g is split semi simple over the function field of y. And then let's let a zero of g be the set of cuspid automorphic representations of g over the adels and then we consider semi simple maps from the gala group of k to the dual group. By semi simple, I mean if the image is contained in a proper parabolic, then it's contained in a Levi subgroup standard definition. So here is Benson La Forbes theorem. There's a map also called l from automorphic representations to semi simple parameters with the following property.
00:21:19.514 - 00:22:40.464, Speaker B: If at least the following property. Suppose you have a place point and PI is a cuspidal automatic representation unramified at that place. Then the forks parameter is unramified and the semi simplification restricted to the decomposition group or the v group at v is the Setaki parameter. So in other words, this is compatible with the Setaki parameterization at unramified places. That's part of his big theorem. And then the paper says that if you define, suppose you have your PI as above, and suppose you go out on a limb and say that you define a local parameterization for the local component of PI at W by just taking the global parameterization, restricting it to the at W and semi simplifying, then this is a well defined, this is well defined. It depends only on the completion at W and on PI W and not on the globalizations.
00:22:40.464 - 00:23:32.774, Speaker B: It's compatible with normalized parabolic induction. So that's pretty good. You've got some of the, of the, of the desired properties. So in particular, you don't have to your PI, your representation, an irreducible representation of the local, the group of the local field doesn't have to be realized explicitly as a component of an automorphic representation. You can work around that. You can define a semi simple homomorphism from the vague group, the local vague group to the dual group, and that's the local parameterization, that's the genesti la for parameterization. Now one thing you can do with vague group parameters is look at weights.
00:23:32.774 - 00:24:10.970, Speaker B: So suppose you have a global. Now this is, this is wrong. This is the, oh yes, okay, suppose you have a linear representation of your dual group and PI is your automorphic representation. Let s be the set of primes where it's ramified. Well then composing the parameter with sigma gives you a semi simple elliotic local system on the complement of s in a curve. So it's unravel. In other words, it's unramified outside s.
00:24:10.970 - 00:24:59.174, Speaker B: The local system is unraveled by this. Now by Deline's v two, which is the deep geometric theorem I mentioned at the beginning. Each irreducible summand of this local system is punctually pure up to, that is to say, it has weights, integer weights. But you might, because this is over a finite field, you may have to twist by a character of the gala group, the constant field extension. Let's not worry about that. So for any w, the eigenvalues are vaque numbers of various weights. The eigenvalues Frobenius at w are vaque numbers.
00:24:59.174 - 00:25:56.100, Speaker B: This is even true at the ramified places. You have to choose a Frobenius of the ramified place, but still you choose it. The eigenvalues are q numbers of various ways up to the twist, which this, you know, the norm to. Yes, sort of thing. So let's say a representation PI of the, of the local group g of f is pure. If for some, or equivalently for any faithful sigma, the eigenvalues of the Frobenius after composition with sigma of the parameter have the same weight. All right, so we can def, we can, we can introduce a notion of purity for these representations of the representations of the local field.
00:25:56.100 - 00:26:29.020, Speaker B: Local field. Well, if g is not gln, not all supercustibles are pure. Here's our main theorem. I remember g is split, semi simple. There should also be a version, at least for quasi split. Suppose we have a pure supracuspital, and suppose it is compactly induced from a compact open subgroup of g. For example, if p does not divide the order of the vial group.
00:26:29.020 - 00:27:29.204, Speaker B: This follows from Vincent's theorem. Suppose, moreover, that q is bigger than three. This is not about the, this is not about the residue characteristics by the order of the field, and this is probably temporary restriction, then l is not unramified. So if you have a pure, that is to say it is ramified, that is to say the restriction of the parameter to the, to the inertia subgroup is not trivial. So let's, in order to, to avail ourselves of Fincen's theorem, we assume that p doesn't divide the order of the vowel group. So every supercuspital is going to be compactly induced then by induction on parabolic subgroups. And because l is compatible with parabolic induction, let PI be a pure representation of any of any kind, not necessarily super cuspital.
00:27:29.204 - 00:28:54.014, Speaker B: And suppose the parameter is unramified. Then PI is an irreducible constituent of an unramified principle series. So at least we don't have to worry about infinitely many supercuspitals with trivial parameter. Okay, now this is, suppose we have local and global cyclic stable base change over function fields, and it suits, as in a, in a restricted sense, worked out in the best book. So suppose we have it globally for certain classes of representations. So he studied, he considered the representations with some Steinberg constituents, which is fine. So then we can say a representation of g of f is incorrigible if it's super cuspital and such that no matter how many times you try to make it stop being super cuspable, that by cyclic base change, the base change, which is an l packet, which could be infinite, because we're doing it, we're defining the base change in terms of global representation, if it still contains a super cuspidal member.
00:28:54.014 - 00:29:52.654, Speaker B: A corollary, assuming the existence of base change, no pure supercuspital representation is incorrigible. Well, this fact, people who work in the local Langlands correspondence are well aware that this was really the key step in the proof of the local of, certainly the key step in the proof of NDR's numerical correspondence. And with this, together with properties of base change, you get the local and twists under base change, you get the local language correspondence. That's basically how any out proved numerical correspondence. As long if you have a canonical correspondence with this property, then you get the local language correspondence. And there are two proofs of this corollary for GLN. Any out proved it by the numerical correspondence.
00:29:52.654 - 00:30:53.316, Speaker B: And that's used in, in most of the proofs of the local language correspondence. Schulze gave a different proof using the geometry of nearby cycles on the Lumin Tate moduli space. And as I just said, along with the existence of a canonical parameterization, this is the key step in any proof of local language correspondence. Last year, Daniel Lee Werp, who I think is in the audience, a third year student at Harvard, gave a new proof for GLN in positive characteristic, modeled on Schultz's proof for pietic fields. And again, this is the corollary, the key step. All right, here's another result that we get by our methods. Suppose PI is a pure super cuspital that's compactly induced from an open compact subgroup.
00:30:53.316 - 00:31:37.216, Speaker B: That is small in an appropriate sense, then l of PI is not only ramified, it's wildly ramified. So, an example of small open, compact subgroup is the principal congruence subgroup. Remember, we have. It's split, it's split semi simple. So the principal congruence of loop has a as defined by Chevrolet basis. And we can even say something about the supercuspitals that are not pure. Well, if they're not pure, the Langland's parameters should be.
00:31:37.216 - 00:32:44.004, Speaker B: Well, actually, that's a false. They should have Langdon's parameters that there should be a should there? They should have Langdon's parameters, rho n with n not equal to zero. They should have a non trivial monodromy piece. These are like unipotent super cuspitals. Well, we would expect that the pair Rho n satisfies the property that's in arithmetic geometry known as purely the monodromy weight filtration. Again, up to this unramified twist, so that we can make sure our weights are integral for any, for any, first of all, for any linear representation of the dual group, the eigenvalues of Frobenius are all q numbers of integer weight. The subspace of eigenvectors with eigenvalues of weight less than or equal to a is invariant under both rho and the monitor only operator.
00:32:44.004 - 00:33:37.424, Speaker B: And then the key principle. So then you can define n on this associated graded from the, from the, so w is a fixed is a fixed weight. There is a weight like the central weight such that the map is an isomorphism on this graded piece. Okay, the parameter, now remember the La forgue parameter is semi simple and the geneste Lafourg parameter is also semi simple. So they're just vague parameter. They don't see n. However, it's easy to see that not every semi simple parameter with several weights can be completed to one satisfying purity of the monodromic weight filtration.
00:33:37.424 - 00:34:35.997, Speaker B: Suppose, for example, that the composition of rho with the linear representation has two weights. If rho can be completed to rho n satisfying purity, then they have to be the same parity. It's pretty, pretty obvious. So you're not going to get so, so if a supercuspital, if the semi simple parameter of a supercuspital is not pure, you would hope that the weights satisfy the same parameter. Well, we prove it can be completed. The semi simple parameter can be completed to a pair where ss PI is the semi simple part, an n that does satisfy purity of the monodromic weight filtration. So this shows that even if it's not pure, it has a purity property, namely purity, the monitoring wave filtration.
00:34:35.997 - 00:35:14.934, Speaker B: We can call this the full language parameter. And with this definition, the language parameter of PI is ramified, is ramified in n. This semi simple part need not be, but the n gives you ramification of infinite order of pain ramification, and here is a representation. Here's another theorem that has nothing. Well, it's related. It's nothing to do with our methods. Suppose PI is a depth zero super cuspal representation, for example, induced from a Deline, Langlene, Adele.
00:35:14.934 - 00:36:09.694, Speaker B: Representation of, of the quotient of the maximum compact of hyperspecial maximal compact by its first congruence subgroup, then is tamely ramified. So this is roughly a very rough definition of zep zero representations. And the idea of the proof is to use congruences. So this is of lithic representations and also congruences of supercuspal representation. So this is using model Langdon's correspondence, which you note. The point is that while ramification is preserved when you reduce modulo l, if l is different from p, so you can detect it by the modular correspondence. All right, so here's something about the proofs.
00:36:09.694 - 00:37:10.074, Speaker B: So let's suppose that our curve was just p one, all right? And then we choose a borrel over the constant field and b minus the opposite borel. I guess I'm going to slow down because I have some time. So let's let I zero be the eva hori in b, and I infinity plus be the pro unipotent radical of the iwahori corresponding to b minus. You think of zero and infinities being two points on p one. So now we're going to construct a cuspidal automorphic representation with favorable properties. First of all, we have our PI. Remember, we have our supercuspital PI, a pure supercuspital.
00:37:10.074 - 00:38:11.844, Speaker B: And at every rational point over the constant field other than zero and infinity, we make this. We want the automorphic representation to be our chosen supercuspital. For the points that are not rational over the base field or the ground field, PI is unramified. And then it has a fixed vector under the pro unipotent iwo hori, the pro p evohori at infinity. And then at zero, it contains a vector transforming under a certain character of kai, called kai k, which is not the same k, I'm afraid. What's the character of the. Of this? It's a character of this torus over a finite field.
00:38:11.844 - 00:38:53.006, Speaker B: This is what you think it is. This is the pro pehari at zero. All right, we're going to construct such a cuspid automorphic representation, and if we can do that, then. Now suppose l is unramified, well, by the purity hypothesis. So that says that for any faithful representation, remember the language, the parameters. So l PI sigma, which means sigma composed with l PI. I think I didn't introduce that a priori.
00:38:53.006 - 00:40:23.356, Speaker B: So an elliotic local system on P one away from the rational points, because at those other, at the points outside, at all these points outside of p one of k, the automorphic representation is unramified. So it's ln local system away from the, from the points where places where PI is ramify capital PI. But because it's pure, it extends to punctually pure local system on GM, that is to say, on p one minus two points. And why is that? That's because there could have been unipotent monodromy at the rational points, because all we know is that the semi simple parameters is unramified, but because there's no unipotent monodromia, because it's pure, there's no monodromia at all. So we have a local system, one GM. And moreover, our hypotheses that there are fixed vectors under Propi Wahori imply that the ramification is zero infinity is tame. Well, we know all the local systems, or the tame local systems on p one minus two points, it's the sum of local systems induced from characters of finite order of the tame fundamental group of Gm, which is just the z.
00:40:23.356 - 00:41:14.024, Speaker B: Well, z hat away from p, not including p, but l PI of z. That is to say, for every z in the rational points, we know that it's our chosen PI, because they're all isomorphic. But by varying the character chi, we obtain a contradiction. This is, this is, I won't give you the details of that. It's the kind of Gauss sum argument. So now we're going to construct this capital PI. So suppose, for simplicity, that PI is compactly induced from the integer points, the group of integer points.
00:41:14.024 - 00:42:17.634, Speaker B: This is the easy case. Suppose let phi of PI be a matrix coefficient supported in U. That's what we're allowed to do because it's compactly supported. And we suppose that for simplicity, that feed PI of one is one, and construct pointer a series, as in the paper of Gan Lomelie, where we choose data at every place. At, well, it's the, at every z in the rational points, it's this chosen phi sub PI, or super cuspital matrix coefficient for x. Not rational, it's just the characteristic function of the integer integer subgroup. At infinity is the characteristic function of the prop iwo hori subgroup, and at zero, it's this character, chosen character, the support conditions.
00:42:17.634 - 00:43:02.004, Speaker B: And you just look at which elements of the Adels lieutenant in this product of groups and you see that it's not zero. That's important. You want a Frank Ray series. It's easy to construct pink ray series that equals zero, but here we get one that's not zero, and then we set PI to be translates of this Planck array series. Well, the. Then the conditions are pretty clear. So it has a fixed vector under, under this group, and it translates by character under this group.
00:43:02.004 - 00:44:00.494, Speaker B: And then at the supercuspital points, it's the l of PI. It is PI. It is our PI. So the assumption that PI was compactly induced from our integer points allows us to choose the local groups at zero and infinity very simply. And in general, one needs to look more closely at the building to guarantee that the appropriate support conditions so that the Planck array series is not identically zero. Well, the case of reductive g reduces easily to the semi simple case. And we have not looked seriously at non split g, although we hope to generalize it, at least in quasi split groups, before we complete the paper.
00:44:00.494 - 00:44:57.302, Speaker B: But Wittec reminded me that if x is an f variety with g, action 1 may form the x theta series just as this sum. And if x is just g with g acting by translation, then theta is the Planck ray series. So yes, it is a theta series. It's not the kind that figured in my papers, my joint papers with Steve, but it's legitimate for this conference after all. Right, let me say something about the wild ramification. It's the same basic idea. So suppose it's induced from a small open complex, and it's wildly ramified.
00:44:57.302 - 00:45:25.774, Speaker B: Well, as before, we get a non vanishing frank array series. But in. But now, because the subgroup is small, we get it. We get an extra condition at infinity, so it's unramp, or at zero, so it's unramified outside infinity. So it's a local system on a one. Now, by the previous theorem, l is ramified. And since there are no tamely ramified local systems on a one, the ramification must be wild.
00:45:25.774 - 00:45:44.706, Speaker B: Um. Yes, I don't know what. Yes, they're more general. Small open compacts. I don't know what more general means here. I'm not sure quite what, but I was. I was reading.
00:45:44.706 - 00:46:23.394, Speaker B: You have to read what my mind was when I was preparing this slide. And now for the mixed supercuspitals. But now things are. We don't actually have to use compact induction. So this is completely general. We start with any supercuspital PI, and we globalize to an automorphic capital PI such that lss of PI is irreducible under the adjoint representation. That is to say, that is less on a forks parameter, global parameter is irreducible.
00:46:23.394 - 00:47:21.252, Speaker B: Now, here, we don't even have to work with p one. Take a curve with points x, y and z and PI capital PI, with PI sub x being our chosen PI PI sub y being the Klusterman representation considered in the paper of Heinlein and Jun, for which it's known that the image of the local parameter, this is the genesteer la font parameters is irreducible. There are some exceptions for small primes. And what is z? I forgot to say what z is. Maybe I'll remember that. Oh, we choose z so that it's, I guess it's. I don't remember what z is.
00:47:21.252 - 00:48:05.184, Speaker B: I think, I think it has to be Steinberg Z. Yes. So then a result. Yes, Steinberg is z, then a result. Tan Pier generalizes purely the monogramming weight filtration to g hat parameters that it implies that the weiline parameter of the restriction of x to x of. Okay, so we take, let me, let me slow down. We take the global parameter which is irreducible, and therefore by this result of solvent topia, at every point the restriction satisfies purity of the monodromy wave filtration in the sense that when you compose.
00:48:05.184 - 00:49:10.504, Speaker B: So this is purely the monitoring wave filtration for g hat. So the semi simple parameter L of PI has the completion, namely l sub x of PI lss PI at x this restriction. So if it has a completion, then in fact it's unique. It's the only completion that satisfies purity of the monitoring weight filtration. So again, this is a construction by Planckray series. Here, by the way, is the proof. I'm not going to explain what this means, but this is the argument that allows us to conclude, or to find a contradiction, draw a contradiction from the assumption that all of the local parameters were unramified at the superclustible points were unramified and equal Gm.
00:49:10.504 - 00:49:58.044, Speaker B: So this is the kind of argument you get. This is basically, basically Kumar theory. Now. So in the remaining few minutes, I want to say how this could help to prove the local language correspondence in general. So start with an irreducible parameter. We want to show, let's just say we want to show that this irreducible parameter is in the image of the genestier four correspondence, which would have to be in the image of a super cuspidal, because the correspondence is compatible with parabolic induction. So we start with an irreducible parameter.
00:49:58.044 - 00:50:59.734, Speaker B: Then the methods of my paper with Buchlakari and Thorn allow us to define a global gala representation with some properties. So we've got a curve. First, the restriction to some, to the local decomposition group at some point x is our chosen parameter. The image of the global parameter. The global gala parameter is Zariski dense in the, in the dual group, and this gala representation becomes automorphic. That is to say, it's in the image of Vincent La Forg's correspondence if you replace y by a finite Galois cover. All right, so we want to show that rho is in the image of local correspondence.
00:50:59.734 - 00:52:40.274, Speaker B: But remember, having taken this gala cover, we may have lost everything. We may have lost all the interesting information in Rho, because we don't, we have no control over the ramification of Y prime at the point x. What we do know is that, well, let's first assume that there's stable base change for g, and then we can replace y prime, or up to replacing y prime by another gala cover, we can assume that tau prime is unramified everywhere. All right, so now, so we have an unramified parameter, that is the restriction to a gala cover of the global parameter, that has the interesting local parameters. Now we want to descend, that is to say the reverse of cyclic base change step by step along the decomposition group over the point x. If we can do that, then by trabutaro density, necessarily, if we can descend our tau prime to an automorphic representation over the fixed field of the decomposition group, then necessarily that automorphic representation locally at the fixed point, at the point above x is super inclusible with our chosen parameter or starting parameter. So you want to realize starting parameter.
00:52:40.274 - 00:53:46.974, Speaker B: So suppose PI prime has multiplicity one. Okay, that's then we can at least descend over the center of the decomposition group. That's actually assuming they're cyclic based change. The multiplicity one hypothesis is unknown for general g, but would follow from a similar hypothesis from the geometric Langland's correspondence over the algebraic closure. So f q bar of y, the curve over the algebraic closure. And you know, there are these long papers deriving, reconstructing the Vincent La forgues parameterization from the geometric language correspondence. So if the, if the geometric language program can be carried out for function fields over curves over positive characteristic, then the multiplicity one hypothesis is safe.
00:53:46.974 - 00:54:29.444, Speaker B: Now we have an inductive proof, so, induct on the dimension of g and assume endoscopic transfer. Now there's some technical terminology. We assume that the r groups defined automorphically, which have to do with the local intertwining of induced representations, are isomorphic to the r groups defined in terms of gala parameters. This is a conjecture. The r groups defined in terms of gala parameters have to do with the centralizers of the gala parameter. So these are technical. There's a conjecture that these are the same.
00:54:29.444 - 00:55:05.858, Speaker B: Um. Is it Shahidi's conjecture? I'm not sure. Then it's known for most classical groups. And finally, we assume there are no pure incorrigible representations which. And we can get away with that if P doesn't divide the order of the eval group. Now, then all representations with pure unramified parameters are constituents of unramified principle series. Then, as in the proof for GLM, this should be the key step.
00:55:05.858 - 00:55:46.044, Speaker B: It seems plausible that the strategy used by Arthur to construct temperate l packets for classical groups can be applied inductively to this base change situation. This involves techniques that I am struggling to understand. I hope to have something more to say about this the end of this year, and then we could just reconstruct the l packets by successive cyclic descents. That's the end. And that's all I have to say. And thank you again. And thank you, Steve, for everything.
00:55:48.344 - 00:56:02.804, Speaker A: All right. If we would like to unmute and thank Michael for his talk, that would be fine. All right. Do we have any questions for Michael?
00:56:03.344 - 00:56:46.724, Speaker B: Yes, Michael, I may have missed this during your talk, but can you say anything about these packets, tempered packets, which are both discrete series and supercospitals in them? Not a whole lot, no. All I can say is that. I mean, that's. I have. We have not. What we can say is that undoubtedly those are the ones that are not pure, whose regular parameter is not pure, but whose Vadaline parameter satisfies purity of the monitoring weight filtration. But we can't identify those otherwise.
00:56:46.724 - 00:57:43.626, Speaker B: I think that's a trace formula question. Thank you. By the way, in the paper of the paper of Taylor and Yoshida, they prove purity of the monitoring weight filtration for the global realizations that it's local global compatibility for discrete series that are not super cuspital. And they call the parameters pure. They don't say that the. So this, and I was looking in the literature, there doesn't seem to be a one word term for a parameter that has purity of the monitoring weight filtration. It satisfies purity.
00:57:43.626 - 00:57:53.094, Speaker B: Monitoring weight filtration is kind of cumbersome. So if anybody can come up with a better terminology, please, please let us know.
00:57:57.874 - 00:58:11.034, Speaker A: All right. Are there any more questions for Michael? Well, I don't hear any, and I don't see any in the chat.
