00:00:12.520 - 00:00:52.538, Speaker A: Ah, okay. So, hello everybody. Thank you, Florian, for a very nice introduction. So, my name is Chris Gogo and I am one of the PhD candidates in blockchain in DeFi at the University of Zurich. And today I'm going to tell you more about the research project that we just finished and are about to publish a paper about it. I mean, there is a lot of hype around DeFi, and especially tokenization. We can see a lot of big banks playing with DeFi, tokenizing financial assets.
00:00:52.538 - 00:01:28.876, Speaker A: Practically every week there is a news. Some of them are using Uniswap, using Aave for their financial products. They tokenize. And in my talk today, I will try to explain you why they are doing it. Here on this chart, you can see how much assets are being clocked in DeFi. Actually, there are a lot of cases where when in DeFi, we are using different terminology than in traditional finance. And TVL is one of such examples.
00:01:28.876 - 00:02:06.764, Speaker A: It stands for total value logged. It's something like assets under management, international finance. And you can see that within just two years, it grows practically from zero to over 150 billion. And then it dropped. It dropped typically because of the two things that happened. One was terra Luna, a crash that actually triggered a lot of other things later. And then you can see that at the end of last year there was FTX crash, but the market almost recovered from that.
00:02:06.764 - 00:03:24.094, Speaker A: Another interesting thing is when we look at which blockchains are the largest and where the Defi today actually located us, I mean, it's of course Ethereum and Tron binance. These are layer one blockchains, but other chains, arbitrum, polygon, they are layer two s. Arbitrum is optimistic roll up. And I mean, over the last two days here, we were talking a lot about zero knowledge roll ups. And I believe that when we meet next time, in a few months or one year, we simply see one of those zero knowledge roll ups getting to the top of this list and simply what we did at university. We look at all of those assets that are being logged in Defi, and we looked how they are being allocated to each DeFi protocols. We simply look at the protocols that are covering almost 90% of all those assets that are in DeFi and analyze what are the design patterns, what are the risk, and what you should be careful about when you are using it.
00:03:24.094 - 00:04:10.194, Speaker A: Generally, we noticed that all DeFI actually comes down to three types of the protocols, and there is really nothing more. So one group of the DeFi protocols are liquidity pools. These are the marketplaces that are matching demand side to the supply side. They are synthetic assets or synthetic tokens and they are aggregators and there is nothing more. Our hypothesis is that everything in DeFi is actually falling into one of those three categories. And then when we look at the DeFi risk, I mean there is a lot of talking about the DeFi is being hacked. There are a lot of different risks.
00:04:10.194 - 00:05:09.234, Speaker A: But those DeFi risks are also driven only by three factors, by one of those DeFi categories, by the tokens we are using, and also how we are using those protocols. And I'm going to show you how actually it's working in practice. So what actually DeFi is. So DeFi is the general term which is describing all of the financial applications that are using a blockchain for their security. I mean, this term is very close to c five, which stands for centralized finance and CFI. Like for example some crypto banks or maybe exchanges. I mean, they also have blockchain related business model, they have blockchain related services, but they do not rely on the blockchain for security and integrity.
00:05:09.234 - 00:06:16.344, Speaker A: And simply we at university, we assume that when you have a wallet and you are connecting to different protocols with your wallet, with your private keys, this is a defining factor of DeFi. And then those DeFi protocols, they can be governed in a very different way with DAO or without DAo. Or when there is a DAO, the DAO can be more or less centralized or decentralized. And here you can actually see what things are possible today within DeFi. I mean, the most basic value proposition is the trading. When you are having two tokens, like I know, Makerdao and maybe USDC, and you are simply swapping one token into each other, then when we have in DeFi those trading protocols, they are called decentralized exchanges. Then we also need aggregators that will be quickly finding for us the best trading rights.
00:06:16.344 - 00:07:23.384, Speaker A: If for example, we are missing some tokens to buy another one, we can go to lending protocols. And with lending protocols like avro compound, we can borrow one type of tokens, typically stablecoins, using another tokens like Ethereum for example, as a collateral. There are also some DeFi protocols that are working similar to asset managers. These are real farming protocols or liquid staking that are doing a little more sophisticated financial services, but they are making our work easier. And the last category that is being discussed, whether it's a part of DeFi or not, these are bridges and wrapped tokens. They are simply allowing you, for example on ethereum having wrapped solana or wrapped bitcoin and get exposure to those cryptocurrencies also on Ethereum, Ethereum, blockchain. But the important thing is, I will be talking more about this later, is to understand they are the financial products.
00:07:23.384 - 00:08:05.694, Speaker A: Having wrapped solana or bitcoin is very different from having actual bitcoin or actual solana. Like some people learn the hard way. Here you can see actually all those categories that we analyze in our research. Actually this is a screenshot from the end of last year. Right now there is one change, is that liquid staking actually became the second largest defi category. It took over lending. And when you look at those six categories, as I mentioned, they are covering almost 90% of all of the assets that are in Defi.
00:08:05.694 - 00:08:43.114, Speaker A: And the first two categories that you can see here, decentralized exchanges and the lending protocols. This is Uniswap and Abe, for example, they are liquidity pools. They are marketplaces that are matching the demand side with the supply side. For example, for Uniswap. On one side you are having liquidity providers, on the other side you are having guys that want to buy or sell tokens when it comes to lending. On one side you have guys that want to for example, borrow. On the other side are those that want to land.
00:08:43.114 - 00:09:34.284, Speaker A: And those smart contracts are linking those two sides. The second group of defi categories are synthetic assets or synthetic tokens. These are deFi protocols that are issuing or creating some new form of the tokens that are having special properties. For example, in case of the stablecoins, their value is equal to typically $1 or one us franc. They can also be bridges and rub tokens or liquid staking protocols. And then yeah, later in my talk I will show you how those synthetic tokens are working. They are a little similar to a derivatives in a traditional finance, but not exactly the same.
00:09:34.284 - 00:10:27.416, Speaker A: The last category, which is actually super interesting, is yield farming. And yeah, yield farming are aggregators. These are the protocols that are simply connecting with other DeFi protocols and providing liquidity to them. So maybe now let's start from at the end and let's start from looking at yield farming protocols. I mean, those of you that have a background in finance, they know that when you have, for example, exchange, you need to have the first people that will put the first orders on the exchange. And those orders are like a mock up orders. They are brought by so called liquidity liquidity providers, market makers.
00:10:27.416 - 00:11:17.584, Speaker A: And those guys, they simply create the first demand or the first supply in a traditional finance or also in DeFi. So that you can seamlessly use those DeFi protocols. And in defi SMB guys that are doing market making, they are being called yield farmers. And the protocols that are doing market makings are being called yield farming protocols. Here. Actually, what yield farming protocols are doing, it's like when you have, for example, other compound, this is the very simple example. You can go there and for example, against your ethereum, you can buy some USDC, for example.
00:11:17.584 - 00:12:00.334, Speaker A: And so in order for you to be able to borrow those USDC, somebody else must actually bring them to the lending protocol. And the guys that are bringing it. These are those yield farming protocols. And yield farming protocols are looking at different interest rates, protocols that are simply checking for you where the rates are the highest and automatically allocating your tokens to them. They can do the same thing using their leverage. That's the second most popular strategy. Or they can also go and do some liquidity providing at decentralized exchanges.
00:12:00.334 - 00:13:07.640, Speaker A: And actually the first strategy is currently growing the fastest, especially with the Uniswap version three and those new version of decentralized exchanges. I mean, maybe it's a little sad for those protocols to call them aggregators, because mathematically they are solving a very complex optimization problem. You might think about them like some robo advisors in a traditional finance that are simply automatically looking for the best investment opportunities and allocating your tokens. You can, yeah, you can do those yield farming by yourself directly at different protocols, or you can simply use those aggregators. The second category, synthetic assets. I mean, I believe it's the most interesting because I assume practically all of you used some stable coins. I mean, maybe you use Dai, maybe you used USDC.
00:13:07.640 - 00:14:02.184, Speaker A: So stablecoins are synthetic assets that are trying to keep the value always equal to $1. There are another types of the synthetic assets. These are, for example, rub tokens like rub bitcoin on Ethereum, that is trying to keep the value always equal to one bitcoin. And recently there are plenty of liquid staking protocols that are doing something a little more sophisticated and they are trying to keep their value to the value of the stake ethereum plus the staking awards. But the mechanics is always the same. You have a token, you have a protocol that is simply trying to keep the value of the token to the target. And all those protocols, synthetic tokens are working the same way, or maybe almost all.
00:14:02.184 - 00:14:45.104, Speaker A: They are simply keeping reserves, like keeping a treasure in order to keep that back. So for example, your stable coins, they are building a reserves of a traditional fiat money or another crypto assets you get staking protocols. They should have some stake. Ethereum is having some bitcoins on the bitcoin blockchain. Maybe it will become a little more easier to understand when we look at how stablecoins are working. So the most popular are fiat backed stable coins. I mean, some people might argue they are not really a part of Defi.
00:14:45.104 - 00:15:35.518, Speaker A: They are more part of the c five, because the reserves they are keeping, they are simply keeping them in traditional banks. And here example is the USDT or USDC. Another type of the crypto of stable coins are crypto back stable coins like makerdao or liquiti, that are using another tokens in their reserves. They are not keeping any reserves in a traditional banking system. And there was quite cool innovation that it turned out doesn't work. And these were algorithmic, stable, algorithmic stable coins like terra. And then, I mean, when you look at this chart here, you can see in the blue line the value of the value of the terra.
00:15:35.518 - 00:16:38.196, Speaker A: It's USDT. You can see that at the beginning or for a long period of time, the value was really equal or almost equal to $1. But what actually start to happen at the end of the May 2020? I think two, the value start to go down much, much below. And the reason was simply the protocol couldn't provide enough treasure to defend the value of that stablecoin. Actually, what Terra and Luna was doing below, you can see the value of Luna, which was the token of the blockchain on which USDT was issued. They were using the native token of their blockchain as their collateral. It's something like a traditional bank would be building reserves using equities of that bank.
00:16:38.196 - 00:17:28.388, Speaker A: So Terra did something similar. They were using their own governance tokens as their reserves. And as the stablecoin demand start growing, the simplicity system start to fall apart. But the important thing is, Terra was doing it in a very open and transparent way, so that everybody knew, and also Terra was not hiding it, that they are using their own governance token as a collateral. And I mean, some people early on redeem exited from their investments, others simply kept it in their portfolio. Another example of actually a stablecoin that was losing the peg is USDC. And it happened here quite recently, in March this year.
00:17:28.388 - 00:18:03.720, Speaker A: It was an example of a stable coin. That value should be equal to $1. You can see that typically it is equal. But when the Silicon Valley bank become an insolvent, that stablecoin got problems. And those problems were caused by the fact that they were keeping something like $3. Billion in Silicon Valley bank and those 3 billion were representing around 10% of their treasure. And here you can see how actually market quickly adapted.
00:18:03.720 - 00:19:03.014, Speaker A: When the stablecoin was at risk to lose 10% of their treasure, the value immediately dropped by 10% to $0.90 instead of $1. But then when at the end of the weekend, it was clear that government is going to back up and those treasurer is safe the value yet the pegs simply came back to $1. And this is how stablecoins are working. They can be permanently de packed like it happened for Terra. It can be temporary, but the important thing is the same thing with deep can happen to a token to rub the bitcoin. And actually that happened on Solana last year when the rub bitcoin on Solana was losing apex for some time, but later it managed to come back.
00:19:03.014 - 00:19:58.106, Speaker A: And when you are buying those wrap tokens from breaches, you need to be aware that you are not having native tokens, but you are having some synthetic assets that can, in a very extreme market situation, actually lose the value. And this applies also to staking. Right now it's very popular, especially with the current upgrade on Ethereum to do a staking. We just being considered a relatively safe investment on Ethereum. Yeah, the staking awards are rather high for 5%, but you need to lock it. I mean before you need to lock it until the recent upgrade. Now it might be one day, but the issue is that those liquid staking tokens, they are also synthetic assets.
00:19:58.106 - 00:20:55.256, Speaker A: And they are doing their best to simply be as equal as possible to the staking awards. But they are like stable coins. So they are having, let's say a better and worse days or better and worse weeks when they are closer or farther from their target. And on this chart you can see that actually last year there were, yeah, during that big market turmoil, both the Lido and rocket pool actually were traded below the staking, the staking awards. But yeah, at the end of this year and beginning of this year, it recovered. So what you can see on this chart, this is like on the 1 January 2022, you are having one ethereum, one ether, and then you can put that one iter into staking. And then you can see that you would have something like 1.055
00:20:55.256 - 00:22:00.310, Speaker A: iter right now in April. But then we also calculated how much you would make from that one iter if you would buy the lido on the 1 January 22nd, and how much iter you would have if you would buy rocket pole. And you can see that there really are some differences and those differences are actually bigger on the ethereum, I assume because there were no withdrawals possible. When it comes to other chains like Solan or binance, their liquid staking protocols are working quite well. But the important thing is about especially wrapped tokens is also when you buy them. Because when you buy them in a moment, then when they are undervalued and you are selling them when they are overvalued, then actually you are making a great deal. And especially to liquid staking tokens like rocket pool or frags, the day really matters when you bought it.
00:22:00.310 - 00:23:09.030, Speaker A: On this chart you can see a simulation how much you would simply make money if you would invest at one iter on the 1 January this year. So if on the 1 January you would invest one iterate into staking, you can see where you would get. And then if the same amount of ether you put into Coinbase or lido, then you would get a little more, which is quite surprising that Coinbase delivered the best performance. And yeah, frogs and rocket pool got not the best time. Actually you would lose even more then you would just keep that one ethereum in your wallet. So I mean, please remember that those liquid staking tokens, they are a little similar to derivative derivative products in the traditional finance, and they are doing their best to keep the peg to their target. But it's not, you can't take it for granted that the pack will be always delivered.
00:23:09.030 - 00:24:07.454, Speaker A: As you can see, some protocols are doing better jobs, some are doing a worse job in getting to that pack. I mean, our expectations are that now when it's possible to unstake the ethereum, those discrepancies will get smaller. Because on another blockchains where you stake only and when you log only for two, three days or even 30 days, simply there are no such big discrepancies as on ethereum. So yeah, don't worry too much about that chart. If you have a rocket pool or frogs. And then yeah, let's go to the most interesting category, which are the lending protocols and decentralized exchanges. The lending protocols like AAVE, they are actually using a lot of mathematics.
00:24:07.454 - 00:25:16.064, Speaker A: I mean, some people say that smart contracts are not contracts, they are not smart. So interest rate protocols and DEXs are example of smart contracts that are quite smart, and they are using simply mathematics to determine the interest rates. So when you want to borrow some dai or another stablecoin from AAVE or compound, there is simply a mathematical formula. It's the third one is that kinking rates model simply determining how much interest rates you are going to pay. And also a lot of big banks that are doing, some pilots, like JPMorgan for example, in Singapore, they tokenize japanese yen, singaporean dollar, but they also forked those interest rate protocols. They forked uniswap. They were using those defi protocols simply to trade those tokenized assets between each other.
00:25:16.064 - 00:26:17.834, Speaker A: And here the advantage is that you know upfront what is going to happen. How much interest rates you are going to pay is very transparent, because this is simply a mathematics. There is no banker deciding on anything. And then the biggest category, and also, I think one of the biggest innovation in DeFi are decentralized exchanges. When you think about exchanges, there is something like a central element order book. So when you think about, or when we look at the, for example, Swig's stock exchange, that stock exchange is keeping simply a list of the guys that want to buy some shares and list of the guys that want to sell them, and is trying to match those buyers with sellers. And that solution is called order book, or a central limit order book, because there is one place where those order books are being kept.
00:26:17.834 - 00:27:18.368, Speaker A: Order books are difficult to implement in DeFi because storing them in the blockchain is quite expensive. And for that reason, actually uniswap invented quite a smart idea called automated market makers short amm, which are also mathematical formulas that are simply deciding how much you pay for buying or selling some tokens. And when you look at those formulas, you can see them here. The most popular one is the second is the constant product market maker. This is the formula used by the Uniswap version two. And then curve and balancer came up with a little more sophisticated formulas, that constant, mean and stable swap invariant. And in those formulas, you are simply looking at the reserves.
00:27:18.368 - 00:28:10.684, Speaker A: X and Y are reserves of the tokens that you are swapping. So for example, you want to swap Ethereum for USDC, then X is how much ethereum you have in your, how much ethereum you have in your reserves, for example, 100 tokens. And Y is how much reserves of USDC you have in your tokens. And simply just looking at how much, how big your reserves are, those automated market makers are deciding on the price that you can, that you need to pay. And there is no need to have that order book anymore. There was a lot of talk about that yesterday. And you can think that buying and selling at Dexs is a little like going on on this curve.
00:28:10.684 - 00:29:39.784, Speaker A: It's unfortunately coming with new types of the risks, like a slippage and impermanent loss. Because when the reserves of some tokens are small, then you might paid quite a lot, quite a high spread for exchanging something in a decentralized exchange. And also when you want to be a yield farmer or a liquidity provider to a decentralized exchange, and the tokens are very volatile, then actually your profit will not be high if the trading is not high enough. So in general, now I'm coming to the conclusions you can see behind me like a big, big map of all of those Defi protocols that are there. I'm sure if I can, I know, doesn't work. But interesting thing is below, because we also look at the centralized finance systems where you have those different systems like centralized finance, that is having a blockchain settlement and centralized finance without it. And then for example, you can see here that, yeah, we classified fiat bag stablecoins for example as blockchain, as a c five with a blockchain settlement.
00:29:39.784 - 00:31:00.182, Speaker A: I mean, also interesting things are about liquid staking, how they can be implemented and those different, those different ways, like how Lido or for example rocket are working, because there are very different ways how the rewards from the token are distributed to those token owners. Now actually, I want to show you very quickly, what are the biggest risks in DeFi. So what we did, we simply look at those times of the DeFi protocols. We don't have here yield farming, because yield farming is like a building investment strategies that is reliant on those protocols. That's why it's not listed here, because it's inheriting the risk. And there you have very different types of the risk from like a low level related to the blockchain infrastructure to the DeFi specific, like some liquidation slippage and impermanent losses. And actually the good thing is there is no need to be afraid of all those things, because they depend on how you are using those Defi protocols.
00:31:00.182 - 00:32:03.250, Speaker A: When you are just using Uniswap to buy or sell some tokens, you are just a service customer and you are having a different risk exposure than for example somebody who is liquidity provider or so called yield farmer at Uniswap and other there are also some arbitrageurs that are simply looking at the price differences between different protocols. They also have different risk exposure and Defi protocols. We politely named the government users. So guys that are simply holding the governance tokens that, yeah, on the token to appreciate value. So now we made simply that table even more complex. And you can see here that when you look at the infrastructure layer attacks and for example oracle attacks. I mean, some Dexs, like Uniswap for example, is independent of the oracle attack.
00:32:03.250 - 00:32:46.414, Speaker A: It can be a source of oracle attack, but it's not a victim of oracle attack. Actually, for the Dex, it's quite good when it's a source of the oracle attack because they are making a lot of money from fees. And maybe there is only one category. These are those hacking attacks. We call them a smart contract attacks because when this has happened with the DeFi protocol, then all of the stakeholders are being equally affected. Then there are meth attacks that are happening quite often. Everybody knows about them, but luckily their impact on every trade is relatively small.
00:32:46.414 - 00:33:30.270, Speaker A: And I mean, something that also important is that blockchain attack. And this is what happened, for example with Terra and Luna last year when we just had a situation when one of the largest blockchain, it was the 8th larger, largest blockchain out there, simply within one week disappeared. So we called a such situation a blockchain attacked. I mean, so far it just happened once. And typically when you work with the largest, well established blockchains, yeah, you are resistant. Yeah, you should be resistant to that. There is a lot of research done, especially on decentralized exchanges.
00:33:30.270 - 00:34:31.373, Speaker A: And what are the risks there? And it's important to know that, for example, slippage is something that is affecting you when you are buying or selling some tokens at those exchanges, whereas impermanent loss is something that is affecting yield farmers on the decentralized exchanges also, for example, Deepak risk, like Deepak of a liquid staking protocol or a stablecoin, it might happen only when you are buying or selling, buying or selling those tokens. When you are trading in other tokens, you are simply not affected by that. And here there are a lot of details. But yeah, DeFi is simply part of the science. There is a lot of computer science, mathematics. All of those risks can be quantifiable, they can be estimated, and there are more and more professional crypto or DeFi asset managers. They are simply doing it.
00:34:31.373 - 00:35:18.024, Speaker A: Okay, so what we decided to do right now, we, I mean, there were a lot of talks about layer tools and especially zero knowledge base layer tools. And right now a lot of Defi protocols are being deployed there. Like for example, Uniswap. Uniswap is practically present on every layer too, and on the Ethereum. But when you are doing it that way, then simply the way you are managing your liquidity is super inefficient. And yeah, you are leading to liquidity fragmentation, which is leading to higher slippage and higher costs. And here we want to research how those protocols can be managed in a better way.
00:35:18.024 - 00:36:18.194, Speaker A: And then we are going to continue the research on the liquid staking. And on the other, and on the other those type of the tokens like stable coins, bitcoin. And the last but not least, there are new types of the breaches that are working a little like decentralized exchanges on a few on a few blockchains. And they are allowing you to avoid using synthetic tokens, but directly swap the tokens for native tokens from one blockchain to the other. Yeah, I mean if you're interested in reading into deFi, these are the papers I recommend. They are typically looking exactly into single types of the protocols. Most of the work is done on the Dexes, they are mostly used.
00:36:18.194 - 00:37:05.894, Speaker A: And also, I mean, if you like what I was talking about, you're welcome to join our site event. It will be on Wednesday and we are organizing a practical workshop when yeah. Together with one of the crypto asset manager, we will be showing you exactly how you can do different DeFi strategies on Ethereum Testnet and it will be followed by some discussions. And also in general in Zurich we are having DeFi asset managers community doing monthly meetups when we are discussing different protocols risk opportunities. And also if you are around, you are welcome to join those meetups. Thank you.
00:37:13.244 - 00:37:22.424, Speaker B: Thanks a lot Chris, for all these insights. So we have a bit time for questions. There's the mic.
00:37:23.484 - 00:38:05.904, Speaker C: Thanks a lot for the presentation. Before I ask my question, definitely go and visit the event. I've been to pretty much everyone, each of them so far, and they're really great, great people. If you're interested in Defi should definitely join in. And my question to you, Chris, we were talking about Uniswap indexes. Now that it's possible or people are allowed to fork Uniswap v three, what is your opinion on? Do you think that's going to boost the whole concentrated liquidity topic? Do you have a view on what might change now that we're seeing all of these forks on ethereum and layer two's potentially whatever?
00:38:06.934 - 00:39:06.674, Speaker A: I mean, that's a good question. Maybe the first thing is uniswap version three is quite a cool thing because it's allowing you to use the liquidity in a more efficient way. A lot of tokens are first going to version two to discover the price, then they are going to version three. I mean, to be honest, I also think that version three is so difficult to use that it's practically impossible for a person who is not asset manager to use it. And then it's better to work together with the yield farming protocols. And I think also for that reason, I don't think those forks will be successful, because to be successful, you need to be integrated with a lot of yield farming protocols, because when you don't have liquidity, then you will not have users. And in blockchain, at least in DeFi, we can already see a little of that network effect, that there are big blockchains, big protocols, attracting more users and more money.
00:39:10.454 - 00:39:14.754, Speaker B: Any other questions? Yes, we have one, two up there.
00:39:18.614 - 00:40:25.314, Speaker D: So there's one particular risk in DeFi, which I'm wondering where you would categorize it, which is fairly common, that there's a very special lending protocol out there, the flash loans, where you take out the loan for one transaction, and from the point of view of the lender, it's risk free, because if it's not profitable, then the transaction will simply revert. And it is envisioned that arbitrage opportunities are going to be harvested even without. Even without. So those who spot the arbitrage opportunities can harvest them even without their own capital, because they can take out a flash loan, but they're also used for a kind of attack when some lending protocol uses a automated market maker as their price oracle. But that automated market maker has low liquidity, so its price can be moved with a flash loan. And then there's a synthetic arbitrage opportunity, which is harvested. And this is.
00:40:25.314 - 00:40:40.194, Speaker D: So this happens a lot of funds gets. Well, you can call it stolen, you can call it harvested. So I'm wondering, how does this kind of activity fit into your categorization?
00:40:40.734 - 00:41:18.484, Speaker A: Yes, that's a very good question. Unfortunately, I can't go back to that slide with those risks. And indeed, we didn't list their flash loans separately because flash loans are a mechanism that are making other defi attacks more aggressive, more profitable. You can do the MAF attacks, as you mentioned, or some arbitrage things simply with the flash loans more on a bigger scale. So I don't see them as a separate category. It's more a tool which is making the other attacks far more profitable on a bigger scale.
00:41:20.624 - 00:41:35.464, Speaker B: Okay, thanks. I'm sure there are many more questions, but Chris will stay around. You can also talk to him outside. Thanks again for the great presentation. Give Chris a hand again, thank you.
