00:00:00.280 - 00:00:27.878, Speaker A: From the ancient cave paintings in Lascaux to the digital tsunami of tweets and posts in today's world, humans have always been creators and interpreters of data. Data has shaped our stories throughout history. Among all tools, Microsoft Excel stands out, turning data into actionable insights. Now here's the game changer. Microsoft integrated Python, the top programming language, into Excel. Imagine combining the world's leading software with the power of Python. Well, that's what just happened.
00:00:27.878 - 00:01:06.402, Speaker A: So today I'll dive into this monumental collaboration. Ready? Let's get into it. Let's start by answering the why? Why is this even worth your time? Microsoft Excel is so fantastic as is. So what advantages come with adding this programming language into the software? Well, the biggest one is direct access to powerful analytics that only Python can provide. An example of this is data visualizations. Now, some of you may be thinking we can already do that in plain old Excel. So what makes this so great? Well, when you get Python, you also get popular charting libraries like Matplotlib and Seaborn.
00:01:06.402 - 00:01:46.628, Speaker A: And this gives you the ability to integrate specialized visualization such as heat maps, violin plots, and swarm plots. And of course, your classic bar graphs and line plots don't go anywhere either. But is that it? Are we only here for more advanced visualizations? No. Python also opens the door to a world of machine learning, predictive analytics, and forecasting. Harnessing powerhouse libraries like scikit learn and stats models, you can dive into sophisticated techniques, from regression analysis to time series modeling. For instance, here's an ML model using Python in Excel Lambda to predict the weather forecast for the following week. Crazy, right? And this is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the possibilities available with Python.
00:01:46.628 - 00:02:26.448, Speaker A: Beyond these analytic capabilities, the merger also supercharges your data preprocessing game. Python enables users to employ advanced data cleaning techniques seamlessly, from spotting and filling missing values, ensuring uniform data formats, eliminating those pesky duplicates, to using regular expressions for intricate pattern based data transformations. Its all there. Essentially, the combo streamlines your entire data preparation process, making it more efficient and less error prone. Now all of this couldnt be possible without the help of anaconda. And no, im not talking about the very large snake you can find in the Amazon. Anaconda is the catalyst behind embedding Python capabilities into Excel.
00:02:26.448 - 00:03:11.284, Speaker A: But it's not just mere integration, it's a combination of power, security, and precision. The Python code that Excel utilizes operates on the Microsoft cloud, providing users with enterprise level security. To fully understand this, let me use a metaphor. Imagine Python in Excel as a grand ship sailing in the vast ocean of data with Azure as its protective harbor. Every piece of Python code is like a cargo container on this ship, and Anaconda ensures each container is secure, locked and stowed. The ships crew uses special tools named XL and PY functions to load and unload treasures from these containers. Even when the foreign ships, also known as external data from the Internet, dock alongside it, the cargo is still protected because its given its own separate space to ensure no mix up.
00:03:11.284 - 00:03:52.326, Speaker A: The ship doesnt just focus on safeguarding the treasures, but also guarantees smooth sailing, ensuring that every voyage or data operation is both efficient and secure. Now one of my favorite parts about this whole thing is that you can easily share your ship treasures or workbooks with your friends. You don't need any extra tools or setups, it's just like sharing a photo or a song. And if you're teaming up on something, tools like Microsoft Teams and Outlook make it a breeze. Plus, there's a sensitivity label to keep your shared stuff in line with the rules, so you're always in the clear. Remember our big ship, Python and Excel? Well, it's getting some new shiny upgrades right now. It's in a special preview for some lucky folks for the Insiders Beta channel.
00:03:52.326 - 00:04:20.938, Speaker A: This means new features will be added in no time. Keep an eye out for smoother editing with features like autocomplete and syntax highlighting, better default settings, clear error messages, and super helpful documentation as well. But that is all for today. Hopefully you learned a thing or two about this crazy new collaboration. If you found this video helpful, wed Love if youd hit that like button to show your support. Even better if you leave a comment. Think I missed something? Are you a fan of this new pairing? Let me know your thoughts in the comments below.
00:04:20.938 - 00:04:24.066, Speaker A: Until next time, my friends. And never stop learning.
