00:00:00.200 - 00:00:37.190, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gray Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and this is Sino. Today's the 23 January 2023 alright everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing the episode on Friday. Everyone kind of ran out of time to get it recorded then, but obviously I'm back today and I'll try and do a longer episode to make up for it. There was a bunch of things over the weekend that I want to get through, so let's get into it. I'll start with this all core devs call recap from Tim Bicar his normal recap thread here, which I'm sure a lot of you have seen already, but if you haven't, it'll be linked in the YouTube description below and the main points from this can be found in the agenda.
00:00:37.190 - 00:01:12.744, Speaker A: As usual, you can see what the, what they, what they were scheduled to talk about. The main agenda was the updates on Shanghai, updates on EOF, which I've talked about before, and a few announcements here and there. And there's also some comments in here for you to check out too. But as I said, the thread itself will be linked in the YouTube description below. Now, related to Shanghai, of course, is withdrawals, which is another thing Tim Bico posted about over the weekend where the core dev team has released a withdrawals faq. So basically, if you've wanted to understand how withdrawals are going to work once they're deployed onto the Ethereum Mainnet, well this is the faq for you. This is basically your bible.
00:01:12.744 - 00:01:48.184, Speaker A: You won't get a more comprehensive set of information than you will in this. And one thing that I wanted to kind of point out to everyone to make it clear, is that there's actually going to be two types of withdrawals, as is kind of answered here. The first type is what's called partial withdrawals and the second type is full withdrawals. Now, partial withdrawals are quite ingenious. I actually like how this has been designed. So basically any balances in excess of 32 ETH, aka any rewards that have been earned on your 32 ETH, are withdrawn to an Ethereum dress and can be spent immediately. The validator will continue to be part of the beacon chain and validate as expected.
00:01:48.184 - 00:02:16.736, Speaker A: Now from my understanding, what, how this happens is that every week on average, your validator will be rotated through and your rewards will be swept to your withdrawal address. So let's say for that week you earn, I don't know, 0.18 right for the week on a validator because you've gotten a nice juicy block that 0.18 will. Well, okay, no, I should, I should backtrack there. If it's the execution layer rewards, those will be already paid out to your withdrawal address. This is just for consensus layer rewards.
00:02:16.736 - 00:02:47.536, Speaker A: So let's just say for the sake of argument, you've earned 0.1 consensus 0.18 worth of consensus layer rewards that will be swept to your withdrawal address automatically. You don't have to withdraw it yourself. There are no gas fees associated with this. It is simply a balance change on ethereum, which is actually pretty cool because there were some concerns around gas cost on layer one and people saying, you know, this price is out smaller stakers and, and what if the gas prices keep going up, it becomes uneconomical and then you have to wait to withdraw. Well this is actually how it's going to work for rewards.
00:02:47.536 - 00:03:47.208, Speaker A: And as I mentioned, execution layer rewards are already automatically paid out to your withdrawal address that you set when you spin up your validators. Now the second way that withdrawals are done is via a full withdrawal. Now this is when a validator exits and stops validating on the beacon chain the entire balance, a 32 ETH principle and any consensus layer rewards of the validator is then unlocked and allowed to be spent after the exit and withdrawal mechanism is complete. Now one thing I should note here is that due to the partial withdrawals having a different mechanism to activate those withdrawals inbuilt in the beacon chain, it basically just cycles through on average each week with, and that obviously gets longer with the amount of validators that get added to the network. But right now I believe it's about a week with full withdrawals, you go through the normal withdrawal that's already built into the beacon chain and there's obviously that deposit queue for the other way around. But that's if you want to exit and stop validating. So the partial withdrawals are only for the consensus layer rewards.
00:03:47.208 - 00:04:17.400, Speaker A: It will not automatically withdraw you from the beacon chain, it won't unstake your 32 ETH. But full withdrawals are not done automatically. It is a manual thing where you basically say to the beacon chain, hey, I want to stop validating, I want to withdraw my ETH. And then you'll go through the exit and withdrawal process. Those are two different phases, by the way. The exit is exiting the validator set and then you have to also withdraw if you want to get your 32 ETH back from there. And obviously your rewards but that's just the main thing I wanted to highlight.
00:04:17.400 - 00:04:51.344, Speaker A: But there are plenty of other questions and answers here in the faq, so I highly recommend checking it out if you're curious about how withdrawals are going to work, because they really are around the corner. I believe still, late March is kind of what it's scheduled for early April. We're expecting public test nets within the next few weeks. I think the Devnet's have been going well. There was a little bit of FUD actually. I saw in posted in the daily grade Discord channel about the core developers or some core developers and researchers disagreeing about some technical thing got to do with withdrawals on the call. And for some reason it was spun into some sort of FUD.
00:04:51.344 - 00:05:25.898, Speaker A: But then it was later clarified by the core developers themselves that it was, it was nothing to be concerned about. It was literally just an implementation thing that got ironed out and it's not going to, you know, it's nothing critical or anything like that. And this is usually what happens on these calls. So it was just weird to see that article and that it came out of decrypt. And I've always been weirded out by the articles that decrypt puts out because decrypt is, you know, tends to FuD Ethereum with these just low quality articles from time to time. And decrypt is actually owned by consensus and consensus is an ethereum company. So it just, it's very weird, right.
00:05:25.898 - 00:05:59.620, Speaker A: How that happens. But yeah, anyway, I just wanted to clear that up for anyone who saw that FUD from over the weekend there. But yeah, I'll link this faq in the YouTube description for you to go check out. All right, so a few fixes went live on the KZG ceremony website over the weekend that will make your, I guess, like ability to participate a lot better than has previously been. There's been a lot of people complaining that they've been timing out. They've been basically unable to complete the KZG ceremony. Well now according to Trent van Epps, this fixes that.
00:05:59.620 - 00:07:06.762, Speaker A: And yeah, if we go to the KZG ceremony website, we can actually see, you know, we've got 49 days left of the ceremony and we're at almost 17,000 total contributions with about 2000 participants in the lobby and a 100 hours max estimated wait time. Now as I've said before, this lobby is not a queue, right? It is not something that you have to wait in and it's not something that you're going to lose your spot in if you have to shut your computer down or you have to close the web page or disconnect for any reason. You're randomly selected from this lobby to participate or to get your, I guess, proof put on chain here. So basically, yeah, you've still got 49 days left to do this, and I'm glad to see that there's been some fixes put there for people who I guess were complaining that they weren't able to get their, their proofs in here. All right, so we have a new kind of video here from Ben Edgington, which is the scaling Ethereum and EIP 4844 recording. So it's called Ethereum's first step towards serious scalability, EIP 4844. This comes out of the Ethereum engineering group, and it is run by Ben Edgington, who, for those of you who don't know, used to write the what's new in ETH two newsletter.
00:07:06.762 - 00:07:38.460, Speaker A: He stopped that around the time of the merge. It was the best resource for, I guess, what was known as ETH two ever, basically. And they're also, and he's basically also still working on, quote unquote, ETH two as part of the tech who ETH two clients. And there are slides that you can get access to as well here as you can see, that accompany the video. And these slides go through everything there is to know about 4844. Proto Dank sharding. So if you're interested in that, you can check out the video and the slides here.
00:07:38.460 - 00:08:21.496, Speaker A: And there's also other videos on the Ethereum engineering group YouTube channel that you can check out, too. You can see here, there's a bunch of them here. And then you can click through the videos and go through. So if you're up for learning about, I guess, the intricacies of all things Ethereum, this is a great YouTube channel to go check out as well. But yeah, those will be linked in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right, so I guess the talk of the last few days and months before this was about digital currency group's Genesis subsidiary, which was a lending desk that became very troubled over the last few months, especially when it came to the money that it owed Gemini. And I think you guys have been following this for as long as I have.
00:08:21.496 - 00:08:56.954, Speaker A: This came from the fallout of, I guess, the whole stuff that happened last year, like three AC and Terra and FTX and all that stuff there. Well, over the weekend, it was announced that the Genesis Global has filed for bankruptcy protection. They haven't fired. So there are different types of kind of bankruptcy protection that you can file for. It seems they've filed for one that, I don't know, isn't like I saw some wording around this. Basically it's, they're trying their hardest not to go like the full bankruptcy route. They're trying to maintain control still over certain things and trying to keep the business kind of afloat here.
00:08:56.954 - 00:09:29.308, Speaker A: But yeah, I'm not sure what their kind of plan is long term for this. But on top of this as well, I remember I said, I guess a few months ago or a couple months ago that I figured that Genesis would try everything they could to ensure that they didn't file for bankruptcy. Because bankruptcy is not something that you want to be filing for as a. As a company. But it seems like the debt that they owed, the hole in their balance sheet just got way too big and there wasn't any way for them to raise the money that they needed. Now, I remember there was talk about them trying to raise up to a billion dollars. Then they collapsed that down to 500 million.
00:09:29.308 - 00:09:47.420, Speaker A: I think they had a fair bit of interest at that, at that raise. But the problem was, is I think they owe $2.8 billion or something worth of. Worth of debt there. And to cover that obviously became impossible. Right. So because of that, they had to file for bankruptcy, bankruptcy protection.
00:09:47.420 - 00:10:31.130, Speaker A: And it also seems like they're planning to sell off other assets, they being digital currency group, because they need to cover that shortfall there. So it's going to be interesting to see how that shakes out and who they pay back first. I hope they pay genesis back first because it, like the genesis debt, is actually owed to the users that were part of the earn program, as I've explained before. And they got really hurt by this because they thought that they were putting money into a fully legit regulated kind of product. And it turns out, even though it was fully legit and regulated, uh, the fact of the matter is, the yield was only coming from lending those assets out. And this is something that I think a lot of people don't understand. Is that any kind of yield that you're getting with a c five service, uh, especially if.
00:10:31.130 - 00:11:21.632, Speaker A: Except a kind of staking yield, um, like, so yield on dollars, for example, with. With the centralized service, a centralized crypto service, 99% of the time it's going to be them lending out those assets and then the borrower paying an interest rate, which basically goes to paying the yield for you. And there are other ways to do that as well, with Coca kind of token incentives, but generally, these centralized services, that's how they operate. And, you know, it works during a bull market. Don't get me wrong, when everyone's making money, it's very easy for people to borrow large amounts of money and get, and get the. Sorry, borrow large amounts of money with little to little bits of collateral or no collateral in some cases, right? Because the people lending out the assets think that it's a sure thing, they're going to get paid back, everything's going to be fine. And then users plough into the product because it's offering a relatively high yield.
00:11:21.632 - 00:12:20.886, Speaker A: And then we see what happens. You know, it's kind of funny because when you think about the people who got screwed in crypto, a lot of them actually came from people who sold, right? They sold out of crypto because they turned bearish on it. They took profits, but they stood, they stayed in something like a UST, then terra collapse, right? So they got wiped out or they stayed in a USDC or another stable coin or a centralized stable coin, and they put that into one of these centralized services, whether that be blockFi, Celsius or Gemini, for example, and they got screwed as well because of, the fact of the matter is you're only getting that yield because your money's being lent out. And that's where that kind of, uh, I guess that saying comes from, that if you don't know where the yield's coming from, you are the yield because I mean, that is true. Your funds are being used to generate the yield, right? So you are the yield at the end of the day. And it's the same way banks do it too. I mean, in the US at least, banks are only required to hold 10%, I believe, of assets on hand and maybe even less than that, whereas they could lend out or do whatever they want with the other 90% of it.
00:12:20.886 - 00:12:57.660, Speaker A: And that is also how they're able to generate a kind of a yield for you because they're making more returns on that. I mean, a lot of the reason why banks take your money in is because they do stuff with the money, right? They don't want to just, they, they don't want your money just to hold it, right. They want to be able to generate a yield on it or generate a return on it in some capacity as well there. So, so, yeah, but banks are obviously extremely heavily regulated, are much more than, I guess, like crypto exchanges, especially offshore ones, are in these lending desks. But even they have collapsed before, like 2008 financial crisis was, was completely bank lit. I mean, crypto didn't exist during that period. Right.
00:12:57.660 - 00:13:37.242, Speaker A: So it was all led by the traditional finance system. But this is always what happens when you have daisy chains of leverage and different lending markets not accounting for where the money is and where it's going, and then lending out to people who take big risks and on the market, and kind of the market crashes and then they get caught on the wrong side of it. That's really what's happened over the last twelve ish months in crypto is we had this massive unwind of all the leverage that had built up during the bull market. And it's typically the case that this happens during bull markets because as I said, the money's flowing pretty easily. And it's quite easy to borrow money, especially when it's cheap too, like when rates are really low. It's also very, very easy to get your hands on debt, so to speak. Right.
00:13:37.242 - 00:14:07.180, Speaker A: So from that perspective, we were just, we're just unwinding all the frothing. Now, can this happen again? I mean, yes, it will happen again and it can happen again. And especially with things like DeFi. Like DeFi is not, is not something that is immune to this. It's actually a big part of this as well. And sometimes the centralized services would actually take the user funds and deposit it into a DeFi app and generate yield like that, or generate some kind of return like that. But a lot of the times the defi apps, you earn the yield.
00:14:07.180 - 00:14:47.388, Speaker A: The majority of the yield was the, the token incentives, right? Then once they run out, the yield goes down and the token can death spiral and basically go down 90 plus percent. But on top of that as well, the bull market means that more people want to borrow more amounts of money, which means that the, the cost of borrowing money goes up if there's not enough liquidity going around on chain. And then you get those, those crazy kind of spikes in the, in the returns there, in the yield there. But at the end of the day, these things don't last forever. And that's exactly why we saw the unwind. And it's a pretty violent unwind as well over the last twelve months because so many big players blew up. I mean, there's really not that many big players left standing, especially the lending desks.
00:14:47.388 - 00:15:13.748, Speaker A: Right. And the market makers and things like that of the centralized exchanges, you know, most of them are still around, but we don't really have that many big legit ones, right. We have the coinbase. We have the coinbase of the world, obviously. We have kraken binance, and even binance, I mean, has its shady aspects as well. But people thought FTX was this great legit thing, and then obviously it wasn't. People thought Terra was this infinite money machine.
00:15:13.748 - 00:15:25.988, Speaker A: Wasn't Celsius. I always thought Celsius was shady. I don't know why anyone trusted Celsius. Turned out that was. That was shady, too. Blockfi got wrecked. There were a few others that got wrecked out there, and it was just that Daisy chain at the end of the day, because all this thing was commingled.
00:15:25.988 - 00:16:07.048, Speaker A: I've seen a picture or a flowchart on twitter about this where it was all comingled together. There was arrows going from everywhere to everywhere. Everyone borrowed from everyone. And as the market turned, the they, because they were offside and in the wrong position, because they may have fell for the narrative, such as super cycle and things like that, they got caught off guard and it led to the bleed out. And just on. Just to finish up here on the narrative front as well, I think that it's important to realize that just because these companies and these individuals may have a lot more money than you, just because they may be billionaires doesn't mean that they are better than you at investing and trading doesn't mean that they know more than you. And I think the perfect example of this is 3 hours capital.
00:16:07.048 - 00:16:32.840, Speaker A: Right? They managed to convince themselves that the super cycle was a real thing, and a lot of people got convinced by this. A lot of people fell for the stock to flow charts. A lot of people fell for all these bull market narratives, right? And that was the downfall of three ac. They got caught offside, they bet too big, and they didn't kind of hedge their bets, and they basically blew themselves up. Right. Same happened with SPF and FTX and Alameda. They did the exact same thing.
00:16:32.840 - 00:17:02.556, Speaker A: And what's. What's hilarious about what happened with FTX and Alameda is that they had every single advantage to win. They basically rigged the entire game to favor themselves and stole customer deposits, and they still lost. So I think that anyone who's basically kept their money that they made from the previous bull cycle should feel very good about themselves because you outperformed most of these people. So just because they have more money than you, just because they. It seems like they know more than you, that's not necessarily true. There are definitely smart people out there.
00:17:02.556 - 00:17:43.185, Speaker A: There are definitely a lot of people who have made a lot of money in crypto and kept it and can and can kind of see the shifts in narratives for what they really are and not fall for them. But usually these people are quiet. They're not out there bragging about their wins and are out there running huge companies or inflating their own ego. And I know a lot of these people personally, and a lot of them you wouldn't even have ever heard of before. But I talked to them, and they think very similarly to how I think about things on a longer time scale, and not one of them has an ego. I think ego is the downfall of a lot of people, not just in crypto, but outside of crypto, especially in financial markets, because you start convincing yourself of your own bullshit. And that's what happened a lot in 2021.
00:17:43.185 - 00:18:06.798, Speaker A: All right? All these big players convinced themselves of their own bullshit. Things like super cycle, as I mentioned. And then in 2022, we saw that all unravel and blow up there. But at the end of the day, you also have, there is also blame in the people that inflate these people's egos because they. They want to believe that it's true because they want to make money. That's just the way things go. And I think it's going to remain that way forever because humans don't change.
00:18:06.798 - 00:18:41.072, Speaker A: Like, for humans to evolve biologically would take an extremely long time. And when you look at human history and. And the history of, I guess, financial markets, it's not that old comparative to how long it took humans to actually come into existence and then from there to evolve. So maybe in a, in a million years of human evolution, our nature changes, or maybe we upload our consciousness to machines and get rid of that, those shitty parts of our. Of our nature that allow us to fall into these things. But, yeah, now I'm going into Sci-Fi territory, so I'm going to leave that one at that. And, yeah, as I said, I'm not surprised.
00:18:41.072 - 00:19:27.146, Speaker A: Point to see Genesis file for bankruptcy. But they did try everything they could to not file for it because they know just how ugly it can get. All right, so I've spoken about this on the refill before, but it's a tweet that I put out over the weekend where I said, remember when everyone was going on about how the seven day withdrawal period for optimistic rops was a quote, unquote, non starter? Well, no one talks about it at all these days because it was abstracted away via bridges, and arbitrary and optimism are the two biggest layer eco, two L2 ecosystems by far. Now, I will note here that the seven day withdrawal period, as I've said before, is not a strict requirement. This can be lowered and this can be lowered pretty much like to a block, like to 12 seconds. You just have to have relative confidence that you could catch any fraud in that one block. Right.
00:19:27.146 - 00:20:19.074, Speaker A: And obviously both arbitrary and optimism is still very centralized. Optimism's fraud proofs aren't even enabled. Arbitrum's fraud proofs are permissioned, so that's not going to happen. But the main point of my tweet here was that, again, on the narrative front, where people will come up with these narratives to be bearish on something, the seven day withdrawal period Fud came a lot from the alt l one fans because they needed to spread bear Fud about L2s, because L2s directly compete with these alternative layer ones, as I've described before, as the same way that bitcoin maximalists have to spread FUD about absolutely everything we've got to do with Ethereum, because every success that Ethereum has is a negative for bitcoin, at least in my mind. And I feel like bitcoin maximalists understand this as well. So whenever you see this fud, I guess like all these narrative, this narrative fud keep changing and the gold pros keep moving. It's not substantial, it's not something based in reality or fact or reason.
00:20:19.074 - 00:21:04.794, Speaker A: It's really just fud at the end of the day. Now, there was legitimate concern around this withdrawal period in terms of fragmenting liquidity and users having a bad experience and all that sorts of stuff. I think in terms of the user experience, we've definitely fixed or abstracted away almost all of it with bridges, right? Because people just use the bridges, they're happy to pay the small fee to do so for the convenience. But in terms of fragments and liquidity, we're not there yet. We have fragments of that liquidity across the l two s, and there's no way to actually, besides using something like aztec, there's no way to bring liquidity, I guess, in a composable way from arbitrary and optimism, for example. And as I've described before, these mechanisms of being able to get these L2s to talk to each other. Now, there are a few projects working on this.
00:21:04.794 - 00:21:25.448, Speaker A: There was two that I've highlighted before. Starkware had their damm that they were working on. I think that might have fizzled out a little bit. There's also Rari that was working on Nova. I believe the Rari project also fizzled out. And then there was one that I came across recently that I think I highlighted on the refill called hero dotas. I don't know if I did highlight it, but I came across a thread about it.
00:21:25.448 - 00:22:06.984, Speaker A: But basically they're trying to do that, where essentially they're trying to use something called storage proofs in order to do cross roll up communication. Then you also have dank sharding, which allows for cross Zk roll up communication and composability, which Justin Drake has talked about before, and I think Polynyar as well has talked about it. So there are these mechanisms coming online to solve that issue as well. But in terms of the user experience side of things, I really do think we've abstracted away, if not solved all of that at this point. And as I said before, I don't expect there to be that many generalized l two platforms anyway. So the fragmentation of liquidity isn't going to be that big of a deal as long as we have these bridges. But I think that layer one still going to be used for a lot of those reasons as well.
00:22:06.984 - 00:22:56.916, Speaker A: Because layer one gives you that composability, right, gives you that atomicity, and if you're a whale, the liquidity is there for you and you don't mind paying the fees. So you're going to stick to layer one and the smaller fish will go to these L2s and there will be enough liquidity for them there anyway. But this cross roll up communication, whether it's done via, you know, dank sharding, whether it's done via storage proofs or other such technologies, that's going to be a thing as well. It's going to be a thing people are going to use, because it's going to be very useful to be able to essentially tap into liquidity across on any of these L2s. Even if they aren't roll ups, they could just be valid I am type constructions as well. Where they're storing their data off chain, it doesn't really matter, as long as you can get a storage proof of that from the data availability committee, or maybe from like an eigen layer, data availability layer as well, which I've talked about before would be very, very cool. That would help with this a lot too.
00:22:56.916 - 00:23:23.416, Speaker A: So yeah, I just wanted to touch on that and give some updates around things that I'm seeing lately. But again, it is a not. It's always been a non concern to me. It's not something that I see users complaining about at all anymore. And I think that as time goes on, it's going to become more and more abstracted away, and we're going to build better and better ways of dealing with this, I guess like quote unquote issue here. All right, so some updates on defi. Actually three Defi related updates to close out today's episode.
00:23:23.416 - 00:24:23.586, Speaker A: So Uniswap put out a I guess, little mini thread here talking about what permit two is. And now that it's live on Uniswap. So what permit permit to allows users to do is that users currently approve max token balances forever, which is a security risk, right? When you go to approve a token, you approve the entire balance forever. So essentially if you say when you go to Uniswap and you're trading a new token, it says approve this token. You basically approve the unlimited amount of tokens in your account to be spent forever on Uniswap. Now with permit to token expire to token approvals will expire every 30 days, but can be reauthorized with a gasless signature. So what's really cool about this is that you get the security of an expiring token approval, right? And, but then you can reauthorize it when you say you haven't traded that token for 30 days, and then you go back to Uniswap and it asks you to reauthorize the token approval, you don't have to do another transaction that costs you gas.
00:24:23.586 - 00:24:50.338, Speaker A: All you have to do is use a signature to reauthorize that token there. So that is really, really cool. I think that's a huge ux upgrade for users. And how this is practical for Uniswap is that every time that Uniswap Labs upgrades the router, users have to spend gas to reapprove tokens. But they don't have to do that anymore because we permit to. You'll need to reapprove now but never again. So spend small, spend small for big savings later.
00:24:50.338 - 00:25:27.604, Speaker A: And permit to is open source as well for developers here to check out. But these are the kind of small ish UX improvements or I guess like smallish upgrades that can lead to massive UX improvements across the board. And permit to has been out for a little while now. And I believe uniswap I guess, talked about this a while ago and I don't know how long it's been live, but I think it was a relatively recent thing that they deployed here. But it's a big deal. It definitely is a big deal because I hated having to essentially worry about which tokens I had approved and then I guess revoke that approval and then go back and approve it again. If I wanted to trade on uniswap.
00:25:27.604 - 00:25:50.674, Speaker A: Right. So no longer do you have and then spend the gas to do that. Well, no longer do you have to do that. I have to worry about it. It'll automatically expire after 30 days and can be reauthorized with a gasless signature, which is very cool from a user experience perspective. So kudos to uniswap for deploying that there. All right, so Aave V three is finally coming to the Ethereum mainnet.
00:25:50.674 - 00:26:40.000, Speaker A: This is funny because I've talked about how Aviv three actually wasn't on the Ethereum mainnet, but was on L2s and other EVM chains, and that is changing very, very soon. So Aave three was actually deployed on L2, such as arbitrary and optimism and other chain other AVM chains such as the Polygon Pos chain and Avalanche in March of 2022. So almost a year on now, we have a proposal to launch rv three on the Ethereum main net here. So there is only really been other v two on Mainnet so far. So this proposal is currently up for vote. So if you do have Aave, you can vote with it here if you want to, and you can read through the proposal, all the specs and all the the reserve configurations and things like that as well, which I'll obviously link in the YouTube description below. But I do find it interesting that it's taken almost a year from when they deployed, they being there.
00:26:40.000 - 00:27:25.012, Speaker A: I guess other community deployed this to these other evm chains for it to come to the Ethereum main net. And I do believe that's because they wanted to test out v three maybe on I guess, these, these other chains and give the smaller users an ability to test it all out and get use out of it. And maybe it just wasn't that large. And also other v two actually wasn't deployed to these other chain, some of these other chains as well. So it made sense just to deploy v three straight there, whereas on Ethereum mainnet, obviously other v two is already deployed there, so waiting wasn't that big of a deal. And if you wanted to use v three, they could just go to one of these other chains to do that. Well, now, well, soon I guess it's not deployed just yet, but soon it looks like v three will be deployed to the Ethereum mainnet for you all to enjoy.
00:27:25.012 - 00:27:47.716, Speaker A: So yeah, definitely go check out this proposal for yourself. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, an update out of the synthetix ecosystem. So Quenta here, put out a tweet where they've said, we've recently seen some of our biggest volume days on Synthetix perps v two, and we're still in alpha mode. New features are coming that will rewrite the perps game entirely. So much potential. You can test out the alpha here.
00:27:47.716 - 00:28:10.916, Speaker A: Now, I did. I did talk about purpose v two a little while ago and how that was live. And Quinta is obviously the front end or one of the front ends of the synthetix ecosystem. So, yeah, if you're interested in trying this out, this will be linked in the YouTube description, the alpha. You can test it out here. Basically, it links you to this page on the ETH limo. So this is actually on decentralized front end here, which is very, very cool.
00:28:10.916 - 00:28:41.876, Speaker A: And you can trade the perps to your heart's content on a bunch of different assets, I believe. Oh, no, they support ETH right now because this is an alpha stage, but obviously they want to be able to support other assets as time goes on. And this is deployed on optimism l two. So, yeah, if you want to try this out, you'll have to be on optimism. It's not on Ethereum mainnet, because synthetix basically migrated all their ecosystem to the. To optimism rather than the Ethereum main net here. So I'll link that in the YouTube description for you to check out.
00:28:41.876 - 00:29:17.900, Speaker A: All right, last thing I wanted to talk about before we wrap up for today, just to give you guys a heads up. So I am. I've been trying to plan more of my East Denver trip recently. I'm going to be attending. I'm gonna be there from the 27 march to this, sorry, 27 February to the 6 march. So if you're around, definitely you'll be able to catch me at the East Denver, I guess, some main event itself, which is on the weekend, but there's gonna be side events. I'm hoping to see a lot of you there, but just want to give a heads up that the period that I'm there for, there won't be refuels on those days.
00:29:17.900 - 00:29:37.820, Speaker A: I don't believe I'm gonna have enough time or energy to record refuels, given that I'm gonna spend the whole day at the, you know, conference. Conference. Talking to people, meeting up with people for. For dinner and lunch and all that stuff. I mean, my time's already getting real scarce. So, yeah, I'm just giving you guys a heads up now that for those dates, I don't know which. Which dates are weekends in.
00:29:37.820 - 00:30:06.044, Speaker A: In those dates, there's not going to be refuels there. I will try and maybe do one episode during that week, just depending if I have time to do it and if I have the bandwidth to be able to upload an episode. But just giving a heads up there. But also on that note, the people that were in the daily way discord channel will know that I. There is a daily way meetup happening in Denver with a capacity limit of 100. And the people that bought tickets secured a spot there. And unfortunately, I've had.
00:30:06.044 - 00:30:25.762, Speaker A: I mean, I've had a lot of people reach out to me asking if there is a waitlist or anything like that. Unfortunately not. The venue is quite limited. So if you weren't able to get a ticket, you can still catch me. If you wanted to meet up with me, I wanted to say hi. As I said, you can still catch me at the main event. I will be there at the main conference venue for the three days there.
00:30:25.762 - 00:30:53.870, Speaker A: There's also going to be other meetups that I'll be attending as well. So I'm sure I'll be able to catch up with a lot of you at the events, but I won't be able to do individual catch ups with everyone. I just won't have the time there. So I just wanted to give a heads up about the travel on that front on my side. And, yeah, just to prepare yourselves because last time I didn't do refills for a while was when I was in Amsterdam for a couple of weeks and there was withdrawal. People having withdrawals. And honestly, I was having withdrawals too, because you guys know I love doing the refuel.
00:30:53.870 - 00:31:06.574, Speaker A: But yeah, just. Just to put that out there because it's not too long now, right? It's about that. Just over a month or so. Month and five days ish or four days until I. Until I leave there. But. But yeah, I'm hoping to see a lot of you there.
00:31:06.574 - 00:31:29.388, Speaker A: I know a fair few of you of you are based in the US. You know, you're probably heading down and the venue is much bigger this time. And it's not split up into three different venues. I've said before that I prefer the singular venues to the multi venue conferences. So, yeah, very much looking forward to seeing a lot of you there, and especially at the meetup, which should be very fun as well. But on that note, that's going to be it for today's episode. So thank everyone for listening and watching.
00:31:29.388 - 00:31:35.844, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet. Give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter. Join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
