00:00:01.280 - 00:00:41.070, Speaker A: What is up, guys? Taika here. And today I want to discuss, you know, what are the next narratives that we have in crypto and defi? Because in the past couple of weeks, the markets have been kind of choppy. Just kind of, you know, not much is going on. And I think in this type of environment, people are going to be looking forward to, I guess, things that are coming up that can potentially move price. Because in this type of market, if there's, like, no news, no catalyst, it's probably not going to move price that much. So I think it's good to be aware of future things that could happen in the market or, you know, is about to happen in the market and then thinking about your positioning, your farming strategies, your entire portfolio strategy moving forward. So if you like the content, please like and subscribe and leave a comment in the comment section below.
00:00:41.070 - 00:00:59.850, Speaker A: Check out the premium discord link is in the description below as well. So not as much, of course, but let's talk first about my birthday curse. So May 15 is my birthday. I turned 27. I'm not a huge birthday person. You know, whenever I turn older, I'm just like, oh, like, I'm approaching 30. That's kind of scary.
00:00:59.850 - 00:01:53.042, Speaker A: But, you know, I guess, I mean, enough about, like, me aging, but if you think about, like, my birthday and how it kind of coincides with past market events, it hasn't been like that great, right? Like, I've never had a moment in crypto where, you know, it's like my birthday and I felt good about, I guess, like my net worth and maybe, you know, like right now, May 15, we're on the verge of correcting, right? That's totally possible. If you go back to 2022, May 15, it was the top of the dead cat bounce after Luna collapsed. It was a week after Luna collapsed. And then a couple weeks later, three AC collapsed. And also, if you go to 2021, it was, I guess, on the verge of this entire collapse from sixty k to thirty k. And I don't even know what happened in 2020. It was, yeah, I mean, I guess it was like the top of like, this entire Covid rally post.
00:01:53.042 - 00:02:33.022, Speaker A: Covid rally before, you know, the market kind of, you know, just withering away sideways for a couple of months. And again, this is zooming out in the weekly, you know, people are calling for, you know, this, like the top, like the yearly top, right? As in these are yearly highs. We're gonna go sideways, sit down for the rest of the year, which, I mean, I think it's totally possible. I guess there's like the whole selling may go away analogue. That always happens. And I think, you know, if people get past two months for like May, June, it hasn't been that great. And I think people generally fear these types of events and especially on social media, you know, I guess it gets engagement.
00:02:33.022 - 00:03:19.512, Speaker A: But I think what likely happens is something like this where, yeah, we had a pretty good four or five months to start out the year. I don't necessarily think that we're gonna just like nuke to like 20k againden. Like why can't we just go sideways from here? And I think if we are in the sideways environment, it just makes sense to look for future narratives because if bitcoin ether is generally going sideways, I do think that individual projects that have catalysts that are improving in fundamentals can perform, cannot perform ether and also bitcoin. So that's something I want to talk about because like I mentioned, this is the bitcoin volatility index. It's kind of going down and even the. The stock market, maybe people are just going away for the summer, right. And it generally coincides with less volatility.
00:03:19.512 - 00:03:47.152, Speaker A: I mean this, that's kind of crazy, right. But I want to talk about a few narratives that could happen or I guess that's going to happen that could move the markets. That I think is something that you should be aware of. So the first is going to be the ETH network upgrades. And generally whenever ETH has some sort of a network upgrade, it moves price. And there are a few protocols that do benefit. We have like, I mean with the merge, right? We had ether like rally and then most other altcoins rallied with strapella.
00:03:47.152 - 00:04:18.776, Speaker A: With a Shanghai upgrade. We had the liquid staking derivatives. That entire sector rally also led to other sectors rallying. And then I guess like the next big ethereum upgrade is going to be probably in November or October or sometime in q four, most likely. Of course there could be delays, but it's going to be the Cancun upgrade because with the Cancun upgrade there's going to be EIP 4844, which is gonna significantly improve the fundamentals of these L2 tokens. They roll up tokens like arbitrum and optimism. And even in a bear market, these are the two ecosystems that's actually been growing.
00:04:18.776 - 00:05:01.268, Speaker A: And, you know, how do you value these tokens? It's really difficult to grasp. But I think over time, if these roll ups in this type of market is growing in the user base, if there's a bunch of economic activity happening in these l two s. And the sequencer is making a bunch of money. I do think that, you know, like, it should command a premium over other alt layer ones, which, you know, has to pay a lot more in security, right? In terms like inflation, like the token inflation. And also like, in terms of profitability, these l two s are just much more profitable. And I'll talk more about that later. So EIP 4844, it's gonna introduce proto dangeroting, and I'm not gonna talk about the technical aspects of it.
00:05:01.268 - 00:05:58.432, Speaker A: I'll just like do like a tldr. It's gonna increase or it's gonna decrease the cost associated with rollups by reducing the amount of data that needs to be submitted to Ethereum blockchain with this thing called like, blobs. I mean, that kind of sounds dumb, but, you know, the more important thing is it's gonna lower ethereum L2 transaction fees, by order of magnitude, ten to 30 x, most likely ten to 20 x. And for the end user, like for us, it's gonna be much use, much cheaper to use these l two networks. And also for the sequencers, right? These arbitrary alchemist sequencers, it's going to significantly improve their margins because it's going to lower their costs even if their revenues might stay flat, for example. And as you can see, I guess, arbitrum and optimism revenues are growing despite on chain activity kind of withering away. And after EIP 4844 prototype charting, it's going to massively increase their margins.
00:05:58.432 - 00:06:46.496, Speaker A: So of course, the token, like the arbitrum and optimism token, doesn't really get to capture these profits. But from a narrative perspective, I think it could be positive, right? It's like Lido went up a lot in Q one, but there's no revenue share, right? I don't really think revenue share matters that much. I think it's more about the narrative, as we all know in crypto. Of course, in the future, I think in the macro, longer term scale fundamentals and token value rule matters. But when it comes to a couple months, multi month narratives, I don't really think it matters too much. Of course, it could be a narrative, but it's mostly going to be in Q four. And also, I do like the arbitrary ecosystem, especially with the whole meme coin craze, right? I mean, you can argue that meme coins have topped and maybe at the top.
00:06:46.496 - 00:07:23.876, Speaker A: Like, I'm not gonna make a bet on, like, whether they have top or not, because I have no idea how to value. I mean, I have no idea. I have no edge in, like, these meme coins. But even if they did top, maybe it's gonna lower gas fees because a couple weeks ago it was like 100 to 200 way. But, you know, even like, if the meme coin craze is over, there's still gonna be people, you know, trying to buy the dip, hoping that it's gonna be like, the bottom people, like, hoping for like, a dead cap balance. And also, right, even if people are trying to harvest their losses, they're gonna have to approve and sell, which is gonna also eat up a bunch of block space. So generally, I do think that more and more demand is gonna go to these L2s.
00:07:23.876 - 00:08:14.636, Speaker A: And if arbitrum is gonna do, like, token incentives in the future, which I think is plausible, if these daos are gonna emit tokens that they received from the airdrop, I think that could be positive for just general Defi activity in the arbitrary ecosystem. So that's mostly where I have my eyes on also because, you know, like, I can afford ethereum mainnet, but also right if I'm, like, doing, like, transactions every single day, I'm gonna be poor. So, you know, it's just like, you know, like, naturally, I think the economic incentives are there for more activity to just flow into these L2s. And you might think that, hey, if, you know, like, the whole arbitrum EIP 4844 narrative is too early because it's gonna happen in Q four. I mean, I think so, very definitely. But I. If you think about the whole, like, the liquid staking derivative narrative, the shapela upgrade was going to be in mid April, but the market started rallying in January 1.
00:08:14.636 - 00:08:43.795, Speaker A: So that was three and a half months before. And if you think about the state of markets in November and December, it was primarily when it was post FDX, people were depressed. I was like, there's nothing going on in the markets. Like, what the hell am I supposed to do? And generally the people didn't really know what to look forward to. But I think in that type of environment, people tend to price things in, like, way further out in advance because people are looking for narratives. It's like, oh, like, triple is happening April. Okay, like, let's start buying these LSE tokens in January.
00:08:43.795 - 00:09:18.732, Speaker A: So, you know, maybe it's gonna be like three months before orb and optimism start outperforming the markets. But, you know, like, I'm not. It's really hard to predict when these things can start moving. So I just think it makes sense to just be aware of it and like, who cares if you're, like, one month early? I mean, like, that's kind of my perspective, right? Because I don't trade on leverage. I just kind of position for things and then just, like, wait for the market to reprice things. Of course, I'm wrong all the time, but from a fundamental perspective, I think it makes sense. And in terms of, like, the arbitrary valuation, you know, people think it's too expensive right now, right.
00:09:18.732 - 00:09:43.942, Speaker A: It's like a billion dollar. It's. It's a little over a billion dollar market cap. FTV is over 10 billion. But I do think that, you know, into the end of the year, at least until the, like, leading up to the cancun upgrade, I think it can be one of the top performers in the top 50. And, you know, when it comes to, like, altcoin opportunities, which I'll talk about later, you know, I'm going to focus on the arbitram ecosystem. This screenshot might be a little outdated by a few days, but I think the general ranking is roughly the same.
00:09:43.942 - 00:10:27.488, Speaker A: Arbitrary is in the top 40. The market cap is roughly 1.5 billion. But if you compare to, I guess, the other comps, I think it should be in the top 30, maybe even, even in the top 20. And maybe you can argue that, hey, in terms of the FDV, it's a little too expensive. But also, it's like, how do you value an l two that's actually growing in this environment where on chain activity is lacking, that actually has a great business model? I really wouldn't be surprised if arbitram is trading and also the tv all is at all time wise. I really wouldn't be surprised if arbitram is trading at above $2 later this year, even, like, above $3, like, you know, arbitram and an FDV of 30 billion, 40 billion.
00:10:27.488 - 00:11:21.646, Speaker A: Of course, that seems kind of crazy in, like, may of 2023, but I think it's definitely plausible, and I really wouldn't be surprised if that happens. And I'll talk about this thread, talking about, like, the whole business models of these l two s. So Polynya, I think he said he or she or they is a really good follow. And they're, I guess, making a comment on, I guess, like, the business models of these l two s. And I mentioned this a little bit earlier, but of course, right, arbitrum L2, it's not as cheap as, like, Solana Avalanche, because right now, if you try to use arbitram, it might cost, like, a dollar to do a transaction which isn't great, but you know, with proto dank charging, it's gonna lower to maybe like five or $0.10 or even $0.20. But I guess, like talking more about this business model, I guess the benefit of these arbitrum and like optimism tokens is that it inherently, I guess it inherits security from Ethereum, like the Mainnet, like L1.
00:11:21.646 - 00:12:16.212, Speaker A: So Arbitrum doesn't really have to emit arbitrum tokens for its validators to secure the network, of course, like sauna, right, or avalanche, not to bash on these, I guess, competitors and whatnot. But in order for them to secure the network, they have to really emit a bunch of tokens to, I guess to basically compensate the validators because to run like a Solana node, really expensive. So for them to be compensated, right? So the network has to inflate their token supply by 8% every single year on average. But Arbitrum doesn't have to do that because the network security is inherited from Ethereum. And I guess there's like also this, you know, also with EIP 4044, you know, the costs are going to go down. The Ethereum usage, sorry, not the Ethereum usage, the costs for the sequencer and also for the users going to go down. So I just think more and more activities can happen on these l two s.
00:12:16.212 - 00:13:24.480, Speaker A: And Polynio also brings up this potential idea of if, you know, like arbitrum, the Dow decides that, hey, why don't we inflate the arbitrum token by one to 2% per year and sell that to ethereum and essentially compensate the users for the gas fees that they use to essentially make arbitrum later, two fees be zero, and even post the IP 44, it might even be like a 0.2% inflation rate. But basically, right, l two economics are just so good just because the sequencer is printing in fees and they don't have to emit the token for network security. And I do think that over time the market is going to warm up to this concept. And I do think that arbitrum should be something that people should look into as a potential longer term investment. Of course I sold my arbitram tokens. I mean, actually, I don't think I ever mentioned this publicly, but yeah, I sold it like 160 and I primarily reallocated all like those profits, like airdrop profits to on chain burps, which I'll talk about, because today I actually like made this whole GMX V two thesis before the testnet was released today.
00:13:24.480 - 00:14:10.156, Speaker A: But you know, I think the thesis still remains. And I've been like, I mean I've been in GMX and GOP for like over two years and I'm like pretty familiar with this market and how it moves. And I actually like bought a bunch more, which we'll talk about later. So GMX V two, it should be coming out recently. I'll talk about the timeline more, but I think it's going to be the next significant Defi innovation in the space. And I do think it makes sense to just keep tabs on it because I think when prices go down for Defi tokens, I think a lot of people in the market just tends to think about price and the fundamentals in the same way or price and developments in the same way as in if the token price goes down, the devs aren't doing anything. But I mean that's not the case obviously.
00:14:10.156 - 00:14:49.876, Speaker A: Of course the price goes down, then maybe people aren't really using the platform or the network and it might feel bad. But you know, like the developers that's actually trying to build for longer term, they're still around, they're still building. And I think that's where, you know, we should have our eyeballs. They're going to implement Chainlink, slow latency oracles. So maybe the trading experience improves significantly. Of course, it's really hard for me to evaluate v two before, like it's on mainnet with real money, but you know, just thinking like talking about it conceptually. And I think the biggest improvement slash change from a GMX that we know of by v one is that it's going to have these isolated pools and GOP, like GOPV one, right.
00:14:49.876 - 00:15:36.366, Speaker A: It's going to be slowly sunset over time and I think I can actually. Yeah, so let's actually go over this testnet with this just came out. And of course it's really hard to evaluate because it's like with fake money. But basically with v one we had GLP, which is like this one like basket of currencies that we can buy and be the counterparty for all traders. But with v two, it's going to have these isolated pools where for example it's going to allow for more synthetic trading pairs. For example, if you want to provide liquidity for the doge market, you can do so by depositing like a 50 50 pool for Eth Dai. So I think conceptually it's like, think about it like uniswap three, right? Just eat USDC bitcoin, USDC pools and people are going to be trading in and out of those pools.
00:15:36.366 - 00:16:07.280, Speaker A: And it's also going to allow for more flexibility because, for example, like, you can provide free for the salon market with EQSDC pools. This is testnet. So, like, it's gonna, like, it's gonna change. It's really hard for me to evaluate, but it seems like for eTHC market, you can deposit like single sided bolts for USDC and also provide liquidity for ethUsD. And if it's paying like 45% APR, right. That's gonna be a really good farming opportunity. And I mean, this isn't confirmed, but I'm gonna speculate that, you know, I think the arbitrum.
00:16:07.280 - 00:16:32.946, Speaker A: Sorry. Yeah, the GMX team got like 8 million tokens for the arbitram token. Maybe they're going to use some of that to incentivize LP. I think that kind of makes sense. So, you know, this just came out. I mean, yeah, like, it's really hard for me to evaluate, but I do think that it's going to be a significant improvement over the current model because the current GLP model, it works, it's good, but it doesn't really scale that well. And until V two is out, I think it's going to put a cap on the JMX price.
00:16:32.946 - 00:16:58.850, Speaker A: And if GMX V two is up and running and thriving, I think it's going to allow GMX to enter price discovery. And I'll talk more about the price later. So let's talk about the timeline of V two because, yes, the test nets out, but when does it actually come out? Right? Because that's more important. So I've been talking to noodles. This person is building rage trade. Rage trade is one of those platforms that I'm pretty excited about. I mean, conceptually, it's kind of interesting.
00:16:58.850 - 00:17:58.502, Speaker A: I don't want to hype it up too much because they have a bunch of crypto Twitter influencers in the seed investment deals. But from a tech perspective, I guess from a user perspective, it's like GLP is really simple. So maybe these isolated pools are going to be less attractive for, I guess, less sophisticated LP's because you have to think about it more, but I'm sure that it's going to be more simple. I mean, yeah, we'll have to wait and see, but rage trade is going to be building GLPV, too. So I guess if people want to, I guess, buy one asset that gives them exposure to all the different markets, maybe they can, I guess, build a GOP style basket on top of GMX and that, and it's going to be powered by GMX native incentives and also like the rage token, which is going to come soon. So I think, you know, these types of innovations should be thought of. And I think the power of DeFi is composability where, you know, GMX creates GLP and then all these like other Defi applications try to build other products on top of GLP such as delta neutral vaults or levered GLP vaults.
00:17:58.502 - 00:18:40.230, Speaker A: Typically, I don't really recommend these types of vaults because I don't really see like why I need to lever up my GLP exposure or like do delta neutral vaults. I don't, I don't think there's like product market fit there. But hey, composability is going to create moats for GMX because at this point, for on chain purpose, I think the liquidity is the moat because all these other GMx clones can fork GMX. But GLP will always have the most liquid market. And in terms of market, sorry, in terms of timing, it's going to come after v two. And then noodles have been tracking, I guess, v two developments for quite some time now. And I'm like, okay, when is v two coming? He believes that v two is going to come roughly around June.
00:18:40.230 - 00:19:29.510, Speaker A: And if this is true, then I think that GMXD asset is, you know, is at fairly attractive levels because recently it went from like ninety dollars to sixty dollars with, you know, declining volumes and I guess like less excitement for the product. But you know, if v two is coming out and that's on the horizon for maybe June or July, I really don't know. I mean, I thought this thing was going to come out in November of last year, so there could always be delays. But for this reason, I just thought that, hey, let's, I actually quadrupled my gem exposition at like $60 or like roughly below $60 for a multi month swing, it's a really liquid token. So even if I'm wrong, I can get out really fast. And it's one of those tokens where I really don't mind holding for multiple months. And I think on chain perks have tailwinds fundamentally and they're just like great businesses.
00:19:29.510 - 00:20:23.428, Speaker A: So let's talk about that. Yeah, so like prices have gone down because, you know, the yields have come down, but I don't think it's that big of a deal. And I think the narrative for V two is more, is going to be more important than whether GMX is paying like three or four or five or 6% if I were to be honest, in terms of tailwinds, you know, like bybit is like one of the top platforms, right? It's like if you follow like trading crypto trader influencer people, right? They all like use bybit, right? And they have like the ref links and whatnot. So if they're going to enforce KYC, then maybe there's many more demand for on chain purpose and also binance, right? With the whole regulatory clamp down that the western market is doing, maybe these canadian citizens, what are they going to do? Maybe they're going to have more demand for on chain purpose. I mean, I have no idea, but I feel like there's tailwinds for the purposes sector. And fundamentally it's growing. It's still growing.
00:20:23.428 - 00:21:19.508, Speaker A: And I think whenever the markets are generally going sideways and when there's market uncertainty, I think people are going to have a higher bar in terms of the type of assets that they want to hold in their crypto portfolio. Because when Pepe is going crazy, when meme coins are going crazy, it's like, yeah, I don't care if Pepe is not paying a yield because it's going up, but when Pepe is going down, it's like, okay, there's no point holding this. And similarly for other tokens, if the markets are going sideways, it's like, why do I want to hold this token? Why do I want to hold this type of asset? And if it pays some type of yield that is generally sustainable, I think people are naturally going to have, I guess more of an inclination to allocate assets into these types of vaults. And if they already have assets, right, capital in these vaults, there's less of an incentive to leave or sell these types of assets. I'll talk about a few. I know people like level finance. It's on binance.
00:21:19.508 - 00:21:45.790, Speaker A: Smart chain. I'm not a huge fan. I mean, I think the LP, like the tranches are interesting, but I'm not like a huge fan of the token just because there's like inflation every single day. They're inflating the token to the traders, right. For incentives. So I'm not sure, like how organic the volumes are. They're also inflating the token for the LP's, not for like the senior, the mezzanine and the junior tranche, but also for the level BNB pool two.
00:21:45.790 - 00:22:19.126, Speaker A: If you don't understand it, that's totally fine, but basically they're inflating the tokenization. The fundamentals look pretty decent, I guess. Arthur Hayes is rumored to be an investor, so I guess he can show it any given day. But, you know, I mean, it's like, you know, like, I think LP is fine, but level token maybe not so interesting. But I mean, the point is, right, TvL is growing despite markets being uncertain because it pays a yield, right? That's kind of the point. Also for GLP and GMX, sure, the yield has come down, but, you know, it's hitting all time highs, higher highs, and higher lows. I mean, this trend is probably not going to stop.
00:22:19.126 - 00:23:05.338, Speaker A: Of course, with v two, maybe we're near a top, right, because GLP is going to become less of a focus. But I think in aggregate, GMX TDL should be up into the right over time. And in terms of open interest for GMX, I mean, it's pretty good, right? I mean, yeah, I mean, it's growing, right? It's growing. It's kind of like the arbitrum and optimism fundamentals, right? It's like, if it's, if it's growing in this type of market, then I think it can command a premium. I don't want to talk about PE ratios in like, in crypto terms, but, you know, if you think about, like, assigning, like, I guess, like, price to earning, like, multiples of 40 steps, assets, like, these types of assets should command a higher premium than, like, other assets that's paying less of a yield because they're actually growing. GDAI, right. For gains network, it's also growing.
00:23:05.338 - 00:23:44.196, Speaker A: I'm less of a fan of, like, the gains divorce because there's, like, this unlock period or like this different epochs where you have to wait like a week to unstake and it's gonna allow less composability. I was talking to some devs, and they're like, yeah, like, it's really hard to build products on top of GDAI just because of, like, these whole epochs and unlocking periods. I'm generally more fan of, like, this GOp type of assets. You know, I mean, gains is interesting because, I mean, the token's, like down to like $5 from like an all time high of like 13, $14. But I mean, the volumes are still growing. So I always think that's interesting. Mux, right? I talked about this last week, but, you know, Mux TDL going up and up and up.
00:23:44.196 - 00:24:22.880, Speaker A: And the protocol income is, I mean, I guess it's kind of stagnated, but I don't think it's, like, a bad thing, right. I mean, these purpose protocols are growing in this type of market. And I do think that it's going to give more and more reasons for people to allocate assets to either like the protocol's native token or just, you know, like Mux LP gains, divault, or just GLP. And I think that's like just happening. And I mean that's been happening for the past year and a half, right? Because GMX was like the one asset that outperformed the entire markets in 2022. It was actually going up. So if the markets do go sideways or down, why can't the same thing happen? And I was kind of thinking about this.
00:24:22.880 - 00:25:07.440, Speaker A: I feel like on chain perks kind of feels like a risk off play because TbL grows with more market uncertainty. I mean, it even grows with like, you know, like when the markets are going up. But you know, like these types of platforms have really, really sticky liquidity. And I think I kind of consider it to be like a defensive sector because in the stock market there's like different sectors, right? There's like consumer staples, there's consumer discretionary, like high growth and of course in like a bull market, right? It's like we don't want to buy, we don't really want to own consumer staples. We want to own like high growth stuff, right? Because they go up more. But when the stock market goes down, there's more demand for things like Coca Cola because consumer staples, because their earnings are going to be relatively stable. And I think, you know, I think it's reasonable for Defi to have like different sectors.
00:25:07.440 - 00:25:50.630, Speaker A: And I think on chain purpose is kind of like the consumer staples stock market. You know, maybe I consider like Defi staples, farmer staples, I have no idea how to think about it. But I do think that, hey, if the markets are going to sideways, I do think on chain perks are going to outperform most other tokens in this market. You can say the same for LSD's because the liquid staking derivative narrative is really simple, right? It's like you hold either why, right? Just stake it, earn 5% at least. I mean, yeah, like, so, I mean all these LSD tokens are naturally gonna have like up only token, sorry, up only tbm metrics. But if you think about like yield, right, farming and whatnot, I just think that like these on chain props are more interesting. So, you know, when it comes to GMX V two, it's been in works for over a year.
00:25:50.630 - 00:26:17.690, Speaker A: It's been rigorously audited. And if you do believe in a team, then I think it's going to be considered, like, the next new innovation in defi, similar to how, you know, uniswap v two launched it, got a bunch of tv all. Everyone forked Univ two, like sushiswap. Like, you know, like, you know, we had, like, a bunch of forks for uni v two, and then uniswap v two said, hey, screw you. We're going to launch v three. It's better than v two. And, you know, like, v three is king, right? Unisoc is king.
00:26:17.690 - 00:26:47.644, Speaker A: I mean, I guess, like the. Actually, let's talk about this more before I talk about the forks. But basically, right? If you think about the price of GMx, maybe, you know, this isn't that. What the hell? This isn't that interesting. But, you know, basically, I feel like in 2022, we had this infinite sell wall at, like, $55 to $60. And then, you know, in the beginning of the year, we kind of went above it. And I feel like, you know, until v two comes out, I think there's gonna be, like, some infinite stall wall below $100.
00:26:47.644 - 00:27:07.942, Speaker A: And in order for GMX to go into price discovery, I think v two has to come out, and then it has to come out, and the fundamentals and the metrics has to look good. So you can have to bet on the team. Right. But I feel comfortable doing so. And I guess, like, from a more ta perspective, right. It's like, you know, we had this infinite sell at $60. We finally broke above it, and maybe.
00:27:07.942 - 00:27:36.370, Speaker A: Right, with v two on the horizon, we're gonna see a bunch of buyers step in at $60. I was one of those buyers, right. That kind of held the line. Of course, we could go lower, but given that v two is out, given that the timeline for v two seems to. Sorry. The test line for v two is out, and the timeline for v two seems to be in one to two months, I think, you know, that is going to give the market hope and reasons to buy the dip. So, you know, if GMX goes, like, $55 for $50, I think we're going to see dip buyers.
00:27:36.370 - 00:28:01.122, Speaker A: One thing we all learned, like, when FTX collapsed, it's going to zoom in here, you know, like this. Like, this was kind of crazier because GMX nuked, and then, like, when FTX last, it went down 27%, and then the next day, it went up 35%. Right. So has a bunch of buyers at, like, the $30 range and even, like, the $40 range. Right. It has a bunch of buyers. So if v two is on the horizon, then I think we're going to see buyers.
00:28:01.122 - 00:28:43.010, Speaker A: You know, I mean, I don't even know if we'll even get here, but, you know, I think we're going to see a bunch of buyers in this range. So from a trading slash investment perspective, I do think that, you know, $60 seems like a pretty good level to buy it because I don't really know what the downside is. But, like from the upside, right? Like, you know, like it can definitely go above here. And assuming that V two is a good launch, I think we can enter price discovery. So initially I piled in GMX at roughly $60 as like at least like a trade idea because, you know, like downside maybe like $50 maybe, right? That's like, what, 1015 percent upside. You know, it can go up like 50%. So I think that's pretty good and it's a pretty liquid market.
00:28:43.010 - 00:29:41.118, Speaker A: You know, there's also this discussion around whoops, like the various forks, because technically, if GMX V two comes out and it's like a far superior product, then maybe the GMX V one clones forks. It might not really command a premium, there might be less risk appetite. But knowing the crypto markets, if GMX is going up, then chances are these other tokens are probably going to start outperforming. So I think, you know, for me, I think it kind of makes sense to have most of my perks bet on GMX, but also have like other bets elsewhere. Like for me, it's like it's MCB, right? I talk about it next week. You know, like, for example, like, you know, like, you know, gains, right? I mean, gains growing in TVL, growing in open interest, but the token has been really down only. I don't know, I kind of feel like these purpose coins are in this bottoming process, right? Like even like from whole ta perspective, right? It's like, like maybe four to $5.
00:29:41.118 - 00:30:05.518, Speaker A: Like a good demand zone, whatever. I mean, I'm making a bet on MCB because it's like a lower market cap. Its fundamentals are also looking pretty decent. And you know, like, I like the fact that it's like the most good place to trade arb, drum rate the token, because I'm blush on Arb into for like the next couple of months. So that's kind of how I view it. Yeah. So, you know, I think it's solely reasonable to bet on the king.
00:30:05.518 - 00:30:42.954, Speaker A: I think you can kind of make a case for all these different types of tokens. But for me, like big bet on GMX and then a small MCV bag for potential beta. And if you think about like, I mean, like other people's thoughts, right, it's like, hey, at the end of the day, right, even with like the whole liquid staking narrative. Narrative. Lido was basically, I mean, Lido, even though it was like higher market cap, it outperformed most other assets, like in the, like the whole LSE sector. So, like, maybe there's a case to be made for just, you know, piling a GMX, right? Because you also have to think about like, sleep adjusted returns. You know, it makes sense to, you know, buy these other clones.
00:30:42.954 - 00:31:33.272, Speaker A: Maybe it goes up more, but like, maybe, right, from like a lifestyle perspective, you know, just, I mean, for me, right, it's like maybe I just like piling the GMX, stake it, wait for a few months, maybe sell higher, and then in the meantime, just keep researching other stuff, keep researching other print protocols, officers. Protocols, LSD protocols. Maybe that's like the best way to think about it, right? The sleep adjusted returns. And in this type of market, if I can buy GMX at $60 and have it be a super liquid market, and I think the sport is good, then I think it makes sense. Fundamentals are growing. I think the businesses have tailwinds, and I think V two is going to give reasons for people to buy the dip. And I'm sure that, like, you know, a couple weeks from now, everyone on Twitter is gonna be like, oh, like, here's the upcoming thread on GMX, V two.
00:31:33.272 - 00:32:02.022, Speaker A: Here's all you need to know. Right? And I think generally, I think it's gonna be like a good asset to hold for the next couple of months. So lastly, I don't talk about hyper liquid, the testnet. This is an airdrop farming opportunity. Generally, I don't like to talk about airdrop farming opportunities because I don't think it's like the best use of your time or capital. Whenever we have, like, the arbitrary airdrop, everyone goes crazy about farming airdrops, but then give it like a few months and then no one's going to talk about airdrops because nothing's happening. But I'll talk about this because I do think it's interesting.
00:32:02.022 - 00:32:23.692, Speaker A: I don't think anyone's talking about it. So, yeah, let's talk about this hyper liquid. Is this order book perpetual Dex built on its own l one. It's built on the Cosmos stack. So it's its own app chain, and their main enclosed alpha is live and the product is actually good. So, you know, I think it's like, worth using because you can actually use it like real capital. It's on Cosmo.
00:32:23.692 - 00:32:41.670, Speaker A: Yeah. So it's an app chain, and you can deposit USDC and withdraw USDC to it from arbitrum. So that's kind of how it works. And use the platform. And they, I mean, they list assets pretty frequently. I think they list assets every single day. The fees are more expensive than like GMX and other protocols because I think it's less liquid.
00:32:41.670 - 00:33:09.808, Speaker A: They have their own market maker. But, you know, they did confirm. Yeah, they did confirm a token. This is the founder. I'm not even sure if they're gonna airdrop, but I'm assuming, I mean, you know, they might not airdrop, but they're gonna have a token, so maybe it's worth farming it. I usually don't share, I mean, I don't think I've ever shared a referral code for like a leveraged protocol exchange because I feel like I have, like, ethical dilemmas around it. Right.
00:33:09.808 - 00:33:47.830, Speaker A: It's because like, I don't want to promote leverage trading. However, from an airdrop farming perspective, I think it's fine to share this referral code. The thing is, I only get three referral codes a week, and the referrals reset every Thursday, zero UTC, which is like, like afternoon time or nighttime if you're in the US. So, you know, one code is not going to be enough. So basically I collected a bunch of other codes from other community members. So, you know, maybe, I mean, depending on how early you watch this video, maybe you can, you know, get a referral code and then if you don't get it, then wait until Thursday, 00:00 a.m. uTC.
00:33:47.830 - 00:34:23.230, Speaker A: And then you can do this. And if you don't get it, then maybe, I don't know, like go on Twitter and like, you look for other referral codes, but basically, you know, I think it's good if you're gonna leverage trade, you know, I mean, I don't promote that, but hey, like, maybe it could be a good platform and even if you don't care for it, right, maybe do like a few trades, collect some volume, and then maybe you can be eligible for some token. So, yeah, I think that's it, right? That's it for the video. Let's see how long this video is. 34 minutes. Okay. Like, that's pretty, that's pretty good for tech video because my videos tend to run 40 minutes at least.
00:34:23.230 - 00:34:51.386, Speaker A: But thank you guys for watching. That's about it. So I guess tldr I like arbitrum. I like optimism, but I'm more focused on the arbitrum ecosystem because, you know, better metrics and also, you know, arbitrary incentives probably going to come at some point. And for Defi native projects, the sector that I'm most interested in is the, is in the perips sector. And I like the things that are building on top of arbitram. Right.
00:34:51.386 - 00:35:37.924, Speaker A: So I like on chain purpose on arbitram, I think that's most interest. The most interesting and the platforms I like most is GMX gains and MCB Mux protocol. And there's nothing wrong with, like, not buying these protocol tokens, like just LP ing for these types of assets totally fine as well. But, you know, in this type of market, I do think that, you know, people more and more capital isn't gonna flock towards on chain perks because, like, that's where, you know, I mean, that's like one of the best places to park capital. And if that's gonna be the case, I think it's reasonable to expect the fundamentals of these platforms to grow, because the more liquid these platforms become, the more and more customers it's able to, I guess, provide for. So thank you guys for watching. And if you like the content, like and subscribe link to the premium discord is in the description below.
00:35:37.924 - 00:35:39.860, Speaker A: Thank you guys watching and see you next week.
