00:00:01.560 - 00:00:37.886, Speaker A: What is up, guys? Tyke with the not so humble health factor here and today, I'd like to discuss my recent moves, give my thoughts on the avalanche ecosystem, and talk about a few things that I got wrong, right and some mistakes because it's okay to be wrong, but it's not okay to stay wrong. So if you like the content, please like and subscribe and leave a comment in the comment section below. So let's get started. Okay, so as you can see, you know, my health factor is very low and this is pretty dangerous. But, you know, like, I'm really experienced with money markets and I know how to manage these things. So if the markets look weak really quickly, I'll pay back through some of my loans and I'll be okay. Right.
00:00:37.886 - 00:01:07.566, Speaker A: So if you have a full time job or something, don't do this, obviously, but not so humble health factor. But, you know, I'm taking a risk because, I mean, the market's hot and I think this is a relatively safe health factor given my current life circumstance. I can easily pay back my loans if the markets look weak and the markets look bullish. So, you know, just trying to get. Trying to leverage my assets and make more gains. Right. I'm sure people think I'm stupid.
00:01:07.566 - 00:01:35.920, Speaker A: Sure I can definitely get behind that. But it's what I'm doing. And if anyone realized what changed here is that I used to have Chainlink as part of my assets as collateral. But I sold my chain link for Avax yesterday because, you know, Avax, I guess the entire market was dipping. Avax was like a little over $40. And I'm like, wow. Like, this is a really nice step to buy, but I didn't really have any, like, dollars like that were liquid to buy Avax with.
00:01:35.920 - 00:02:19.200, Speaker A: So I was just, like, self, self reflecting on my portfolio with myself. And I'm like, damn. Like, do I think Chainlink or avalanche will outperform in the next month or so? Probably avalanche, right? Because you look at the entire market, you know, Jerome pal said some bullish things and the entire market is pumping and, you know, like, people are aping, right? Obviously, like channel favorites Luna and avalanche outperforming the entire market. Love to see that. But, you know, like I mentioned, like, back in early August, like 15, $16. I think avalanche is. I'm pretty confident that it's gonna go into price discovery go above $60 because, I mean, I don't know what this bubble was, but, like, this, like, yeah, like, avalanche as an ecosystem is much more valuable.
00:02:19.200 - 00:02:47.658, Speaker A: It is now than it was, like, in early February. And given the avalanche rush ecosystems, given that more billions of dollars will flow into the ecosystem, most likely, you know, this should go up. Not saying that it's rational, right. I think the avalanche ecosystem is entering a bubble, right? Whether we're in the second inning, fourth inning, 6th inning, I don't know. But, you know, generally when I. Billions of dollars flow into an ecosystem, there's a lot of money, and there are limited amount of assets to buy. So, you know, some.
00:02:47.658 - 00:03:31.650, Speaker A: Some money will flow into avalanche, some money will flow into the other avalanche native coins, which, you know, I like to talk about because one of the things that I got wrong was that, you know, as part of my humble strategy, I said that, you know, like, probably the safest play if you want exposure to this, I guess ecosystem rush is to gain exposure on avalanche, right? The avax token and PNG penguin. And my thesis was based off of a case study on polygon where, you know, when matic went on that insane bubble, quickswap went on a similarly insane bubble. It went like seven x. And don't get me wrong, pangolin has done really, really well. Right? It's like three or four x'ed off of the lows. It was at like a dollar. Now it's like roughly dollar three.
00:03:31.650 - 00:04:31.420, Speaker A: However, this thesis that PNG would be a good buy was based on the assumption that PNG would be the number one decentralized exchange on the avalanche ecosystem. However, if you look at DeFi llama in the avalanche ecosystem, you see that trader Joe has overtaken penguin in terms of the highest TVL. This is kind of disappointing from a penguin perspective because they were the first and they had so much time to prepare for this and for them to not innovate and to nothing, I guess, like, establish a moat over Trader Joe. Pretty disappointing. But, you know, the market definitely likes Trader Joe over Penguin, and I'd rather not fade it, right? So in terms of, like, my holdings, like, I still do own a little bit of penguin, but it's no longer a bigger bag as it used to be. Right? I made some money on it, but, you know, the market's telling me that, you know, PNG might not be the number one exchange. And also, like, sushiswap is coming to avalanche as well with a $15 million allocation.
00:04:31.420 - 00:05:40.368, Speaker A: I don't really think sushi poses a threat to Trader Joe or penguin just because if you look at the case study for the polygonal ecosystem, sushi gained magic rewards, but it was never able to overtake quickswap in terms of TVL, in terms of liquidity, in terms of fee revenue, swap revenue, all that. Now sushi is just going to bring on more TVL. But I don't think it poses a threat, right? However, you could assume that there are now like three major exchanges, right? Trader Joe, Penguin and Sushi coming into avalanche ecosystem in the next couple of weeks. So when it comes to I guess gaining like beta exposure in that avalanche ecosystem, right? Because like sure avalanche should go up but if you want to take on more risk then it might make sense for you to go out into the risk curve to buy these other native ecosystem tokens. And don't get me wrong, I think Joe and PNG will go up if avalanche does well, right, just because the rising tide lifts all boats. But if you look at Trader Joe and PNG, their fully diluted value is over a billion, right? Trader Joe is $1 billion and pangolin is 1.5 billion.
00:05:40.368 - 00:06:50.812, Speaker A: And I know, I know, fully diluted valuation is a meme, right? Like in the short term if there are more buyers than sellers, price go up, right? And degens and apes make a lot of money. However, in terms of a risk adjusted return basis, I don't want to be the one like buying these farm tokens because like PNg Joe, like they're being farmed, right? I mean like there's so much liquidity because so much TVL because people are farming these tokens and there will be, there will come a day where people take profits and maybe that's at $4 for Joe, $6 for Joe and maybe that's at $5 for PNG. But you know, I'd rather not take on that risk. And I think there's a, I guess a coin that I can own that, you know, still can take on that like upside while like not picking winners, right? Because sure Joe seems to be the winner but I don't want to be the one picking winners, right? Because I'm making some assumptions based off of what happened on polygon. But who knows, maybe sushi ends up being the best because of whatever reason. Like some wheels deposit more liquidity, right? So you know, if you want to, I guess bet on the TVL of avalanche going up. I think a good way to bet on that is to bet on auto compounders.
00:06:50.812 - 00:07:46.402, Speaker A: Now in my channel I've often talked about why auto compounders are not worth it for me, right? Because it's not really worth it worth taking on additional smart contract risk. Because if you auto compound things yourself, you're still gonna, like, not underperform like these auto compounders. So there's this document, I'll link this in the description below where I don't know who made this, right? Like, I asked the community, like, who made this, but no one really responded. But essentially it shows a mathematical proof that shows that if you take into account the fees that auto compounders charge, if you just auto compound like twice a day, like, you're gonna be like, your performance will be on par as like something like, you know, auto compounding using something like adamant finance or beefy finance on polygon. However, I think that's a little different in the avalanche ecosystem just because fees are a little higher, right. Whenever you swap, you're maybe spending $0.50 or a dollar in fees.
00:07:46.402 - 00:08:19.770, Speaker A: Whenever you claim rewards, you're spending $0.50 in fees. So I think, you know, auto compounder is not worth it for me on polygon. But on avalanche, I can see the merits behind it because I don't. I don't want to be dealing with claiming rewards, selling half of it into the other asset, redepositing it and then staking it, obviously. Like, even if you use an auto compounder, like, they're going to be taking on those fees. But I think it makes sense to outsource auto compounding to something like Yieldiak, right? Because Yieldiak is by far, I think the winner in terms of auto compounding.
00:08:19.770 - 00:08:50.410, Speaker A: And the thing I like about their tokenomics was is that, you know, they have a total supply of 10,000. Right. I believe the real circulating supply, excuse me, is 9200 just because there are 800 tokens. I think they're like, they're like airdrops that aren't claimed. And who knows if people will claim them. But let's just be conservative and assume that, you know, circulating supply is 10,000. So, you know, I don't have to worry about being diluted, right? Like, no one's really farming this and, you know, it's.
00:08:50.410 - 00:09:35.950, Speaker A: Right now the market cap is like $120 million, right? Assuming 10,000 in supply. And, you know, if the reason I like yak is because, you know, I don't have to pick winners between sushi Joe or Penguin, right. I just have to bet that the TVL in the ecosystem is going to go up, right? Because whether sushi wins, Trader Joe wins, or pangolin wins, there's going to be like naturally demand for like the services by yield yak because they will auto compound for you. And to be honest, the, the AI is pretty slick. Um, there are, there are other auto compounders like penguin, I think, and snowball, but you know, I'd rather bet on the winner. And I think like yield yak is by far the winner, right? And they also have like a yield. Sorry, a Dex aggregator.
00:09:35.950 - 00:10:04.548, Speaker A: Right. If you want to swap Avax to like whatever, like yak, right. You can check prices and it'll show prices for you. So, you know, I think there's going to be just a lot of attention and mind share on the yak token. And you know, I have exposure, right. And I do own more avax than I do yak, right. Because, you know, like, I just think Avax is on a risk adjusted return basis is one of the better bets right now.
00:10:04.548 - 00:10:47.890, Speaker A: But, you know, I think if avalanche does well, yak will do better. And the goal for me is to stack more Avax, right? Because if you go back to my videos, I made my, like, I made a name for myself on YouTube because I just like, was farming a bunch of matic back in April and March. Sorry, April and May, right. It's like my plan to accumulate 10,000 matic and I did it. And you know, obviously it went up because one thing that I do want to mention is a lot of people just think that, okay, like avalanche is going to go on this bubble maybe like over $100, and then I'm going to just sell all my farm tokens when I think it's near the top. And we'll be saying like, hallelujah. And like, we'll be like, know, we'll be retired by then.
00:10:47.890 - 00:11:27.856, Speaker A: But I do want to highlight one thing, right, because most of my analysis on avalanche is based off of comparing things on polygon, right? Because I saw Polygon coming because of liquidity mining incentives. So, you know, let's deploy capital on Polygon and make money. And I was exposed to quick swap back then too. And the one thing I didn't want to notice, I do want to point out, is that quick swap, it went from like $200, like $150 on April, $20 to $1,400 on April 30, right? So it went on this crazy run. It almost ten x in ten days. And this peaked April 30 of 2021. Okay, just remember that date.
00:11:27.856 - 00:12:22.130, Speaker A: When did Matic peak, when did the price of Matic peak? Was it April 30 or was it later on? If you look at the price of matic token, it actually peaked May 18, right? And on April 30, the price was not even high. It was like $0.82. Right? So it like almost three x'ed in it, three x'ed after quickswap peaked. So you can interpret this to be, you know, maybe the native tokens will do really, really well and then people will take profits into Avax because that's, that's the safer bet, right? I mean, history doesn't like repeat, but it often rhymes. So maybe this is what's gonna happen, right? So if people are buying these tokens, like, maybe it makes sense to take profits to avalanche. Obviously, none of this financial advice. I'm just looking at the data and seeing and thinking about what might happen into the price of avax, the price of these tokens, etcetera.
00:12:22.130 - 00:13:21.470, Speaker A: So, you know, like I said, like, the goal is to stack more avax, right? I'm like, yak is not a long term hold for me. I don't even know if avalanche is a long term hold for me. I just. My hypothesis is that there's more liquidity flowing into the ecosystem and the price of these tokens will go up, right? So I'm not really farming right now because if my thesis is that these prices go up, then I don't want to be taking on impermanent loss. Because in most farms right now, you have to provide liquidity, which, you know, you're exposed to incremental loss and. Yeah, because, and also, like, my, the fees are higher here, right? So it's. You're going to take on like, I guess, additional, like tax whenever you're like, swapping, whenever you're providing liquidity, staking, et cetera, claiming rewards, redepositing, all that, right? So I think that's why yak is going to be a pretty powerful tool for farmers around.
00:13:21.470 - 00:14:05.090, Speaker A: You know, you gotta adapt, right? Like on polygon, like I thought it made no sense to use on auto compounder, but, you know, maybe on the avalanche it makes sense, right? So those are my thoughts. Yeah, those are my thoughts. And I guess I do want to mention this Sunday I'm gonna be doing a live stream with two other people, right? And I think it'll be a cool one. So one being I already announced this for the crypto Messiah, right? I told him about avalanche a couple weeks ago, and then he just turned into a degenerate. And as you can see, August 24, he was pretty euphoric at the top. He was bananas. He's definitely on the, you know, the long tail of super dgen, high risk type profile.
00:14:05.090 - 00:14:21.574, Speaker A: And I totally agree with his thesis. Right. I think it makes sense. However, you know, I'm a little bit more conservative and Avax is my largest bag. And I'll also have Noah Seidmande. I had him on an interview, I think, like back in June or something. But he's very, very humble.
00:14:21.574 - 00:15:03.200, Speaker A: He's, you know, he talks about cash flow and he's, I think Messi. I think, I think Messi is way too degen and I think Noah is way too humble. I'm in between, right? I know when to be humble and I know when to take on risk. Right. I mean, look at my health factor, like, what the hell, right? So I think it'll be a good conversation. I think, you know, you'll get multiple perspectives on, like, what should you do if you're just, you know, if you just want to go ham. What should you do if you just want to play it safe? And what should you do if you're coming from my perspective, I think it'll be like a pretty unfiltered conversation where we'll discuss various strategies, various hypotheses, and, you know, what might happen today backs ecosystem because sure, price of these tokens are up a lot.
00:15:03.200 - 00:15:17.240, Speaker A: But, you know, I still contend that we're early because Polygon, with their $100 million liquidity mining program, the polygon ecosystem peaked at $12 billion. Right. And avalanche is. Right. Like roughly, I think it's at 2 billion or 2.5 billion. Right.
00:15:17.240 - 00:15:53.512, Speaker A: This data doesn't really update that frequently, but I think it's like roughly two and a half billion. So, you know, I do think that when Aave Ancrev comes over, the TVL of the avalanche ecosystem will go up. And, you know, there are different ways to play it right there. You can just farm Avax with stable coins or you can just, you know, buy exposure to Avax. If you want more beta exposure, you just buy the other altcoins. Or, you know, you can do what I'm doing where you can use whatever assets, collateral, borrow dollars against it and buy more avax. You know, just not financial advice, obviously, but depending on your risk tolerance, there are different things you can do.
00:15:53.512 - 00:16:24.106, Speaker A: And hopefully this on this stream can, I guess, shed light on how people are thinking. Right? Because I think. I think Messi is going to be like full eight mode. No, is going to be, you know, I'm only going to deploy capital when Aave and Curb comes. So, you know, to each their own. Hopefully you like the content. Let me know what you're doing because, yeah, I think, yeah, I do think that Yak will underperform some of these tokens.
00:16:24.106 - 00:16:53.504, Speaker A: Right? Like Joe png Joe or Png. But you know, I think on a risk adjusted return basis, yak is a pretty safe bet. Because don't get me wrong, like, I don't even know what that token, like, if the value accrual of Yak is. It's just that, you know, people, if more people come in, then they're gonna be buying like yak. So if you like the content, please like and subscribe. Leave a comment in the comment section below and you know, let's stack some Avax right? And let me know how you're playing the entire ecosystem. Thanks for watching.
00:16:53.504 - 00:16:55.160, Speaker A: Have a nice day and talk to you later.
