00:00:06.570 - 00:00:27.446, Speaker A: Hello everybody. Welcome back to this session side of the stage here. We're so excited to have Don Song join us, the founder and CEO of Oasis Lab. Don, thank you for joining that panel and for coming here again to give us a session. And Don is a decorated scholar at Cal Berkeley and works closely with the IC three of Cornell. Don, I always love to hear what you guys are up to at Oasis, so I'm going to let you take it away.
00:00:27.628 - 00:00:55.390, Speaker B: Great, thank you. Thanks a lot for having me. Okay, great. Thanks everyone for being here again. My name is Dong Song, I'm a professor in computer science at UC Berkeley and also the CEO and founder at Oasis Labs. So today I'll talk about the Oasis network platform that we have built. In particular, Oasis is the first privacy enabled blockchain platform for open finance and a responsible data economy.
00:00:55.390 - 00:01:58.706, Speaker B: So first of is really hot today. It's on top of mind for everyone, but however, we are really at very early stage for DeFi today. In particular, we call it the first generation of DeFi, and this first generation of DeFi has a number of limitations and so on. So today it's mostly built for crypto enthusiasts and provides high rewards for mining traders and it's completely public. And today, of course, as we all know, DeFi has caused really high gas fees on Ethereum, so it's very much limited by Ethereum's throughput today. So at OAsis network, we are the first privacy enabled scalable blockchain platform. And with this set of new capabilities, the Oasis network aims to provide a number of new types of use cases that couldn't be done before.
00:01:58.706 - 00:02:51.934, Speaker B: So the first one I wanted to talk about is how Oasis can actually help unlock value for DeFi today. Addressing many of the challenges in DeFi today. In particular, given the scalability aspect of Oasis network, we can provide much more scalable DeFi to help improve usability of DeFi. In particular, with the high transaction throughputs, low transaction fees, and also a novel, unique parallel execution architecture, we can particularly enable high throughput complex transactions to take place on the platform. So that's the scalability side. Another important unique capabilities for the Oasis network is privacy. It's secure computing and privacy protection aspects.
00:02:51.934 - 00:04:14.110, Speaker B: And these privacy capabilities can significantly expand DeFi beyond today's early adopters and traders to take it even further to mainstream. And in particular, how privacy can help with improving DeFi today is one it can help. For example, instead of just today's use case for over collateralized lending, we can actually help with reputation and credit based under collateralization. And also with privacy, we can protect more sensitive information, whereas today, the ethereum based DeFi lacks confidentiality and privacy protection for a lot of the DeFi applications and also for future, like, financial products and services and so on. So, talking about this private deFi, let me just give you a few examples why private DeFi is important. So actually, I was just in a panel before this talk where we actually talked about one amazing thing today, actually, for the DeFi context, is that it has full transparency. So, for example, on ethereum, in the DeFi ecosystem, you can see everything.
00:04:14.110 - 00:05:44.250, Speaker B: You can see all the financial instruments, you can see all the accounts and how the money gets transferred from one contract to another and so on. And so it sounds like, of course, it's a great step forward from, for example, the traditional financial infrastructure and so on, where so much is just locked down, you don't actually get to see what's happening for a lot of the things. But on the other hand, actually, there's an interesting balance between this transparency and privacy, because when you have full transparency, also, there are a lot of other issues that come up. So, for example, this actually gives attackers a lot of opportunities to attack. Many of you may have heard about front running and back running. So these are all different types of attacks where attackers, by being able to see the kind of orders that other users are making, other transactions that other users want to make, and then they can front run or background to gain benefits on their own. And also when we talk about, once we take defi into mainstream, including, for example, trying to get institutions, the traditional institutions, to use this type of service and infrastructure, then you really come to these sophisticated institutions where they have a lot of proprietary information that they want to protect.
00:05:44.250 - 00:07:54.910, Speaker B: For example, for hedge fund, for their trading firms, they do want to keep their trace very well protected, and not to mention other users, they want to protect their sensitive financial information and so on, and hence being able to protect confidentiality is also a very important property to actually bring Defi to the mainstream, to greater population. So then when we talk about private DeFi, to protect the sensitive information, then here are just different examples, how private DeFi can help for different types of financial services and also what type of information that private DeFi can help protect. And even like a year ago on the Oasis network, we actually developed private campaigns and private uniswap, where, for example, the trade information or the lending and borrowing information, a lot of the information actually is being protected. We hope that this type of private defi can actually, again, bring defi to greater population, to the mainstream. So these are some of the examples of dimensions for private countdown, and also similarly you can do private deck pool and so on. So another aspect, how privacy can really help to grow DeFi, as I mentioned earlier, is instead of just staying in this regime, where we just have over collateralized loans, the underclateralized loans actually has even bigger markets. But however, if you want to introduce under collateralized loans, then you have to introduce something else, for example, a credit, so that one can compute the potential risk of a loan, and so on.
00:07:54.910 - 00:09:37.830, Speaker B: So again, with the Oasis network, with the secure computing and privacy protection, we can actually enable users to connect to their data sources, including their financial history and to other type of users information. And then we can also have privacy preserving computes of certain risk model using the sensitive information, all happening in a secure computing environment. And this can then provide the risk score or the credit score, and then this information can be provided to various lending services to then be able to enable under collateralized loans. So this is another example how privacy can really help grow the markets for DeFi and really reach to the mainstream. So again, DeFi is really exciting. One of the things it has taught us is crypto can really incentivize cooperation and coordination among participants, among independent participants, and also potentially mutually distracted participants. But for this cooperation and coordination, and also for this financial, for example, for this financial services and so on, whether it's centralized or decentralized, there is a lifeblood for this corporation, which is data.
00:09:37.830 - 00:11:17.222, Speaker B: So again, in finance and in actually most of today's applications, data is a lifeblood for all these applications, for all these systems. So this actually brings to Oasis rights, Oasis platform's unique advantages, how we can actually help handle this data better. So first, let me talk a little bit about Oasis platform's unique advantage, and then show you how we can take these unique advantages to even take DeFi to the next level, to something even bigger than DeFi, to actually what we call data tokenization. And first, again, let me just take a minute to talk about Oasis Platform's unique advantage. As I mentioned already earlier, Oasis Platform is a free privacy enabled blockchain platform, and also provides scalability and also versatility. So later on, I'll briefly talk about the architecture of Oasis in more detail, which shows that we have this new architecture called Paradigm Architecture that uniquely provides greater scalability and versatility as a next generation blockchain platform. So again, as I mentioned, Oasis platform is the world's first scalable and privacy enabled blockchain platform.
00:11:17.222 - 00:12:39.726, Speaker B: And I've already talked about the first couple of applications in terms of enabling scalable and privacy private defi. So now actually I'm going to talk about a new application domain that OAsis platform can uniquely enable called data tokenization. And before I go into that, I also want to take the moment to just briefly mention that we actually just made the announcement today that Chainlink and Oasis have announced our partnership today, where actually Chainlink will help bring a lot of these real world data to OAsis network as oracle. And this will also help us with some of the applications that I will talk about in a second. So now let me talk about the next truly new use case. That OS platform is the first to enable, which is data tokenization and creating data assets. So we are in a world where more and more data is created and more and more data is being collected all the time and also in a fast growing speed.
00:12:39.726 - 00:13:38.530, Speaker B: So for example, 2.5 quintillion bytes of data is being generated every day according to certain estimates. And also the EU has actually did some analysis showing that 8% of EU's GDP will be from personalized data. And there's estimates also showing that globally it's about three p dollars of global data economy. And so showing that the data economy is really big. And also, if you look at just the numbers, again, the amount of data being created and collected every day is just astronomical, and it's growing at a bricknet speed. So with the Oasis unique capability, what Oasis network can do is to enable what we call a responsible data economy.
00:13:38.530 - 00:15:00.174, Speaker B: And what does this really mean? In particular, it means three things here that the OAsis network can uniquely provide. So first, it's about tokenizing data and creating data assets as a new type of assets. And also at the same time, it actually can help data to be utilized in a more privacy perceiving way and in a more responsible way. In particular, this means that to help give control to users and enable users to maintain control of their data and their rights to data. And also the third way, which is what the blockchain does really well, is to help create incentives for users to share their data and for different entities to have their data to be utilized by others, but in a privacy preserving way and in a controlled way. So first, what does tokenization of data mean? So again, with OAsis platform, it's the first platform that combines secure computing and blockchain, hyper integrated as a next generation blockchain platform. And what this enables is actually enables a new paradigm for what we call tokenized data.
00:15:00.174 - 00:16:29.610, Speaker B: So in particular, blockchain allows for logging and enforcement of usage data rights, and also the usage policies for how the data can be used. And the blockchain provides high integrity and auditability for these data rights and data use policies. And also because we combine secure computing with blockchain as well. With secure computing, it ensures that the data can be utilized, but when it's being computed, it remains private during compute, so that the data consumer, the entity that consumes the data, will not be able to just copy the raw data out of the secure computing environment, and the data usage will be compliant with the user's data use policy. So what we have here is that then we just created a new type, we call it a data capsule that combines data and its policies. And this together creates a new type of asset that we call data assets. Because the data assets now helps users to maintain control of their rights to data and also to control the data, and also at the same time, to enable data to be utilized in a privacy preserving way.
00:16:29.610 - 00:17:36.370, Speaker B: And hence, users can actually get benefits from their data. With the data tokenization, then the OSIS network can actually help unlock a new responsible data economy where individuals can maintain their data rights and earn proper value from their data assets. So now let me go through a few example use cases. So the first use case we call essentially data yields. So very similar to liquidity farming, liquidity yields. So here on the OTis network, users with their data, they can actually do, instead of just staking your liquidity, what users can do here is you can do data staking, and as users stake their data, it can create these data assets with again, their policies and so on. And for someone who wants to use the data, and then the data could actually go into a pool that we call a data trust.
00:17:36.370 - 00:19:11.040, Speaker B: And for someone who wants to use the data, they can actually, then they can send in payments and so on. And then the data will be used again inside the computing environments, where, for example, if someone wants to train a machining model using the data, they can do that if they want to compute some statistics over the data and so on. So they can do that while still be able to protect the privacy of the data. And then also in this case, users can benefit, can earn rewards from the payments, from the data requester and so on. And also in this case, the data trust itself can also generate, create governance tokens that can actually provide incentivization to both users and the data consumers, and also help the different entities together to actually govern this data trust. So this is an entirely new way of having different parties coming together to utilize data in a privacy preserving and responsible way. And also another use case that I want to mention is actually just this week, we just announced a partnership with Binance, where utilizing the technologies from the Oasis platform.
00:19:11.040 - 00:20:36.246, Speaker B: So we launched an alliance called Cryptosafe. The goal of the cryptosafe alliance is to actually combine different exchanges together in this alliance where together to fight, for example, crypto fraud. So, as we know, crypto theft and attacks are on the rise. And oftentimes crypto exchanges need to be able to identify and ban bad actors, oftentimes in a very fast manner, before too much damage is made. And in order to do this, it's beneficial for different exchanges to work together to exchange information, to identify bad actors more quickly utilizing information exchange from each other. But of course, this information is very sensitive, and also different exchanges may not trust each other as well. And using the OAsis technology, here again, we provide this secure computing environment, and also in conjunction with cryptographic methods, we provide defense in depth.
00:20:36.246 - 00:22:05.190, Speaker B: And also with this decentralized platform, we can enable different entities, these different exchanges, to work together in a way to effectively identify and spend bad actors in a speedy fashion. But also, at the same time, the different exchanges do not need to trust each other, for example, for the information that will be shared or be used to do this computation. And we are really excited to be working with binance together, launching the alliance. And also the OAsis technology will be the infrastructure provider for this alliance. And we are excited to be working with other exchanges together in this alliance as well. And this is a great example, also showing how this type of technology, by combining privacy protection and also this decentralized blockchain technology together to enable new use cases. And another use case that I wanted to also just briefly mention, where in particular we help users to maintain control of their data and rest of data is in the use case of genomic data.
00:22:05.190 - 00:23:20.560, Speaker B: As we all know, genomic data is really sensitive users, since one cannot change their genomic data, you cannot change your genes. And also, there have been other direct to consumer genomic companies that have cited slowdown of their business due to privacy concerns from their customers. So in partnership with another genomic company, we are in the process of actually launching a product. When it's launched, it'll be the first time for users to become owners of their genomic data. And using our Oasis technology, users can actually maintain control of their genomic data. And also at the same time, for example, they can give consent to a genomic company to run genomic analysis on their data, but in this case, the genomic company won't be able to see the users raw genomic data. The compute will happen during this secure execution environment, and hence the users can benefit from these utilities on their genomic data, but at the same time still maintain control of the genomic data.
00:23:20.560 - 00:24:39.446, Speaker B: So again, these are just a few examples of use cases that's being built on top of the Oasis platform in these different segments. And overall, there are actually many different projects now are building towards this responsible data economy on the Oasis network. So far, I've talked about all these exciting novel use cases that Oasis nanotechnology can uniquely enable. So we only have a little bit of time left, and I wanted to just very quickly go through some of the technology under the hood, so you can actually see what is actually enabling all these amazing new use cases. So in particular, the Oasis blockchain platform is actually very unique. It's very different from all the other blockchain platforms out there today. And in particular, we have a new modern design architecture called paratigm, and in particular, it has a number of advantages, and one is for scaling.
00:24:39.446 - 00:25:42.378, Speaker B: So what the paradigm architecture is that we separate execution from consensus. So one reason today most of the blockchain platform has this bottleneck is that blockchain oftentimes need to enable three functions, consensus, compute, execute smart contracts, for example, and the storage. Most of today's blockchain platform, they combine all these three functions together, and each node need to perform all these three functions. And hence it's actually very easy to create bottlenecks, whereas with the Oasis platform we actually separate these different functions. In particular, we separate compute from consensus. So we have the consensus layer. In this case we do proof of stake that has high throughputs based on sentiments.
00:25:42.378 - 00:26:54.090, Speaker B: And on top we have this compute layer that we call paratigm layer, and the separation gives us a number of actually advantages where we can at the paratime layer, we can in parallel have many different paratime committees where each paratime committee can do its own computes for its own workloads, very much like a subnetwork. And an office is fully decentralized. Any developer can register a paratime at any time. An office is very versatile, so different paratime, they can actually, for example, they can run different paratime engines. We provide an EVM, and that's an EVM compatible paratime engine that the paratime community can run. And also we actually have one of our partners that actually provides EVM compatible paratime engine as well. And also some of the paratime committee nodes can use secure hardware and hence can enable OSAP's confidential smart contracts.
00:26:54.090 - 00:28:14.590, Speaker B: And also this architecture really enables a seamless combination of permissions and permissionless workload as well. For example, some of the paratime committee nodes, they can be specified by some enterprise to run enterprise specific workloads, while other paratime committee can be fully publicly chosen nodes as well. And also we use a new mechanism based on verifiable computing to link the paratigm layer and consensus layer to ensure security. And then in this case we actually can be more efficient than sharding and parachains for the same level of security. We require smaller replication factor than sharding and parachain with this new type of parallel execution architecture. And also as mentioned, we support confidential paradigms. So essentially you can run this confidential smart contracts in secure hardware to protect the computation process from leaking sensitive information.
00:28:14.590 - 00:29:30.742, Speaker B: And we can also combine other secure computing technologies as well. And overall with the Oasis network with its unique capability, as I mentioned, it can really enable these amazing new applications and we have a really vibrant Oasis network ecosystem with over 500 node operators who have already participated in the Oasis network. And we also have the largest university program and working with us as well and so on. And also, I just wanted to mention our key milestone, we actually will be launching on minute very soon, targeted for early Q three. So really looking forward for the main launch. And again, Oasis is the first privacy enabled blockchain platform for open finance and a responsible data economy. So thank you everyone because I had to show my screen like my slides full screen, so I actually couldn't see the questions that were sent earlier and I know that we are running out of time.
00:29:30.742 - 00:29:34.422, Speaker B: Elizabeth, I do want to actually take the time. Welcome.
00:29:34.476 - 00:29:39.820, Speaker A: Please feel free. Take a few more minutes, scroll through. You're more than welcome to go over. Thank you so much.
00:29:40.350 - 00:29:52.240, Speaker B: I would have really loved to interact with people during my talk. Of course I'm sharing my slides full screen, so I actually couldn't see.
00:29:53.730 - 00:29:59.070, Speaker A: You can take another 510 minutes as long as you'd like and just kind of scroll through. The floor is yours.
00:29:59.650 - 00:30:20.470, Speaker B: Okay, great. Okay, thank you. Yeah, thank you so much everyone for all these great comments and so on. So let me just scroll through to see what are the questions. Thanks everyone. I also see some comments talking about. One of the best things about oysters is that they will help users.
00:30:20.470 - 00:31:07.382, Speaker B: Thanks a lot for that comments we have been working really hard for. Okay, so here's a question, tokenized data. Are you going to be part of the TTI, the token taxonomy initiative. So that's a good question. We'll definitely look into that. So I think tokenization of data is a huge topic, and we are really just at the beginning, so that's why I showed some of this data and these statistics in my talk earlier. Is that how big the data economy is comparing to the financial industry, which is already really big? That's what we are seeing just at the beginning with DeFi and so on.
00:31:07.382 - 00:32:11.100, Speaker B: But the data economy is even all just a magnitude bigger, and data assets, of course, is hugely valuable, and we really need to build the infrastructure for us to be able to again, maintain rights to this data assets and also be able to gain value out of that. So here's the question, what would be one of the first real world use cases on Oasis? So, as I mentioned in my talk, so there are a few use cases that we already have already been working on, and some of them we actually have been working on for quite some time already. So, like the genomic data use case to help users to maintain rights, and they can choose your genomic data, and also at the same time, to enable your data to be utilized in a privacy preserving way and also gain benefit from that. And also the binance partnership that I mentioned with this crypto sip alliance is another great use case. So let me see. There are so many questions. That's great.
00:32:11.100 - 00:32:44.702, Speaker B: And again, thanks a lot for these comments. Yes, crypto frauds, and that they are some of the biggest threats for crypto in general. Thanks for the comments. We are really excited to help in that space as well. Okay. Also, another comment people mentioned here is someone mentioned that you can see oasis as a huge player, rewarding participation in scientific research. So it's a great comment.
00:32:44.702 - 00:33:44.694, Speaker B: Thanks a lot. And that's a great point. So one thing I mentioned about the statute trust, I didn't get the chance to talk more in detail about that. So of course, one can create many different types of data trusts. So in particular, for example, today, everybody's working really hard in fighting Covid, but as we all know, actually one of the most important things for fighting Covid, besides wearing masks and so on, and do social distancing and so on, one of the most important things is data. We need the data to know how to do contact tracing, hence who to quarantine, who are at risk, and we need data to better develop cures for patients, better allocation of hospital resources and so on. But today, the issue is it's really difficult to actually get this data because it's also very sensitive and also for a lot of patients from COVID they do want to share that data, but it's actually really not easy.
00:33:44.694 - 00:35:06.594, Speaker B: So this is just one of the examples for the scientific research, one of the goals for this data trust. Again, as I mentioned, there can be many different types of data trust, but one can imagine to build a data trust that is actually for scientific research. As I mentioned, different users can stake your data to create this data pool as a data trust. This data trust can have its own governance. So, for example, as users contribute your data to this data pool of data trust, you can say that you can either get governance tokens or you can say you want to join a data trust which is meant for supporting scientific research and while protecting users privacy, where this pool of data can only be used for scientific research, and then as data consumers, for example, medical researchers, they can then use the data in the state trust. And also our tech platform can help ensure that the privacy protection and the data use policy is being enforced. And also as data is being used, if it even creates some benefits, then this whole data trust also can gain benefits.
00:35:06.594 - 00:36:14.726, Speaker B: And then the participants of this data trust can then even decide how to use the proceed better. For example, use the proceeds to fund more scientific research, to encourage more scientific research, to use the data better, and so on. So these are all great examples for how this type of new data trials and this data tokenization and data assets can actually really enable and so on. And here's another comment. So I think someone mentioned that you are a physician and very interested in translating the power of this trustlessness to patient care and insurance payments and so on. Yes, I think, right, again with the genomic data, it's just one example in particular with genomic data. It's very structured and of course, it's really privacy sensitive and so on.
00:36:14.726 - 00:38:07.050, Speaker B: It's a great first step. We actually also have been working with some of the biggest healthcare providers in the US to actually help them to better and more securely share medical data for users with other clinics and so on, to make it easier for users to get better care with this secure and controlled data sharing and so on and again. Right, thanks a lot. Thanks a lot for all the great questions and so on. So I know we are running a little late, but thank you so much for all the great enthusiasm, the great support, all the great positive feedback. We are really just at the very beginning of this revolution, again, as we see so today, DeFi is one thing, building scalable and private deFi, it's one step, it's one part of the journey. But I think really the world is even bigger than justify this building a responsible data economy where how we can create these data assets, how we can help users to maintain control and maintain rights to their data, and also really help users to gain the benefits and to change today's paradigm where users are now getting sufficient benefits from their data and users data privacy is now being properly protected.
00:38:07.050 - 00:38:42.886, Speaker B: Thanks everyone for your great encouragement and for your great support. I think it's a community efforts. We really look forward to have you also join our efforts. We also earlier launched a summit called the Responsible Data summit. If you just go to ResponsibleData AI, you can also see some of the talks there as well. Very much focus on how we can develop the next generation technologies to enable this responsible data economy. And again, thanks everyone and we'll be launching our mainland very soon.
00:38:42.886 - 00:39:00.858, Speaker B: And please go to for more information, please go check out Oasis foundation, oasisprotectocol.org and looking forward to have you joining this revolution. Thank you. Thanks everyone.
00:39:01.024 - 00:39:07.390, Speaker A: Thank you so much. I appreciate everything. Thank you for answering the questions at the end there, right?
00:39:07.460 - 00:39:23.250, Speaker B: Yes, sorry, there are so many questions that sometimes it's hard to scale and to find perfect. And also, please feel free to reach out to me in a personal as well if you have more questions. I'm very happy to help address questions offline as well.
00:39:23.320 - 00:39:26.260, Speaker A: Awesome, thank you. Always a pleasure to hear you and see you.
00:39:27.030 - 00:39:28.800, Speaker B: Thanks a lot, bye. Thank you.
