00:00:12.480 - 00:00:34.854, Speaker A: Cool. Good. If you want people to show up for your talk, use the word death. Death economics. So crypto hasn't solved all of our social problems or even all of our economic problems. So why is that and why can't it? And the first thing is the big lie. You've all seen this.
00:00:34.854 - 00:01:21.516, Speaker A: Like, people used to barter, but they couldn't carry a cow, and then they needed, you know, gold. And it turns out that this is, there isn't a whole lot of historical evidence that people really used barter. It turns out, you know, if you lived in a society like this and you couldn't eat the whole elk yourself, but you were the best hunter, but maybe you weren't the best clothing maker. You brought the elk home and you shared it with your tribe, and the person who was good at making arrows gave you arrows, and they didn't trade it. They were just like, what am I going to do with my arrows? I better give it to the guy who can actually shoot the elk. And so for most of human history, and these people are modern people. I mean, we don't, like, not modern in the sense that they wear sneakers, but they're people who still live here on this earth.
00:01:21.516 - 00:01:58.292, Speaker A: And for most of human history, most of the peoples of the world didn't have money. They didn't use money. And so the idea that we've always had money and we always will have money, it's just, it's not the case. So that's one big lie. The other big lie is that money is a store of value. And if you just take a second to think of, like, a few things that you really value, I'm letting you think you'll notice that most of them are not purchasable, like your freedom, your family heir. So we have this whole big, weird definition.
00:01:58.292 - 00:02:21.434, Speaker A: It's a store of value. And we are, like, being told that there's always been money and there always will money, and it's just not the case. And basically what cryptocurrency is, is a money, and it follows the rules of money. And so if you're trying to solve our problems but you haven't changed the rules of the game. So let's see what the rules of the game are. The rules are. So, yeah, here's the big lie.
00:02:21.434 - 00:02:57.554, Speaker A: It's not a store of value. And, wow, children are expensive. Like, if you can say the sentence children are expensive, there may be something wrong with your framing of what children are all about. So that's one of the rules of the game. Children are expensive, and I know many people and young people today, but even in my, it's like, should I delay my career or should I have a family? Or should I, like, this is not good way to run your society where people feel like, maybe we shouldn't have a family at any. I mean, like, isn't the point to have a society? You have to have babies to have a society. Anyway, it's weird.
00:02:57.554 - 00:03:38.424, Speaker A: Another rule of the game is that the minerals are worth more than the mountain. This is certainly true of bitcoin, because you gotta have some lithium and you gotta have some racks. And, you know, and we've got all this, like, renewable energy, things. Like, we're gonna put our bitcoin miners in the Arctic so that it won't really take up so much electricity because of the heat. And it's like, well, what could possibly go wrong with that? That ice wasn't doing anything, or those solar panels that are going to cover the desert. I mean, you know, there's no reason that the earth needs, like, the sun to actually hit the ground. If we just interfere with solar panels, nothing could possibly go wrong we're really, really sure about.
00:03:38.424 - 00:04:11.382, Speaker A: Anyway. That's one of the rules of the game. Another rule of the game is that putting people in old folks home is good for GDP, but it's bad for my retirement fund. What about my inheritance? Like, I'm spending all of Grandma's money instead of getting it. Like, that's just one of the rules of money. I mean, again, you can see how distorted these things are, and you can see that none of the cryptocurrencies that we've invented have changed any of these rules. Boy, I really wish this had my next slide, because I don't know what else I've got on here.
00:04:11.382 - 00:04:47.154, Speaker A: All right, so, yeah, these are the communications of money, and these are the same communications that every cryptocurrency that we've invented so far. Maybe not every, but all the ones that you can name, all the cryptocurrencies still follow these rules. Some activities get paid, and some don't get paid. So being with your family doesn't get paid. If you're the yoga teacher, you get paid, but if you're the yoga student, you pay for that. There's some sort of random definitions of what gets paid. And if you think about what you get paid for and what you do because it's fun, you'll notice it's incredibly random.
00:04:47.154 - 00:05:25.546, Speaker A: The other thing is, humans must do paid activities in order to have the right to live decently. And if you're not doing one of the randomly selected paid activities that we've decided, like being an advertising agent or a lawyer, then you don't really have the right to a good life. It's weird, but it's, that's the rule of the game. Children and old people are free riders. That's one of the other things that when you, when you give somebody a bitcoin or an ethereum coin or whatever, children, old people are free riders. The things that nature produces are free to exploit. So that's the mountain that we were showing you.
00:05:25.546 - 00:05:46.340, Speaker A: You can just cut down a tree, a dead tree. That's why I call it death economics, right? A dead tree is better than a live tree. Just like the dead grandma. Like, dead grandma is better than live grandma. Because I get the inheritance. This one is really interesting mythology. It's like there is such a thing as fair exchange.
00:05:46.340 - 00:06:37.916, Speaker A: It's actually possible for me to know how much this should cost and I can get it in a way that there's absolutely no, like, the number that is attached to this thing is correct. And there's a number attached to my hours, and that's correct. We're going to be even Steven at the end of you're going to give me this money, I'm going to give you this coffee, and it's even. It's fair. And if that were really true, I think people who clean toilets would make a lot more money. But anyway, so the mythology that there even is such a thing as a fair exchange between me and you, what am I doing up here? I'm not getting paid for this anyway. And the last one is that there's no limit to how much more one person's worth could be than another person's worth.
00:06:37.916 - 00:07:11.812, Speaker A: So somebody who's very poor and lives in a poor country, they're just worth nothing. And there's people who are worth billions of dollars because those people are worth billions and billions more than you and me. That's possible. Like, some people are just more worthy. Anyway, so these are some of the things that crypto can't solve because we're just using the same rule set. Now, I don't want to leave you on a downer. If you wanted to replace money, it would be good to stop saying money is a store of value because it's a lie.
00:07:11.812 - 00:07:58.580, Speaker A: And you might say, what do I need to replace? What does money actually do in our society? And then start inventing. Because you guys are like, that's who you are, right? Hackers inventors, right? We could invent something to replace these mechanisms, and these are the mechanisms that money does. One is that it replaces relationships or trust. So reputation systems or I don't know what else might replace reputation, but that's one thing. You give it for appreciation, like give people a tip for appreciation, but maybe you're just doing it because it's obligation, but you could just say thank you or give them a whatever, a medal or a prize that would show appreciation. Like the rewards, right? Showing, like you can buy an Olympic gold medal, but you wouldn't be an Olympic gold medalist. So a reward for competence.
00:07:58.580 - 00:08:26.254, Speaker A: There's different kinds of rewards you could get for being competent that aren't money. Survival. I mean, that's interesting, right? We do have enough food for everybody on the planet, but we make you use it. So I call that like, you know, distribution of resources, like we need it to survive, but it's not like oxygen, like it's not something we naturally need to survive. We just invented it. Coordination of large scale activities. This is a really hard one.
00:08:26.254 - 00:09:05.708, Speaker A: Money isn't the only thing that we use for that, like supply chains and all of that. Communication is used for coordination. And people say, how are you going to get people to do things if you didn't have money for these large scale activities? I do not know the answer, but it does seem to me that a lot of what money is doing is having people do things they don't want to do or give you things they didn't want to give you. So we're going to have to reinvent. Like how do we coordinate at the scale distribution of resources? Again, like I have a circulatory system. It distributes all the calories in my body and none of my arms or legs fall off. Money as a distribution of resource system doesn't seem to be as effective.
00:09:05.708 - 00:09:33.144, Speaker A: So how do you want to distribute resources? What kind of communication would you have if you really wanted to distribute resources in the world? And finally, security for the future, which supposedly, if you have enough money, you can build a bunker and be Mark Zuckerberg and protect yourself from the apocalypse when it comes. I'm not sure it's actually doing that either. So that's the death economics and what you could build instead. Thank you.
